28-10-2021||First Edit||Identify fault lines in society||The Karnataka High Court has issued a notice to the state government on a PIL that questions the legality of an order issued by the Department of Minority Welfare to conduct a survey of all churches and collect the name of the pastors /fathers. On the face of it, the survey, being held at the behest of the legislative committee on backward classes and minorities, is illegal and discriminatory against one community, more so since the admitted purpose is to identify “authorised and unauthorised” churches and priests and take action against them in order to prevent “forced religious conversion which is rampant in some parts of the state”. The order is also violative of the Constitution which lays down that all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice and propagate religion. The survey will also separately identify places of worship of Protestants and Catholics including residences where prayer meetings are held “illegally”. If this logic is stretched, even Satsang and pujas held regularly in Hindu homes may become illegal. Whether one likes it or not, conversion is the reality of the day as people have every right to follow any faith of their choice, whatever be the reason. Thousands of foreigners convert to Hinduism, while it is common for Dalits to embrace Buddhism. If this were indeed illegal, the government should have ordered action against all communities, not just one. The manner in which the legislative committee presided over by BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekhar took the decision is in itself highly improper as a majority of the members including the Chairman of the panel were absent. Shekhar has a personal axe to grind as he had recently informed the legislature that his mother and four other families had converted to Christianity, before being brought back under the Ghar Wapsi programme. The bogey of conversion under coercion may not hold much water as so far only 36 such cases have been reported in a state with a population of over six crores, many of them motivated by vigilante groups. Instead of bowing to fundamentalists who are targeting minorities, the government should identify the fault lines in the society to understand why people, especially Dalits, are converting in the first place. Karnataka’s poet laureate Kuvempu had described the state as ‘Sarva Janaangadha Shanthiya Thota’ or a garden where all communities live in harmony. The Bommai government should stand up to this ideal. Dividing the society on the basis of caste and community for narrow political gains should be avoided at all costs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/identify-fault-lines-in-society-1045184.html
28-10-2021||In Perspective||The Congress after the CWC meeting||The much-awaited Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting is over. There was speculation that it would be a stormy affair with the ‘reformists’ openly criticising the leadership for the sorry state of affairs in the organisation and demanding a discussion on the report of the committee which went into the party’s dismal performance in the recent assembly elections. Going by the media reports, no such thing happened at the meeting. On the contrary, the meet turned out to be a show of loyalty to party chief Sonia Gandhi’s leadership and a chorus demand for her son Rahul Gandhi to accept the party presidentship again. There are no reports about what did Ghulab Nabi Azad, one of the first in the `G-23’ to speak up, say at the meeting. Has he bought peace with the Gandhis? A scrutiny of the deliberations at the CWC meeting is timely. It is well known that Sonia Gandhi has watched the working of the party from very close quarters as Rajiv Gandhi’s wife when he was the prime minister and as party president since 1998. She knows the present lot of senior members quite well, having assessed their strengths and weaknesses, their utility and liability to the party. No wonder, she asserted in her speech that she is the ‘full-time and hands-on president'. She had an unfair dig at former minister Kapil Sibal and others that they don't have to talk to her through the media, when it is a known fact that even for the seniors it is difficult to meet her, leave alone discuss party affairs. They have to talk to her through her close confidants. As such, some of them going to the press was inevitable in the interests of the party. About her being a hands-on president, it is pretty well-known that due to health reasons, she has in effect been a hands-off president, having delegated powers of decision making to Rahul and Priyanka Vadra (the family constitutes the troika in the party) as is known from the abrasive manner in which Capt Amarinder Singh was removed as Punjab Chief Minister. The CWC decided the scheduled elections to the party positions, ranging from block level to the post of president, between August-September 2022. While the decision is welcome, the message is out that Rahul Gandhi would be formally elected as party chief as he assured that he would look into the chorus demand for him to ascend the post again.  Inner-party democracy It remains to be seen whether the G-23 would participate in the election. If it is serious about strengthening the inner-party democracy, it should put up a credible candidate, not necessarily from within the group, but by persuading a capable person from outside it. The group should expand itself and win over deserving and potential younger leaders like Sachin Pilot, who is knowledgeable about the problems facing the party and the country. He is a good communicator in Hindi and English, which will make him acceptable to partymen and the larger electorate from the non-Hindi belt. His talent is simply being wasted.  Further, if the G-23 is really interested in challenging the hold of the Gandhi family and is toying with the idea of splitting the party, it should expand itself by bringing into its fold members at the regional level to give the group a pragmatic ideological orientation to resonate with the voter’s expectations. Powerful regional satraps may have to be roped in if the G-23’s project of challenging the existing leadership is to fructify. Are they willing and ready for it is not clear. Alternatively, as an expanded pressure group within the party, it should carry forward its demand for greater transparency in intra-party decision making. As Rahul Gandhi has acceded to take on the mantle of party leadership again, he should use the period from now to September next to make the party stronger by ensuring that only deserving and capable people get elected at the district and state level to party positions and not allow wheeler-dealers to control the organisation. The dynasty has to demonstrate that the party is not their fiefdom.    As for ideology, the party must realise that the Preamble of the Indian Constitution is the only viable ideological template to protect the plural character of our democracy and society as well as to serve the poor, the underprivileged and the educated middle class, who constitute the bulk of India’s electorate. A radical leftist posture alone will not endear it to the voters. It must strive for the right mix by pushing for a left of the centre position to be in the electoral race in 2024. (The writer is former Professor of Political Science, Bangalore University, and former Senior Fellow, ICSSR, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-congress-after-the-cwc-meeting-1045182.html
28-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bommai urges people to work for Kannada's bright future, says awareness drive to be held every month||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday stated that programmes to create better awareness and to promote pride about Kannada language would be organised every month. "Lakhs of people are taking part in 'Matanadu Matanadu Kannada' week-long programme being held as part of Rajyotsava celebrations. I will instruct Kannada & Culture Minister Sunilkumar to organise such programmes every month," he said. Participating in the Kannada Geetagayana programme at Kannada Bhavan at Adarsh Nagar here on Thursday, Bommai stated that modern technology is posing a challenge for the Kannada language, and Kannada has to be used in computer technology also. The legal fight to make the study of the Kannada language mandatory from primary to higher education would continue. Due importance is given to the mother tongue under the new education policy. As many as 15 engineering colleges have already come forward to offering BE courses in Kannada medium. The government is also committed to arranging maximum jobs for Kannadigas, and to preparing our language to face the challenges of the 21st century, he said. "Kannada is a rich language with glorious history, and it is the identity of Kannadigas. All have to join hands to have a bright future for Kannada. Kannadigas should use Kannada extensively, while other language people staying here should also speak Kannada", Bommai advised. Along with students, teachers, Kannada activists and others, Bommai sang Nadageethe, and three Kannada songs, namely, 'Baarisu Kannada Dimdimava', 'Jogada Siri Belakinalli', and 'Huttidare Kannada Naadalli Huttabeku'. 'Huttidare Kannada Naadalli Huttabeku' was sung once again at the end of the programme, as per the wish of Bommai. Earlier, an oath about using Kannada was administered. Meeting tomorrow Later, Bommai told media persons that a decision on the issue of celebrating Rajyotsava in Belagavi would be taken in a meeting to be held on Friday. In the wake of the speculation about the involvement of politicians in bitcoin and drugs scam, he said, the case has been referred to ED and CBI. If politicians are suspected to be involved, let it be informed, and a probe would be conducted, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bommai-urges-people-to-work-for-kannadas-bright-future-says-awareness-drive-to-be-held-every-month-1044963.html
28-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bitcoin scam: Karnataka CM says case with ED/CBI, HM says CID||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra contradicted each other on the investigation into the seemingly murky bitcoin and drugs scam.  Speaking to reporters in Hubballi, Bommai said that the state government had entrusted the probe to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).  “All that has been investigated,” Bommai said when asked about the case. “The investigation at the state-level is done. We have referred it to the ED and CBI. The investigation will continue,” he said, adding that there is no scope for anybody to interfere in the probe.  Asked about the involvement of politicians, Bommai said, “If there’s anybody involved, let it be said and we will investigate.”  Jnanendra, however, said that the case is being probed by the CID. “Investigation is underway. The CID is doing it. So, whatever statement I make may come in the way of the investigation. Our police have taken it seriously. They’re going to the root and they’ll bring it out soon,” he said.  Also, Jnanendra neither confirmed nor denied the involvement of politicians. “Whoever is involved, be it, politicians, from any of the three parties here or non-politicians, will be brought to book. The inquiry is going on well,” he said.  Jnanendra further specified that it is not the regular police that is probing the matter. “CID officers...there are experts...they’re on top of this,” he said, adding that nobody will be saved or protected. “It's a very serious case and investigation is on.” Earlier this year, CCB sleuths had seized bitcoins worth Rs 9 crore from a Bengaluru-based hacker Srikrishna alias Sriki. He was also accused of breaking into government portals and of sourcing drugs through the darknet while paying for it. Speculation is that some "high-profile" leaders and their kin were involved. On Wednesday, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah accused the ruling BJP of a cover-up. He also said “influential” politicians were involved in the case. Siddaramaiah maintained that there could be a cover-up underway. “If the CM is now saying the case has been referred to the ED. What were they doing all this while? Protecting someone? I don’t know. I’m also collecting details,” he said.  Jnanendra hit out at Siddaramaiah for making “vague” statements. “This is a matter concerning the nation's economy. One has to rise above party lines,” the minister said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bitcoin-scam-karnataka-cm-says-case-with-ed/cbi-hm-says-cid-1045015.html
28-10-2021||Main Article||Dual character, unique feature of India's federalism||In the light of several issues that have emerged of late between the Centre and various states and among states, one wonders what the exact nature of Indian federalism is. Is it federal, unitary or somewhere in between the spectrum? The uniqueness of Indian federalism is conspicuous by its “dual character”. In the words of Ambedkar, the Chairman of the Drafting Committee, “…the Draft Constitution can be both unitary as well as federal according to the requirements of time and circumstances.  In normal times, it is framed to work as a federal system. But in times of war, it is so designed as to make it work as though it was a unitary system.” Subsequently, the Supreme Court had pertinently observed: “In a sense, the Indian Union is federal.  But, the extent of federalism in it is largely watered down by the needs of progress and development of a country which has to be nationally integrated, politically and economically coordinated, and socially, intellectually, and spiritually uplifted.” It is perhaps for this reason that “Union of States” and not “federalism” is used in the Constitution. Justifying the usage of word “Union of States” instead of “Federation of States”, Ambedkar had explained: “The federation was not the result of an agreement by the States to join in a federation and that the federation not being the result of an agreement, no State has the right to secede from it. The federation is a Union because it is indestructible. Though the country and the people may be divided into different states for convenience of administration, the country is one integral whole, its people a single people living under a single imperium derived from a single source.” Accordingly, the basis of the distribution of powers between the Union and States is that “only those powers which are concerned with the regulation of local problems are vested in the states and the residue especially those which tend to maintain the economic industrial and commercial unity of the country are left to the Union.” Despite the clarity provided by the Constituent Assembly debates, the Constitution and various judicial pronouncements, one wonders why there is still room for discussion on the actual nature of Indian federalism. In the initial years of independence, due to the same party rule (Congress), issues of Centre-state relations were often played out within the ranks of the Congress, and the states, in turn, remained just as “glorified municipalities”. There was a “hegemonic consensus” on various issues between the Centre and the states. However, since the late 1960s when parties of different ideologies started ruling the states, cracks started emerging. But, it did more forcefully since the late 1980s due to the emerging political and economic situation. Politically, the party system began a rapid transition from a one-party dominant to a multi-party coalition system. Regional parties started playing an increasingly decisive role in the formation of governments at the Centre. Also, the growing importance of regional leadership has allowed the process of “decentring the centre” in a major way. Some of the states like Tamil Nadu and West Bengal went to the extent of demanding “reallocation of powers”. On their part, the Akalis adopted the Anadapur Sahib Resolution on October 17, 1973, demanding “a true fede­ral Constitution” in which four sub­jects – defence, foreign affairs, communications and currency – allotted to the Centre and the rest to the states. The then Left Front government in West Bengal argued that the advocacy for strong states “is not necessarily in contradiction to that of a strong Centre, once the respective spheres of authority are clearly marked out” and in fact demanded amending the Preamble of the Constitution to include word “Federal”. Role of planning Regional parties questioned the existing structure of the Centre-State relations and resented any kind of “Centre’s encroachment” in the name of security or development. History is repeating itself now in response to strong centralist tendency of the present government. Economically, Jawaharlal Nehru, impressed by Soviet Union’s five-year plans, emphasised on the role of planning at the national level in economic development. He believed that a ‘majority rule’ and ‘unified sovereignty’ would facilitate socialist transformation and economic growth in independent India. Though not entirely in favour of federalism, he agreed to the system, but with a strong Centre. However, when India witnessed a severe balance of payment crisis in the early 1990s, there was a need for opening up of markets resulting in the emergence of a ‘federal market economy’. It brought openness not only at the Central level but also to the states. The policy shift enabled the States to directly invite foreign direct investment as against the earlier arrangement through the Centre. As a result, state governments actively competed for FDI, though with results that varied dramatically across states. This has widened the gap between the more developed and the less developed states with the latter being left behind in the competition for economic growth. It led to a concept of ‘empowered states’, which claimed to have developed strong and modern infrastructure and which, in turn, exuded confidence for self-protection. They sought little or no financial support from the Union government. As a result, the Centre’s economic leverage declined considerably, especially vis-à-vis the ‘empowered states’. Thus, the economic clout of the regions added to their political strength impacted the federal system in practice. However, in the recent past, the introduction of GST and other centralised economic regimes have shaken such confidence of the states. In sum, Indian federalism has stood as a classic case of Riker’s observation: “The essence of federalism... is the political feature: (1) the political bargain that creates it and, (2) the distribution of power in political parties which shapes the federal structure in its maturity. Everything else about federalism is accident: the demarcation of areas of competence between central and constituent governments, the operation of intergovernmental relations, the division of resources, etc.” (The writer is with the Department of International Studies, Political Science and History, Christ University, Bengaluru. He earlier served at the National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/dual-character-unique-feature-of-indias-federalism-1045178.html
28-10-2021||Mysuru||Railway Protection Force bust fake recruitment racket in Mysuru||Police attached to Railway Protection Force (RPF) have unearthed a fake recruitment racket and arrested two persons, including a retired railway employee. It is suspected that the gang has cheated more than 400 people. The arrested are Chandregowda S Patil and Shivaswamy, 62, a retired railway employee. Suspecting the movement of a few persons, taking photographs on the premises of Railway Hospital, the Railway Chief Medical Superintendent filed a complaint with RPF . The Police team, led by Thomas John, Divisional Security Commissioner, Mysuru, and A Sridhar, Assistant Security Commissioner, was pressed into action to keep a watch on the activities of these people. On close surveillance of the gang, it was confirmed that they were running a fake railway recruitment racket luring young people promising lucrative Railway jobs. The gang was operating at a house opposite Shiva Shakthi  Kalyana  Mantapa, near Highway circle. The target of the gang was mainly poor and rural people. The gang members were collecting original certificates of the candidates and issuing fake letters, medical memos and fake appointment orders. As per the estimate, around 400 candidates have been cheated, involving Rs 22 crore. Many had given money by selling their land and availing high interest loans. The police recovered 221 blank signed cheque leaves, cash amounting to Rs 4.15 lakh, original documents of aspiring candidates, cheque books, about 100 fake Railway appointment orders, 70 fake nameplates of TTEs', a laptop, a computer were among things seized from the gang. The case has been transferred to Mandi Police for further investigation.  Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division, lauded the swift action of the RPF in busting the racket. He appealed to the job aspirants to visit the official websites of Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs), only. Any information or notices being circulated on social media regarding RRBs or offers being made by individuals for monetary consideration should be ignored, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/railway-protection-force-bust-fake-recruitment-racket-in-mysuru-1044864.html
28-10-2021||National||PM Modi reaffirms India's commitment to ASEAN centrality in Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reaffirmed India’s commitment to the centrality of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) in the Indo-Pacific region, even as the 10-nation-bloc remained divided on the AUKUS – a trilateral security coalition forged by Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States. Modi virtually participated in the East Asia Summit and re-affirmed “India’s focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of ASEAN centrality in the region”, according to a tweet by the Prime Minister himself. The East Asia Summit is an annual conclave of the leaders of the 10 ASEAN nations and eight others, including India, the US, Japan, Australia, Russia, Japan, South Korea and China. The Prime Minister emphasised the importance of a resilient global value chain, reiterated New Delhi’s commitment to provide vaccines to Indo-Pacific countries, as part of an initiative by the Quad – a quadrilateral coalition of India, Australia, Japan and the US. He also recalled India’s support of $ 1 million to the ASEAN Covid-19 Recovery Fund. This was the first East Asia Summit that was held after Australia, the UK and the US launched a trilateral coalition – AUKUS – to counter China’s military aggression in the Indo-Pacific region. Though several South East Asian nations have maritime disputes with China, some of them, including Malaysia and Indonesia, expressed concerns over the AUKUS triggering an arms race in the region. The AUKUS emerged as a coalition focussed on the development of joint military capabilities, sharing of defence technologies among its three partners and creating a framework for the US and UK to support Australia in acquiring a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines, in order to build a deterrent against an increasingly aggressive China in the Indo-Pacific region. Modi this year joined US President Joe Biden and his counterparts in Australia and Japan to elevate the Quad, which was forged by the four nations with the similar objective of building a bulwark of democracies against communist China. India, however, resisted moves to turn the Quad into a NATO-like security organisation for the Indo-Pacific region. New Delhi already conveyed to the ASEAN nations that the Quad, unlike the AUKUS, would continue with its benign agenda to counter China’s geopolitical influence in the Indo-Pacific, like dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic and supplying vaccines to the countries in South Asia, South-East Asia and the Pacific, helping revive economies in the region, ensuring supply chain resilience, supporting construction of infrastructure, educational initiatives and humanitarian assistance. India remains “committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations”, the Prime Minister posted on Twitter after participating in the East Asia Summit. He highlighted the synergies between the ASEAN Outlook on Indo-Pacific (AOIP) and India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI). Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reaffirms-indias-commitment-to-asean-centrality-in-indo-pacific-1044858.html
28-10-2021||National||Pesticides may be behind rising C-sections||For nearly a decade now, researchers have been watching India’s C-Section rate nearly double from 8.5% to 17.2% in the span of 10 years. A pioneering study has now determined that this could be due to pesticides.  A study of 221 pregnant women by researchers at King’s College Medical School in Lucknow has found that organo-chlorine pesticides are damaging DNA, decreasing the hormone progesterone and altering antioxidant defence mechanisms in pregnant women, steering pregnancies towards caesarean, preterm births.  The researchers found that 104 women (or 47%) had undergone a preterm delivery with under 36 gestational weeks while the remaining 117 women had undergone full term delivery. The average age of the women was 26. Researchers said pesticides were found to be affecting the metabolism of the mothers. “This presents serious long-term ramifications on children, such as neurological effects and diabetes,” explained Dr Abbas Ali Mahdi, of King’s College and Secretary General of the Indian Academy of Biomedical Sciences and corresponding author for the study.  The researchers suggested that this could also be one reason for the high burden of diabetes in India, but added that additional studies are required to investigate this link.  “A clear trend was observed for preterm babies with their lower birth weight and cesarean mode of delivery,” researchers added in the study, which was published in the journal Environmental Research. “Therefore, reduction in birth weight in newborns may be the consequence of increased oxidative damage and genotoxicity brought about by pesticides and these markers could be employed for early detection of pesticide-related ailments and toxicities.” To carry out the study, the researchers collected maternal and umbilical cord blood samples  during the time of childbirth. These samples were then analysed for contamination to pesticides, nuclear damage, and antioxidants. The analysis detected recently used pesticides such as: DDT, Malathion, Cypermethrin, Chlorpyrifos, HCH, SS Dichlorvos, Fenvalerate, Profenofos, Cyhalothrin-L, Endosulfan, Imidacloprid, Deltamethrin, Aldrin, Dieldrin, Endrin aldehyde and Cyfluthrin- I, II. “Although all of the women came from the lower income strata of society, none of the women was occupationally prone to exposure to pesticides,” Dr Mahdi specified. He added that the findings of the study show that regulatory bodies have to come in to necessitate stringent guidelines for agricultural use of pesticides. Weighing in on the study as an independent expert, Dr Sheela Mane, the past president of the Bangalore Society of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (BSOG), said that the Lucknow study shows that other randomised studies are required, especially in Karnataka, to determine the effect of pesticides on pregnant mothers. “Food grain studies have to be conducted to determine the extent of leaching of pesticides into people. There could be long-term effects of this, such as cancer,” she said. Over 410 mothers had originally been approached. Those having infectious diseases like HIV or having any other pathological diseases that increased the likelihood of pre-term deliveries, including bacterial vaginosis, intrauterine infection were excluded - as were mothers with non-genital tract infections, such as pyelonephritis and asymptomatic bacteriuria, pneumonia, and appendicitis and also medical disorders such as asthma, diabetes and hypertension. “These exclusions were motivated by our goal to determine whether pesticides contamination alone, not mediated by or through these comorbid conditions, contributed to pre-term risks,” Dr Mahdi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pesticides-may-be-behind-rising-c-sections-1044859.html
28-10-2021||National||Welcome reiteration of non-negotiable right to privacy, says Ashwani Kumar on SC's Pegasus decision||Senior Congress leader and former Union law minister Ashwani Kumar on Wednesday said the Supreme Court decision to form a panel to probe the Pegasus snooping allegations is a welcome reiteration of the non-negotiable constitutional right to privacy. The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying every citizen needs protection against privacy violation and mere invocation of "national security by State" does not render the court a "mute spectator". In a statement, Kumar said, "The order reinforces the court's claim as the custodian of the citizen's fundamental rights." "The order holds power to account and reassures citizens that the imperatives of constitutional governance will be enforced and that obfuscation on the part of government will not be allowed to defeat fundamental freedoms and inalienable human rights," he said. In a significant verdict over the issue of protecting citizens' right to privacy, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asserted that in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution. Stating that it was compelled to take up the cause to determine the truth and get to the bottom of the spying allegations, the SC said the entire citizenry is affected by these charges due to the "potential chilling effect", lamenting that no clear stand was taken by the Centre regarding actions taken by it over the Pegasus row. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/welcome-reiteration-of-non-negotiable-right-to-privacy-says-ashwani-kumar-on-scs-pegasus-decision-1044878.html
28-10-2021||National||Chirag Paswan slams Nitish for 'Lalu can get me shot' remark||Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) president Chirag Paswan on Wednesday slammed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for his remark that RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav can get him shot and claimed that "deteriorating" law and order situation in the state has created a fear psychosis among people. Prasad had on Tuesday commented that he will ensure 'visarjan' (political annihilation) of Nitish Kumar in the October 30 by-elections in Bihar, following which the JD(U) leader retorted that the former can get him shot but cannot do anything else. “It’s ridiculous that the Bihar CM, who also holds the home portfolio, is making such statements. When the CM says this, the people of Bihar can well understand the law and order situation. The deteriorating law and order situation has created a fear psychosis among people,” Paswan told reporters. Instead of giving such statements, the CM should take concrete steps to check the "rising crime graph" in Bihar, the MP of Jamui constituency in the state said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-paswan-slams-nitish-for-lalu-can-get-me-shot-remark-1044882.html
28-10-2021||National||WHO says likely to receive clarifications from Bharat Biotech on Covaxin by weekend||The World Health Organization on Wednesday said it expects to receive clarifications from Bharat Biotech by the end of this week on its Covid-19 vaccine -- Covaxin -- and will meet on November 3 for a final risk-benefit assessment for the Emergency Use Listing. “WHO Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a #Covid19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure,” the WHO tweeted. The Technical Advisory Group met October 26 and “decided that additional clarifications from the manufacturer (Bharat Biotech) are needed to conduct a final EUL risk-benefit assessment for global use of the Covaxin vaccine". “The Technical Advisory Group expects to receive these clarifications from the manufacturer (Bharat Biotech) by the end of this week, and aims to reconvene for the final risk-benefit assessment on Wednesday, November 3, 2021,” the WHO tweeted. The global health body also tweeted a video of WHO Health Emergencies Programme Executive Director Dr Mike Ryan, who said the World Health Organization “is very clear that we want all countries to recognise EUL vaccines that have been given an Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by the WHO advisory process. But it's also very important that WHO, when it makes a recommendation like that, is making that globally.” Ryan had said “we have to be absolutely sure” and it’s really important that “we gather all of the necessary information not only on the vaccine itself but on the manufacturing processes and all of that, because we're recommending to the world that this vaccine is safe, effective and it's been produced using the highest quality standards". Further explaining how the WHO technical advisory group works, he said the vaccine manufacturers first of all have to request and respond and say that they want their vaccines to be put for EUL and then provide documentation on the whole process - the efficacy studies and the manufacturing process. “Sometimes that requires visits to look at and examine the manufacturing practices and all of that has to come together into a dossier that's presented within this advisory group mechanism, and then it's from there that WHO can make a recommendation," he said. Ryan emphasised that the entire process, even if people cannot see it “day to day”, is “very measured" because “we're having to say to the world ‘we've looked at this carefully, we've looked at every piece of data, we've looked at the whole production cycle and we can say with our hands on our hearts, having looked at all that data, here is a safe, effective, and well-produced product that you as our member state or you as a citizen of the world can take with confidence’. “That's very, very important and that sometimes takes longer and it is frustrating. And it is particularly frustrating if you've had a certain vaccine that is not recognised by another country and you can't travel. That becomes an issue,” he said. Ryan said the work done by the advisory group and its members has been of the highest quality, and “it takes time to do that". “It’s a hugely important task. It's extremely involved and measured, and the outputs of this process have been of very high quality right ...through this pandemic. And if it takes another week or two, that's what we'll have to take to ensure that the dossier is complete to ensure that the committee have a chance to look at that and then WHO can make the right determination and give the right advice to the world.” Ryan has added that the Emergency Committee of the International Health Regulations has been “very, very clear" and countries have been advised that vaccination certification should not be used as the only measure and means of restricting travel. “We have other ways of making travel safe, including testing, serologic testing, and we very strongly believe that using vaccination status as the only parameter of travel creates a double inequity because countries who have no access to vaccines then by de facto have no access to travel either. And that's a double inequity,” he has said. In another video tweeted by WHO, Dr Mariangela Simao, Assistant Director General, Access to Medicines and Health Products at WHO, explained the process of emergency approvals of these vaccines and how safety is ensured in this process. "It's very important to highlight that no vaccine candidate should be used or issued an emergency approval at country level if it has not finished phase three trials because it’s during phase three trials that “you do the assessment of efficacy and safety", she said in the video. “When it comes to the assessment of the authority, it already has data on both efficacy and safety. The job is not finished yet because after this in order to authorise at country level, you need to assess whether the vaccine was 'well made',” and complied with “good manufacturing practices and quality control,” Simao said. “So this is to say that by the time it's authorised at the country level, it has gone through a lot of scrutiny. So it's very good to highlight that safety and efficacy will be guaranteed by the process that we have put in place,” she said.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-says-likely-to-receive-clarifications-from-bharat-biotech-on-covaxin-by-weekend-1044885.html
28-10-2021||National||India vows to take up 'climate justice' combat at COP26||India will be a fighter for "climate justice" at the upcoming COP26 summit, seeking to make rich nations pay for measures to ease rising temperatures, the country's environment minister said Wednesday. And the world's third-biggest source of greenhouse gases is not yet guaranteeing that it will offer new mitigation efforts at the crucial conference which starts Sunday in Glasgow. India, along with the world's leading gas emitter China, is among dozens of countries still to submit fresh plans for cutting greenhouse gas emissions so they can become net zero -- eliminating as much carbon as they produce. Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said India would set out what extra efforts it is ready to make "at the appropriate place and the appropriate time." India, whose Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be at the summit, said controlling carbon should be the COP26 priority over setting target dates to become net zero. "It is how much carbon you are going to put in the atmosphere before reaching net zero that is more important," said R.P. Gupta, the environment ministry's top permanent official. According to the ministry's figures, each Indian produces about 1.9 tonnes of carbon per year, against 7.1 tonnes for the average European Union citizen, 8.4 tonnes for a Chinese and 18 tonnes for the average American. Yadav said assessing and financing the world's campaign to limit temperature rises will be one of the most crucial tasks at Glasgow. "India will fill the role of the voice of developing nations," Yadav told a small group of journalists on the eve of his departure for the talks. "India will be a path to a solution with climate justice." The country of 1.3 billion people, and one of the world's fastest-growing economies, has long insisted that countries who profited from past industrialisation -- Europe and North America -- should pay the lion's share of the climate crisis bill. Yadav noted the concern of poorer nations that richer ones have failed to live up to promises made at earlier climate summits to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in financial aid and technology. India has one of the world's leading solar power programmes, and US climate envoy John Kerry said that the country was "red hot" for solar investment. But it currently counts on coal for about 70 per cent of generated electricity and will have to spend more than $40 billion to dismantle just 14 per cent of its oldest and dirtiest coal power stations, according to the Climate Policy Initiative think tank. Gupta said that without finance for poorer nations "it becomes extremely difficult to have green development at our own cost."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-vows-to-take-up-climate-justice-combat-at-cop26-1044888.html
28-10-2021||National||SC cannot be stymied by failure of witnesses to appear: Tharoor on Pegasus order||Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday said the Supreme Court cannot be stymied by witnesses' failure to appear or members refusing to sign attendance register -- the means by which -- the Congress MP alleged the parliamentary panel on IT was thwarted from looking into the Pegasus issue. The remarks by the chairperson of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology came after the Supreme Court appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Pegasus spyware for surveillance of certain people in India. The Tharoor-headed IT panel was to hold a meeting on July 28 during which several issues including the Pegasus snooping allegations were expected to be discussed. It had also summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications) on the subject "Citizens data security and privacy". However, the meeting could not take place as the BJP members of the panel did not sign the attendance register, even though they were present in the meeting room, leading to a lack of quorum. E-mail communications were received by the committee branch of the secretariat on July 28 afternoon from the three ministries/department that their representatives would not be able to appear before the committee due to Parliament-related work. Tharoor had written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to take action over ministry officials not attending the panel meeting. In a significant verdict over the issue of protecting citizens' right to privacy, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asserted that in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution. Stating that it was compelled to take up the cause to determine the truth and get to the bottom of the spying allegations, the SC said the entire citizenry is affected by these charges due to the "potential chilling effect", lamenting that no clear stand was taken by the Centre regarding actions taken by it over the Pegasus row.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-cannot-be-stymied-by-failure-of-witnesses-to-appear-tharoor-on-pegasus-order-1044896.html
28-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Plumb! Centre loses wicket in Pegasus row||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed in a democratic country, governed by the rule of law, except with sufficient statutory safeguards, as such surveillance, either by the state or by any external agency, directly infringed upon the right to privacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-plumb-centre-loses-wicket-in-pegasus-row-1044902.html
28-10-2021||National||India has taken significant steps to reduce military dependence on Russia: US Senator||India has taken significant steps to reduce military dependence on Russia, a top American Senator said, a day after urging President Joe Biden not to impose provisions of Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) against New Delhi for buying the S-400 surface-to-air missile system from Moscow. "We know that India is a responsible actor. It increasingly finds much in common with the United States. There's economic benefits, but also military and security cooperation, as well. Since the United States has designated India as a major defense partner in 2016, we've made serious strides to elevate our defence partnership in a dangerous world," Senator John Cornyn, a top Republican leader, said on Wednesday. Cornyn, who is also co-chair of the powerful Senate India Caucus, said this at in a panel discussion on “US-India Partnership in Today’s Geo-Political Landscape” hosted by the US India Friendship Council in association with the US India Business Council. "One of the biggest threats to our growing relationship has been the possibility of sanctions for the purchase of the Russian S-400 missile system. But I think what gives me confidence is that India has taken significant steps to reduce its reliance on Russian military equipment and has shown an interest in purchasing equipment from the United States and is working more closely with us based on shared values," Cornyn said. "So not waiving these sanctions would achieve nothing, and perhaps derail the hard earned progress that we've made to strengthen our military cooperation," he said, a day after he and Senator Mark Warner, in a letter, urged President Biden to grant a national interest waiver to India as provided under CAATSA as this is in America’s national security interest. Republican Congressman Mike Waltz argued the case of an US-India alliance. “For a number of reasons, this is the most important relationship of the 21st century. I believe that how things go vis a vis China will mean this can be a century of light or a century of darkness," he said. Referring to the chaotic withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, he said he feared Kashmir might be the first casualty of that. "Unfortunately, I fear that the first place you may see billions of dollars of American equipment spreading is into Kashmir. That breaks my heart. And I fear for that. I think we're going to have to be prepared to work together," he said. A day earlier, he and Nikki Haley, former US envoy to the UN, wrote an op-ed in the Foreign Policy magazine for a US-India alliance. Swadesh Chatterjee, chairman of the US-India Friendship Council, said the relationship between the two countries has never been this good. But its full potential is yet to be realised, he added. Congressman Brad Sherman said he was deeply concerned by the aggression of China towards “our ally” India, referring to the deadly clash between the militaries of the two countries in Galwan Valley last year. “China has continued its aggression with cyberattacks, including attacks on India's power grid, which could put civilians at risk. The rise in Chinese attacks on one of America's strongest partners is a threat, not only to India's security, but to our own,” Sherman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-taken-significant-steps-to-reduce-military-dependence-on-russia-us-senator-1044911.html
28-10-2021||National||Hindu-American culture has enriched US: Lawmakers at Congressional Diwali celebration||Hindu-American culture has enriched the United States and the world, US lawmakers said during the annual Diwali celebrations at the Congress. "We have come a long way as a community where someone can easily say today as I do, that I am a proud Hindu-American, that I am proud of celebrating Diwali, that the Hindu-American culture has enriched America and the world," Congressman Ro Khanna said. Indiaspora, in association with a number of Indian-American organisations, have for the past several years been organising the festival of lights at the US Congress. The event is normally attended by a large number of lawmakers, members of the administration and eminent community leaders from across the country. Because of Covid-19 and restrictions on the number of attendees at an event, the celebration was restricted this year but was webcast live. In his remarks, Khanna, a three-term Congressman, said his district in California has the largest Indian-American community in the country. "With such a growing number of Indian-Americans serving in all facets of the government, it felt fitting that during Diwali, one of the most auspicious and celebrated occasions of the year, we recognise the service of these public servants in our community," said M R Rangaswami, founder of Indiaspora. The event included remarks from senior administration officials, including Neera Tanden, Senior Adviser to President Joe Biden who was recently named White House Staff Secretary and serves as the highest-ranking Indian-American woman in the administration after Vice President Kamala Harris, and Vice Admiral Vivek Murthy, US Surgeon General, who spoke about the inspiration behind Diwali. "I think of Diwali as a time of sustenance … the food, the lights and a community event. To find sustenance in the things we grew up with which make us who we are today, and that is why the work of Indiaspora is important," said Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. "It' time to run for office… we will be rooting for you and supportive of you. It doesn’t matter if you win or lose, it matters that you ran for the right reasons – to serve the community," said Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi. "As we close out 2021, I plan to introduce legislation that would further enshrine this day of light, Diwali, as a federal holiday,” said Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, who was instrumental in helping Indiaspora and community partners in their advocacy for a United States Postal Stamp commemorating Diwali which came to fruition in 2016. "We should also take a moment to acknowledge that it’s not just elected officials that make a difference in public service, it’s also the many staff members who work in the offices in congress and in city halls and in state legislatures and school boards across the country,” said Congressman Joaquin Castro. In a video message, Senator John Cornyn, Co-Chair of the Senate India Caucus, said he was proud to see how ties between the US and India have strengthened over the years. Congressman Dr Ami Bera, the longest-serving Indian-American in Congress, also addressed the gathering. Check out DH's Iatest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindu-american-culture-has-enriched-us-lawmakers-at-congressional-diwali-celebration-1044914.html
28-10-2021||National||India concerned about situation in Afghanistan: Pentagon||India is concerned about the current situation in Afghanistan, a top Pentagon official has told US lawmakers. "As I'm sure you're aware, they (Indians) are concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. They're concerned about the intersection between instability there and their counterterrorism concerns," Colin H Kahl, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, told members of the Senate Armed Services Committee during a hearing on Afghanistan, South and Central Asia Security. "They (Indians) want to work with us on those issues, sharing intelligence, cooperating where we can," he said, adding that there is a tremendous convergence between US and Indian national interests right now "It provides a lot of opportunity for us to cooperate with India, not just on Afghanistan and counterterrorism, but on broader regional security questions, in the Indian Ocean and as it relates to the broader Indo-Pacific," Kahl said. He was responding to a question from Senator Gary Peters. "India's policies towards Afghanistan have been conceived largely through the lens of competition and proxy conflict with Pakistan. So it stands to reason that New Delhi should be no less concerned about the possibility that a Taliban government could benefit anti-Indian terrorist groups, especially those oriented towards Kashmir," he said. "In view of our commitment to joint cooperation and interoperability with this critical partner, and the fact that India is the only designated major defence partner of the United States, I believe it's important for us to understand how its view towards Afghanistan has and will evolve," Peters said. Earlier this month, Kahl had co-chaired a US-India Defense Policy Group meeting. Responding to another question from Senator Jack Reed, Kahl said Pakistan is a challenging actor, but it does not want Afghanistan to be a safe haven for terrorist attacks or external attacks. "They continue to give us access to Pakistani airspace and we're in conversations about keeping that airspace open and happy to talk about that more in the closed session. But for right now, counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan is pretty good," he said. "Our inability across multiple administrations to effectively deal with Pakistan is another example of the past being prologue. Managing the security relationship with Pakistan will remain important as we seek to successfully implement a regional counterterrorism strategy with other partners and allies," Reed said. "That is why it is vitally important for us to reflect upon and study the entirety of the 20-year mission in Afghanistan," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-concerned-about-situation-in-afghanistan-pentagon-1044920.html
28-10-2021||National||T20 World Cup: Uttar Pradesh to invoke sedition law against those celebrating Pakistan's victory||Amid uproar over pro-Pakistan slogans after the T20 World Cup match in which India lost, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that sedition law would be invoked against those celebrating the victory of Pakistan.  Meanwhile, six persons, including a private school teacher in Rajasthan's Udaipur and three engineering students from Kashmir who were studying in Agra in Uttar Pradesh, have been arrested for allegedly posting objectionable messages on social media or raising anti-national slogans after Pakistan's victory.  Uttar Pradesh Police said seven persons have been booked in five cases in districts of Agra, Bareily, Badaun and Sitapur for making remarks against the country after the match on October 24. Out of them, five have been arrested, the police said on its Twitter handle. Two more persons were detained by Jammu and Kashmir police, taking the number of detainees to eight in the case of pro-Pakistani slogans raised by some people in Samba district after the match. The Jammu and Kashmir Police had earlier registered two cases under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against some medical students living in hostels at the Government Medical College in Karan Nagar in Srinagar and SKIMS Soura. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/t20-world-cup-uttar-pradesh-to-invoke-sedition-law-against-those-celebrating-pakistans-victory-1044924.html
28-10-2021||National||'Squid Game' characters drawn from director's life||Many characters in Netflix sensation Squid Game are loosely based on its South Korean director's own life and he believes its theme of economic inequality has resonated with viewers around the world. Hwang Dong-hyuk's television debut last month became the streaming giant's most popular series at launch, drawing at least 111 million watchers. Its dystopian vision sees hundreds of marginalised individuals pitted against each other in traditional children's games -- all of which Hwang played growing up in Seoul. The victor can earn millions, but losing players are killed. Hwang's works have consistently and critically responded to social ills, power and human suffering, and he based several of its highly flawed yet relatable characters on himself. Like Sang-woo, a troubled investment banker in Squid Game, Hwang is a graduate of South Korea's elite Seoul National University (SNU) but struggled financially despite his degree. Like Gi-hun, a laid-off worker and an obsessive gambler, Hwang was raised by a widowed mother and the poor family lived in the kind of subterranean semi-basement housing portrayed in Bong Joon-ho's Oscar-winning satire Parasite. And it was one of his first experiences abroad that inspired him to create Ali, a migrant worker from Pakistan abused and exploited by his Korean employer, he told AFP. "Korea is a very competitive society. I was lucky enough to survive the competition and entered a good university," he said. "But when I visited the UK at age 24, a white staff member at airport immigration gave me a dismissive look and made discriminatory comments. I find it truly shocking to this day. I think I was someone like Ali back then." Hwang studied journalism at SNU, where he became a pro-democracy activist -- and he named the main character in Squid Game, Gi-hun, after a friend and fellow campaigner. But democracy had been achieved by the time he graduated and he "couldn't find an answer to what I should do in the real world". At first, "watching films was something I did to kill time", he said, but after he borrowed his mother's video camera, "I discovered the joy of filming something and screening it for other people, and it changed my life." His first feature-length film, My Father (2007) was based on the true story of Aaron Bates, a Korean adoptee whose search for his biological father finally led him to a death row inmate. In 2011, his crime drama Silenced -- inspired by a real-life sex abuse case involving children with disabilities -- was a commercial hit, as was his 2014 comedy Miss Granny, partly inspired by his single mother. Three years later, critically acclaimed 2017 period drama The Fortress dealt with a 17th-century king of Korea's Joseon dynasty besieged during a brutal Chinese invasion. Squid Game references several traumatising collective experiences that have shaped the psyche of modern South Koreans, including the 1997 Asian financial crisis and the 2009 layoffs at SsangYong Motor, both of which saw people take their own lives. "Through the reference to the SsangYong Motor layoffs, I wanted to show that any ordinary middle-class person in the world we live in today can fall to the bottom of the economic ladder overnight," Hwang told AFP. Jason Bechervaise, a professor at Korea Soongsil Cyber University, described Hwang as an "established and well-regarded filmmaker over 10 years" even before the huge global success of "Squid Game". He "deals with issues facing society" at the same time as "finding ways to entertain his audiences", he added. "Hwang is part of a capitalist system and the success of his series means he is benefiting out of such a system but that doesn't mean he doesn't struggle with the very nature of it," he told AFP. Areum Jeong, a Korean film expert at Sichuan University-Pittsburgh Institute, said the director has a history of sparking social debates before the arrival of the Netflix series. For one, Silenced addressed "injustice, moral corruption, unresolved issues in the Korean justice system, and eventually motivated viewers to demand legislative reform", she told AFP. Hwang wrote Squid Game about a decade ago, but said investors were reluctant and those who read the script told him it was "too absurd, weird, and unrealistic". But the rise of streaming services has made age-restricted materials more commercially viable than with cinema audiences, and he returned to the project at the prospect of working with Netflix. Nonetheless, he never imagined it "would become the global sensation that it is now". "I think viewers around the world deeply relate to the theme of economic inequality" portrayed in Squid Game," he said, "especially in times of a global pandemic".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/squid-game-characters-drawn-from-directors-life-1044929.html
28-10-2021||National||India sees 733 Covid-19 deaths, 16,156 new infections||With 16,156 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,42,31,809, while the active cases declined to 1,60,989, the lowest in 243 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,56,386 with 733 fresh fatalities including 622 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. Of the 622 deaths in Kerala, 93 were reported in the last few days, 330 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 199 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said. The ministry said the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 34 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 123 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the highest since March 2020, it said. A decrease of 1,672 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. According to the ICMR, 12,90,900 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 60,44,98,405. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.25 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 24 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 34 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,14,434, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 104.04 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  A total of 4,56,386 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,098 from Maharashtra, 38,037 from Karnataka, 36,060 from Tamil  Nadu, 29,977 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,096 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-733-covid-19-deaths-16156-new-infections-1044931.html
28-10-2021||National||Sitharaman to attend G-20 joint finance, health ministers meet in Rome||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will attend the G-20 joint Finance and Health Ministers meeting in Rome on October 29, which among other things will discuss Covid pandemic prevention and response. “Union Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman embarks on an official visit to attend #G20 Joint Finance & Health Ministers meeting in #Rome to discuss measures to strengthen #Covid-19 #PandemicPrevention, #preparedness & #response. The meeting precedes #G20RomeSummit,” the Finance Ministry tweeted. Finance and health ministers will discuss how to keep momentum in response to the pandemic and build on further coordination arrangements between the ministries. On October 29, G20 Finance and Health Ministers will gather in Rome for their first joint meeting under the Italian G20 Presidency. The meeting will be co-chaired by Italian Minister of Economy and Finance Daniele Franco and Italian Minister of Health Roberto Speranza. The meeting will be held on the eve of the G20 Leaders' Summit taking place in Rome on October 30-31, 2021. Speaking at the 36th Annual G30 International Banking Seminar earlier this month, Sitharaman had highlighted the need of an international financial architecture to fight the Covid-19 pandemic across the globe and stressed on the need to keep the supply chains open for vaccine raw materials. The Minister also highlighted the need of an international financial architecture to fight the Covid-19 pandemic across the globe and supported the need of new financial instruments to focus and press forward green initiatives. India has suggested a temporary waiver of intellectual property rights under a WTO agreement on Covid-19 vaccines and medicines. Last week India, which has a population of over 130 crore, achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark. About 104 crore people have been vaccinated till Wednesday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-to-attend-g-20-joint-finance-health-ministers-meet-in-rome-1044938.html
28-10-2021||National||Wankhede to head Aryan Khan case until evidence emerges against him: NCB||Under-fire NCB officer Sameer Wankhede will continue to remain in charge of the case involving the drug raid on a cruise ship unless substantial evidence of bribery emerges, senior NCB officer Gyaneshwar Singh has said, according to news agency ANI. Wankhede, who lead the raid that resulted in the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, was grilled after a witness in the case made sensational claims of a pay-off running in crores of rupees. Besides, Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik has also made a battery of accusations against the NCB officer, spanning forgery of caste certificate, extortion and unauthorised phone tapping.  Singh, who has arrived in Mumbai as the lead of the five-member team, said Wankhede has submitted documents pertaining to the case and that he will be questioned further if need be.  The case changed its tack after a witness Prabhakar Sail, who is reportedly the bodyguard of K P Gosavi, whose videos and photos with Aryan Khan following his arrest went viral, made claims of extortions. According to Sail, Gosavi had planned to seek Rs 25 crore, and then settle for Rs 18 crore, out of which Rs 8 crore was earmarked for Wankhede.  On Thursday morning, Gosavi was arrested by the Maharashtra Police in another case dating back to 2018.   Meanwhile, Wankhede has denied all allegations with NCB backing the officer for his "impeccable service record." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wankhede-to-head-aryan-khan-case-until-evidence-emerges-against-him-ncb-1044952.html
28-10-2021||National||'Can't hold results of 16L students': SC asks NTA to declare NEET results||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the National Testing Agency to declare the results of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate courses for the year 2021. The top court stayed the Bombay High Court order which directed the authorities to conduct a re-examination of two candidates due to the mixing of answer sheets.  The High Court had asked NTA not to declare results, after two aggrieved candidates had approached it claiming that their test booklets and OMR sheets got mixed up during the NEET exam held on September 12. Taking up the NTA's appeal, a three-judge bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said, "We stay the High Court judgment. NTA can announce NEET-UG results." The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and B R Gavai, said that the issue raised by the two students can be examined but the results of 16 lakh students cannot be withheld due to that. "We will decide what happens to the two students upon reopening. But we cannot hold the results of 16 lakh students," the bench said, fixing the matter for consideration after the Diwali break. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for central government, also said that any confusion with respect to the two students will be rectified but the results of other students cannot be withheld. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-hold-results-of-16l-students-sc-asks-nta-to-declare-neet-results-1044953.html
28-10-2021||National||Centre seeks details of algorithm, processes used by Facebook amid hate speech allegations||With Facebook embroiled in a fresh row over its alleged failure to check the spread of fake news and hate speech, the Centre has sought an explanation from the social media giant about its algorithms to manage content. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has sent a letter to Facebook India’s Managing Director Ajit Mohan seeking details of the algorithms and processes used by the company to moderate content on its platform. Based on the company reply, the IT Ministry may take further steps including an investigation into the issue. "If required, the government may summon the company executives to seek explanation," said an official in the IT Ministry. The US-based social media giant landed in a row after Frances Haugen, a former employee-turned-whistleblower, provided thousands of internal documents showing how the company's systems can fuel hate speech and fake news. The whistleblower claimed that Facebook chose profit over user safety. With over 40 crore users, India is the biggest market for Facebook. (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-details-of-algorithm-processes-used-by-facebook-amid-hate-speech-allegations-1044962.html
28-10-2021||National||Firecracker ban not against any community, says Supreme Court||Just days before Diwali, the Supreme Court on Thursday said that the ban on firecrackers needs to be followed strictly as this was essential to protect the right to life.  The top court, at the same time, maintained that it was not against any festival.  "We don't want to come in the way of enjoyment but for it, one cannot play with fundamental rights of others," a bench presided over by Justice M R Shah said. The court said that the authorities entrusted with the task to implement orders must show more responsibility. Diwali is going to be celebrated on November 4. The bench clarified that the court has not put a 100% ban on firecrackers and all crackers were not banned, but a celebration with firecrackers made from banned material should not be permitted. "Can we say that enjoyment can be done at the cost of others' lives? Today also we can see that crackers are being sold in the market," the bench said, expressing its concern. The court said that last time it had emphasised that there should be some accountability on behalf of those who had to implement the order. "We want full implementation of our orders. We are not against a particular community," the bench said, adding it wanted to send a strong message that it is there for the protection of fundamental rights of citizens. "Under the guise of enjoyment you (manufacturers) cannot play with lives of citizens," the bench said. The top court had on October 23, 2018, imposed a ban on the use of barium salt in firecrackers due to its deleterious effect. On Thursday, the bench made the observations as a counsel in the matter mentioned about the ban of crackers in Delhi.  "We know what people of Delhi are suffering. We want the implementation of the court's orders," the bench said. The court would continue to hear the case filed by Arjun Gopal in which it has sought reply from firecracker manufacturers, on a CBI preliminary enquiry report claiming manufacturers were using banned barium chemicals. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firecracker-ban-not-against-any-community-says-supreme-court-1044968.html
28-10-2021||National||Mufti demands release of Kashmiri students arrested from Agra college for celebrating Pakistan T20 World Cup win||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday demanded immediate release of Kashmiri students arrested from a college in Agra for allegedly posting a WhatsApp status praising Pakistan players after victory against India in a T20 World Cup cricket match.  The students of Raja Balwant Singh Management Technical Campus in Uttar Pradesh's Agra were arrested on Wednesday evening following an FIR lodged against them at the Jagdishpura police station, a police official had said "Crackdown on Kashmiri students both within J&K & outside is reprehensible. Situation in J&K after two years of suppression should've been an eye opener for GOI & lead to course correction. BJP's pseudo patriotism disregards the idea of India. Release these students immediately," the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president tweeted. The former chief minister also tagged a media report quoting Agra college authorities, which claimed that there were no anti-national slogans raised on the campus.  The report also claimed that the college authorities had complained against BJP workers for allegedly "putting pressure on them". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mufti-demands-release-of-kashmiri-students-arrested-from-agra-college-for-celebrating-pakistan-t20-world-cup-win-1044976.html
28-10-2021||National||3 women farmers die after truck runs over them near Tikri border: Report||Three women farmers died after a speeding truck run over them near Tikri, a farmers' protest site at Delhi-Haryana border. The women, who were reportedly from Mansa district in Punjab, were allegedly sitting on the divider and waiting for an auto-rickshaw, when the truck hit them. The local police have reportedly detained the driver and taken him to a police station. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi said that he was deeply grieved by the accident. "Heartbreaking news of 3 women farmers killed and two others injured as truck hits them near Tikri Border in Haryana's Bahadurgarh. I am deeply grieved by this tragic incident. May their soul Rest in Peace and also urge Haryana Police to find the accused and put them behind Bars," Channi tweeted. Heartbreaking news of 3 women farmers killed and two others injured as truck hits them near Tikri Border in Haryana's Bahadurgarh. I am deeply grieved by this tragic incident. May their soul Rest in Peace and also urge Haryana Police to find the accused and put them behind Bars. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-women-farmers-die-after-truck-runs-over-them-near-tikri-border-report-1044983.html
28-10-2021||National||Pegasus spyware issue India's internal matter: Israeli envoy||Israel does not allow companies like NSO to sell their products to non-governmental actors, newly-appointed Israeli Ambassador to India Naor Gilon said on Thursday while describing the row over the alleged use of the firm's spyware Pegasus in India as an internal matter of the country. His comments at a press conference came a day after the Supreme Court appointed a three-member committee to investigate the reported use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indian citizens including journalists, activists and politicians. "I will not go into more details...NSA (Group) is a private Israeli company. Every export of NSO or such companies needs an export licence of the Israeli government. We grant this export licence only for exporting to governments," he said. "This is the only main requirement...Under the requirements, they cannot sell it to non-governmental actors. What's happening here in India is an internal thing for India and I would rather not go into your internal matters," Gilon said. He was replying to questions over allegations of unauthorised surveillance using NSO Group's spyware Pegasus and whether the Indian government contacted Israel over the issue. An international investigative consortium had claimed that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were potentially targeted by the NSO Group's phone hacking software. The Supreme Court has set up a three-member independent expert panel to probe the reported use of Pegasus for targeted surveillance in India, observing the state cannot get a "free pass" every time the spectre of national security is raised. Asked about the new quadrilateral grouping comprising India, Israel, the US and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the envoy said it is focused on cooperation in areas of the economy, trade, infrastructure and technology among others and that there is "no military element" to it. When referred to India's close ties with Iran and whether it will impact the cooperation under the grouping, he said it is to promote something positive and not to create something negative against anyone. "Our cooperation is to promote something positive, it is not to create something negative against someone else," he said. "We are very much aware that India has its own interests when it comes to Afghanistan and Iran....I think that in discussions between countries, especially between friends, each country puts forward its own concerns and each country has its own interests, and then you see over time how it circles down, how it comes out,” the envoy said. At the same time, he said the biggest threat Israel has been facing is from Iran, alleging that the country has been a source of instability in the Gulf region. Gilon said Israel is keen to expand its cooperation with India in areas of economy and trade and said the proposed free trade agreement between the two sides is expected to increase the volume of economic engagement. He said the FTA is expected to be finalised by June next year. The envoy also said Israel is cooperating with Indian agencies probing the bombing outside the Israeli embassy in the national capital earlier this year. "We don't know yet the identity of the perpetrators. It is an ongoing investigation. I hope we will get to them as soon as possible," he said. The envoy said Israel's cooperation with India in areas of agriculture, water and irrigation sharing is on an upswing. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar paid a visit to Israel this month during which he held talks with Israel's top leadership to further expand the strategic ties between the two countries. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-spyware-issue-indias-internal-matter-israeli-envoy-1044984.html
28-10-2021||National||SC forms panel to probe Pegasus: How will it work?||The Supreme Court on Wednesday formed an independent experts committee to be supervised by Justice R V Raveendran, a retired top court judge, to go into the "truth or falsity" of allegations of citizens' snooping by use of Isreal's Pegasus spyware. Here’s a look at what the panel is expected to do, and how it will work. Terms of reference for the panel The Supreme Court has set seven terms of reference for the expert panel, which are basically points to be determined by the panel in the eight weeks before it submits its report. These include whether Pegasus software was used to spy on Indians through phones or other digital devices by accessing stored data, details of those who were impacted if it were used, whether the Centre or state governments acquired the software, what rule or protocol or law was the software used under if it were used or any other matter the committee deems fit to probe.  Recommendations The panel is to make recommendations about enactment of laws regarding surveillance and ways to improve the right to privacy. It will also recommend ways to enhance cybersecurity, prevent invasion of right to privacy, set up a mechanism to flag illegal surveillance. Why an expert committee? Pegasus deals with the invasion of citizens’ fundamental right of privacy, and issues related to rights are usually assigned to fact-finding or expert committees, that act as agents of the court. They have the right to summon individuals and prepare reports to inform the court. The court formed the comittee taking into account the public importance and the alleged scope and nature of the large-scale violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the country. It noted a broad consensus that unauthorised surveillance or accessing of stored data from the phones and other devices of citizens for reasons other than the nation’s security would be "illegal, objectionable and a matter of concern." The Centre had refused to divulge details whether Pegasus was used or not, citing national security concerns. But it had said it would disclose information to a committee of technical experts. How will it work? The panel can devise its own procedure to effectively implement and answer the Terms of Reference, hold such enquiry or investigation as it deems fit and take statements of any person in connection with the enquiry and call for the records of any authority or individual. Who is on the committee? The court constituted a technical committee of three members, including experts in cyber security, digital forensics, networks and hardware. The members are Dr Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Professor (Cyber Security and Digital Forensics) National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar, Dr Prabaharan P, Professor (School of Engineering), Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Amritapuri, Kerala and Dr Ashwin Anil Gumaste, Associate Professor (Computer Science and Engineering), IIT Bombay. Their functioning will be overseen by Justice R V Raveendran, former judge, Supreme Court. He will be assisted by Alok Joshi, former IPS officer (1976 batch) and Dr Sundeep Oberoi, Chairman, Sub Committee in (International Organisation of Standardisation/ International Electro-Technical Commission/Joint Technical Committee). Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-forms-panel-to-probe-pegasus-how-will-it-work-1044993.html
28-10-2021||National||Domestic airlines to operate fewer flights this winter compared to 2019||Domestic airlines will fly 4.38% less flights per week this winter schedule compared to 2019 -- from 23,307 to 22,287 -- with SpiceJet decreasing its services by 31%, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has said. The Winter Schedule is effective from October 31 to March 26 next year. The 22,287 departures per week have been finalized toand from 108 airports, including the new airports Sindhudurg in Maharashtra and Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh. "Ministry of Civil Aviation vide order No. 27/2021 dated 12th Oct 2021 informed that scheduled domestic operations have been permitted to operate without any capacity restrictions. Accordingly, Winter Schedule 2021 has been approved without capacity restrictions as submitted by the scheduled domestic airlines," the DGCA said. While SpiceJet has decreased its weekly flights from 4,316 to 2,995, Vistara has increased its services by 22% -- from 1,376 for winter schedule to 1,675 weekly flights this winter. IndiGo will operate the highest number of weekly flights in this winter schedule also -- it has slight decrease in services from 10,310 flights in 2019 to 10,243 this time. According to the schedule, Air India, which was recently sold to the Tatas, also saw a decrease in its weekly flights from 2,254 to 2,053, which is a 8.92% decrease. Go First, which was previously known as GoAir, will have 2,290 weekly flights compared to 2,308 in the winter schedule of 2019. For AirAsia, 1,393 weekly services have been approved as against 1,345 in 2019. Regional carrier Star Air will operate 137 weekly domestic flights as against 62 weekly services in 2019. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-airlines-to-operate-fewer-flights-this-winter-compared-to-2019-1045012.html
28-10-2021||National||Actor Kamya Panjabi joins Congress, says 'beautiful start' to new beginning||TV actor Kamya Panjabi has joined the Indian National Congress and says she is looking forward to working under the guidance of party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Panjabi, known for her work on TV shows like "Banoo Main Teri Dulhann", "Maryada" and "Shakti", joined the political party on Wednesday in the presence of Bhai Jagtap, President, Mumbai Congress. The 42-year-old actor took to Twitter on Thursday and shared pictures from the ceremony, tagging Jagtap and political activist-columnist Tehseen Poonawalla. "A beautiful start to my New Beginning! Thank you so much @BhaiJagtap1 bhai @tehseenp @INCMumbai @INCIndia  for such a warm welcome. Really looking forward to start working under the leadership of @RahulGandhi ji @priyankagandhi ji (sic)" she wrote. Poonawalla also welcomed the actor to the Congress and wrote he was confident Panjabi will "serve the citizens" well. Apart from daily soaps, Panjabi has also appeared as a contestant on the Salman Khan-hosted reality show "Bigg Boss" in 2013. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-kamya-panjabi-joins-congress-says-beautiful-start-to-new-beginning-1045014.html
28-10-2021||National||'We will burn the place': Munawar Faruqui's shows cancelled over Bajrang Dal threats||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui's shows in Mumbai were cancelled after the owners of the venues reportedly received threats from members of the Bajrang Dal.  Faruqui, in a social media post, confirmed that three of his shows stood cancelled. "The safety of my audience is what matters most to me. I don't want my audience to go through what I am experiencing," the post says. The shows were scheduled for October 29 in Borivali and October 30, 31 shows were set to be held in Rangshardha auditorium.  “We were threatened on Tuesday afternoon by three members of Bajrang Dal. They said ‘this show is against Hindus’," Purnima Shah, owner of Rangsharda auditorium, told the publication.  "I told them producers book the hall and we do not ask who is the artist. I told them that the organiser has censor certificate, but still the Bajrang Dal members were threatening us. They told us they will burn the place, so we decided to cancel the show. At that time I called the police, who escorted them out of my premises,” Purnima Shah, owner of Rangsharda auditorium, told the publication. An organiser said police had informed that they would be booked if there is a law and order issue coming out of the show. "We were under tremendous pressure as the police had served us a notice that we will be booked if any law and order problem occurs due to the act. For safety of our audience, we called it off. But it’s really sad that an artist is being targeted because of his religion and some joke he cracked two years ago. Everyone makes mistakes and it was made amply clear to the police that no Hindu sentiments will be hurt.,” they said, requesting anonymity, according to the publication. Manohar Dhanavde, Senior Inspector of Bandra police station, said the police had given a warning to the Bajrang Dal saying action would be taken against them in case of any problems. The cops also served a notice to the organisers.  According to the notice, the police had information that the content of the show may hurt religious sentiments of Hindus or other communities. And, if a law and order issue surfaces, the organisers will be booked and the notice will be used as evidence against them in court, Express reported. The comedian was in news early this year when he was locked up in jail for over a month for allegedly insulting Hindu deities. The Supreme Court eventually granted bail after lower courts repeatedly denied relief to Faruqui. Police had faced scrutiny for the arbitrary nature of charges. They also admitted that there was no evidence that Faruqui had actually hurt Hindu sentiments.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-will-burn-the-place-munawar-faruquis-shows-cancelled-over-bajrang-dal-threats-1045019.html
28-10-2021||National||'Perturbed' by many persons 'politely declining' to be part of Pegasus probe panel: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said he was perturbed by the statement in the Supreme Court order on the Pegasus snooping matter that many persons "politely declined" to be a member of the probe committee, and asserted that the "episode" illustrated how far the country has travelled from the exhortation of Mahatma Gandhi that Indians should not fear their rulers. The Supreme Court on Wednesday set up a three-member independent expert panel to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for targeted surveillance in India, observing the state cannot get a "free pass" every time the spectre of national security is raised and that its mere invocation cannot render the judiciary a "mute spectator" and be the bugbear it shies away from. "I am perturbed by the statement in the SC order that many persons when requested to be a member of a Committee to probe the Pegasus controversy, 'politely declined'," Chidambaram tweeted. I am perturbed by the statement in the SC order that many persons when requested to be a member of a Committee to probe the Pegasus controversy, “politely declined” Can any conscientious citizen decline the request of the SC to serve in a matter of paramount national interest? Can any conscientious citizen decline the request of the Supreme Court to serve in a matter of paramount national interest, the former Union minister asked. "This episode illustrates how far we have travelled from the exhortation of Mahatma Gandhi that Indians should not fear their rulers," Chidambaram said. In a significant verdict over the issue of protecting citizens' right to privacy that was welcomed by legal experts, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asserted that in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/perturbed-by-many-persons-politely-declining-to-be-part-of-pegasus-probe-panel-chidambaram-1045031.html
28-10-2021||National||Seven advocates appointed as judges of Rajasthan HC, Punjab and Haryana HC||Five new judges were appointed to the Punjab and Haryana High Court and two to the Rajasthan High Court on Thursday. All seven were advocates before being made judges, according to the Department of Justice in the Law Ministry. The ministry also notified the transfer of Justice K Lalitha Kumari from the Andhra Pradesh HC to the Telangana High Court. Since the beginning of this month, the government has notified several appointments of judges based on recommendations made by the Supreme Court collegium. The combined sanctioned strength of judges in the 25 high courts of the country is 1,098. As on September 1, there were 465 vacancies, according to data placed in the public domain by the Law Ministry. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-advocates-appointed-as-judges-of-rajasthan-hc-punjab-and-haryana-hc-1045035.html
28-10-2021||National||Drugs on cruise case: Bombay HC grants bail to Aryan Khan||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who was arrested in the Cordelia drugs-on-cruise case by the Narcotics Control Bureau. Besides Aryan Khan, his friend and social media influencer Arbaaz Merchant and model-designer Munmum Dhamecha were also granted bail. Justice Nitin Sombre of the Bombay High Court granted the bail to the trio after three days of hearing. “The court granted bail to Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha,” said senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, former Attorney General of India, who appeared for the star kid. “The detailed order of the court would be available tomorrow,” said Rohatgi. While senior counsel Amit Desai appeared for Arbaaz, Advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh represented Munmun. “God is great,” said senior lawyer Satish Maneshinde, who was the advocate-on-record for Aryan. Once the order is available, it would be taken to the Arthur Road prison for formalities of Aryan's release. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-on-cruise-case-bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-aryan-khan-1045046.html
28-10-2021||National||Centre ignoring poor, tribals and Dalits: Jharkhand CM||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday slammed the Centre over the issues like inflation and unemployment and claimed that the welfare of poor, tribals and Dalits was missing from the Union government's thought process. Soren also said that the Naxal menace in various states had come down due to efforts made by governments there. He was speaking to reporters at the Swami Vivekananda Airport in Chhattisgarh's capital city, where he arrived to attend the inaugural day ceremony of the five-day-long 'National Tribal Dance Festival' and 'Rajyotsava' 2021 (statehood celebration) as chief guest. Asked about the Union government's functioning, Soren said, "The Centre's decisions not only affect politicians but also you (common citizens). Be it inflation, employment or the country's economy, what is the status now? I think the middle-class people, poor, tribals, Dalits, backwards and minorities have no place in their (central government's) thoughts." On the Naxal menace, Soren said Naxalism is not only the problem of Jharkhand but of the country. "If you look at the statistics, it shows a steady decline (in Naxal incidents) in Jharkhand. Naxalism has been brought under control (in Naxal-hit states) due to the efforts of various state governments. We will do even better work in future in this regard," he said. Noting that Jharkhand shares a border with Chhattisgarh, Soren said both the states are working together to deal with the problem of Naxalism. Commenting on the opposition BJP in Chhattisgarh, which is ruled by Congress, he said the opposition should play a meaningful role. There should not be an attempt to create obstruction in the working of the government or to conspire against it, he said. "If there is a positive opposition, then development takes place at a faster pace," he added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-ignoring-poor-tribals-and-dalits-jharkhand-cm-1045048.html
28-10-2021||National||Centre extends Covid-19 curbs till November 30||Government on Thursday extended the Covid-19 curbs across the country till November 30 as a rise in cases in a few states and the disease continues to be a public health challenge in the country. The announcement by the Ministry of Home Affairs came on a day India reported 16,156 new patients of Covid-19 – the highest single-day rise in cases since October 23. India’s total coronavirus caseload now stands at 3,42,31,809, with an active case count of 1,60,989 – the lowest in the past several months. “In exercise of powers, conferred under Section 10 (2)(1) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, undersigned hereby directs that the Order of the Ministry of Home Affairs of even number, dated September 28, 2021, to ensure compliance with the Prompt & Effective containment measures for Covid-19, as conveyed vide Ministry of Health and Family Welfare dated September 21, 2021, will remain in force up to November 30, 2021,” Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a communication to all state governments and Union Territories. Last month, Bhalla had cautioned against lapses in following Covid-appropriate behaviour during the festival season and asked states to enforce guidelines that allowed regular festivities in a cautious, safe and Covid-appropriate manner. The Home Secretary said states and Union Territories should regularly and closely monitor case positivity, hospitals, ICU beds occupancy of every district falling under their jurisdiction. He said there should be a continued focus on the five-fold strategy i.e., Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, to safely navigate through the festive season to avoid the possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-november-30-1045051.html
28-10-2021||National||Azim Premji donated Rs 27 crore per day in FY21, retains top philanthropist rank||Software exporter Wipro's Azim Premji donated Rs 9,713 crore or Rs 27 crore a day to retain his top rank among Indian philanthropists in FY21. Premji, the founder chairman of the company, increased his donation by nearly a fourth during the pandemic year, as per the Edelgive Hurun India Philanthropy List 2021, which had HCL's Shiv Nadar at second place with contributions of Rs 1,263 crore towards upliftment causes. Mukesh Ambani of Reliance Industries, India's richest man by a distance, came third on the list with a Rs 577 crore contribution and was succeeded by Kumar Mangalam Birla with Rs 377 crore. The second richest Indian Gautam Adani is eighth on the givers' list with a donation of Rs 130 crore towards disaster relief. Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani's ranking improved to fifth with a Rs 183 crore donation with “societal thinking” being identified as the primary cause. “At present, most of the money is going to fundamental aspects like education and healthcare because of the requirements on the ground. Nilekani has indeed made interesting contributions, and in 10 years, we will have broader civil society issues feature as primary causes,” Hurun India's managing director and chief researcher Anas Rahman Junaid said. He said as the age profile of the givers shifts to those under-40, and many of them being self-made ones also presents a hopeful picture. There are a few new entrants into the list, including the largest stocks investor Rakesh Jhunjunwala, who donated a fourth of his overall earnings or Rs 50 crore in FY21 with efforts on education. Jhunjunwala, who recently had a private meet with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is among the backers of Ashoka University, as per a statement. Brothers Nithin and Nikhil Kamath committed $100 million (Rs 750 crore) over the next few years to support individuals, organisations and companies working on solutions for climate change and are 35th on the list. Former chairman of engineering major Larsen & Toubro, A M Naik, is 11th on the list with a donation of Rs 112 crore, it said, adding that he has pledged to give away 75 per cent of his income for charitable purposes. Others in the top ten givers include the Hinduja Family, Bajaj Family, Anil Agarwal and the Burman family. Nine women find their place in the list led by a Rs 69 crore donation by Rohini Nilekani of Rohini Nilekani Philanthropies and, followed by Leena Gandhi Tewari of USV who donated Rs 24 crore, and Anu Aga of Thermax donated Rs 20 crore. Based on the place of residence, Mumbai led with 31 per cent of the list and was followed by New Delhi 17 per cent and Bengaluru 10 per cent. The pharma industry has the largest number of philanthropists followed by automobile and auto components and software and services. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/azim-premji-donated-rs-27-crore-per-day-in-fy21-retains-top-philanthropist-rank-1045053.html
28-10-2021||National||2G report: Vinod Rai apologises to Sanjay Nirupam||Former Comptroller and Auditor General Vinod Rai has tendered an unconditional apology to Congress leader Sanjay Nirpuam, backtracking from his repeated assertions in media interviews seven years ago that the former MP pressured him not to name former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in the 2G spectrum allocation report, prompting a call for apology before the nation for his "forged reports" against the UPA government. Rai's apology, in which he said he was "factually incorrect" about Nirupam and "wrongly mentioned" the politician, came in an affidavit he submitted in a court here in connection with the defamation case against him after he made the claim during interviews on his book 'Not Just an Accountant: The Diary of a Conscience Keeper' in 2014. The case was disposed of by Metropolitan Magistrate in Patiala House court after recording Nirupam's statement accepting Rai's apology. Rai authored CAG reports on 2G spectrum allocation and coal allocation had been politically damaging for the Congress-led UPA leading to its ouster from power in 2014. Rai's notional loss calculation of Rs 1.75 lakh crore in 2G allocation and Rs 1.8 lakh crore in coal allocation was used by Congress' opponents in the run up to the election. In his affidavit submitted in the court, Rai said, "I have realised that, in answer to questions posed to me by the interviewers, I had inadvertently and wrongly mentioned the name of Sanjay Nirupam as one of the MPs who pressured me to keep the then prime minister Manmohan Singh's name out of the CAG report on 2G spectrum allocation during the meetings in the PAC or the sidelines of the JPC etc."  He also said that the statements made by him against Nirupam, as televised and published, "are factually incorrect". "I understand the pain and agony my statements have caused to Sanjay Nirupam, his family and his well-wishers and thus, would like to offer my unconditional apology for the hurt caused by my such statements to Sanjay Nirupam, his family, friends and his well-wishers. That I hope that Sanjay Nirupam will consider and accept my aforesaid unconditional apology and close this issue," Rai has said. Nirupam said Rai has "finally" tendered an unconditional apology to him and he must now "apologise to the nation now for all his forged reports about 2G and Coal block allocations done by the UPA government". He also said he was happy that his stand was vindicated and the former CAG apologised for his wrongful claims made against him. Rai's CAG reports on spectrum allocation and coal allocation, where he gave presumptive loss figures, had done damage to the Congress Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "the man who lied in the name of Sanjay Nirupam to sell his book and had to apologise today, imagine how many lies he must have written in the book and in his CAG reports." Former media adviser to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and journalist Pankaj Pachauri said Nirupam has "opened the Pandora’s Box of many lies floated about 2G deals" and other political leaders should come "forward to expose " Rai. "At 73, he can redeem himself by admitting that he 'inadvertently and wrongly' lied. It is also a lesson for journalists," he tweeted.  Former Coal Secretary Anil Swarup said in tweets, "Doesn't he owe an apology to the nation for his wrong calculations and going to town with them causing havoc in both the sectors?...This is perhaps first of the many apologies that Mr Vinod Rai may have to issue, including one to the nation."   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2g-report-vinod-rai-apologises-to-sanjay-nirupam-1045072.html
28-10-2021||National||Congress a party on pension, Akhilesh a yuvraj busy working for family: Pradhan||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday called the Congress a “family party” “on pension” and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav “a yuvraj” busy “strengthening his family”. Pradhan, also the in-charge of BJP’s party affairs in Uttar Pradesh, took the dig while addressing a gathering of Kurmi community members under a Prtinidhi Sammelan (Representatives’ Rally) organised by the BJP Backward Front. "I was watching the news yesterday. The ‘yuvraj’ of a family was saying: We are uniting the backwards. I want to ask them if you are uniting backwards or strengthening the family,” Pradhan said in an evident jibe at SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav, a day after he announced his party’s pre-poll alliance with Suhaldev Bhartiya Samaj Party in Mau. Taking a potshot at the Congress, he added, “The family party in Delhi is not able to decide who will lead them, see the condition of that party. The Congress party says: ‘We will implement a pension scheme once we come to power.’ I say you yourself are on the pension now.” Elaborating upon the importance given to various Kurmi community leaders during the BJP regime, Pradhan hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for making some of them the ministers and governors. Elaborating upon the contribution of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in the nation-building, Pradhan also pointed out PM Modi’s work in bringing their contribution to the forefront. Union Education Minister Pradhan also recalled how it was the BJP government which gave constitutional status to the OBC Commission. “During previous governments, SC-ST Commission was formed but not the OBC commission. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did the work of giving constitutional recognition to the OBC Commission. Earlier this benefit was only for the SCs and STs," Pradhan said. PM Modi also gave the benefit of reservation to the OBCs in admissions to medical colleges and 27 per cent reservation to the OBC even in allotment of petrol pumps, he said. "I want to stress that these welfare schemes are being identified with the BJP government,” Pradhan added. Accusing the previous government of having a dismal law and order situation in the state during their tenures, Pradhan said, “If crime increases, the loss is not of the rich but the poor. What was the level of crime during the previous governments, you all know it.” Many other prominent leaders including BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh too addressed the rally.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-a-party-on-pension-akhilesh-a-yuvraj-busy-working-for-family-pradhan-1045076.html
28-10-2021||National||Delhi Police files second charge sheet in murder case involving Sushil Kumar||Delhi Police has informed a court here that it has filed a supplementary charge sheet against the remaining accused in the Chhatrasal Stadium murder case involving Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar. The first charge sheet which was filed by the police on August 2 named 13 accused, including Sushil Kumar as the “main” accused. There are a total of 17 accused in the alleged murder case, according to the police. “It is submitted by Investigating Officer of the case that supplementary charge sheet qua the remaining accused persons has been filed by him,” Additional Sessions Judge Shivaji Anand noted in an order dated October 27. Kumar, along with others had allegedly assaulted former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankar and his friends at the stadium in May over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar later succumbed to the injuries. In the first charge sheet, the police had said that the brawl at the stadium was the result of a conspiracy hatched by Sushil Kumar, who wanted to re-establish his supremacy among younger wrestlers. Kumar's bail was rejected earlier this month. Delhi Police had filed an FIR against the accused of offences such as murder, attempt to murder, culpable homicide, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, robbery, rioting, among others.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-files-second-charge-sheet-in-murder-case-involving-sushil-kumar-1045081.html
28-10-2021||National||Venkaiah Naidu roots for 'Indianisation' of education, food habits||Vice President of India M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday made a case for Indianisation of food habits and the educational curriculum, asking why colonist Britain's marauder Robert Clive was referred to as 'Robert Clive the great' when Indian heroes like King Shivaji and Rana Pratap weren't given the same privilege. Naidu, who was speaking at a function at the Sant Sohirobanath Ambiye College in North Goa, also said that local events and regional stalwarts of the Goa Liberation movement should find place in the history books in the coastal state, along with national heroes. "Unfortunately because of colonial rule our education system was such that we are not taught about the true history of our civilization. History says Robert Clive the Great not Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaja or Rana Pratap. I have just given one example. There are many like that," Naidu said at the function. "The VCs (vice chancellors) of universities and other great institutions must focus on this. The syllabus has to be changed to include the national and the national heroes of the local region. Their life, their teachings and their preachings must be brought into the education system," he also said.Naidu also said that students of Goa should be taught in detail about the Goa Liberation movement, which ended with the state being liberated from 451 years of colonial rule in 1961. "Our children, children of Goa, they must be taught about the Goa Liberation Movement. The sacrifice made by great people of this great land. The sufferings they have undergone during that suppression. This has to be told to our younger generation. They should be told how Goa was liberated by sons of this great land who have sacrificed. Who were in the forefront of the movement. That is very much required," Naidu said, adding that there was a need to "Indianise education". He also extended the need for Indianisation in food choices in the country, urging people to abhor pizzas and burgers. "I’m not prescribing a particular food, there are a lot of varieties, thousands of varieties in India. I’m only suggesting going for cooked food -- not stale or frozen food. We must go for organic, indegenous food, this burger pizza may be suitable to those countries but not to our country," the Vice President of India said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-roots-for-indianisation-of-education-food-habits-1045089.html
28-10-2021||National||SC issues orders to fix norms for schools teaching students with special needs||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed all state governments to fill up vacancy of special teachers and rehabilitation professionals in schools for children of special needs within six months. It also also ordered the central government forthwith to fix up norms including pupil-teacher ratio in such schools or institutions admitting children with special needs, (CwSN) also known as 'Divyang'. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar directed that until the competent authority formulated a comprehensive action plan, as a “stop-gap arrangement”, the recommendations made in 2019 by State Commissioner for persons with disabilities, National Capital Territory of Delhi, should be adopted. The 2019 recommendations fixed generally accepted pupil-teacher ratio of 8:1 for children with cerebral palsy, 5:1 for children with intellectual disability, and specific learning disabilities and 2:1 for deaf and blind. "It is essential for the concerned authority and more particularly for the schools imparting education to CwSN, to ensure that a just pupil¬teacher ratio is maintained without exception," the bench said. The court passed its judgement on petitions filed by Rajneesh Kumar Pandey and others espousing the cause of teachers having BEd (special) and DEd (special) degree or diploma courses and fully trained to cater to the requirements of CwSN. The top court said a “multi-pronged approach” needs to be adopted by the concerned authorities with immediate effect, including to create commensurate permanent posts as per the just ratio to be specified by authority for rehabilitation professionals or special teachers who can cater to the needs of CwSN. The court noted that the Rights of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 made no distinction between general schools and special schools, but the norms and standards specified for general schools cannot be replicated for special schools, which are governed by special laws in respect of rights of persons with disabilities. It pointed out the persons with disabilities in India constituted over 2.21 % of the total population, as per 2011 census figure. At present, there are only 1,20,781 special educators as against around 22.5 lakh CwSN in the country. Only 4.33 lakh general teachers have been trained to teach CwSN in addition to teaching general children and only 28,535 special teachers are available for children with special needs. Among a slew of directions, the court ordered the state commissioners appointed under Section 79 of the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, to forthwith initiate suo motu enquiries regarding compliance and then make recommendation to the appropriate authority.  It posted the matter in first week of March 2022 for consideration of the reports to be received from the state commissioners. The bench also issued notices to the secretary of Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and Secretary of the Ministry of Education. The court noted a dearth of rehabilitation professionals or special teachers, recognised and registered by the council, who alone can impart education and training to handicap person or CwSN, saying this disparity would have to be addressed by National Council for Teacher Education.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-orders-to-fix-norms-for-schools-teaching-students-with-special-needs-1045096.html
28-10-2021||National||IT ministry to issue FAQs on intermediary guidelines soon: Sources||The IT ministry will soon release 'Frequently Asked Questions' around the intermediary guidelines to enable a better understanding of the goals and provisions of the new rules among various stakeholders, including users, sources said. Minister of State for Electronics and IT, Rajeev Chandrasekhar is learnt to be spearheading the initiative on the proposed Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), which are expected to be issued in a matter of days. The FAQs will drive the overall objective of ensuring that the Indian internet is seen as safe for consumers and attractive for investments by investors, the sources added. Simply put, the FAQs would comprise questions that people ask about the rules, and are geared to make it easier for users to understand the norms around the internet and social media. Typically, questions could range from what the guidelines mean for the public and intermediaries to how they safeguard users, who to approach in case of complaints, and the role of compliance and grievance officers. It will also create awareness about the rights of users, and the obligations of platforms. Once released, the FAQs on IT rules and intermediary norms will be placed on the ministry's website, and widely publicised. Separately, the ministry is working on Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) around the IT rules and intermediary forms. The SOPs are expected to have details of the appropriate agencies who will have the authority to issue takedown notices to platforms. The SOPs are still a 'work in progress' and could take some more time before they are announced, the sources indicated. India enforced new IT intermediary rules earlier this year, aiming to bring greater accountability for big tech companies, including Twitter and Facebook. The rules require social media platforms to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and set up a robust complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. Social media companies are required to take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. Significant social media companies -- those with 50 lakh users or more -- also have to publish a monthly compliance report disclosing details of complaints received and action taken, as also the contents removed proactively. As per data cited by the Indian government earlier this year, there are 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram users, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-ministry-to-issue-faqs-on-intermediary-guidelines-soon-sources-1045099.html
28-10-2021||National||SC directs Centre to fix norms for schools teaching special students||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed all state governments to fill up the vacancy of special teachers and rehabilitation professionals in schools for children of special needs within six months. It also ordered the central government forthwith to fix up norms, including pupil-teacher ratio in such schools or institutions admitting Children with Special Needs, (CwSN) also known as 'Divyang'. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar directed that until the competent authority formulated a comprehensive action plan, as a “stop-gap arrangement”, the recommendations made in 2019 by State Commissioner for persons with disabilities, National Capital Territory of Delhi, should be adopted. The 2019 recommendations fixed the generally accepted pupil-teacher ratio of 8:1 for children with cerebral palsy, 5:1 for children with intellectual disability, and specific learning disabilities and 2:1 for deaf and blind. "It is essential for the concerned authority and more particularly for the schools imparting education to CwSN, to ensure that a just pupil¬teacher ratio is maintained without exception," the bench said. The court passed its judgement on petitions filed by Rajneesh Kumar Pandey and others espousing the cause of teachers having BEd (special) and DEd (special) degree or diploma courses and fully trained to cater to the requirements of CwSN. The top court said a “multi-pronged approach” needs to be adopted by the authorities concerned with immediate effect, including to create commensurate permanent posts as per the just ratio to be specified by authority for rehabilitation professionals or special teachers who can cater to the needs of CwSN. The court noted that the Rights of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 made no distinction between general schools and special schools, but the norms and standards specified for general schools cannot be replicated for special schools, which are governed by special laws in respect of rights of persons with disabilities. Among a slew of directions, the court ordered the state commissioners appointed under Section 79 of the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, to forthwith initiate suo motu enquiries regarding compliance and then make a recommendation to the appropriate authority. It posted the matter in the first week of March 2022 for consideration of the reports to be received from the state commissioners. The court noted a dearth of rehabilitation professionals or special teachers, recognised and registered by the council, who alone can impart education and training to handicapped persons or CwSN, saying this disparity would have to be addressed by the National Council for Teacher Education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-centre-to-fix-norms-for-schools-teaching-special-students-1045103.html
28-10-2021||National||Centre releases full Rs 1.59 lakh crore to states this fiscal as back-to-back loan to compensate for GST shortfall||The Centre on Thursday released the balance Rs 44,000 crore to states as loan to compensate for the GST shortfall, taking the total such amount to Rs 1.59 lakh crore this fiscal. This release of funds as back-to-back loans is in addition to the bi-monthly GST compensation being given out of cess collection. The 43rd GST Council meeting on May 28, 2021, had decided that the Centre would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 and release it to states and UTs with legislature on a back-to-back basis to meet the resource gap due to the shortfall in compensation on account of inadequate amount collected in the GST compensation fund. This amount is as per the principles adopted for a similar facility in the last fiscal 2020-21, where Rs 1.10 lakh crore was released to states. "The Ministry of Finance has released Rs 44,000 crore today to the States and UTs with Legislature under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST Compensation," the ministry said in a statement. The ministry had on July 15 and October 7 released Rs 75,000 crore and Rs 40,000 crore, respectively, to the states. With the release of Rs 44,000 crore on Thursday, the total amount released in the current financial year as back-to-back loan in-lieu of GST compensation is Rs 1.59 lakh crore, the statement added. This amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore is over and above the compensation in excess of Rs 1 lakh crore (based on cess collection) that is estimated to be released to states/union territories with legislature during this financial year. "The sum total of Rs 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22," the ministry added. The Rs 44,000 crore being released now is funded from the Government of India securities issued in the current financial year, at a Weighted Average Yield of 5.69 per cent. No additional market borrowing by the central government is envisaged on account of this release. "It is expected that this release will help the States/UTs in planning their public expenditure among other things, for improving, health infrastructure and taking up infrastructure projects," it said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-full-rs-159-lakh-crore-to-states-this-fiscal-as-back-to-back-loan-to-compensate-for-gst-shortfall-1045105.html
28-10-2021||National||Modi to unveil Mysuru-built Adi Shankaracharya statue at Kedarnath next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will offer prayers at the Kedarnath shrine and inaugurate the re-developed samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya on November 5, a day before the temple closes for the winter season. The samadhi of Shankaracharya was destroyed in the 2013 floods in Uttarakhand and Modi had taken personal interest in the redevelopment of the temple town. The statue of Shankaracharya in a sitting posture has been chiselled from Krishnashila stone by Mysuru-based sculptor Arun Yogiraj and weighs 35 tonnes. The statue was flown onboard a Chinook helicopter to Kedarnath earlier this month. The Prime Minister will review and inspect the executed and ongoing works along the Saraswati Aasthapath and address a public rally. Elections are due in Uttarakhand early next year and BJP is all set to project a slew of development works among the achievements of the “double-engine” government. The Prime Minister will inaugurate key infrastructure projects which have been completed, including Saraswati Retaining Wall Aasthapath and Ghats, Mandakini Retaining Wall Aasthapath, Tirth Purohit Houses and Garud Chatti bridge on river Mandakini. The projects have been completed at a cost of over Rs 130 crore. He will also lay the foundation stone for multiple projects worth over Rs 180 crore, including the Redevelopment of Sangam Ghat, First Aid and Tourist Facilitation Centre, Admin Office and Hospital, two Guest Houses, Police Station, Command & Control Centre, Mandakini Aasthapath Queue Management and Rainshelter and Saraswati Civic Amenity Building. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-to-unveil-mysuru-built-adi-shankaracharya-statue-at-kedarnath-next-week-1045108.html
28-10-2021||National||SC rejects Bharti Airtel's claim for Rs 923 cr refund in GST returns||In a big setback to Bharti Airtel, the Supreme Court on Thursday rejected the telecom major's claim for a refund of Rs 923 crore by rectifying its GST returns for July to September 2017. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar set aside the Delhi High Court’s order passed on May 5, 2020 that allowed Sunil Bharti-led Airtel to rectify Form GSTR-3B for the period, saying such directions “cannot be sustained”. Tax authorities, for their part, denied any refund alleging that Airtel had under-reported input tax credit during the period. The company, on the other hand, claimed it had paid excess tax of Rs 923 crore on inputs based on estimates since the GSTR-2A form was not operational during the error period. The apex court said that the law permits rectification of errors and omissions only at the initial stages of Forms GSTR-1 and GSTR-3 in a specified manner, thus Airtel cannot be permitted to unilaterally carry out rectification of its returns submitted electronically in Form GSTR-3B, which inevitably would “affect the obligations and liabilities of other stakeholders, because of the cascading effect in their electronic records”.  “Any unilateral change in such return as per the present dispensation would have a cascading effect on the recipients and suppliers associated with the concerned transactions. There would be complete uncertainty and no finality could ever be attached to the self-assessment return filed electronically," the bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, said. Agreeing to the contention of the Union government, the court said any indulgence shown contrary to the statutory mandate would not only be an illegality but in reality, would simply lead to a chaotic situation and collapse of tax administration of Union, States and Union Territories. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-bharti-airtels-claim-for-rs-923-cr-refund-in-gst-returns-1045113.html
28-10-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh cabinet allots 130 acres to Adani for Data Centre Park in Vizag||The Jaganmohan Reddy cabinet has decided to allot 130 acres of land in Visakhapatnam's Madhurawada to the Adani group to build a mega data centre and business park. Madhurawada is the locality near the seashore where Vizag's IT and related sector firms are concentrated. “The 130 acres land to Adani Enterprises is for setting up a data center, a business park, skills university and recreation center, with an estimated investment of Rs 14,634 crore and committed employment of 24,990 jobs,” Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkatramiah told reporters after the cabinet meeting on Thursday. In a controversial move, the cabinet has also approved 15 acres at Kottavalasa near Vishakhapatnam for the Sri Sarada Peetham, a mutt run by Swaroopananda Saraswati, said to be Reddy's “spiritual guru”. State endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas defended the decision dubbing it a propagation of Hindu dharma and establishing a vedic school among other activities. The Cabinet has also approved amendments to the Cinematography act 1965 and allowed the launch of an online ticket sale platform to be managed by the AP State Film, Television & Theater Development Corporation. The minister said the Cabinet has authorised the formation of a new Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) Welfare Department to implement welfare schemes for the upper caste poor. The formation of Jain and Sikh Welfare Corporations was also sanctioned. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-cabinet-allots-130-acres-to-adani-for-data-centre-park-in-vizag-1045114.html
28-10-2021||National||Catholic Bishops hope PM Modi will invite Pope Francis to India during meet in Vatican||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to meet Pope Francis during his forthcoming visit to Rome, the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI) is expecting that he will extend an invitation to the pontiff to visit the country. “During my visit to Italy, I will also visit the Vatican City to call on His Holiness Pope Francis and meet Secretary of State, His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin,” the Prime Minister said in a statement ahead of his departure from New Delhi. Modi will reach Rome on Friday to attend the G20 summit, which will be hosted by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. “It will be our wish that our Prime Minister would invite the Pope for a visit to India,” Felix Anthony Machado, the Secretary General of the CBCI, told DH. The Prime Minister’s meeting with the Pope will be an “important” engagement, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said in New Delhi. He, however, did not confirm if the Prime Minister would extend an invitation to the Pope for a visit to India. Pope Francis had on October 2, 2016, stated that it was almost certain that he would visit India and Bangladesh in 2017 as part of a tour to Asia. Though the CBCI had conveyed to the Modi Government its request for inviting the pontiff for a visit to India, the proposed papal visit did not take place so far, with New Delhi citing logistical difficulties in organising it. The Pope did visit two other South Asian nations – Myanmar and Bangladesh – from November 27 to December 2, 2017, but not India. Pope John Paul II was the last pontiff to visit India. He visited as many as 14 cities across the length and breadth of India during his 10-day tour in February 1986. He again visited India in November 1999, but his itinerary then was limited to New Delhi only. His successor, Pope Benedict XVI, gave India a miss during his eight-year-long papacy. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/catholic-bishops-hope-pm-modi-will-invite-pope-francis-to-india-during-meet-in-vatican-1045118.html
28-10-2021||National||SC temporarily restores senior designation of lawyer for two years||The Supreme Court Thursday temporarily restored for two years the senior designation of a lawyer, which was withdrawn unanimously by a full bench of the Gujarat High Court last year for his alleged remarks against the court and its registry. Observing that it respects the views of the high court but still endeavour to give “one more and last chance” to the advocate, the apex court said it is the high court that will watch and can best decide how he behaves and conducts himself as a senior counsel without any further opportunity. “We are of the view that the ends of justice would be served by seeking to temporarily restore the designation of the petitioner (Yatin N Oza) for a period of two years from January 1, 2022,” a bench of Justices S K Kaul and R S Reddy said in its judgement delivered on a plea filed by the advocate. The top court said it will be for the high court to take a final call whether his behaviour is acceptable in which case the high court can decide to continue with his designation temporarily or restore it permanently. “Needless to say that if there is any infraction in the conduct of the petitioner within this period of two years, the high court would be well within its rights to withdraw the indulgence which we have given for two years which in turn is predicated on the assurances given by the petitioner and his counsel for the immaculate behaviour without giving any cause to the high court to find fault with his conduct,” the bench said. It said that in effect, the fate of the petitioner is dependent on his appropriate conduct as a senior counsel before the high court, which will have the final say. “All we are seeking to do is to give him a chance by providing a window of two years to show that he truly means what he has assured us. We can only hope that the petitioner abides by his assurances and does not give any cause for the high court or for us to think otherwise,” it said. The bench noted that this is not the petitioner’s "first-run" in with the high court or for that matter the apex court and the problem appears to be that he does not seem to keep a balance between his role as a senior counsel and as the president of the bar association of the high court and, thus, crosses the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ repeatedly. It said the high court had objected to the maintainability of the plea filed by the petitioner under Article 32 of the Constitution and it was submitted that what has been withdrawn is a ‘privilege’ and not a ‘right’. “We respect the views of the high court but still endeavour to give one more and last chance to the petitioner. In a way this can really be done by recourse to Article 142 of the Constitution of India as there is merit in the contention of the counsel for the high court that there is no real infringement of the fundamental rights of the petitioner,” the bench noted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-temporarily-restores-senior-designation-of-lawyer-for-two-years-1045121.html
28-10-2021||National||Centre plans border tourism, South Asia circuit||Even as India is unlocking its borders for foreign tourists after a prolonged ban due to Covid, the Centre wants to develop border tourism, Union Minister of State for Tourism Ajay Bhatt said Thursday.  Giving the examples of Wagah border in the India-Pakistan border and Rock of Peace in the India-China border, the minister said the government will identify tourist destinations in border areas and promote them. A proposal in this regard is under consideration with the Union government. Speaking to reporters in the sidelines of a Tourism and Culture Ministers' Conference of Southern Region here, Bhatt hoped that these tourist destinations would bring employment to people living in the border areas. "The idea is that the border villages should not be empty. Once tourists come here, commercial opportunities will open up for villages here and people will want to stay in these regions," he explained. The proposal will be taken forward after discussions with the Indian Army, he added.  Speaking to DH, Rupinder Brar, Additional Director General, Ministry of Tourism, added that the government is also in the process of working on a South Asia tourism circuit. Several virtual meetings have taken place in this regard with the countries concerned. The government wants to ensure that any foreign tourist visiting a South Asian country also considers India as one of their destinations. For this, the government will have to coordinate with the countries involved, apart from working with tour operators to create such a circuit, she added.  Meanwhile, Union Tourism minister G Kishan Reddy hoped that the two-day conclave would enable a healthy competition between states. "Best practises must be exchanged among states," he said. Ministers and officials from all south Indian states took part in the conclave. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-border-tourism-south-asia-circuit-1045124.html
28-10-2021||National||Chhota Rajan acquitted in 1983 case of assault on policemen||A special CBI court here on Thursday acquitted gangster Chhota Rajan in a 38-year-old attempt to murder case where he was accused of assaulting two policemen. Rajan, charged under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) was acquitted by special judge for CBI cases A T Wankhede. An official associated with the case said most of the witnesses were not traceable, and even the case records had gone missing. The Central Bureau of Investigation which had taken over the case from Mumbai Police had filed a closure report in the court, stating it can not pursue it as case papers and witnesses were missing. The court, however, had asked the central agency to continue the probe. As per the case details, way back in 1983, police intercepted a taxi in which Rajan and his accomplices were smuggling liquor in suburban Ghatkopar here. Two policemen tried to catch hold of him in the moving taxi and Rajan attacked them with a knife before being arrested, as per the police. Rajan is lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi after his deportation from Indonesia in October 2015. He is facing trials in about 70 cases and undergoing life imprisonment for the murder of journalist Jyotirmoy Dey in 2011. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhota-rajan-acquitted-in-1983-case-of-assault-on-policemen-1045126.html
28-10-2021||National||Centre invites applications to fill up consumer court vacancies||After a rap from the Supreme Court, the government on Thursday called for applications to fill three vacancies for the post of members of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC). “The Department of Consumer Affairs under Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has invited applications to fill three existing vacancies for the post of Members in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, which is an Appellate Authority established under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 to hear various appeals under the Consumer Protection Act,” an official statement said. The applications have been invited through online mode and the last date for submitting the same is November 30. In August, the Supreme Court had directed the Centre, states and union territories to take immediate steps to fill up vacancies in national, state and district consumer courts in eight weeks. Last week, the apex Court had expressed displeasure at the delay in filling up vacancies at consumer forums and asked the government to scrap the Consumer Protection Act if it did not want tribunals to function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-invites-applications-to-fill-up-consumer-court-vacancies-1045130.html
28-10-2021||National||Will join G20 leaders in discussing economic and health recovery from pandemic, climate change: Modi||Ahead of his visit to Italy and the UK to attend the G20 meet and COP-26 World Leaders' Summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said in Rome he will hold discussions on global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, while in Glasgow he will highlight the need to comprehensively address climate change issues, including equitable distribution of carbon space. In his departure statement, Modi said he will be visiting Rome and the Vatican City from October 29-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, following which he will travel to Glasgow, the UK from November 1-2 at the invitation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. "In Rome, I will attend the 16th G20 Leaders’ Summit, where I will join other G20 leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, sustainable development, and climate change," Modi said noting that this will be the first in-person summit of the G20 since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the meeting will allow the G20 to take stock of the current global situation and exchange ideas on how the grouping can be an engine for strengthening economic resilience and building back inclusively and sustainably from the pandemic. "During my visit to Italy, I will also visit the Vatican City, to call on His Holiness Pope Francis and meet Secretary of State, His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin," Modi said. On the sidelines of the G20 Summit, the prime minister said he will also meet with leaders of other partner countries and review the progress in India's bilateral relations with them. Following the conclusion of the G20 Summit on October 31, Modi said, he will depart for Glasgow to attend the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). "I will be participating in the high-level segment of COP-26 titled ‘World Leaders’ Summit’ (WLS) on 1-2 November, 2021 along with 120 Heads of States/Governments from around the world," he said. "In line with our tradition of living in harmony with nature and culture of deep respect for the planet, we are taking ambitious action on expanding clean and renewable energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and biodiversity," he asserted. Noting that India is creating new records in collective effort for climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience and forging multilateral alliances, Modi said India is among the top countries in the world in terms of installed renewable energy, wind and solar energy capacity. "At the WLS, I will share India's excellent track record on climate action and our achievements," he said. The prime minister said he will also highlight the need to comprehensively address climate change issues, including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience building measures, mobilization of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles for green and inclusive growth. COP-26 will also provide an opportunity to meet with all the stakeholders, including leaders of partner countries, innovators and inter-governmental organisation, and explore the possibilities for further accelerating our clean growth, Modi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-join-g20-leaders-in-discussing-economic-and-health-recovery-from-pandemic-climate-change-modi-1045138.html
28-10-2021||National||India’s support to Africa has always been without any conditionalities or hidden agenda: Jaishankar||India’s support to Africa has always been without any conditionalities or hidden agenda, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday, taking a swipe at China. “We have worked with Africa as per Africa’s priorities, Africa’s comfort and Africa’s aspirations. We believe that Africa’s rise is essential for true multi-polarity in the global order and are committed to supporting that happening,” Jaishankar said at the Security Council open debate on ‘Cooperation between UN and Sub-regional Organisations (African Union)'. “India’s support has always been without any conditionalities or any hidden agenda. This is visible in our 184 projects in 41 African countries implemented under concessional finance,” he said. Jaishankar's remarks appeared to be a veiled attack on China. There have been global concerns over debt traps and regional hegemony by China using its Belt and Road (BRI) infrastructure projects. China is doling out huge sums of money for infrastructure projects in countries from Asia to Africa and Europe. The US' previous Donald Trump administration had been extremely critical of the BRI and was of the view that China's "predatory financing" is leaving smaller counties under huge debt endangering their sovereignty. Jaishankar said New Delhi’s support to Africa is expressed in the medicines, vaccines, health equipment, ambulances, vehicles and food grains it has provided to many African nations. It is evident in the vocational training and IT centres set up across Africa, in the 50,000 education and training slots extended over the last five years, and the digital education and health programmes with 19 African partners. “Our trade and technology exchanges are steadily growing, in line with closer political and people-to-people ties,” the minister said. Underlining that India and Africa share a unique and historical relationship, he said New Delhi’s approach to this partnership was enunciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018 through Ten Guiding Principles, including strengthening cooperation and mutual capabilities in combating terrorism and extremism; keeping cyberspace safe and secure; supporting the UN in advancing and keeping peace, and keeping the oceans open and free for the benefit of all nations. Jaishankar reiterated India’s abiding and steadfast commitment towards an effective partnership between the United Nations and the African Union. “We believe that this partnership is crucial for responding collectively, coherently and decisively to prevent, manage and resolve violent conflicts and promote peace and development in Africa,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-support-to-africa-has-always-been-without-any-conditionalities-or-hidden-agenda-jaishankar-1045139.html
28-10-2021||National||Bombay HC quashes cheating proceedings initiated against Amazon India head||The Bombay High Court on Thursday quashed a criminal complaint and summons issued to Amazon India’s head Amit Agarwal by a magistrate's court, following a complaint of cheating filed by a city-based lawyer. Justice S K Shinde quashed the process or summon issued against Amazon India through its India head Amit Agarwal, by a magistrate's court in Ulhasnagar of Thane district in August this year. The magistrate's court had issued the process following a complaint filed by lawyer Amritpal Singh Khalsa, who had placed an order for a hard drive on Amazon's official website in December 2019, but never received it. Khalsa then lodged a complaint with the local police station, following which, the magistrate's court issued the process, akin to a notice, to initiate the proceedings in the case. The lawyer had claimed that despite numerous calls to Amazon India's customer care, he had not received the product or a refund for the same. In the high court, senior counsel Shirish Gupte, who appeared for Amazon India, argued that the company merely provided a neutral platform for sellers and buyers, and that it was not a seller of the hard drive ordered by Khalsa. Gupte argued that the case was not that of cheating, but was a commercial dispute. Khalsa, however, argued that since he had neither received the refund, nor the goods ordered, Amazon India had conspired with the seller to dupe him. Hence, it was a valid case of cheating as defined under the Indian Penal Code, he claimed. The court, however, agreed that Amazon was not a seller in the present case. "Admittedly, herein the transaction is not between two natural persons. Petitioner operates e-commerce entity to provide information on digital network and acts as a facilitator between buyer and seller. Petitioner does not own the product and sell the goods to the customer directly," it observed. The court further said that the allegations did not constitute an offence of cheating, nor do they disclose the fraudulent intention of the petitioner. The high court accordingly quashed the complaint pending before the Ulhasnagar magistrate's court and its order dated August 16, issuing process to Amazon India through Agarwal. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-quashes-cheating-proceedings-initiated-against-amazon-india-head-1045141.html
28-10-2021||National||Cervical Cancer: Single dose of HPV vaccine effective||A single dose of HPV vaccine is as effective as the two or three-dose regimens to protect Indian adolescent girls from cervical cancer, according to a new research that used data from an old study, which was stopped by the central government more than a decade ago. The findings, the researchers say, may pave the way for introduction of the HPV vaccines in the national immunisation programme of India and other low-income countries as high cost remains the most crucial stumbling block to start HPV inoculations in such programmes. Cervical cancer is a leading cause of cancer-associated mortality among Indian women with nearly 97,000 new cases and more than 60,000 deaths each year, almost one-fifth of the global burden. Studies suggest India can avert more than 24 lakh cases of cervical cancer in the next 50 years and death of thousands of women each year if the government takes up cervical cancer screening and HPV vaccination in a major way. To check the efficacy of the human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccine, the centre initiated a few trials in the last decade, but all of them were stopped in April 2010 following seven vaccine-unrelated deaths reported in another ongoing HPV vaccination demonstration programme. By the time, the study was halted, 17,000 plus volunteers were recruited and received at least one dose of the vaccine in one of the studies being carried out by a global team that includes researchers from the International Agency for Research on Cancer, France; Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. The girls were followed up for the last 10 years. In a study published recently in Lancet Oncology, the team now compared 4,348 volunteers who received three doses with 4,980 persons with two doses and 4,949 who got a single shot. The protection is 93% for the first and second groups and 95% for the third group. “A systematic 10-year follow-up of a cohort of about 17 000 female participants who received the quadrivalent HPV vaccine at age 10–18 years demonstrated that the protection offered by a single dose of quadrivalent vaccine against persistent infection with HPV16 and HPV18 (the types responsible for nearly 80% of cervical cancers in low- and middle-income countries) was as high as that offered by two doses or three doses of the vaccine,” the IARC said in a statement. The researchers’ findings could signal a fundamental shift in the accessibility of vaccination against HPV. Under current recommendations, nearly 60% of low- and middle-income countries have not been able to introduce HPV vaccination into their national immunization programmes because of the high cost and the logistical challenges related to delivering two doses of the vaccine. The two HPV vaccines available in the private markets in India are Ceravix (Rs 3299 for a single dose) and Gardasil (Rs 2,800). “A recommendation of a single dose would make vaccination programmes against HPV much more affordable and cost-effective for public health decision-makers, potentially enabling those who currently lack access to the vaccine – nearly 90% of adolescent girls in low- and middle-income countries – to be as protected against HPV and its associated cancers as their counterparts in high-income countries,” noted the IARC. Officials in the Union Health Ministry said that in December 2017, the Indian National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization — an independent advisory group of experts on immunization advising India’s national immunization program — recommended the nationwide introduction of the HPV vaccine to address the high cervical cancer burden in India. But in March 2021, then Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey informed the Lok Sabha that the HPV Vaccine has not been recommended by NTAGI for inclusion in the Universal Immunisation Programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cervical-cancer-single-dose-of-hpv-vaccine-effective-1045155.html
28-10-2021||National||India non-committal ‘Net Zero’ carbon emissions target||India remained non-committal on announcing a ‘Net Zero’ carbon emissions target during the forthcoming United Nations climate summit, COP26, in the United Kingdom, even as it prepared to press the developed nations hard on delivering on promises to mobilise fund to help developing nations access clean technologies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which his UK counterpart Boris Johnson will host in Glasgow on November 1 and 2 next. India, the third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the US, has been resisting pressure from the western nations to announce a target for achieving carbon neutrality or Net Zero by the middle of the current century. The government has rather been asking the developed nations to ensure the availability of clean technologies and finances for the developing nations. Modi said ahead of his departure from New Delhi that he would highlight during the COP26 “the need to comprehensively address climate change issues, including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience-building measures, mobilisation of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles for green and inclusive growth”. However, India did not rule out the possibility of revising its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) to mitigate climate change. India had set a target to reach 175 GW of installed capacity in renewable power by 2022 as well as to achieve a 40% level of reliance on non-fossil fuel power by 2030. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla told journalists that India would attend the COP26 with a “positive mindset”. “In line with our tradition of living in harmony with nature and culture of deep respect for the planet, we are taking ambitious action on expanding clean and renewable energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and bio-diversity. Today, India is creating new records in a collective effort for climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience and forging multilateral alliances,” the prime minister said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-non-committal-net-zero-carbon-emissions-target-1045159.html
28-10-2021||National||We trust Indian industry, Bharat Biotech has been submitting data regularly: WHO official on Covaxin EUL||India's Bharat Biotech has been submitting data on the EUL of Covaxin “regularly and very quickly” to a technical committee which hopes to have a final recommendation to the WHO next week, a top official of the global health agency said on Thursday, stressing that the UN body "trusts" the Indian industry that manufactures high quality vaccines. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the World Health Organisation on April 19 for the vaccine's Emergency Use Listing (EUL). A technical advisory group of the UN health agency which met on Tuesday has sought "additional clarifications" from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin to conduct a final “risk-benefit assessment” for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. The technical advisory group will now meet on November 3 for a final assessment. "Bharat has been submitting data regularly and very quickly, but they submitted the last batch of data on the 18th of October,” Dr Mariangela Simao, Assistant Director General, Access to Medicines and Health Products at WHO, said at a press briefing in Geneva. She was responding to a question on the delay in granting the Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin while Chinese vaccines Sinopharm and Sinovac were given approval even “with lack of data.” Simao said that when the technical advisory group met on October 26 to discuss the EUL for Covaxin, they asked Bharat Biotech for additional clarifications. She said WHO is in touch with Bharat Biotech and has "daily conversations” and calls and meetings “clarifying what additional data needs" to be submitted to the technical expert group. "Let me just clarify and without wanting to mention any specific manufacturer but saying that we have assessed an Indian manufacturer earlier in the year and it took 30 days,” she said, a reference to the Serum Institute of India which manufactures the AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine. "So this is not about moving quicker with one or another vaccine…We really trust the Indian industry. India produces different majority of vaccines in the world, high quality vaccines. We are right now at the last stage of the assessment by this external advisory group and we hope to have a final recommendation to the WHO next week. I hope that's well understood.” Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. The WHO has so far approved Covid-19 vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio/Serum Institute of India, Johnson & Johnson-Janssen, Moderna, and Sinopharm for emergency use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-trust-indian-industry-bharat-biotech-has-been-submitting-data-regularly-who-official-on-covaxin-eul-1045172.html
28-10-2021||National||India well on its way to meet NDC commitments: Shringla||India is well on its way to meet targets set under the Paris accord and it expects fulfilment of commitments in facilitating financial resources and technologies in helping developing countries confront climate change, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Thursday. His comments came days ahead of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) to be held in Glasgow. "We are well on our way to meeting our NDC (Nationally Determined Contributions) commitments and even doing better than that," he said at a media briefing on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Rome and Glasgow to participate in the G20 summit and COP-26 meet respectively. The NDCs are long-term goals and they embody efforts by each country to cut greenhouse gas emissions. "We are looking forward to a COP-26 that would bring forth fair and objective discussions and a balanced outcome," Shringla said. The developed countries promised to allocate $100 billion annually to developing countries to deal with climate change. Modi will leave for Glasgow from Rome on October 31 to attend COP-26. He will participate in the high-level segment of COP-26 titled 'World Leaders' Summit' from November 1 to 2. The prime minister will leave for Rome on Friday. In a pre-departure statement, Modi said India is taking ambitious action on expanding clean and renewable energy and energy efficiency. "Today, India is creating new records in collective effort for climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience and forging multilateral alliances," he said. The prime minister said India is among the top countries in the world in terms of installed renewable energy, wind and solar energy capacity. "I will also highlight the need to comprehensively address climate change issues including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience building measures, mobilization of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles for green and inclusive growth," he said. Shringla said India would like to see the fulfilment of such promises by the developed countries. "The quantum of such financing is also, in our view, inadequate. You need much more financing in order to reach the goals that have been set," he said. Shringla said providing financial resources and technology to developing countries is key to helping them meet their climate goals. "This is something that will occupy the leaders and negotiators, this is something that we expect to see some outcomes on, not only in terms of commitments," he said. Shringla said a global green bridge initiative with the theme of one sun, one world and one grid under the International Solar Alliance will be launched on the sidelines of the COP-26. The COP-26 is being held from October 31 to November 12 under the presidency of the UK which is partnering with Italy for the event. It is being billed as one of the biggest ever congregations of world leaders and experts in combating climate change. The Paris Agreement of 2015 requires each party to prepare, communicate and maintain successive NDCs that it intends to achieve. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-well-on-its-way-to-meet-ndc-commitments-shringla-1045175.html
28-10-2021||National||Boxing World Championships: Narender Berwal, Rohit Mor enter last-16 with facile win||Indian boxers Narender Berwal (+92kg) and Rohit Mor (57kg) stormed into the pre-quarterfinals of the AIBA Men's World Championships after out-classing and intimidating their opponents in lop-sided second-round contests here on Thursday. While Berwal stopped Sierra Leone's Mohamed Kendeh, Mor proved too good for Bosnia and Herzegovina's Alen Rahimic, winning 5-0. Berwal thoroughly dominated his imposing rival, who just could not connect for most part of the bout and struggled with his movement as well. The Indian, making his debut at the big event, was the sharper of the two and did well not to come in the line of the heavy punches Kendeh could have thrown had he been more agile. Kendeh's sluggish footwork, inability to either defend himself or launch any attack of note eventually forced the referee to hand him a standing eight count a minute and a half into the third round. The bout was then stopped in Berwal's favour. He will face Tajikistan's Rakhimov Khusravkhon, who is a former Asian Games champion. Next up in the ring for India was Mor and he was equally relentless against Rahimic, who struggled to keep his head up. The bout went the full distance but Mor quite literally had his rival scurrying for cover for the entire three rounds. However, late last night, another debutant Varinder Singh (60kg) was forced to give a walkover to Karen Tonakanyan of Armenia as he was in no position to fight due to high fever. "He is better now. We took him to hospital and also got him tested for Covid-19 and was found to be negative. Just bad luck, what can you do," India's High Performance Director Santiago Nieva told PTI. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boxing-world-championships-narender-berwal-rohit-mor-enter-last-16-with-facile-win-1045186.html
28-10-2021||National Politics||Why Congress not expelling Amarinder, asks AAP||AAP leader Jarnail Singh on Wednesday asked the Congress why it has not expelled former chief minister Amarinder Singh from the party for announcing his new outfit and backing the Centre's move of extending BSF's jurisdiction in the state. Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will launch his new political party when the Election Commission clears the name and symbol, and claimed that many people from the Congress are in touch with him. He also backed the BJP-led Centre's move of extending BSF's jurisdiction and asserted that the border force is not going to take over Punjab. Amarinder Singh had resigned as the Punjab CM after a bitter power tussle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu last month. Why the Congress high command is silent and not expelling Amarinder Singh, who is "speaking the language of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)", asked the AAP’s Delhi MLA. In a statement here, Jarnail Singh alleged that Amarinder Singh, who was "speaking in favour of the BJP", was doing it with the "consent" of the Congress. "Amarinder Singh is the proof of the Congress and the BJP's double-standards. The Congress and the BJP are working in collusion and the Akali Dal (Badal) is also part of the same group," he alleged. Jarnail Singh said, "Whatever party he will form, it will be a destruction, not development of Punjab." The AAP leader said people of Punjab had seen only "false promises". The Congress cannot put everything on Amarinder Singh as it was itself equally responsible, the AAP leader said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-congress-not-expelling-amarinder-asks-aap-1044881.html
28-10-2021||National Politics||Prashant Kishor flags 'problem' with Rahul Gandhi as regional parties gun for Congress||Political analyst Prashant Kishor, who was exploring an option to work with the Congress till some months ago, moved a full cycle with his remarks highlighting the "problem" of Rahul Gandhi in thinking it was just a matter of time that people would throw the Modi government away and stressed that the BJP was going to remain in the centre of Indian polity for the “next many decades”. At a time when Congress faces attacks from regional parties including Trinamool Congress in the run-up to state elections, Kishor who is currently working for Mamata Banerjee’s party in Goa, brought back in spotlight the question of who is the prime challenger to BJP back in focus in the run-up to elections in six states next year and bye-elections on October 30. A video clip of Kishor from a private meeting held on Goa went viral in which the poll strategist is heard saying, "BJP is going to be the centre of Indian polity...whether they win, whether they lose, like it was for the first 40 years for Congress, BJP is going nowhere…..That is where the problem lies with Rahul Gandhi. Probably, he thinks it's just a matter of time that people will throw him (Modi) away. That's not happening,” said Kishor who is strategising for TMC in Goa, which has lined up big programmes of Banerjee in the state in the run-up to polls next year. Rejoicing at Kishor’s remarks, the BJP rubbed in saying entire country agrees with poll strategist Prashant Kishor's comments that the ruling party will remain at the centre of politics for many decades Former Union Minister and BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore at a media briefing at the party headquarters said Kishore has not said anything that the country does not know but “Rahul Gandhi never heard the country's voice earlier and will not do so now.” The remarks of Kishor come in the midst of a fierce war of words between TMC and Congress as Banerjee’s party has recently made its intention of occupying the prime Opposition space clear by repeatedly raising questions on Rahul Gandhi’s capacities and projecting Mamata Banerjee as a better leader. Ahead of Banerjee’s three-day tour to poll-bound Goa beginning Friday, the party’s mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla' said, "We want an alliance to be formed against the BJP. We have said this to the Congress, too. But it is least bothered and shows a lackadaisical approach.” “The problem is both-way for the Congress. It cannot leave its political space to regional parties for the grandiose idea of defeating BJP as every party has to find its own ground. So we will see more of such sparring in coming days in states like UP, Punjab, Gujarat, Goa and elsewhere where new claimants for the Opposition space are rising,” says political analyst Rasheed Kidwai. Earlier, TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee had called Mamata the "only vaccine" to "eradicate" BJP “virus” in the next Lok Sabha polls. Banerjee’s party, which had suggested setting up a joint steering committee of Opposition leaders to plan a joint strategy against BJP, is not the only party taking potshots at Congress. Congress has not taken kindly to Banerjee's foray in Goa and Tripura. It also sounded dismissive of Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party’s attempts to go beyond Delhi with its senior leader P Chidambaram calling both AAP and TMC "marginal players” in Goa. In Bihar, RJD chief Lalu Prasad after refusing to accept Congress's demand for contesting one of two assembly bypoll seats, said Congress would have lost deposit had they been given the seats and dubbed Congress general secretary in-charge for the state Bhakt Charan Das as a “foolish” person, which led to poster war between the two old allies in the state. The sparring between regional parties and Congress comes months after multiple shows of unity during Opposition meetings were displayed and is likely to continue as they compete for the same political space in states ruled by the BJP and NDA. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prashant-kishor-flags-problem-with-rahul-gandhi-as-regional-parties-gun-for-congress-1045030.html
28-10-2021||National Politics||Congress limited to Twitter space, not bothered about building strong Oppn alliance: TMC mouthpiece||The TMC on Thursday launched a fresh attack on the Congress, accusing the grand old party of "limiting itself to Twitter space" instead of firming up an opposition alliance against the BJP. As West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee embarked on her three-day visit to poll-bound Goa, the party in its mouthpiece Jago Bangla iterated that it would venture out to other states to expand its base and put up a formidable fight against the BJP. "We want an alliance to be formed against the BJP. We have said this to the Congress, too. But it is least bothered and shows a lackadaisical approach," an editorial in the TMC mouthpiece said. Referring to the proposal of setting up of a joint steering committee by Banerjee during the August 20 opposition meet convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the editorial said nothing has moved forward since then. "The Congress is limited to the Twitter space. The party has taken no initiative to build an opposition alliance. In 2014 and 2019, too, the Congress had done the same," it said. The editorial further clarified that the TMC would continue to bolster its strength, while keeping the "doors of alliance with the Congress open". "We have never said that an opposition alliance will be forged without the Congress. But we will not waste our time for them by sitting idle," it added. The TMC, of late, has been criticising the grand old party over its alleged failure to take on the BJP. Earlier this month, the Mamata Banerjee-led party took a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat at Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, as it wondered if the Congress could erase the setback through a Twitter trend. The relationship between the Congress and the TMC seemed to have soured after the ruling party in Bengal, in its mouthpiece, claimed that party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-limited-to-twitter-space-not-bothered-about-building-strong-oppn-alliance-tmc-mouthpiece-1045056.html
28-10-2021||National Politics||'Entire country agrees with Kishor's comments that BJP not going anywhere'||BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore told reporters that Kishore has not said anything that the country does not know and then took a dig at Rahul Gandhi, saying the Congress leader will surely have a different view. Gandhi never heard the country's voice earlier and will not do so now, he added. In Goa where he is working for the Trinamool Congress, Kishore had said that the BJP will remain at the centre of Indian politics and will not go anywhere for the "next many decades". He also took a swipe at Gandhi for thinking that people will throw away the BJP immediately. Modi may win or lose but the BJP will remain at the centre of politics for a long time, he had added. It is the Modi government's USP, Rathore said, that it is connected to the grassroots and the feedback it receives guides its policies. The youth now have positive view towards politics, Rathore said. With the TMC working hard to make a foothold in Goa, which will go to the assembly polls early next year, Rahore said the Congress has become weak in the state and the party of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is trying to gain at its expense. The BJP spokesperson also hit out at Gandhi over his veiled swipe at the government over the reported death of three woman farmers after a truck hit them. "It shows the shallowness of his thoughts. He has no solid issue against the government and is busy working to incite people," he said. Asked about the arrest of some people in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly celebrating Pakistan's win in the T-20 cricket match against India, Rathore said he will not comment on the actions of a state government but as an ex-serviceman and sportsman he feels strongly about his country. He added that people may laud a different team if it plays well, with another party spokesperson, R P Singh, interjecting to say that one can cheer a different team but cannot raise slogans in favour of Pakistan. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/entire-country-agrees-with-kishors-comments-that-bjp-not-going-anywhere-1045084.html
28-10-2021||National Politics||Muslims being brutalised in Tripura; how long will govt pretend to be blind and deaf: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that Muslims are being brutalised in Tripura and asked how long will the government pretend to be deaf and blind. He also alleged that those doing violence in the name of Hinduism are not Hindus but hypocrites. "Our Muslim brothers are being brutalised in Tripura. Those who perpetrate hatred and violence in the name of Hindus are not Hindus but hypocrites," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "How long will the government keep pretending to be blind and deaf," he asked, using the hashtag "#TripuraRiots". A mosque was vandalised and two shops were set ablaze at Chamtilla on Tuesday evening during a VHP rally taken out to protest against recent violence against Hindus in neighbouring Bangladesh. Three houses and a few shops, reportedly owned by members of the minority community, were also ransacked in nearby Rowa Bazar, the police said. In another tweet, the former Congress chief hit out at the government over the rising prices of petrol and diesel. "From which angle are these good days," he asked in a tweet in Hindi. He used the hashtags 'TaxExtortion' and 'FuelPrice' to hit out at the government. He cited a news report that said prices of petrol and diesel are not under control with petrol costing Rs 108 a litre in Delhi and Deisel over Rs 105 a litre in Mumbai. The Congress party has been agitating against rising fuel prices in the country. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/muslims-being-brutalised-in-tripura-how-long-will-govt-pretend-to-be-blind-and-deaf-rahul-1045120.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Tushar Gandhi files PIL against Sabarmati Ashram redevelopment in Gujarat HC||Tushar Gandhi, the great-grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in Gujarat High Court against the proposed redevelopment of Mahatma Gandhi founded-Sabarmati Ashram here in Ahmedabad. The litigation is likely to come up for hearing post-Diwali vacation. The Rs 1,200 crore project, as several Gandhian organisations have alleged, threatens to change the topography of the existing Ashram. The PIL has raised concerns that due to redevelopment and "over-sized involvement" of the government officials in conception, the "Ashram may lose the Gandhian ethos that have been painstakingly preserved by the trusts." When contacted, Tushar Gandhi told DH that the PIL has been filed after much deliberations and collecting papers as evidence to show how the redevelopment project threatens the idea of Mahatma Gandhi in running the Ashram, its autonomy and its purpose. He said that the Asham and other Gandhian organisations are supposed to be run independently without the government's interference but in the name of redevelopment, the government has formed a new trust and almost sidelined the existing trusts. The PIL argues that "any redevelopment that is sought to be done at the said Ashram should be spearheaded by the Trusts which presently run the Ashram" while the government may fund it.  Tushar, 61, has filed the PIL against the state government, Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, New Delhi, Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which runs Sabarmati Ashram, Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Harijan Ashram Trust, Harijan Sevak Sangh and Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti, Sabarmati Riverfront Development Corporation Ltd and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. He said that after Gandhi's death, Gandhi Smarak Nidhi was established and given responsibility as an umbrella body to take care of all organisations related to Gandhi. "... The proposed project for the redevelopment of Gandhi Ashram Memorial as it is diametrically opposed to personal wishes and bequeathal of Mahatma Gandhi and would reduce the shrine and memorial of our freedom movement which attracts national and international visitors and turn the same into a commercial tourist attraction. The petitioner has no personal interest in the matter. "The only interest and intent the petitioner has is that he has a spiritual connect with the Ashram since his grandparents, Sushila and Manilal Gandhi and his father’s sister Sita stayed with Kasturba and Bapu at the Ashram thus the petitioner feels the need to protect and preserve that spiritual connection to his ancestors," the PIL states. He said the constitution of Gandhi Smarak Nidhi is clear that there is no role of government in these organisations. "Later, amendments were made which allowed the government funding but nothing beyond that. What is happening today is against the constitution and what Gandhi wished for these institutions. What we have argued in the petition is that there is no need for spending Rs 1,200 crore on Sabarmati Ashram. What is the need of building a five-star toilet. If parking is a problem, then you block the thoroughfare that divides the Ashram precinct and spend the money on building health infrastructure," he added. Citing several news reports on redevelopment project, Tushar has stated, "Petitioner fears that the said project will change the physical structure of the ashram and corrupt its pristine simplicity and frugality that embodies the ideology of Gandhiji and make the same diametrically opposite to the Gandhian ethos of simplicity and frugality, that the Ashram embodies." The petition has been filed by Ahmedabad-based lawyer Bhushan Oza while Mumbai-based lawyer Mihir Desai will be appearing as a senior lawyer to lead the arguments. When contacted, Desai said, "This (Sabarmati Ashram) is a historical monument which represents Gandhi's idea of frugality and simplicity. The redevelopment may change its character. Besides, the government wants to control it by forming a new body which is against Gandhi's idea of decentralisation." Earlier this year, the Gujarat chief minister office released a short video film on its Twitter and Instagram handles, showing its plan for the Ashram. The film revealed that the government has formed a new trust "Mahatma Gandhi Sabarmati Ashram Memorial Trust", said to have been formed to look after redevelopment work and the subsequent management of the Ashram precinct. The name clashes with the existing Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust which runs the Ashram. Sources said that the formation of the new trust and particularly its name has angered many who were not opposing the redevelopment.  Ever since the announcement of its redevelopment, various Gandhian organisations, scholars and activists have been opposing the move. Recently, a group of Gandhian organisations including Gandhi Smarak Nidhi took out a rally from Sevagram Ashram in Wardha to Sabarmati Ashram here against the proposed plan. Meanwhile, the government has already got several residents of the Ashram precinct vacated by compensating them. Tenders have also been issued for the developmental work.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tushar-gandhi-files-pil-against-sabarmati-ashram-redevelopment-in-gujarat-hc-1044856.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers going to Singhu to demand justice for Lakhbir allege lathicharge by police||A group of farmers from Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti on Wednesday alleged that they were stopped and lathicharged by the Delhi Police in Narela area while going towards the Singhu border to demand justice for Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched at the farmers' protest site for alleged sacrilege. According to police, the group claiming to be a part of a farmers' association created ruckus near the Singhu border after some of their front cadre started pushing people. They claimed to have come from Uttar Pradesh and it appeared that they wanted to go towards the Singhu border. When asked, they did not share the exact reason for their visit, a senior police officer said. "When asked, they told us that they wanted to express sympathy and do a 'havan' for Lakhbir Singh, who got killed near the protest site at the Singhu border recently," he said. A farmers' leader, who protested at the Singhu border, said the incident happened in Narela area and the situation at the border is under control now. However, the situation remained tense at Narela near the Singhu border and police had to use "mild force" to contain the situation there. And, the "unruly" ran amok on the road, police said. Police said they would have also endangered their own lives as well as that of others since the traffic movement was also in flow during peak time and these people were creating ruckus. During the incident, there was a possibility that several policemen could have sustained injuries but a few of them got "very minor injuries" while containing the situation, the police official said. "The farmers wanted to go towards Singhola village, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Narela police station, and is near the Singhu border. But they were not allowed cross the border. Some of them also attempted to break the barricades placed near the border," the officer said. "So, very mild force was used and when they tried to push the policemen, very mild lathi charge was used when the situation became very tensed," he said. The situation was contained later but they started raising slogans, police said, adding that all the senior police officers are at the spot along with the force to avoid any untoward situation. Videos of the incident emerged purportedly showing people in huge numbers raising slogans. The security personnel were also seen trying to control the situation. The body of Lakhbir Singh was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. When Manish Singh, spokesperson of the Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti was contacted, he said they want justice for Lakhbir Singh, who was brutally killed allegedly by the Nihangs near the protest site at the Singhu border. They want compensation for the deceased's family and are upset with the attitude of the Punjab government towards the incident, he said. "We are with the deceased's family and want justice for them. We had come along with his family to perform his final 'ardas'. After his family approached us saying they cannot go to the Singhu border and urged us to help them," he said. The spokesperson claimed that they cooperated with the police and also followed the route suggested by them. Around 5,000 members who were coming in hundreds of vehicles from Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Haryana and Punjab wanted to go to the Singhu border for the same purpose but police "stopped" the vehicles around 6 pm near the Narela police post. "Police told us that we will have to leave our vehicles here and proceed further on foot. Just when we started walking ahead, police started thrashing us and also lathicharged. Around 10-15 of our people, including Lakhbir Singh's 10-year-old daughter, also sustained injuries during the incident," Singh claimed. He denied having any association with the protesting farmers at the Singhu border and claimed they are only against the attitude of the Punjab government, which is yet to give compensation to the deceased's family.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-going-to-singhu-to-demand-justice-for-lakhbir-allege-lathicharge-by-police-1044886.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Talks to forge alliance between RLD, SP on, says Jayant Chaudhary||Talks are on with the Samajwadi Party to stitch an alliance for the next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary said on Wednesday. In a scathing attack at the ruling BJP, he claimed the people of the state would dethrone the party which has been "selling off government assets". Addressing an Ashirvaad Path Yatra here, the RLD chief said the key to changing the fate of Uttar Pradesh lies in the hands of farmers and the youth. "Talks between the RLD and the Samajwadi Party for an alliance is on," he told the rally and stressed that farmers and the youth would emerge as the deciding factor in the Assembly polls. Hitting out at the ruling party, he sought to know in which areas has Uttar Pradesh emerged as number one. "Corruption, poor law-and-order situation and false claims by the ruling party's leaders are its achievements," he alleged.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/talks-to-forge-alliance-between-rld-sp-on-says-jayant-chaudhary-1044893.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Nihang members unlikely to leave Singhu protest site||Members of the Sikhs' Nihang order, who are camping at Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border in support of farmers protesting the three Central agri laws, are unlikely to leave the site, sources said on Wednesday.  A leader of the Nihangs said a Mahapanchayat of the religious order was held on Wednesday at Singhu and the decision of the mass meeting will be announced at a press conference on Thursday. "We are unlikely to leave the Singhu border. We are here to support farmers," a source, who attended the meeting, said. The development comes after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the anti-farm laws protests, reportedly asked the Nihangs to leave the agitation site following the lynching of a Dalit labourer for allegedly desecrating a Sikh holy book. The body of the labourer, Lakhbir Singh, 35, from Punjab's Taran Taran district, with a hand chopped off was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the farmers' protest site at the Singhu border on October 15. Two members of the Nihang order was arrested and two more "surrendered" before Sonipat Police in connection with the lynching incident even as the victim's family questioned the attackers' claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nihang-members-unlikely-to-leave-singhu-protest-site-1044894.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Five arrested in Uttar Pradesh under sedition law for celebrating Pakistan's win in T20 World Cup||Five persons were arrested after being booked under the sedition law in different parts of Uttar Pradesh for celebrating Pakistan's win over India in the T20 World Cup a few days back. According to the police sources here, seven persons were charged under the sedition law and five of them were arrested in Agra, Bareilly, Badayun and Sitapur districts. The police action came after UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that all those who had celebrated Pakistan's victory over India in the T20 World Cup being played at Dubai would be prosecuted under the sedition law. Police said that the arrests were made after videos containing the celebration and using objectionable language against the Indian cricket team went viral on social media sites soon after the match ended on Sunday. "We have the videos in our possession and they are being examined," said a senior police official here on Thursday. Three Kashmiri students of an engineering college in Agra were suspended after saffron activists stormed the campus and created a ruckus there demanding action against them after they allegedly chanted pro-Pakistan slogans after the match. The WhatsApp status of these students was also in support of Pakistan. A college official, however, said on Thursday that no pro-Pakistan slogans were raised inside the campus and the police should not have registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by some outsiders. It was not clear if these students were arrested by the police. Sources said that they were detained. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-arrested-in-uttar-pradesh-under-sedition-law-for-celebrating-pakistans-win-in-t20-world-cup-1044967.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||HC to hear on Dec 13 plea against Delhi govt’s complete ban on sale, use of firecrackers||The Delhi High Court Thursday said it will hear in December a plea against complete ban on sale, storage and use of firecrackers in the national capital during Diwali. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the matter for December 13 as the main counsel for the petitioner was not available today. When the high court said a similar matter relating to ban on manufacturing and sale of firecrackers across the country to curb pollution was also pending before Supreme Court, the Delhi government’s counsel said it was listed in the apex court Thursday itself. The high court was hearing the plea by two individuals, Rahul Sanwariya and Tanveer, who have claimed that Delhi government's decision of imposing a complete ban was an “overreach” as the apex court has never ordered an absolute ban on the sale of firecrackers in the national capital. The petitioners said they were seeking a modification of the September 15 order which imposed a complete ban on the storage, sale and bursting of all kinds of firecrackers during the festival of Diwali on account of pollution concerns. Instead of an absolute ban, the authorities ought to opt for green crackers or a graded regulation, the counsel had earlier said. The petitioners have contended that the ban was arbitrary, unreasonable and excessive. “The action of the respondent (Delhi government) must be no more intrusive than is necessary to meet an important public purpose. No doubt Article 25 of the Indian Constitution is subject to Article 21 and it is not contested by the petitioners, however, it is submitted by the petitioners that the extent of the interference of the respondent by its decision/ order is not proportionate to the ultimate aim and objective, that is, to curb pollution in the NCT of Delhi,” the petition said. It claimed that pollution in Delhi was attributable to vehicles, biomass burning etc and the complete ban on firecrackers, one and a half months prior to the festival of Diwali, has hurt the sentiments of millions of people. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-to-hear-on-dec-13-plea-against-delhi-govt-s-complete-ban-on-sale-use-of-firecrackers-1044971.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Warfare areas have shifted from territorial frontier to civil society: Ajit Doval||National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Thursday said "deliberate weaponization of dangerous pathogens" was a matter of serious concern, and called for the need to build comprehensive national capabilities and bio-defence, bio-safety, and bio-security. Expressing concern over the issue of climate change, he said disasters and pandemics are borderless threats that cannot be combated in isolation and there was a need to evolve strategies to maximise our gains and minimise the losses. Speaking on 'National security preparedness in the age of disasters and pandemics', at the Pune Dialogue on National Security (PDNS) 2021 organized by Pune International Centre here, Doval said the most enduring message of the Covid-19 pandemic and climate change is that only the well-being of all will ensure the survival of all. "The deliberate weaponization of dangerous pathogens is a serious concern. This has heightened the need to build comprehensive national capabilities and bio-defence, bio-safety, and bio-security," he asserted. The pandemic has further reinforced the need to predict threats and while biological research has legitimate scientific purposes, its dual-use application can be misused, he said. Dwelling upon climate change, Doval said that it is another "threat" that multiplies with unpredictable consequences. "It impacts the availability of resources, which are increasingly becoming scarce and could become a source of conflict than the competition. Climate change can accelerate instability and cause massive population displacement," he said. "By 2030, 600 million people in India are expected to live in urban areas. Migrations from low-lying coastal areas in South Asia due to climatic change can add to the already stressed urban infrastructure," he added. Doval said that all these will pose problems to internal security management, economic security, water, and food security, just to name a few. "As far as national security and environment are concerned, there is a need to reinvent and innovate ourselves as rapid industrial developments are taking place with fourth industrial revolution technologies such as AI, autonomous and unmanned systems and digital infrastructures," he said. Social media is adding to the complexity of national security management, according to him. "A full integration of science and technology and all aspects of development in security has therefore become essential. Advances in sciences and technology will help prevent hazards. The advanced technologies, lab prediction technology, and risk communication techniques are being applied to reduce the risk," he said. According to him, India has initiated several steps for global and regional coordination. "Forums like BIMSTEC, Indian Ocean Rim Association, Shanghai Cooperation Organization, and QUAD seamless exchange of information and intelligence, sharing experience and lessons learned, technology transfer and coordination are important for disaster management and mitigation," he said. Doval said that climate change, environmental degradation, and pollution are realities that threaten survival. "Businesses and security apparatuses need to focus on disaster-resilient structure and preserving natural resources for our future generations," he said. He added that decisions about maintaining strategic national stockpiles, ensuring the availability, smooth supply of critical equipment, materials, and fortifying early alert framework have all become important elements of national security planning. He said that the important climate change summit is coming up in Glasgow in early November. "India is committed to meeting its climatic goals and has already undertaken several measures. Harmony with nature has been a cornerstone of Indian civilization. Preservation of the environment, while perceiving its ambitious goals is a guiding doctrine of present government development policies," he said. With a population of 1,300 million, India's per-capita greenhouse emission is 2.47 tonnes of carbon dioxide, he added. "As compared to the global average of 6.45 tonnes of CO2, this is 60 per cent lower than the global average. We have already met 50 per cent of our commitment to achieve 450-gigawatt renewable energy by 2030," Doval said. A series of measures are being undertaken to de-carbonize India's economy, he said. "These targets have been widely applauded at the global level. At the same time, while Indian is taking all the steps which are important for the world to understand that given our size, population, and unique developmental requirements, our commitment can not be compared with those of the western world," he said. Those who have greater resources should expand their embrace so that it touches the lives of maximum people, Doval added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/warfare-areas-have-shifted-from-territorial-frontier-to-civil-society-ajit-doval-1044995.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Aviation minister visits Delhi airport to supervise progress of Digi Yatra||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia visited the Delhi airport on Thursday to supervise the progress of Digi Yatra mechanism that allows the passengers to check-in at the airport using biometric technology. The minister said on Twitter, "Visited the Delhi airport and supervised the progress of Digi Yatra, a forward-looking mechanism to digitise passenger processing-from entry to boarding."  "It will be a milestone towards realising the PM's goal of Digital India. Glad to see the Ministry of Civil Aviation's ambitious mission taking shape," he added. The Digi Yatra initiative seeks to promote paperless and hassle-free air travel. It is a biometrics-based digital processing system for passenger entry and related requirements at the airport. The minister said he also met a few workers, who were travelling abroad, from Jharkhand at the T3 terminal of the Delhi airport on Thursday. "Had a brief chat about their experience and wait time at the airport. On being told it was 10 hours, requested airport officials to serve food and ensure their well being," he tweeted. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aviation-minister-visits-delhi-airport-to-supervise-progress-of-digi-yatra-1044996.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||CBI recovers Rs 1.12 crore cash during searches at Delhi Police sub-inspector's house||The CBI has recovered Rs 1.12 crore in cash during searches at the residence of a Delhi Police sub-inspector arrested by it in a bribery case, officials said on Thursday. Bhojraj Singh, posted at Maidan Garhi police station, was nabbed while receiving Rs 50,000 bribe on Wednesday, they said. During the search of his car, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) recovered over Rs 5.47 lakh in cash, while during searches at his residence another Rs 1.07 crore was also recovered in cash, the officials said.  "A case was registered against sub-Inspector, police station, Maidan Garhi, Delhi on a complaint in which it was alleged that he had demanded initially a bribe amount of Rs 5 lakh from the complainant and further informed the complainant to give at least Rs 2 lakh on October 27, 2021, to favour him and his friend in a case/FIR registered in the police station and also not to oppose their bail applications," CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said. After verifying the allegations, the CBI laid a trap and arrested Singh while receiving the alleged bribe, the officials said. "The arrested accused will be produced before the designated court at Delhi on Thursday," Joshi said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-recovers-rs-112-crore-cash-during-searches-at-delhi-police-sub-inspectors-house-1044998.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Nine killed as bus falls into gorge in J&K||A mini bus skidded off the road and rolled down into a gorge in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district on Thursday, leaving nine passengers dead and 15 others injured, officials said. The mini bus was carrying passengers to Thathri from Doda when the accident took place at Sui Gowrie area, they said. The bus broke into pieces as it fell into the gorge. While eight persons died on the spot, another person succumbed to injuries on the way to hospital. Seven of the injured are being airlifted to the Government Medical College (GMC) Hospital in Jammu for specialised treatment while others are being taken to the GMC in Doda, they said. Union Minister Jitendra Singh condoled the loss of lives in the accident. "Learnt about tragic road accident near Thatri,#Doda. Just now spoke to D.C.Doda Sh Vikas Sharma", Singh said in tweet. Whatever further assistance required will be provided, he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-killed-15-injured-as-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-jk-1045011.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Sixth sero survey shows Delhi had seropositivity of 97%: Jain||The sixth serological survey showed that the national capital had a seropositivity rate of 97 per cent, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. All districts were found to have a seroprevalence of more than 95 per cent, he said. "Women had a higher seropositivity rate than men. Those aged below 18 had a seropositivity rate of 88 per cent, while those aged above 18 had a seropositivity rate of 97 to 98 per cent," Jain told reporters here. The people who have been vaccinated had a seropositivity rate of over 97 per cent, while those who have not been inoculated had a seropositivity rate of 90 per cent, he added. "This was the largest sero survey carried out and 28,000 samples were collected," he said. This is the first survey to be done after Delhi was hit by a brutal second wave of the Covid pandemic in April and May. The fifth round of sero survey conducted in January had shown that 56.13 per cent of the people in Delhi had developed antibodies against Covid-19. In April and May, Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a massive number of lives with oxygen shortage and reduced supplies of essential medicines at hospitals adding to the woes. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sixth-sero-survey-shows-delhi-had-seropositivity-of-97-jain-1045022.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pak victory in T20 match: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory against India in the recent T-20 World Cup match. So far, five people have been taken into custody in the state for allegedly using indecent words against the Indian cricket team, according to police. "Those celebrating Pakistan's victory will face sedition," a tweet posted on the official handle of Adityanath's office said. A man from Budaun was arrested in a sedition case on Wednesday, Senior Superintendent of Police OP Singh said. Niaz had posted the picture of Pakistani flag and wrote objectionable comments in support of Pakistan on Facebook after the match, according to a complaint filed against him by Punit Shakya of Hindu Jagran Manch. The SSP said Niaz posted a picture of Pakistan's flag on his Facebook account and captioned, "I love you Pakistan, I miss you Pakistan, Jeet Mubarak Pakistan". Niaz was booked for sedition and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act on Tuesday and sent to jail on Wednesday, the officer said. Pakistan on Sunday had drubbed India by 10 wickets in a Super 12 game for their first win in 13 attempts over their arch-rivals India in a World Cup match.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sedition-law-will-be-invoked-against-those-celebrating-pak-victory-in-t20-match-adityanath-1045049.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Lawyer without brief is like Sachin Tendulkar without his bat on cricket ground: SC||A lawyer without a brief is like Sachin Tendulkar without his bat on the cricket ground, the Supreme Court Thursday said as it advised a young lawyer, who had recently got enrolled as an advocate to read the case files whenever he is to appear before a court. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath, and BV Nagarathna, which was about to rise for lunch break asked the young lawyer, who was seeking pass over due to the absence of his senior to make submissions as it will help in advancing his career. “You must have done moot court in your college. Treat this as a moot court. We have 10 minutes to rise for lunch. You must have read the brief. Please argue. We know you can argue. You must avail the opportunity of arguing the matter whenever your senior is absent. A lawyer without a brief is like a Sachin Tendulkar without his bat on the cricket ground”, the bench said. A moot court is where law students argue imaginary cases for practice. The top court then asked the lawyer what he does in the chambers and whether he reads the case files. “You must always read the case files and be ready with the briefs whenever you are to appear before the court. Now, please start arguing. We will help you. You can start with the synopsis,” the top court told the young lawyer. When the young lawyer started reading the synopsis of the case which was related to some dispute about taxation, the bench frequently asked the meaning of certain words and even went on to explain the meaning of it to the young lawyer. When the lawyer read the word ‘cogent’ the bench asked the meaning of it which he failed to answer. Watch latest videos by DH here:  “Take out your mobile phone. Now, Google the meaning of cogent and tell us what it is”, the bench said and added that it is rational, convincing, or compelling. In a rare scene, the bench went on to explain the meaning of several such words like 'Merchant Trade Taxation', 'entity', and others. The bench even asked him whether the Jabalpur bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court is a principal seat or a bench and what is the difference between the bench and the principal seat. “Now, we are rising for lunch. Utilise this time in reading the case file and you will argue the case”, the bench told the young lawyer. The matter was argued by senior lawyers in post-lunch sessions assisted by the young lawyer and the bench reserved its verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lawyer-without-brief-is-like-sachin-tendulkar-without-his-bat-on-cricket-ground-sc-1045127.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Mere support to terror outfit sans intention or overt acts not sufficient for charges under UAPA: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed bail to two students from Kerala who were arrested for allegedly being members of a banned organisation, CPI (Maoist) two years ago, saying at a formative young age, they might be fascinated by the outfit's ideology but there was no record of their active participation in its activities. "Mere association with a terrorist organisation and mere support given to a terrorist organisation is not sufficient. The association and the support have to be with intention of furthering the activities of a terrorist organisation," a bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka said. The court allowed an appeal filed by Thawah Faisal, a student of journalism through a distance education programme, against the High Court's judgement setting aside bail granted to him by the Special NIA court. The court also dismissed an appeal filed by the Union government against the High Court's order confirming bail to another accused Allen Shuaib, a law student. Both the accused, chargesheeted under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the NIA, were arrested on November 1, 2019, within jurisdiction of Pantheerankavu Police Station in Kozhikode. In its judgement, Justice Oka, writing on behalf of the bench, said fascination of CPI (Maoist) ideology may explain possession of various documents and books related to it in soft or hard form. "Prima facie there is no material in the charge sheet to project active participation of the accused in the activities of CPI (Maoist) from which even an inference can be drawn that there was an intention on their part of furthering the activities or terrorist acts of the terrorist organisation," the bench said.  The court noted that no overt act, on their part, showing the presence of the required intention or state of mind and, their constant association or support of the banned organisation for a long period of time was borne out from the charge sheet.  It also pointed out the special court, while enlarging the accused on bail had imposed most stringent conditions, such as furnishing of bail bonds of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties each for the like amount with a further condition that one of the sureties shall be one of the parents of the accused and the other surety, shall be a relative of the accused.  There was a condition imposed of marking attendance on every first Saturday of every month at local police station. There was also a condition that the accused would not associate in any manner or support in any manner activities of CPI (Maoist) and all its formations, the bench said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mere-support-to-terror-outfit-sans-intention-or-overt-acts-not-sufficient-for-charges-under-uapa-sc-1045128.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi's sex ratio at birth increased from 920 to 933 in 2020: Manish Sisodia||Delhi's sex ratio at birth has increased from 920 females per thousand males in 2019 to 933 in 2020, and the infant mortality rate declined from 24.19 to 20.37 percent during the same period, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said citing a city government report on Thursday. The increase in sex ratio is the result of social awareness and it is a matter of great pride that the society is being educated and is understanding the importance of girls, Sisodia said in a statement. "In Delhi, public awareness efforts have also yielded beneficial effects. The birth rate fell from 18.35 per thousand in 2019 to 14.85 per thousand in 2020. In 2020, a number of 3,01,645 births were registered, compared to 3,65,868 in 2019," the statement said. "The reduction in infant mortality is the result of great changes in health infrastructure and better access to health facilities to all citizens," he said. According to the annual report of the Directorate of Economics and Statistics of the Delhi government, the sex ratio rate in the national capital increased to 933 females per thousand males in 2020 as compared to 920 in 2019. The infant mortality rate in Delhi has also decreased in comparison to 2019. The infant mortality rate per thousand in 2019 was 24.19, whereas it was 20.37 in 2020, the report showed. Sisodia also pointed out that the maternal mortality rate in Delhi has also decreased. The maternal mortality rate was 0.55 per 1,000 births in 2019 which fell to 0.54 per 1,000 births in 2020. The death rate in Delhi has decreased as a result of dramatic changes in the city's health infrastructure and universal access to better health care for all inhabitants. According to the data, the death rate has decreased from 7.29 per thousand in 2019 to 7.03 per thousand in 2020, it added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-sex-ratio-at-birth-increased-from-920-to-933-in-2020-manish-sisodia-1045131.html
28-10-2021||North and Central||Can't say Delhi has attained herd immunity, people shouldn't let their guard down: experts||It cannot be said that Delhi has attained herd immunity despite the latest serological survey showing that 97 per cent people here have developed antibodies against Covid-19, experts said on Thursday and cautioned people to not let their guard down. Dr Pragya Sharma, professor at Maulana Azad Medical College's department of community medicine, who was involved in finalising the sero survey results, said herd immunity is achieved when we know what will be its cut-off. We cannot say whether Delhi has attained herd immunity although 97 per cent people have antibodies against Covid-19, she said. Explaining further, she said if the virus is the same variant or it does not undergo significant mutations, people of Delhi will be safe. "Whatever variants would come, if there are no significant changes in the antigenic properties, this protection will stand," she added. She said it is presumed that if the mutant virus, the cases of which have been detected on Maharashtra, comes to Delhi, it won't create a havoc like it did in April-May. "People should not let their guard down. The more the virus passes through the population, the more it is likely to undergo mutations. It is a new and unpredictable virus," she added. Dr Parinita Kaur, senior consultant - internal medicine, Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka, said the numbers (of the sero survey) are a welcome sign. "Hardly any household was unaffected during the second wave in April-May. These numbers indicate that people have already been infected in large numbers. But we are in the middle of the festive season and people need to avoid crowding and get-togethers. Even last year, there was a surge in cases post Diwali. People need to be cautious," she added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-say-delhi-has-attained-herd-immunity-people-shouldnt-let-their-guard-down-experts-1045151.html
28-10-2021||Oasis||Qualities of a spiritual seeker||What are the qualities that a serious seeker of Truth should inculcate in the journey towards self-revelation? In a profound passage in the sacred Bhagwad Gita, the Lord declares that a number of qualities need to be consciously and deliberately nurtured in the path to liberation. Lord Krishna outlines some of these qualities: “Humbleness; freedom from hypocrisy; non-violence; forgiveness; simplicity; service of the Guru; cleanliness of body and mind; steadfastness; and self-control; dispassion toward the objects of the senses; absence of egotism; keeping in mind the evils of birth, disease, old age, and death; non-attachment; absence of clinging to spouse, children, home, and so on; even-mindedness amidst desired and undesired events in life; constant and exclusive devotion towards Me; an inclination for solitary places and an aversion for mundane society; constancy in spiritual knowledge; and philosophical pursuit of the Absolute Truth—all these I declare to be knowledge, and what is contrary to it, I call ignorance.” The passage states in no uncertain terms the essential pre-requisites needed in the spiritual journey. It is clear from the passage that success is contingent upon renunciation of the ego, steadfast devotion to the Lord and controlling the sense organs to bring about a state of equanimity are the key ingredients that need to be strung together in the life of the seeker. According to Sadguru Sri Sharavana Baba, the mind must be in a meditative state and imbued with feelings of devotion, surrender and service. Spiritual practice is aimed to bring about precisely this state. Chanting the name of God, meditation and worship help to provide an impetus to the seeker to calm the mind, free it from being susceptible to outward appearances and direct the mind to delve inwards. Consider the raging pandemic that has brought every country in the world to a standstill irrespective of whether the country is rich or poor, weak or powerful and big or small. It has spared none. In these turbulent times, spiritual masters advise us to elevate ourselves by delving inwards and using the time available to us for spiritual upliftment and prayer. There is deep meaning underlining this wise counsel. When nature is correcting the imbalances that have developed over years of misusing resources, the sensible response is a prayer to alleviate suffering and restore balance. No effort spent in this direction is ever wasted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/qualities-of-a-spiritual-seeker-1045181.html
28-10-2021||Opinion||11 years: That's how much time we have to fix climate||On October 31 world leaders will descend on Glasgow, Scotland, for the United Nations Climate Change Conference, or COP26, in a last-ditch effort to defuse the climate emergency by limiting global warming to less than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Reaching that level would still bring violent storms, deep flooding, gripping droughts and problematic sea-level rise, but it would avert even more severe consequences. Global temperature has risen by nearly 1.1 degrees C since the industrial revolution. A clear understanding of how emissions affect temperature shows that there is still time to reach the political agreements, economic transformations and public buy-in needed to sharply cut emissions, limit temperature rise and limit destruction. Nations can duck the 1.5-degree ceiling if they make deep cuts now. As of July 30, commitments to reduce emissions by the 191 nations that signed the 2015 Paris Climate Accord would permit 2.7 degrees of warming by 2100, according to a report issued in September by the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the group that coordinates ongoing pledges to the Paris Accord. The charge for the COP26 meeting is to eliminate the gap. Here’s what needs to happen. The first step is to get rid of an old idea that the public, the media and policymakers are not clear on—the notion that even if humans stopped emitting carbon dioxide overnight, inertia in the climate system would continue to raise temperature for many years. Because CO2 can persist in the atmosphere for a century or more, the argument goes, even if the concentration stopped rising, temperature would keep going up because the heat-trapping mechanism is already in place. In other words, some level of future warming is “baked into” the system, so it’s too late to avoid the 1.5-degree threshold. But scientists discounted that idea at least a decade ago. Climate models consistently show that “committed” (baked-in) warming does not happen. As soon as CO2 emissions stop rising, the atmospheric concentration of CO2 levels off and starts to slowly fall because the oceans, soils and vegetation keep absorbing CO2, as they always do. Temperature doesn’t rise further. It also doesn’t drop, because atmospheric and ocean interactions adjust and balance out. The net effect is that “temperature does not go up or down,” says Joeri Rogelj, director of research at the Grantham Institute—Climate Change and Environment at Imperial College London. The good news is that if nations can cut emissions substantially and quickly, warming can be held to less than 1.5 degrees. To avoid that threshold, the world can emit only a set amount of CO2 from now into the future. This quantity is known as the carbon budget. In 2019, the year before the Covid pandemic depressed the global economy, the world discharged about 42 gigatons of CO2—similar to the 2018 level and to what is happening in 2021. According to the midrange scenario in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s comprehensive report released in August, “Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis,” another 500 gigatons of CO2 emissions will raise global temperature by 1.5 degrees. Nations have about 11 more years at current emissions rates—2032—before exhausting the budget. That threshold moves further into the future, however, if countries significantly reduce their output very soon. Aggressive policies, now, can create more time and more hope for preventing catastrophe. In a 2018 report, the IPCC stated that the world had to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 to keep warming to 1.5 degrees. To get on that track, the September UN report says, nations have to cut emissions in half by 2030. Every year of delay brings the world much closer to the edge of the precipice. “We are not trying to hit the temperature targets,” says Rogelj, who is also a senior research scholar at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis and a key author of the 2021 IPCC report. “We are trying to stay as far away from the edge as possible.” Degrees of risk If nations fall short and the temperature rise surpasses 1.5 degrees, it will still be crucial to make immediate and ongoing reductions to stay below 2.0 degrees of warming, a level at which scientists say impacts become more dire and exceedingly difficult for societies to cope with. To avoid that threshold, the world can emit only another 1,350 gigatons of CO2, according to the August IPCC report. At 42 gigatons a year, that happens by 2052. Again, if countries greatly reduce emissions soon, that date extends forward, too. If countries do not make significant reductions this decade, the subsequent cuts needed to limit temperature rise to 2.0 degrees will be much tougher to achieve. “Every single year that passes imposes a huge penalty for the future reductions that would be required,” says Josep Canadell, chief research scientist at CSIRO, Australia’s national science agency, and a lead author of the 2021 IPCC report. It is also important to understand, Rogelj says, that each added 10th of a degree of warming beyond 1.5 degrees brings greater risk of damaging weather, sea-level rise and other ills to more ecosystems and more people, especially the most vulnerable. He likens the increasing risk to jumping from a platform that today may be a meter high: healthy adults might hit the ground without injury, but small children and the elderly will get hurt. Each additional 10th of a degree raises the platform. “At two meters,” Rogelj says, “many more people are likely to get injured. And at a certain height, everyone will be severely harmed.” The IPCC’s carbon budget analysis includes a measure of uncertainty—roughly 15 per cent up or down. And the midrange scenario means nations have a 50 per cent chance of keeping warming to 1.5 degrees if they restrict future emissions to 500 gigatons. To improve the odds to 83 per cent, the IPCC says, the budget drops to 300 gigatons. The numbers get even tighter if nations continue to burn down rain forests because there will be less vegetation drawing CO2 from the atmosphere. Countries have to consider societal factors as well, such as being sure to spread any economic challenges from emissions cuts fairly on citizens. Of course, if the world reduced emissions only marginally and never reaches net zero, “atmospheric CO2 concentration will continue to increase, and temperature will continue to rise,” says Susan Solomon, a professor of environmental studies and atmospheric chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who has contributed to many climate change reports. Human lag The dialogue leading up to COP26, where countries will try to encourage one another to commit to greater emissions reductions, is focused on CO2. But the atmosphere is affected by other greenhouse gases such as methane and nitrous oxide, by climate feedbacks such as disappearing sea ice, and by aerosols—small pollution particles released primarily from the burning of fossil fuels. If CO2 emissions remain at current levels, but methane emissions rise and other feedbacks get stronger, the world will warm by 1.5 degrees before 2032 and by 2.0 degrees before 2052. The IPCC scenarios include some level of additional warming from these factors. They do not include any so-called negative emissions by machines that pull CO2 from the sky, because the economic viability of those systems is just too uncertain, Canadell says. The UN report uses a different metric to account for other greenhouse gases, called CO2-equivalent—a quantity that represents warming from CO2 as well as methane, nitrous oxides and other gases such as hydrofluorocarbons. But its analyses parallel the IPCC’s. As of July 30, the UN report says, 113 of the 191 nations that signed the Paris Accord had made some level of commitment to reduce emissions. Under the latest promises, global emissions by 2030 would actually be 5.0 per cent higher than in 2019—not lower—in the midrange scenario the IPCC uses. The report notes that emissions from the nations that have issued revised goals since 2015, as a group, would indeed be lower in 2030 compared with 2019, so the net increase worldwide would come from the countries that have not improved their original commitments and countries that have never committed. At current emissions rates, the UN report says, the world would use up 89 per cent of the remaining 1.5-degree budget by 2030 and 39 per cent of the 2.0-degree budget by 2030. On October 25, a week before COP26 begins, the secretariat was to count any additional country updates made since July 30. Eyes will be on the G20 nations—19 nations plus the European Union that together account for about 90 per cent of gross world product. The G20 nations are responsible for about three quarters of global emissions, according to Taryn Fransen, a senior fellow at the World Resources Institute who studies nations’ long-term climate strategies. She is eager to hear how countries will fulfil their promises, known as nationally determined contributions, or NDCs. The net-zero goals are important, Fransen says, “but each country has to actually get there.” To get there, nations have to jump—now. Some scientists are starting to use the old climate change language to highlight what has to be done. The warming factor that is baked in “is human infrastructure,” Solomon says. If countries let the current stocks of coal plants, natural gas facilities, transportation systems, industrial complexes and buildings live out their natural lifetimes, they commit to a certain amount of additional warming. There is also a lag time in stopping temperature rise, she notes, “a lag in human action—the slow response of people to the problem.” The practical question, says Raymond Pierrehumbert, head of the Planetary Climate Dynamics Group at the University of Oxford, is: How quickly can the world scrub greenhouse gases out of the global economy?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/11-years-thats-how-much-time-we-have-to-fix-climate-1044868.html
28-10-2021||Opinion||Fixing Facebook rashly could make it much worse||By Farhad Manjoo, The nicest thing you can say about the Health Misinformation Act, proposed in July by Democratic Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Ben Ray Luján, is that it means well. The internet has been a key accelerant of widespread myths, misunderstandings and lies related to Covid-19. Klobuchar and Luján’s bill would force online companies like Facebook to crack down on false information during public health emergencies, or lose immunity from lawsuits if they don’t. There’s only one problem: What is health misinformation? I know of no oracular source of truth about Covid-19. Scientific consensus has shifted dramatically during the pandemic, and even now experts are divided over important issues, such as whether everyone should get a vaccine booster shot. Klobuchar and Luján’s bill elides these complications. Instead they designate an all-knowing authority: Health misinformation, the bill says, is whatever the secretary of health and human services decides is health misinformation. I’m sorry — what? Have the senators forgotten that just last year we had a president who ridiculed face masks and peddled ultraviolet light as a miracle cure for the virus? Why would we choose to empower such a president’s Cabinet appointee as the arbiter of what’s true and false during a pandemic? And not just a pandemic — since the law defines a public health emergency so broadly, I wouldn’t put it past a science-averse future secretary from attempting to declare discussions about abortion, birth control, transgender health or whatever else as “misinformation.” Klobuchar and Luján’s bill is one of many plans that attempt to curb the power of tech companies by altering Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, the much-hated and much-misunderstood 1996 rule that affords websites broad immunity from liability for damage caused by their users. Proposals from Democratic lawmakers tend to call on tech companies to delete or demote false content in order to retain Section 230 immunity. Proposals from Republicans generally do the opposite, threatening to undo immunity if tech companies censor content “unfairly” or “in bad faith.” The plans from both sides fill me with deep dread. Many legal experts argue that many Section 230 proposals, including the Klobuchar-Luján bill, likely violate the First Amendment, which makes it extremely difficult for Congress to dictate to private companies and their users what people can and can’t say online. At best, then, the proposals to reform Section 230 might amount to little more than a performative gesture, a way for lawmakers to show they’re doing something, anything, about the runaway powers of tech giants. At worst, though, these plans may backfire catastrophically. Rather than curbing the influence of Big Tech, altering Section 230 might only further cement Facebook and other tech giants’ hold over public discourse — because the giants might be the only companies with enough resources to operate under rules in which sites can be inundated with lawsuits over what their users post. Smaller sites with fewer resources, meanwhile, would effectively be encouraged to police users’ content with a heavy hand. It is no accident that Facebook has been telling lawmakers that it welcomes reforms to Section 230 — while smaller sites like Etsy and Tripadvisor are nervous about the possibility. Recent reports have exacerbated lawmakers’ impatience with Facebook. This week, news organisations are running scores of stories based on documents leaked by Frances Haugen, the former Facebook employee turned whistleblower. Haugen’s documents show a company out of control, one whose sense of ethics rarely rises above the bottom line, one ripe for regulation and reform. “There’s so much hatred for Facebook right now that anything is possible,” said Jeff Kosseff, a professor of cybersecurity law at the US. Naval Academy and the author of a book about Section 230, “The Twenty-Six Words That Created the Internet.” Kosseff is most worried about a last-minute, dead-of-night change that undoes the governing law of the internet. “The worst possibility is that every proposal gets into one 500-page omnibus bill that gets passed right before people go home in December, and makes Section 230 entirely inoperable,” he said. Section 230 has been a punching bag for Democrats and Republicans for years. Last year, Donald Trump, who argued that the law allowed liberal tech executives to censor right-wing ideas, issued an executive order aimed at limiting its scope. President Joe Biden revoked that order in May, but he has also called for Section 230’s repeal. Both Trump and Biden are emblematic of a widespread misunderstanding about Section 230 — the idea that it is the rule that gives tech companies wide leeway to moderate online discussions. In fact, it is the First Amendment that grants technology companies that right. As Daphne Keller, director of the Program on Platform Regulation at Stanford’s Cyber Policy Center, has outlined, there are at least six ways that the Constitution limits Congress’ power to regulate online discourse. Among these limits: Congress can’t require companies to ban constitutionally protected speech — and objectionable as it might be, in America, health misinformation is legal speech, and it is not a crime for me to tell you where to stick your syringe. In a recent academic article, Keller makes a convincing case that the Supreme Court’s First Amendment precedents also prevent Congress from telling tech companies not to amplify certain speech through recommendation algorithms like the one behind Facebook’s News Feed. Such a law would constitute a burden on speech, and the court has ruled that burdens on speech get the same scrutiny as bans on speech. Congress might even run afoul of the First Amendment just by merely incentivising companies to maintain certain speech standards, Keller has argued. Not everyone agrees that the Constitution is incompatible with speech regulations for tech companies. Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Harvard Law School who has been working with Haugen, the Facebook whistleblower, told me that some content-neutral rules for online speech might survive constitutional scrutiny — for example, a rule that set an upper limit on the number of times a Facebook post could be reshared. More broadly, Lessig argued that legal scholars of the digital world should begin to think more creatively about ways to tame social media. “We kind of stopped our thinking too early in the evolution of these technologies, and there’s a lot more thinking to be done,” he said. Indeed, Kosseff, Lessig and Keller all agreed on one idea — that before hastily enacting new online speech laws, Congress ought to appoint a kind of blue-ribbon investigative commission with the power to compel tech giants to provide much more information about how their platforms work. Lawmakers would be much better equipped to decide what to do about online discourse if they understood how it operates now, they argued. But of course, a commission is nobody’s idea of compelling politics. “It’s kind of unsatisfying,” Keller said. I agree — but it’s better than moving haphazardly and making our problems much worse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/fixing-facebook-rashly-could-make-it-much-worse-1044891.html
28-10-2021||Opinion||Abuse against Shami: Wake up before it's too late||On Sunday, soon after India lost to Pakistan in the Twenty20 World Cup match, the only Muslim player in the Indian team, Mohammed Shami, faced a barrage of abuse and communal hatred online. He was termed a "bloody Pakistani in Team India" and asked to "Go to Pakistan". However, it was heartening that a section of former cricketers and public personalities stood by him and expressed their solidarity. Given this gesture, one can argue that what happened with Shami was an exception and handiwork of the fringe element. But that is not the truth. He is not the first Muslim cricketer or noted personality to face such vilification. In recent years, Wasim Jaffer, APJ Abdul Kalam, Hamid Ansari and many others had to go through this ordeal. For example, Kalam, whose contribution to the making of modern India is well known and even the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) considers him an "adarsh Muslim", an ideal Indian Muslim, was recently called a "jihadi" by Yati Narsinghanad Saraswati. And Yati Narsinghanad is not a fringe element. Despite his constant hate-mongering and call for violence against religious minorities, especially Muslims, he was recently elevated to the status of "mahamandaleshwar" by the Juna Akhara, the largest recognised sect of Hindu seers in India. Earlier this year, cricketer Wasim Jaffer was accused by Uttarakhand Cricket Association secretary Mahim Verma and team manager Navneet Mishra of exerting religious bias in team selections and inviting maulvis (Muslim priests) to offer prayers in the dressing room, which was nothing but a distortion of facts. Unfortunately, over the years, this kind of distortion has acquired the status of gospel truth against Muslims, and the majority of the Indian population have started believing in it. The best example is the unverified reports of Muslims busting crackers or celebrations in Muslim localities every time Pakistan secures a victory against India. These baseless claims and fake news have become so common and frequent that I "stopped" bothering about them. However, my not worrying counts for little as repercussions of these hate campaigns are real and severe against Muslims that one can hardly miss noticing.   On Sunday itself, Muslim Kashmiri students in Punjab Universities were reportedly attacked after India's defeat. Meanwhile, a hate campaign started in other parts of the country that Muslims celebrated India's defeat. It is nothing short of a burden being a Muslim and plying for India against Pakistan. Because while playing against Pakistan, it is not just the cricketing skills of Muslim players getting tested but also their patriotism and loyalty towards the country. In a sense, Shami was lucky to have received support and solitary support from his fraternity, but more worrying is that ordinary Indian Muslims don't get such support. To my understanding, this is possible not just because the likes of Yati Narsinghanads are hell-bent on ruining India's communal harmony but also because a considerable number of highly influential people push a similar narrative. Let's take one of the latest tweets by former Indian cricketer Virender Sehwag. On Monday, before he tweeted in solidarity with Shami, his tweet was: "Firecrackers are banned during Diwali, but yesterday in parts of India there were firecrackers to celebrate Pakistan's victory. Achha, they must have been celebrating the victory of cricket. Toh, what's the harm in fireworks on Diwali. Hypocrisy kyun, saara gyaan tab hi yaad aata hai." Sehwag was not the only key cricketer who pushed this narrative. Gautam Gambhir, who is also a BJP MP, did the same.   Firecrackers are banned during Diwali but yesterday in parts of India there were firecrackers to celebrate Pakistan ‘s victory. Achha they must have been celebrating victory of cricket. Toh , what’s the harm in fireworks on Diwali. Hypocrisy kyun ,Saara gyaan tab hi yaad aata hai The "they" in Sehwag's tweet, needless to say, was a reference to Muslims. Notably, this is the same narrative often pushed by right-wing Hindutva forces in different parts of the country. After Pakistan's victory, one such claim alleged that crackers were burst in a Muslim locality of Kishanganj (Bihar). The police investigation found crackers were indeed burst but as part of a wedding ceremony and not celebrating India's defeat. One can give several examples like this. It's sad that despite such claims time and again proven baseless, not just the so-called fringe elements but equally the mainstream peddles these happily and convincingly. This can only end by doing two things. First and foremost, those pushing the anti-Muslim narrative and calling for violence against them need to be booked and punished for their hate crimes. Unfortunately, far from getting punished, they are being rewarded for their communal hatred. Sadly, forget administration and political dispensations, even the judiciary is not doing its bit to fix the problem. Unless purveyors of hate and communalism are punished, targeting of Shami and other Muslims is likely to continue. Secondly, the country's majority population must realise that as long as they keep believing in the right-wing narratives and pushing them, no amount of condemnation is going to stop the hate. Moreover, today it might be mainly affecting Muslims and other religious minority communities, but the day is not far away when it will affect and ruin the lives of the majority of the country. The sooner we wake up and start working against it, the better.        (The writer is a multilingual journalist and researcher) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/abuse-against-shami-wake-up-before-its-too-late-1044940.html
28-10-2021||Opinion||Making sense of Trinamool's attack on Congress||The Trinamool Congress (TMC)'s salvos targeting the Congress are coming thick and fast now. After Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee's repeated attacks on the Congress in the run-up to the October 30 bypolls in which the Congress is hardly relevant, his aunt, TMC chairperson, Mamata Banerjee has also taken to target her one-time political launchpad. "Congress bhi jhootha hai," the West Bengal chief minister said on Monday, addressing the media in north Bengal. She also accused the state governments in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Tripura and Goa of not allowing TMC's political programmes. "I would like to tell the Congress that you have had enough time …10, 15, 20 years… What did you do? It is because you people did nothing that we had to step out of Bengal," she said.  Abhishek Banerjee, who is considered her political heir, and the party in charge of its expansion plan beyond Bengal – particularly in Tripura, Assam, Goa and Meghalaya – stood next to Mamata Banerjee. Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders Rajesh Pati Tripathi and his son, Lalitesh Tripathi, were inducted into the TMC at the event and flanked the two leaders.  Mamata Banerjee targeting the Congress is not new. After all, it is by enfeebling the Congress that she made her political mark. Beginning her political career as a Congress student wing member in 1975 and gaining prominence after getting elected to the Lok Sabha in 1984, her political career took a new turn when Mamata Banerjee broke away from her parent party in December 1997. She accused the Congress of being incapable of taking on the state's Left Front government ruling since 1977 and launched her party, which immediately emerged stronger than the Congress. Since then, the TMC has reduced the Congress to near insignificance in the state, especially with systematic poaching of its MLAs and other senior leaders, even though the two parties were briefly in alliance from 2009 to 2012.   But the recent full-blooded attack on the Congress beyond Bengal has given the TMC's politics a new turn. After the TMC's poaching drive on the Congress prompted Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel to tweet on October 8 that "people looking for a 'national' alternative based on poaching Congress functionaries who can't win even their seats are in for a big disappointment." The reaction the tweet drew from the TMC can be called harsh, at the least. Baghel had not named any party, but the TMC's official handle quoted his tweet with the comment, "Rich words coming from a first-time CM. Punching above your weight doesn't bring honour to you, Bupesh Baghel. What a shoddy attempt to please the high command. By the way, is the Congress going to try to erase the historical defeat at Amethi through yet another Twitter trend?" On October 23, while campaigning in the Gosaba Assembly constituency in the Sundarbans region, Abhishek Banerjee targeted the Congress out of the blue, as the party hardly has relevance in that seat. "Over the past seven years, the Congress had only conceded defeat to the BJP all over the country, while Mamata Banerjee thwarted all challenges posed by communal and undemocratic BJP," he said, seemingly with the national perspective in mind. It appears that the TMC is on a mission to corner the Congress and reduce it to irrelevance wherever possible - leaders in Tripura, Assam, Goa and Meghalaya are primary targets. But some of the G23 leaders are believed to be on the list, too. Quite evidently, this is the party's bid to use the internal turbulence in the Congress for its growth beyond Bengal before any anti-BJP grand alliance takes shape for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections so that the TMC has the leading role in such an alliance. As a TMC Rajya Sabha MP explained to this author, "We are not looking for an alliance without the Congress, but we don't want a Congress-led alliance either. The Congress has lost the ability and credibility to lead a battle against Modi-(Amit) Shah."  The party hopes to assume that leadership role after making a mark in Goa, Tripura and Meghalaya. It remains to be seen if its hopes are based on political acumen. But the TMC's national aspiration is not new. It launched a drive in Meghalaya, Tripura and Andaman Islands soon after coming to power in West Bengal in 2011 and even tasted initial success. But the BJP's rise at the national level in 2014 thwarted the TMC's plan. Since 2016, Mamata Banerjee has sought a national alliance of regional parties - she loves to call it "Federal Front".  The TMC took the initiative for an opposition alliance ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, too, hosting a grand rally in Kolkata's Brigade Parade Ground in January of that year. Leaders from 18 parties opposed to the BJP, including the Congress, attended. But no formal alliance took shape, as its prospective components had conflicting interests in territorial expansion and existing holds.  Now, in this renewed effort to ally with opposition parties, the TMC has started its journey by targeting the Congress, without which no possible opposition alliance can be imagined at present. At the all-party meeting in Delhi that Congress working president Sonia Gandhi chaired, Mamata Banerjee said anti-BJP parties with whom the Congress has conflicting interests, such as the Aam Aadmi Party, should have also been invited.  Still, in a friendly gesture, the Congress decided not to field any candidate in the September 30 Assembly bypoll that the chief minister was contesting to get elected to the Bengal Assembly. The TMC returned the gesture by attacking the Congress in the campaigns for the same bypoll.  Mamata Banerjee even asked why the Centre never harassed anyone from the Congress, except for P Chidambaram, but was after every leader of the TMC. It was because the Congress did not give the BJP enough trouble, she contended. Of course, every party has its rights to ideological and organisational expansion, and every party has the right to win over leaders from rival parties. The TMC cannot be blamed for inducting prominent Congress leaders from different states. It is for the Congress to introspect why leaders outside the TMC's base of West Bengal were joining Mamata Banerjee's party. How did she become a symbol or, in their eyes, a bankable brand?  But there are some serious questions that the TMC needs to introspect, especially about public perception. Poaching leaders is one thing - the Congress really can't complain if it fails to keep leaders from leaving for a smaller party. But launching a tirade of attack on a prospective alliance partner, literally at the drop of a hat, does not go well with the idea of a dependable alternative to the ruling alliance. The Congress may have weakened and ridden with internal trouble. However, it still is a significant force in several states, including against the BJP - Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Kerala.  The Congress's lowest Lok Sabha tally of 44, and the TMC's highest ever of 34, were in the same elections, the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Of the states, the TMC is eyeing beyond Bengal, which has 42 Lok Sabha seats, at Goa, Meghalaya and Tripura, all with two seats each. Assam has 14 seats, but on paper, the TMC can at best have an appeal only in two-three Lok Sabha seats. In contrast, Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh alone have 78 Lok Sabha seats. In all likelihood, an opposition alliance would require the leaders of its partners to share a dais, hold each others' hands and release a common minimum programme. If bitterness were to mar the relationship between the Congress and the TMC, would the voters trust their alliance for a stable government?  (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/making-sense-of-trinamools-attack-on-congress-1044947.html
28-10-2021||Panorama||Landmark Pegasus verdict: Acknowledging citizens’ rights, warning State over surveillance||The Supreme Court’s order in the Pegasus case, delivered on Wednesday, is a judicial landmark. This ranks along with important, recent judgements like the 2013 Lalita Kumari case which made the filing of an FIR mandatory when a cognizable office is reported, the 2018 Navtej Singh case which legalised the rights of the LGBTQ community and the 2017 Puttaswamy case which recognised privacy as a fundamental right of citizens. The court even invoked the Kesavananda Bharati case judgement on the basic structure of the Constitution to give its order a context. The Pegasus judgement draws heavily on the privacy judgement in the Puttaswamy case and extends its jurisprudence to a new area that is of high practical import to citizens. This area is the nature and limits of the state’s activities in the lives of citizens and how they should be governed by constitutional rights. The bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana made a strong intervention for the right to privacy, and set up an independent committee under a former Supreme Court judge, which will investigate the charge of illegal use of the Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of citizens, including politicians, businessmen, journalists and others.  At the jurisprudential level, the court’s order acknowledges three main issues which were brought before it by the petitioners through the Pegasus controversy. It lays down the principles needed to deal with them and prescribes a course of action to be followed in the present case. These principles may be taken as guidelines that should govern interactions between the state and citizens and have the salience to address similar situations that may arise in future.   The first is that any surveillance on an individual done by the state is an infringement of the right to privacy and so any violation of that right should be done in accordance with the procedures established by law. It is important that the restrictions sought to be imposed should be reasonable and should conform to the demands of rule of law. The standards of legality, necessity and proportionality prescribed by the Puttaswamy judgement need to be followed in such situations also. The court is clear that “national security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from, by virtue of its mere mentioning” and, “mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the Court a mute spectator”. The balance between privacy and security should not be upset arbitrarily by the state.  Right to secrecy The second principle that the court has affirmed follows from this view of the primacy of the right to secrecy. The principle is that there is scope for judicial review even when the government invokes national security as the ground for curbing citizens’ rights. The court has stated this rather picturesquely with the observation that the state does not get a “free pass every time the spectre of ‘national security’ is raised”.  It has underlined this with a clear assertion of its own powers that  “no omnibus prohibition can be called for against judicial review”. That mandates the government to explain to and convince the court of its reason to avoid disclosure. This is the basis of the court’s rejection of the limited affidavit filed by the government which contained only a general denial of the charges in short paragraphs and an annexure of a statement by the Minister for Electronics and Information Technology, Ashwini Vaishnaw, before Parliament. The court noted that ‘’an omnibus oral allegation’’ that ‘’many of these reports (about surveillance) are motivated and self-serving” are not sufficient as a defence and justification for its refusal to disclose the reasons for non-disclosure. The use of the words ‘’vague’’, ‘’omnibus’’, ‘’non-committal’’, ‘’non-serious’’  and containing no ‘’specific denial’’ about the affidavit shows what the court thought about the government’s refutation of the charges. If the government took the position that the charges are wrong, it had to prove it with documents in the court. This is also in the interest of transparency. The court’s insistence on transparency and on the need for convincing proof is important because the trend of withholding information from the court is growing in the country. The law actually gives the court the power to consider an allegation as admitted by a party if it is not specifically denied by it. It did not exercise this power in this case, but the insistence on a convincing denial of the charge by the government with the support of proof will set a precedent for the future too.   New ground Thirdly, the court breaks new ground when it examines the implications of surveillance for free speech. It has pondered on the effect of surveillance on the autonomy of the citizen and established a link between the victim’s sense of surveillance and censorship. It held that “the knowledge that one is under the threat of being spied on”, would amount to censorship, particularly self-censorship. The fear of surveillance and the thought of being under watch would lead to loss of ability to enjoy the freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The court mentions in this context the “potential chilling effect that snooping techniques may have” on the conduct of citizens. It specifically states that such surveillance “is an assault on the vital public watchdog role of the press’’ and may ‘’undermine the ability of the press to provide accurate and reliable information”. The observation is significant because some of the citizens who were allegedly under surveillance are journalists.  While these are the main principles that emerge from the court’s order, the terms of reference that it has prescribed for the enquiry are expansive and go beyond the immediate charge. The committee has been tasked to ‘’enquire, investigate and determine’’ whether the Pegasus spyware was used on the phones or other devices of Indian citizens for any purpose and to find out whether it was acquired by the government or its agencies, along with the identities of the victims, and other matters that it might consider relevant. The committee also has to find out what steps the government took when it was reported in 2019 that WhatsApp accounts of citizens were hacked with the help of the Pegasus spyware. This is a comprehensive list of tasks and would cover every question that has been raised in the wake of the disclosures.  The court also wants the committee to test the efficacy of the existing surveillance laws to protect the citizens’ right to privacy. It expects it to make recommendations on how to prevent the state and non-state players from violating the right and to suggest a mechanism for citizens to report to on suspicion of surveillance. It wants the committee’s views on the setting up of a ‘’well-equipped independent premier agency to investigate cyber security vulnerabilities’’.  It is a large and exhaustive mandate and if the committee is able to work it well, its outcome can have as good an impact on the issue of state surveillance of citizens as the Justice J S Verma committee’s report had on the laws on rape and sexual violence.   The issues raised by the court and the prescriptions, suggestions and observations that it has made, and even the choice of words and comments scattered in the judgement create a framework for the concern that the court clearly entertains about the possibility of state surveillance of citizens. It has not passed a judgement or even expressed a clear opinion, as it rightly should not at this stage of the case, but its concern and its determination to protect the citizens’ rights are clear and evident. Its reference to the Orwellian state which acts as the Big Brother, robbing people of their freedoms and rights, gives a perspective to the entire order. The order assumes its full significance when it is read in that perspective.    ‘’We make it clear that our effort is to uphold the constitutional aspirations and rule of law, without allowing ourselves to be consumed in the political rhetoric. This court has always been conscious of not entering the political thicket. However, at the same time, it has never cowered from protecting all from the abuses of fundamental rights.’’ These are reassuring words.  The court has told the Central and state governments to co-operate with the committee and provide it with all the information that it seeks from them. The success of the committee’s work will depend on it. It is premature to speculate on it now.  (The writer is an independent journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/landmark-pegasus-verdict-acknowledging-citizens-rights-warning-state-over-surveillance-1045180.html
28-10-2021||Panorama||From Democracy to Demo“crazy”||Surely the time has come to change the name of the word Democracy to Demo “crazy.” Children who are taught the topic in their Civics class in school can be provided with more and more examples of why this should be so. With the pace at which things are happening, the next generation of kids may see the creation of words like 'Democrazier' or 'Democraziest' entering into the English lexicon.   Is it democracy when Uttar Pradesh becomes the Republic of UP, where no politician from an opposing party is allowed to enter to condole with the families of the farmers mowed down by a vehicle driven by the son of a sitting Union minister? Either the brakes must have failed, or the driver must have been crazy to drive at a speed of 70 kms, at a conservative estimate, when there are a bunch of protesting farmers ahead of the car.  That it took more than 24 hours to file a case will surely have you thinking: “Whither Democracy?” A new criterion seems to have been put in place for opposition politicians to step into states like UP. They must do time at a detention centre and if they can sweep the place clean, all the better. With due credit to Priyanka Gandhi, she does seem to wield the broom rather well and could indeed offer good competition to AAP, whose party symbol it is. The only thing is, we wish she could sweep the Congress party clear of all the cobwebs. In all that spidery haze, it’s hard to tell between the G23, the Sidhu in Punjab queering the pitch and giving ideas to Siddu in Karnataka, not to mention all the other siddhis, who are busy searching for their own brand of fulfilment, the party be damned.  Frankly, the public doesn’t care whether it will be the G23 who will lead or the G3 (the Gandhi family) who will show the way. A tough call, with other new parties yapping at the heels, to get a bite of the electorate. Let’s start with AAP and its spokesperson referring to the “crisis of anarchy” in Congress party. Hey guys, just to remind you that being able to express dissent is a part of inner-party democracy. It turns into Democrazy when you ease out two very valuable founding members, possibly seeing them as a threat to your Numero Uno position. Also, going and sitting in protest in front of Rajghat to pray for world peace, whilst your backyard is on fire is plain crazy. No amount of excuses about the police not being in your charge can absolve you. Let's shift the attention to Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek testing the waters in Tripura and Goa. Nothing wrong with that, except to remember that Mamata did have an alliance with the BJP once and served as a railway minister under the UPA government. Also to remind her that the turncoats that she is welcoming back could well be opportunists and happy to play, “in the pond, on the bank”. The same goes for the AAP, which is ever ready to open its doors to all defectors who are unhappy with the parties that they are presently in. Thankfully, the South can still lay claim to the original term democracy, with the exception of Karnataka, of course. Here, the JDS of the Hindu Undivided Family can really drive the electorate crazy. Sometimes, they are seen to take a stand against communalism; at others, they are either playing footsie with the BJP or the Congress, to get the best share of the pie. One can only go back to an old Hindi film called Padosan and suggest to them, “Ek pe rahne”. In other words, please make up your mind, one way or the other. And what about the crazy electorate — rejoicing when defectors join the party of your choice. This is just to remind them that people who keep switching parties know no ideology, except that of power. It’s why people get into politics, but still, it would be good to remember that when you go to the polling booth, you have the power too and the right to tell every aspiring leader not to turn your Democracy into a Democrazy. In case they do, our own reply at the hustings will be to say to all on the list — NOTA. No way, TATA TATA! (The writer is an Independent Journalist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/from-democracy-to-demo-crazy-1045185.html
28-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Abbreviations, then and now||Abbreviations are the 'in' thing in today's busy lives. One knew in the early 90s simple ones like PAN for Permanent Account Number, ATM for Automated Teller Machine. Once the Internet and mobile phones invaded our lives during the mid-90s, e-mails became even shorter because PDF (Portable Document Format), JPG/JPEG (Joint Photographic Expert Group), GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications), DTP (Desktop Printing) and many more were in use. With British and American movies on Prime and Netflix, Stat (short for Latin word Statim), ASAP (for As Soon As Possible), brolly for umbrella, cossie for a swimming costume and many more entered our daily lives. "Have you spoken to your DQ to tell GOC to inform you?" my civilian brother-in-law had joked with me decades ago when he had no clue about the army's hierarchy or abbreviations. Of course, he is wiser now since his elder brother, too, is a retired brigadier and he himself is now working in a private University where the top few persons are called C-1 to C-5, C indicating surname of the owner. On one occasion I pulled his leg, asking, What has C-1 told C-3? True, the army has many abbreviations (just as IAF and IN). Some appointments have long names, albeit the holder of the appointment may only be a Captain/Major. Deputy Assistant Adjutant and Quartermaster General, tenable by a Major: 50 letters, doesn't that sound a mouthful but luckily, it is abbreviated in writing as DAA&QMG and simply as 'DQ' in a conversation! That appointment is now split into two: Deputy Assistant Quartermaster General and Deputy Assistant Adjutant General or abbreviated DAQMG (still shorter as DQ in conversation) and DAAG. General Staff Officer Grade 3, a Captain (abbreviation GSO-3) is just G-3 in conversation. Take another, General Officer Commanding in Chief, written as GOC-in-C or simply referred to as Army Commander. In fact, there is a whole book of abbreviations common to all three services, Joint Services Staff Duties Manual Volume -II. Till 15 years ago, teens used simple abbreviations like emgees or brigades to indicate MG Road or Brigade Road in Bangalore. Now universal Teen Text Abbreviations in dozens have crept in, eg, '143: I love you; ATM: At the moment; BRB: Be right back; ICYMI: In case you missed it; POS: Parents over shoulder; SOS: Someone over shoulder; WTPA: Where’s the party at?; WYCM: Will you call me?' When I was in the Postings Section of Army Headquarters, my four-year-old daughter, having heard me discuss many appointments in abbreviations, started calling me by spelling A..P..P..A, thinking she was using an abbreviation! And now, Abbreviation itself is abbreviated to abvn!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/abbreviations-then-and-now-1045179.html
28-10-2021||Second Edit||Rice exports may face harm||The controversy over the presence of genetically modified (GM) rice in rice exports from India to the European Union (EU) has the potential to do much harm to rice exports from the country. A French manufacturer of rice flour has said that it had found unauthorised GM rice in a consignment of 500 tonnes of broken rice from India this June. The EU does not permit the use of GM rice on the ground that its impact on health and environment is yet to be fully understood. GM crops are developed from plants whose genes are artificially modified by importing into them genetic material from others to give them new properties like higher yield and resistance to pests. After India was identified as the origin of GM rice, EU countries and the US were alerted about it. Some manufacturers of confectionery and bakery items that had used the rice flour recalled their products after the alert.  India does not allow commercial cultivation of GM crops, except Bt cotton. But some varieties of GM rice are being tested in trial plots by research groups. Though there are regulations that prevent GM rice from going out of the test areas it is suspected that some leakages have happened. In the case of Bt cotton, there were reports that cultivation had actually happened before it was officially cleared for commercial farming. This may have happened in the case of Bt brinjal also, though it has not yet been cleared for cultivation. Agricultural universities and other research groups which do the testing and trials of GM crops have interactions with farmers. So the possibility of transfer of seeds to farmers’ fields cannot be entirely ruled out. This has been cited as a reason for the possible contamination of non-GM crops.  The commerce ministry has said that the EU has still not conclusively proved that the source of contamination was India, and has suggested that it could have happened during the processing of rice flour in Europe. It has initiated an investigation into the matter, and there are reports that a Maharashtra trader has been identified as the source of contamination. The matter should be viewed seriously and it must be ensured that exports meet the best standards of quality and comply with the importers’ demands. This is important because rice exports earn about Rs 65,000 crore for the country and are an important source of income for farmers. Contamination of rice exports from the US with GM rice some years ago had led to the suspension of imports from the country by many countries and attracted damages. The controversy also underlined the need for a more effective regulatory regime for testing and trials of GM crops in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rice-exports-may-face-harm-1045183.html
28-10-2021||South||Activists cry foul as Hyderabad cops check phone chats for 'drug links'||After chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's bid last week to “make Telangana drugs/ganja free” while offering them some latitude, the Hyderabad cops seem to be pulling all stops to achieve the status soon. And one of the methods appears to be frisking people for the banned substances and also checking their phones' WhatsApp chats for any suspicious “key” words like ganja (cannabis). A video of the city cops stopping commuters especially the youth in the old quarters of Hyderabad and examining the contents on their phone has gone viral on Thursday, with activists alleging it as infringement of their right to privacy. Among other people, Bengaluru-based environmentalist Disha Ravi who was arrested earlier this year in a ‘toolkit’ case also slammed the police's act. She said, “Why are so many of you surprised like we haven't had people's "chats" read on national TV? If you think surveillance isn't here yet, what you essentially mean is that surveillance isn't here for YOU yet.” "New policing practices alert: stop and search phone chats by the @hydcitypolice. Police are searching phone chats for words like ganja. Wait until they replace words with NRC, Modi or BJP," remarked Srinivas Kodali, a researcher working on data, governance & internet, on Twitter. A top police official, has however, defended the searches as a legitimate form of probe into an organised crime involving many criminals and users. For the past few days the Telangana police especially under the Hyderabad and Cyberabad commissionerates are focused on eradicating the drugs-ganja trade and consumption, which according to CM Rao has become a big menace in the state. Several arrests have been made by the city cops, while seizing large amounts of cannabis – Hyderabad police confiscated about 100 Kgs in the last two days. The Cyberabad police has on Wednesday alone registered 10 cases and arrested 17 offenders like peddlers. Following instructions from the state Government “to have Zero tolerance towards drug offenders”, Cyberabad Police Commissioner Stephen Raveendra said they have even formed a special Narcotic and Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act enforcement cell. While bulk buyers, local retailers and drug transporters are on task force radar, special teams are said to be operating in shifts throughout the day stopping and questioning any suspects with drug-ganja links. In a meeting conducted last week on the ganja problem, CM Rao noted that WhatsApp groups are being formed by some youth to exchange information on drugs. Rao called for a comprehensive action plan involving police and excise departments to eradicate drug availability and consumption, “before the situation goes out of hand.” “Officers showing good results in eradicating Ganja-drugs will be given cash awards, rewards and special promotions. Our government is ready to provide anything to you to decimate this threat. Eradicate the Ganja mafia and do not spare the criminals whoever they may be,” the CM said while assuring the police-excise officials of all the support. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/activists-cry-foul-as-hyderabad-cops-check-phone-chats-for-drug-links-1045063.html
28-10-2021||South||Noted oncologist Krishnan Nair passes away||Known oncologist and founder director of the Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram, Dr M Krishnan Nair died on Thursday, at the age of 81. A recipient of the Padma Sri award, Nair received many honours for his contributions in the field of oncology, especially in pediatric oncology and community services. A native of Thiruvananthapuram, Nair received fellowship in clinical oncology from the Royal College of Radiologists in London after doing his MBBS at Thiruvananthapuram medical college and MD at Punjab University. He was also a member in the Expert Advisory Panel of WHO on cancer care. In his condolence message, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan highlighted Nair's contributions in setting up the RCC. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/noted-oncologist-krishnan-nair-passes-away-1045080.html
28-10-2021||South||Bineesh Kodiyeri's bail in drugs case to come as relief to father, CPI(M)||Kerala CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri getting bail in the Bengaluru drug trafficking case will be a relief to the CPI(M) as Kerala is gearing up to host the Party Congress in April 2022. The chances of Balakrishnan returning to the party Kerala secretary post have also increased. Bineesh's arrest by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case on October 29 last year had triggered a political row in Kerala, especially since the state was heading for the crucial Assembly elections. Two weeks later, Balakrishnan had stepped down as the party state secretary. Though the party's official version was that Balakrishnan was taking leave due to medical reasons, it was clear that it was a damage control exercise. Nearly a year later, the party state secretary post has remained vacant. Left-front convenor A Vijayaraghavan was given only the state secretary's charge. Hence, the bail to Balakrishnan's son could lead the way for Balakrishnan's return as party state secretary. Sources close to Balakrishnan said that since the ED failed to produce any solid evidence linking Bineesh with the drug trafficking racket, it was now very clear that the ED's action against Bineesh was part of a political ploy of BJP ahead of the elections. The people of Kerala already gave a befitting reply to the BJP in the Assembly election, hence there was no moral obstacles for Balakrishnan to return as party state secretary. Party sources said that since the party's state conference was set to happen in another couple of months, the new state secretary would be most likely to be selected only during the conference. Bineesh was implicated by the ED in the money laundering case after one Mohammed Anoop, who was held for drug trafficking in Karnataka, was found to be having financial dealings with him. He was also found to be using Bineesh's bank cards. Hence the ED suspected that Bineesh was funding the drug trafficking racket. Bineesh also faced several allegations of association with shady characters and cheating case accused. His political connections was allegedly being used by the fraudsters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bineesh-kodiyeris-bail-in-drugs-case-to-come-as-relief-to-father-cpim-1045102.html
28-10-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM plans to woo tourists to Vizag with London Eye-like Ferris wheel||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy wants to develop Visakhapatnam into a mega tourist hub in the country with attractions including a London Eye-like Ferris wheel. Also on Jagan's blueprint for a more touristy Vizag is a tunnel aquarium and sky tower. Visakhapatnam, popularly known as Vizag, is the state's largest city, where Reddy wants to move his administrative set-up eventually. The plan set in motion in January 2020 is stalled due to various petitions in the Andhra Pradesh High Court challenging the chief minister's controversial idea of having three capitals — executive in Vizag, legislative in Amaravati and judiciary in Kurnool for the state. The construction of Amaravati — a mega capital planned by former CM Chandrababu Naidu in partnership with Singapore firms — had come to a grinding halt soon after Jagan took over in the middle of 2019. Though the fate of Jagan's three capitals, especially Vizag, remains uncertain, the chief minister has the port city on top of his infrastructure growth priorities. Officials said several companies have come forward to invest Rs 2,868 crore on tourism projects in the state, with the potential of providing 48,000 jobs in the sector. “The Oberoi group would build resorts in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Gandikota, Horsley Hills, Pitchukalanka by the name Oberoi Vilas. Hyatt group will construct a star hotel and convention centre at Shilparamam in Visakhapatnam,” CMO officials said after a meeting of the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) chaired by Reddy on Wednesday. Interestingly, a similar project comprising an international convention centre, shopping mall and a five-star hotel to be executed by the Abu Dhabi-based Lulu group was cancelled by Reddy in 2019. The agreement was made during Naidu's time. Another hotel and service apartment named Taj Varun Beach will also now come up in Visakhapatnam. While the picturesque city, with several natural and other attractions, is a popular destination already for domestic tourists, especially from Odisha, Bengal and Telangana, Reddy, officials said, wants the new tourism projects to attract international tourists in droves. The AP state cabinet, which met on Thursday, decided to extend various incentives under its tourism policy for the above projects to materialise soon. However, Opposition parties and conservationists are faulting the YSRCP government for such large-scale projects while razing some charming spots like the Rushikonda Haritha resorts operated by the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-plans-to-woo-tourists-to-vizag-with-london-eye-like-ferris-wheel-1045119.html
28-10-2021||South||Heavy rains, landslides lash Kerala||Many parts of Kerala, including the recent calamity-hit parts of Kottayam district, received heavy rains on Thursday evening. There were also reports of minor landslides and landslips at Erumeli - Mundakayam regions of Kottayam causing damage to properties. No casualties were reported. The Indian Meteorological Department sounded orange alert in six districts of south and central Kerala for Friday. The spillway gates of Mullaperiyar dam in Idukki district may be opened on Friday morning to maintain the water level. The water level of the dam was 138.20 feet by Thursday evening. Many families living along the banks of the Periyar river were shifted to safe places. The Supreme Court on Thursday maintained that the water level shall be maintained at 139.5 feet till November 10. There is a demand that the 100-year-old dam should be decommissioned and a new one constructed. Compensation announced The Kerala government announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the dependents of those who lost their lives in the recent landslides and floods. Those who lost their houses would be given Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-landslides-lash-kerala-1045135.html
28-10-2021||South||Superstar Rajinikanth hospitalised in Chennai||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was on Thursday admitted to a private hospital in Chennai. Though there was no official statement from the hospital, Rajinikanth’s wife Latha said the actor was admitted for a “routine check-up." Tamil news outlets quoted Latha as saying that Rajinikanth was doing fine and that he came to hospital only for a check-up. The actor’s hospitalisation comes four days after he was conferred with Dadasaheb Palke award in New Delhi. Hours later, V M Sudhakar, administrator of the All India Rajinikanth Fans Club, took to Twitter to say that Rajinikanth was doing fine. “Thalaivar ( #Rajinikanth ) is fine. Don't believe rumours," he said in a terse post The actor, who underwent a kidney transplant in 2016 in the US, had pulled out of politics months before Tamil Nadu assembly elections in 2021 citing his ill-health and Covid-19 situation. The actor was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad in December 2020 following fluctuation in his blood pressure. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/superstar-rajinikanth-hospitalised-in-chennai-1045140.html
28-10-2021||South||Chennai–Mysore Shatabdi Express bags Integrated Management Systems certificate||Chennai-Mysore-Chennai Shatabdi Express became the first Integrated Management Systems (IMS)-certified train of Southern Railway taking into account state-of-the-art facilities ensuring safe and comfortable travel for passengers, the Indian Railways said. This is also the first Shatabdi of Indian Railways and the second mail/express train on Indian Railways to bag this certification with ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 certifications, said a statement from Railways. Primary maintenance of the train is handled by Basin Bridge Coaching Depot of Chennai Division. This certification has been granted by the agency after a comprehensive audit and duly verifying adherence by Railways to all laid down norms, the statement said. Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas has inspected the train service and felicitated the team of officers and staff of Basin Bridge Depot. He also presented the IMS Certification to Coach Depot Officer/Basin Bridge. The pair of Shatabdi services between Chennai-Mysore-Chennai was run as Train No.12007/12008 in the pre-Covid times and presently run as special service with Train No.06081/06082 (except Wednesdays). Introduced in 1994, Chennai–Mysore–Chennai Shatabdi Express was the first ISO 9001:2001 certified train in Southern Railway in 2007. Some of the special features include onboard housekeeping facility (5-stage cleaning), energy conservation through LED lights and electrical fittings, braille signage seat indication number, pre-loaded Wi-Fi Infotainment System and aesthetic vinyl wrapping for coach interiors, said the statement. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-mysore-shatabdi-express-bags-integrated-management-systems-certificate-1045153.html
28-10-2021||State||Now, engineering graduates can teach at Karnataka govt schools||Amid complaints over shrinking career opportunities for those who study pure science and humanities, the state government’s move to open the teaching profession in primary and secondary schools to techies has come as a major shock. The state government has brought in amendments to the Cadre and Recruitment (C&R) Rules of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education to allow engineering graduates to write the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET). The provision will come into effect from the next TET exam. Since getting eligibility in TET is mandatory to be appointed at state government schools, the department’s move is likely to benefit those from the engineering background. “In the earlier rules, there was no provision for engineering graduates to appear for TET, we have amended that rule,” said an official. Though BEd degree is a must for teaching, sources from the department said engineering graduates may be exempted from this rule. “Looking at the vacancies for Mathematics and Science subjects, we are considering exempting engineering graduates who wish to write TET and teach at government schools, from compulsory BEd,” said an official source from the department. Sources even said the number of candidates clearing TET is expected to rise from this year as it would be easier for engineering graduates to crack subjects like Mathematics and Science. At present, there are over 20,000 teacher vacancies in state government schools and only 3,000 were appointed during the drive to recruit 10,000 teachers by the department two years ago. The TET 2021 got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the department is planning to conduct TET for 2022 soon. Data shows that the number of candidates getting eligibility in TET is very low. During TET 2021, the total number of candidates appearing for both paper 1 and paper 2 was 2,31,886. Of these, only 4,074 candidates got eligibility which is 19%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-engineering-graduates-can-teach-at-karnataka-govt-schools-1044861.html
28-10-2021||State||Bescom’s Janasnehi Vidyuth to be launched on Oct 29||In order to provide faster services to the public, Bescom will launch its ambitious 'Janasnehi Vidyuth' programme on Friday. The initiative, which will be launched by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, will enable citizens to avail of various services like new electrical connections, change of name, metre or tariff on a 24X7 basis. According to a release from the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), the project will simplify unnecessary procedures and reduce human interface. This facility, which will be made available to citizens in all 409 sub-divisions of Escoms, is likely to benefit about 10 lakh people. "Earlier, one had to wait up to 90 days to avail a new connection and applications had to be submitted offline. But henceforth, a citizen can get a new connection within 24 hours and everything will be provided online. The field officer will visit the place only once and consumers can avail the services by submitting an ID, address proof and utility plan drawings," an engineer with Bescom said. The consumer will be informed about the service charges and other related information through SMS or email.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bescom-s-janasnehi-vidyuth-to-be-launched-on-oct-29-1045145.html
28-10-2021||State||I-T raid on contractor said to be close to senior Congress leader||Income-tax officials on Thursday said they carried out a search on a contractor following tax evasion and amassing of wealth disproportionate to known sources of income. According to I-T sources, the searches took place in Dharwad, Mangaluru and Udupi and continued till late night. It is learnt that the contractor was closely linked to a senior Congress leader. Reacting to the search, Belagavi Rural Congress MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar termed it as an act of vengeance when the Assembly by-polls were just two days away. "I, too, saw the news about raids on a contractor. It is unfortunate. We have been saying this is all vengeance when the elections are due day-after-tomorrow. It is aimed at creating an atmosphere of fear among our workers," Hebbalkar told reporters in Hubballi. She added that there were political motives behind the raids and blamed the BJP for using the central agencies such as ED and CBI on its political rivals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-t-raid-on-contractor-said-to-be-close-to-senior-congress-leader-1045169.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Key schemes in red, Rs 21,000 crore in funds remain unspent||At least four major departments, including Health, are in the red for underspending on seven key schemes this financial year, according to data presented in the Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) meeting on Wednesday. By the end of September, the halfway mark in the fiscal, the Health Department has not incurred any expenditure on strengthening primary healthcare facilities using the 15th Finance Commission grants, for which there is a budget allocation of Rs 552 crore.  Similarly, the agriculture department has recorded zero expenditure under the PM-KISAN scheme - financial incentives to farmers - that has Rs 2,120 crore budgeted. The energy department has not spent money towards pension payment contribution (Rs 1,000 crore allocation) and the urban development department has nil expenditure on the Bengaluru suburban rail project for which Rs 590 crore is earmarked.  The Housing Department has spent just 5-20% of money on the PMAY (rural), Ashraya-Basava and BR Ambedkar Nivas schemes. Their total allocation is Rs 1,600 crore.  Totally, the government has an unspent allocation of Rs 21,331.65 crore by the end of September, according to data.   The highest non-spenders include the departments of primary & secondary education (Rs 3,259.49 crore), urban development (Rs 2,658.52 crore) and home (Rs 2,398.85 crore).  A prominent lag is in the development of rural roads (PM Gram Sadak Yojana) on which the government has spent just 21.48% against an allocation of Rs 1,771.36 crore. “Our expenditures will start picking up. Till September, we were preparing estimates and doing the tender process. Also, we had a prolonged monsoon, so all our asphalting work had to be put on hold,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj principal secretary LK Atheeq said, when contacted.  The good news is that Karnataka’s expenditure figures look better this financial year compared with the previous pandemic-hit fiscal. Between April and September, the government had spent Rs 77,883.78 crore, which is 35.94% of the total budgetary allocation for the fiscal. This is higher than Rs 62,065.15 crore or 28.23% in the corresponding period last year.  Eight big-ticket programmes, each worth Rs 500 crore or more, have seen an expenditure exceeding 95%. This includes interest subsidy for cooperative crop loans, disaster relief, subsidy for rice/wheat, Ayushman Bharat, highway development and MGNREGA.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-key-schemes-in-red-rs-21000-crore-in-funds-remain-unspent-1044862.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Report on Belagavi 'honour killing' says efforts on to shift blame from Hindutva organisations||A fact-finding report on the murder of Arbaz Aftab Mulla in Belagavi accused the Superintendent of Police (SP) Laxman Nimbargi of trying to shift the blame from the accused Sri Ram Sene (Hindustan) to make the murder look like a contract killing. Mulla, aged 25, was murdered on September 28 allegedly over his relationship with a Hindu girl. A seven-member team comprising persons from the All India Lawyers' Association for Justice, All India People's Forum and other associations as well as an independent researcher visited Belagavi last month. It said the targeted violence is the result of years of "deliberate and neatly orchestrated" communal politics dividing the society. Despite the arrest of 10 people on October 8, ten days after the murder, justice remains a long shot. "Our findings suggest that while the girl's parents might have had a role to play in the murder, the SP's allegation that the girl's parents had hired contract killers could also be a ploy to shift the bulk of the blame from the SRS(H) to the family, thereby making the murder appear to be a contract/supari killing and not a communal honour killing," the report said. Mulla's mother Najeema Shaikh, a teacher at a local Urdu medium school, told the team that the Hindu girl's mother had threatened that "she was ready to kill or even die" in order to prevent the girl's marriage with mulla. "While parental objections to a romantic relationship is not unusual, what struck us was the language in which it was articulated," the team said. Expressing concerns over the 'complete invisibilisation' of the voice of the woman with whom Mulla was in a relationship, it said her individual identity has been nullified. It warned that the 'saffron sphere of influence' in north Karnataka was a grave threat to minorities all over the state and appealed to all citizens to come together to ensure justice for Mulla. It said a broad-based campaign was required to ensure justice to all minority communities and work towards rebuilding social harmony. "Those we spoke to in Belagavi, unanimously pointed out the systemic impunity of members of organisations like SRS (H) from facing the consequences of crimes committed by them," it said citing allegations that the members of the pro-Hindutva group were given VIP treatment inside the prison. The report further said thwarted aspirations of integration with Maharashtra have contributed to Hindu nationalism's hold over the region. "This morphing of linguistic politics into religious politics in the region holds important lessons for secular, democratic forces. It shows how the weakness of alternative political frameworks and lack of citizen alertness against Hindu nationalist groups can decisively alter the social and cultural fabric of a nation," it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/report-on-belagavi-honour-killing-says-efforts-on-to-shift-blame-from-hindutva-organisations-1044974.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on SSLC, PU II exams in December: Minister||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh stated that the Bommai-led government would discuss how SSLC and second PUC examinations have to be conducted in December and a decision would be taken later.  Speaking to media persons on Thursday, he reiterated that there is no plan to cut the syllabus. As many as 35 academic days had been lost due to the pandemic, of which five had been compensated by reducing Dasara vacation and classes till late on Saturdays, he said. Even teachers are eager to complete the syllabus and a cut will cause problems for students when they are promoted to the next class, the minister added.    On National Education Policy-2020, he said the department is planning to implement it in primary and secondary education from the next academic year. A task force headed by retired IAS officer Madan Gopal has been constituted. "We will discuss the structure of education policy and implementation with educationists.  It will be implemented from next year provided the syllabus is ready and teachers are trained." He ruled out the closure of schools due to the pandemic. The minister said of the 48,000 government schools, only two children were found to have Covid-19 symptoms. As many as 31 Covid cases were reported in Navodaya school at Gaalibeedu near Madikeri. Except for two children, there were no symptoms in other children.  He also claimed that the Covid-19 positivity rate has come down to zero in the state. "We send our children to wedding ceremonies and outside to have chats including panipuri. So, there is no need to have fear sending children to schools. They have lost one academic year due to the pandemic. So, there is no need to halt physical classes as of now." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-sslc-pu-ii-exams-in-december-minister-1045065.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hasanamba temple open doors for the year||The sanctum sanctorum of Hasanamba temple was opened as devotees hailed the goddess at 12.19 pm in Hassan on Thursday. Narasimharaja Urs, belonging to Talwar community felled the banana plant as per the custom after which the temple doors were opened for the year, in the presence of Adichunchanagiri seer Nirmalanandanatha Swamiji. Excise Minister K Gopalaiah, Deputy Commissioner R Girish, Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda were present. The Hasanamba festival will be held from October 28 to November 6. There was commotion near the temple with the public eager to enter the temple to have darshan of the deity. It may be mentioned that the district administration had restricted the entry of the devotees for the first and last day of the festival.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hasanamba-temple-open-doors-for-the-year-1045071.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to launch literacy scheme for prisoners||In a novel idea, Karnataka will start a literacy programme for prison inmates who cannot read and write, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said Thursday. The programme will start on the occasion of Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1. “There are about 16,000 prisoners in 50 prisons of the state. We are identifying illiterates among them. One estimate is that there are 6,000 illiterate prison inmates,” Jnanendra told a news conference. “They entered the prison with their fingerprint in the register. While going out, we want them to sign their name.” He said officials have formulated the programme and educated prison inmates will be roped in. “They will be paid for the lessons they do. Also, we will make use of resources under the government’s mass education programme,” Jnanendra said. According to the minister, even undertrials spend at least 1-3 months in prison. “We will teach till the time the inmates are in prison.” Drill commands for police in Kannada From November 1, drill commands for police personnel will be given in Kannada as the government has decided to do away with the colonial hangover of English. “Commands such as ‘attention’, ‘stand at ease’, ‘left’ and ‘right’ will be given in Kannada,” Jnanendra said. “Training is being given and the use of Kannada will start from November 1. This is a special effort we're making,” he said. Curbing film piracy A joint task force comprising crime branch and cybercrime sleuths has been formed to curb piracy affecting the Kannada film industry, Jnanendra said. “We need to protect filmmakers. The sector provides livelihood to lakhs of people. It's a huge industry,” the minister said. Jnanendra also said the government is discussing changes to streamlining licensing for cinemas. “We’re discussing license fee discounts. We’re also thinking of levying fees once in five years,” he said, referring to the new Karnataka Cinema Regulation (Amendment) Rules, 2021. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-launch-literacy-scheme-for-prisoners-1045110.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC raps govt for delay in operationalising BMCRI depts||The High Court of Karnataka deprecated the state government and the medical education department for the “deliberate delay” in operationalising the surgical gastroenterology and liver transplantation department at the BMCRI premises. The department, formally made functional on July 5, 2021, is not operational to date. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum was hearing a civil contempt petition by city-based advocate M N Umesh. Umesh’s PIL seeking to revive the department had been disposed of in February 2021 with an assurance from the government that it would be made functional, including the outpatient department (OPD). Institute director Dr Nagesh and undersecretary to the medical education department M Jyoti Prakash were present in the court during the hearing. The director submitted that the institute cannot be made operational unless sanitised as per the norms. He said they would need two more months to sanitise the institute. The court orally observed that such delays by the state government are nothing but risking the lives of poor people visiting the department. “We fail to appreciate as to why the institute was not sanitised till date and why they are waiting for the court to grant them time to sanitise the institute. The conduct of the concerning authorities is highly deprecated. We take cognizance of the deliberate delay in making the institute operational,” the bench said. The court directed the principal secretary of the medical education department to be present during the next hearing. It also directed the additional government advocate to submit details by the next date of hearing to fix responsibility for the delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-raps-govt-for-delay-in-operationalising-bmcri-depts-1045146.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Forum urges to adhere to traditions in Talacauvery||Talacauvery Moola Swaroopa Rakshana Vedike has urged officials to respect the religious sentiments of the devotees at Talacauvery Kshetra and fulfil their demands. Addressing media persons on Thursday, Vedike secretary Ulliyada M Poovaiah said that the devotees have the darshan of Mother Cauvery in Talacauvery, take a dip in the Theertha Kundike, perform the puja and take Theertha.   “The devotees have a glimpse of Lord Agastyeshwara and Lord Ganapathi. This year, the devotees are restricted from following the tradition at Talacauvery, under the pretext of the Covid-19 pandemic. The new arrangements made at Talacauvery are bizarre. Now, the devotees have to visit the sacred Theertha Kundike after visiting other two temples, which is totally against the tradition,” Poovaiah said. “Also, performing Kumkumarchane at the Pauli above Theerhta Kundike is not right. This is against the sacred rules of the Kshetra. The Kumkumarchane should be performed only in front of the Theertha Kundike, except on the days of Cauvery fair,” he said and warned of initiating a legal fight if the tradition is not followed in the Kshetra. He also said the steps and the area plastered with cement at Triveni Sangama in Bhagamandala are slippery. There is no protection from rain and scorching sun to the devotees offering ‘Pinda’ and priests performing the rituals, on the bank of River Cauvery. The area is filled with slush. Inconvenience is caused to the devotees as the toilets are locked. The concerned persons should take necessary action, he said. Poovaiah further alleged that the coconut and banana sold in the Kshetra to the devotees for ‘Hannu Kayi’ ritual are of poor quality. Still, Rs 120 to Rs 140 is charged per bag of items. The sellers should be issued strict instructions not to overprice the items, he urged.  Tiribolcha Kodava Sangha president Ulliyada Dati Poovaiah said that there is a poultry meat shop on the main road in Bhagamandala. The shop should be shifted to a faraway location. The private vehicle parking area in Bhagamandala is slushy, causing inconvenience to devotees. Appropriate action should be taken regarding the same, she added. Talacauvery Moola Swaroopa Rakshana Vedike Convener Kokkalera Cariappa, legal advisor Ratan Tammaiah and member P K Muttanna were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/forum-urges-to-adhere-to-traditions-in-talacauvery-1045147.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Man kills daughter over inter-caste love affair||A man allegedly killed his daughter as she fell in love with a boy from a different caste against the will of the family. Radha (18) of Kenchanakoppa in Shikaripura taluk in Shivamogga district is deceased. According to police, her father Chandrappa, an agriculturist, is the suspect. As the family opposed the love affair, Chandrappa took Radha on his two-wheeler towards Channagiri to his sister's house via the Channagiri-Birur route on Wednesday. En route, an argument erupted between them and she opposed Chandrappa’s advice to forget the man she was in love with. Near the Railway gate on the outskirts of Birur, Chandrappa strangulated her with the veil she was wearing and threw the body near the railway track. After returning to his native village in the wee hours of Thursday, he tried to kill himself. However, the family members prevented his attempt. He confessed to the crime in the presence of the family and relatives, who took him to Shikaripura police station.  The body of Radha has been recovered. A case is filed in Birur police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-kills-daughter-over-inter-caste-love-affair-1045148.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tourism Minister Anand Singh urges centre to develop Hampi under iconic tourist destination scheme||The Centre must consider the development of Hampi as a pilot project under the Iconic Tourist Sites’ scheme, Tourism Minister Anand Singh has stated in a letter to Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy.  Singh has pointed out that over the years, several infrastructure development plans for Hampi have only remained on paper. He has requested that the Centre take up this destination as a pilot under the scheme, to materialise plans charted out at least for the last two decades.  Speaking at the tourism conference for southern states here, Singh also urged the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to allow film shooting at heritage sites, to tap into tourism potential. He also pointed out to a delay by the ASI in completing pending works in Hampi.  That the ASI does not coordinate with the state governments seemed to be a common complaint. Several historical structures are being relegated to ruins owing to lack of cooperation from ASI, state government representatives lamented.  Telangana’s tourism minister Srinivas Goud questioned the ASI about the quality of maintenance of the heritage structures under their purview. “The ASI must maintain an annual register on measures taken. They neither allow the state governments to take up repair works, nor do they do it themselves,” he alleged, urging them to coordinate with state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tourism-minister-anand-singh-urges-centre-to-develop-hampi-under-iconic-tourist-destination-scheme-1045150.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Full-day school on Saturdays if teachers agree: Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh has said that the government is ready to conduct full-day classes on Saturdays, if teachers approve the same.  Speaking to media persons on Thursday, he said 35 academic days have been lost due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Of them, five days had been compensated by reducing the Dasara vacation and classes in the schools would be conducted till evening on Saturdays provided the teachers agree on it.” “Even teachers are eager to complete the syllabus. A cut in the syllabus will cause problems for students when they are promoted to the next class,” he explained.  He said the government would hold discussions with educationists in December on how the SSLC and second PUC examinations have to be conducted. There is also no plan to cut the syllabus of either SSLC or of PUC, he added.  Reacting to Congress leaders’ allegation that National Education Policy has been framed by RSS leaders, the minister said scientist Kasturirangan, who served as an adviser for seven prime ministers, was the head of the committee that framed NEP. “If Kasturirangan belongs to RSS, why Congress leader Manmohan Singh appointed him as his adviser? “ he questioned and said, “We also want him.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/full-day-school-on-saturdays-if-teachers-agree-primary-and-secondary-education-minister-b-c-nagesh-1045152.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Webinar to create awareness on breast cancer today||Creating awareness on Breast Cancer, DH Brandspot, in association with the Manipal Hospitals, has organised a webinar on Friday. The event will focus on ‘Youngsters Stay Informed about Breast Cancer --- Early Detection key to Prevention’. Renowned doctors from Manipal Hospitals will take part in the webinar and offer insight into early symptoms of breast cancer, treatment, lifestyle changes besides trying to reduce the fear of breast cancer among women. According to doctors, every year about 1.7 lakh new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed in India, of which only 2 per cent of patients are detected on screening. Oncologists have attributed this to the lag in early detection, especially among the younger population of women. Interested visit --- https://bit.ly/3nrX3ci --- to join the webinar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/webinar-to-create-awareness-on-breast-cancer-today-1045163.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC grants bail to Bineesh Kodiyeri in money laundering case||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday granted bail to Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, in a money laundering case related to the financial deal in a drug case. Justice M G Uma allowed the petition filed by Bineesh with conditions. Bineesh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on October 29, 2020. Initially, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested one Mohammed Anoop and found a banned psychotropic substance in his possession. It was alleged that Mohammed Anoop was a benami of Bineesh. Subsequently, ED arrested Mohammed Anoop and Bineesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-grants-bail-to-bineesh-kodiyeri-in-money-laundering-case-1045165.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rajyotsava to herald world of alphabets for prisoners||In a novel idea, the state government will start a literacy programme for prison inmates who cannot read and write, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said Thursday. The programme will start on the occasion of Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1.  “There are about 16,000 prisoners in 50 prisons of the state. We are identifying illiterates among them. One estimate is that there are 6,000 illiterate prison inmates,” Jnanendra told a news conference. “They entered the prison with their fingerprints in the register. While going out, we want them to sign their name.” He said officials have formulated the programme and educated prison inmates will be roped in. “They will be paid for the lessons they do. Also, we will make use of resources under the government’s mass education programme,” Jnanendra said.  According to the minister, even undertrials spend at least 1-3 months in prison. “We will teach till the time the inmates are in prison.”  Piracy A joint task force comprising crime branch and cyber crime sleuths has been formed to curb piracy affecting the Kannada film industry, Jnanendra said. “We need to protect filmmakers. The sector provides livelihood to lakhs of people. It’s a huge industry,” the minister said.  Jnanendra said the government is discussing changes to streamlining licensing for cinemas. “We’re discussing license fee discounts. We’re also thinking of levying fees once in five years,” he said, referring to the new Karnataka Cinema Regulation (Amendment) Rules, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rajyotsava-to-herald-world-of-alphabets-for-prisoners-1045166.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai bats for Kannada awareness programmes every month||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that programmes to create better awareness and to promote pride about Kannada would be organised every month. “Lakhs of people are taking part in ‘Mataad Mataad Kannada’, a week-long programme, being held as part of Karnataka Rajyotsava. I will instruct Kannada and Culture Minister Sunil Kumar to organise such programmes involving people every month,” he said. Participating in a Kannada Geetagayana programme organised at Kannada Bhavan at Adarsh Nagar here on Thursday, Bommai said that modern technology is posing a challenge to the Kannada language and Kannada has to be used as a computer language also. He said Kannada is a rich language with a glorious history and it is the identity of Kannadigas. “We should work together to have a bright future for Kannada. Kannadigas should use Kannada extensively, while others should also speak Kannada,” Bommai felt. Fifteen engineering colleges have already come forward to offer engineering degrees in the Kannada medium. The government would also give importance to jobs for Kannadigas, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-bats-for-kannada-awareness-programmes-every-month-1045168.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tourism ministers' meet in Bengaluru draws flak for 'neglecting' Kannada||The issue of neglect of Kannada came to the fore yet again at a conference of tourism ministers of southern states organised in Bengaluru on Thursday where banners only in Hindi and English were displayed, inviting sharp criticism. The event, organised by the Centre, was held at a private hotel in the city. Noticing that there was no mention of the programme details in Kannada, Tourism Minister Anand Singh demanded that the content be displayed in the state's language, too. Following this, the organisers included a digital screen next to the banner, with Kannada content. However, there was much disgruntlement that neither the state government officials nor the tourism minister were kept in the loop with the details of the event even though it was held in Bengaluru. Speaking to media persons later, Singh condemned the absence of Kannada in the banners. "I condemn it. However, it was an inadvertent error on their part for which the officials concerned have apologised," he stated. Meanwhile, friction also emerged between the Centre and the state over the implementation of the Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual, Heritage Augmentation Drive (PRASHAD) scheme and the Swadesh Darshan scheme. Tourism ministry officials maintained that Karnataka was unable to receive funding under the scheme as the government's proposals "failed" to meet the parameters. According to Rupender Brar, Additional Director General, Ministry of Tourism, Karnataka had sought funds under PRASHAD for infrastructure at Chamundeshwari temple, Mysuru. However, the state government had also completed several work components at its own level. "We insist that the funds under the scheme are useful to the public. Karnataka was unable to demonstrate it," she said. Expressing disappointment, Singh said the Centre's officials should not have termed it as the state government's failure. "It is not that the Karnataka government has not taken initiative. There are some technical issues which need to be sorted out," he said.  Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy assured to resolve the deadlock and assured funding to the state under the schemes.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tourism-ministers-meet-in-bengaluru-draws-flak-for-neglecting-kannada-1045170.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Coop frauds: Complaints have reached Amit Shah, says minister S T Somashekhar||Karnataka Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar on Thursday said complaints regarding fraudulent activities in district central cooperative (DCC) banks and other cooperatives of the state had reached Union Home & Cooperation Minister Amit Shah. Somashekhar said this at a preparatory meeting ahead of the 68th All India Cooperative Week celebrations, in which officials got a dressing down on the state of affairs. "We're getting hundred complaints daily...the compaints have reached Amit Shah as well," the minister said. "What [Shah] will do is to take a decision that there should be Apex Bank and Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) only," Somashekhar said. The minister rued that DCC Banks were lending arbitrarily, citing the examples of Kolar, Chikballapur and Tumakuru. "In Kolar, just three taluks have been given loans worth Rs 30 crore. In Tumakuru, loans are being given just like that," he said. "If cooperative institutions should survive, we should show that there's a department by following the law. What's the point in having this department otherwise?" Bringing up the case of milk adulteration at the Mandya Milk Union Ltd (Manmul), Somashekhar said he was shocked to discover the scale of the illegality. "The case has been given to the CID, but the investigation is progressing at a slow pace," he said. "I was shocked to see how water was being filled into a tanker. The tanker driver or contractor cannot do that so easily without everybody's involvement," he said. The minister vowed to amend the existing laws to strengthen the cooperative sector. According to him, presidents of cooperative bodies are not following the rules. "One thing I am determined to do is to introduce reservation to the posts of presidents and vice-presidents for cooperative bodies - PLD banks, DCC banks and the state-level federation," Somashekhar said. "Tenure-based reservation of 2.5 years or five years will be introduced," he said, adding that he will move the amendment in December. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coop-frauds-complaints-have-reached-amit-shah-says-minister-s-t-somashekhar-1045171.html
28-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Bitcoin scam: Charge sheet reveals indiscriminate hacking by 'Sriki'||The prime accused in the controversial Bitcoin case Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki hacked into multiple cryptocurrency trading platforms and made away with thousands of bitcoins over the past five-six years. According to the charge sheet accessed by DH, the accused also hacked into multiple poker gaming portals and won cash prizes illegally. Further, he is accused of deploying ransomware on a few poker gaming portals and extorting several crores. The case has caused ripples among the political and police circles. The first charge sheet against the accused was filed on February 22, 2021, where authorities have accused him and four others of various cybercrimes. Sriki, a blackhat hacker, started hacking computers during his high school days after being promoted as the moderator of a hacking community. Over the next decade, he gained expertise in breaking into various websites that trade bitcoins in several countries such as USA, France and Bangladesh. Sriki did not have any bank accounts and all his transactions of bitcoins and other monies earned by hacking were via Robin Khandelwal, another accused. In a statement to the police, Sriki claimed that he had given Robin bitcoins worth more than Rs 8 crore, adding that he had private keys in his cloud account for more bitcoins he stole.  Among the websites hacked by the accused include BTC2pm.me - where people exchange bitcoins for money, Havelock Investment - a stock trading platform for bitcoin users, Paytiz - a Bangladeshi exchange, MPEX - an illegal cryptocurrency trading platform, Mixexchage - a Ukrainian platform among others. Illegal gains While the illegal gains made by hacking into other websites is not clear, Sriki claimed to have infiltrated a game called RuneScape as an early teenager and made around $1 million. Tip.it and Sythe - both portals related to the game - were hacked by him to make illegal gains worth $1.6 million. His first bitcoin exchange hack was of Bitfinex, from which he stole 2,000 bitcoins, each worth around $100-200 dollars at the time (Rs 7,000 - 14,000). The current value of one bitcoin is $61,236 or Rs 45.83 lakh. Sriki also hacked Bitcointalk.org, BTC-e.com and Bitcentral exchanges and made away with around $3-3.5 million. All the money earned in this case, according to him, was splurged on drugs and a luxurious lifestyle.  (With inputs from Akram Mohammed)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bitcoin-scam-charge-sheet-reveals-indiscriminate-hacking-by-sriki-1045177.html
28-10-2021||West||Police complaint filed against mob targetting Muslims over joint ownership of hotel with Hindus in Gujarat||Three days after a group of Hindu men and women opposed construction of a hotel, jointly owned by both Muslim and Hindu businessmen in Anand town, about 90 km from Ahmedabad, shouting objectionable slogans targeting Muslim owners and the community at large, a written complaint was filed with the local police against the mob.  Senior police officers said that an inquiry into the incident is going on but as on Wednesday evening, none of the affected persons including the owners of the hotel came forward to file an FIR. On Wednesday, a local resident, Shakil I Vohra filed a written complaint with Anand Town Police station against Pinkal Bhatia, Shailesh Shah and 50 other persons who were part of the mob.  The complainant states that several videos have gone viral showing a group of more than 50 people performing "gangajal shuddhikaran (purification)" of 80 foot road, where the hotel "Blueivy" is located, and making highly objectionable speeches against Muslims. The incident happened on the day, when the owners had planned opening of the hotel. "We have received a complaint against the mob and launched an inquiry into the incident. None of the hotel owners have approached the police as yet. Besides, the matter is subjudice," Anand district Superintendent of Police, Ajit Rajian, told DH.  When contacted, Dr Shailesh Shah told DH, "There is no doubt that I started the agitation but the target was not a particular community. I don't approve of it. Our protest was against illegal construction of the hotel. During the protest, other people made some objectionable comments." One of the hotel owners, who didn't wish to be identified, said, "I am a businessman and can't fight with these people. I have three restaurants offering pure vegetarian food in Anand town. I don't want to get into trouble as I have to run them peacefully. On 24th, we were supposed to open the hotel for public but we had to postpone it due to the protest." The Muslim parterners of hotel are from Chelia community, known for running hotels along the highways. During the protests, as the videos and number of photos revealed, a group of women are performing the "gangajal shuddhikaran", while another group of men are shouting slogans, carrying pictures with objectionable messages against Muslims.  The protesters are also demanding closure of the hotel on the grounds that it violated the disturbed area act that prohibits transaction of properties between people from two different religions without government's approval. The hotel owners claimed that they had got the sale deed done much in advance before the concerned area fell under the disturbed area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-complaint-filed-against-mob-targetting-muslims-over-joint-ownership-of-hotel-with-hindus-in-gujarat-1044870.html
28-10-2021||West||Police record witness Sail's statement second time over allegation of extortion bid in Aryan Khan case||Mumbai Police on Wednesday recorded the statement of independent witness Prabhakar Sail for the second time in connection with his allegation of extortion attempt by NCB officials in the drugs seizure case involving Aryan Khan. Sail appeared before the Assistant Commissioner of Police of Azad Maidan division around 3 pm and left around 8.30 pm, an official said. On Tuesday, Sail had appeared before the police in the evening and his statement was recorded for over eight hours. He left around 3 am, only to return in the afternoon. Sail has been provided protection by the city police. On Tuesday, his lawyer Tushar Khandare had claimed that his client was "misused" during the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast during which drugs were allegedly seized and Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, was arrested. The city police had said they had received four applications alleging extortion by NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede and other officials, and have launched an enquiry to verify these claims. One of the applications was sent by Sail, who alleged that he overheard K P Gosavi, another witness in the cruise ship raid case, talking to one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore including Rs 8 crore for Sameer Wankhede, police said. Wankhede, an IRS officer, has denied the allegations. On Wednesday, Wankhede recorded his own statement before a team headed by NCB Deputy Director General (northern region) Gyaneshwar Singh in connection with a departmental vigilance probe into extortion allegations. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-record-witness-sails-statement-second-time-over-allegation-of-extortion-bid-in-aryan-khan-case-1044889.html
28-10-2021||West||Mumbai police set up team for inquiry into 'extortion bid' in Aryan case||Mumbai Police has deputed police officers for enquiry into complaints of alleged extortion against NCB officers including zonal director Sameer Wankhede in the drugs bust case involving Aryan Khan, a senior police official said on Wednesday. Police are conducting inquiry into four complaints, filed by independent witnesses in the NCB case -- Prabhakar Sail, lawyers Sudha Dwivedi and Kanishka Jain, and Nitin Deshmukh --, he said. All the complaints have been clubbed together. On Tuesday and Wednesday, police recorded Sail's statement. Dilip Sawant, Additional Commissioner of Police (South Region) will supervise the enquiry and DCP Hemrajsingh Bagul will assist him as supervisory officer. Assistant Commissioner of Police Milind Khetle, Police Inspector Ajay Sawant, Assistant PI Shrikant Karkar and Sub Inspector Prakash Gawali will be part of the enquiry team. The order of enquiry was issued by Vishwas Nangre Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-set-up-team-for-inquiry-into-extortion-bid-in-aryan-case-1044895.html
28-10-2021||West||Campaigning for bypoll in Dadra & Nagar Haveli LS seat ends; Sena, BJP, Cong in fray||Campaigning for by-election to the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha seat ended on Wednesday evening and the constituency will see a three-way fight between the Shiv Sena and the Congress, who are allies in Maharashtra, and the BJP. Voting for the seat (reserved for ST candidates), which fell vacant following the death of Mohan Delkar, the independent MP from the constituency, in February this year, will take place on October 30. As per the poll schedule, the 'silence period' (when public rallies can not be organized by candidates) is 72 hours before the polling ends. The Lok Sabha seat is part of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. While the Shiv Sena has fielded Mohan Delkar's wife Kalavati Delkar, the BJP has given ticket to Mahesh Gavit, who is fighting his first major election after his stint as a district panchayat councillor. In this three-pronged fight, the Congress has chosen Mahesh Dhodi to contest from the seat. The Shiv Sena and the Congress are constituents of the MVA government in Maharashtra, but are contesting against each other in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The Congress campaign remained lacklustre as no prominent party leader visited the constituency to canvass for Dhodi. On the other hand, the BJP had sent a host of Union ministers, including Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav, who is also the election in-charge for the party, Smriti Irani, Bharati Pawar and Parshottam Rupala, to campaign for Gavit. Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis also visited the constituency to support the BJP candidate. The Shiv Sena had sent Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray and party MP Sanjay Raut to campaign for Kalavati Delkar. On February 22, Delkar allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in a hotel in the Marine Drive area of south Mumbai. Delkar, who had been a member of both the Congress and the BJP at different times of his political career, was elected seven times to the Lok Sabha from Dadra and Nagar Haveli. In 2019, he won the seat as an independent. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 2.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/campaigning-for-bypoll-in-dadra-nagar-haveli-ls-seat-ends-sena-bjp-cong-in-fray-1044903.html
28-10-2021||West||Elusive NCB witness Kiran Gosavi arrested in Pune in 2018 cheating case||After going underground for over 10 days, NCB’s drugs-on-cruise case’s panch-witness Kiran Gosavi was arrested during a pre-dawn operation by the Pune police. Gosavi’s selfie with actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan - an accused in the drugs case - went viral on social media platforms. “Let me make it clear…we have arrested him…he has not surrendered,” Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told a news conference. The Pune Police picked him up from a lodge in the city. At least one minister or any leader of the opposition from Maharashtra must stand with me. At least they should request the Mumbai police what I am demanding(to release CDR & chats of Prabhakar Sail). Once his reports come out everything will clear: Kiran Gosavi, NCB witness Over the last few days, Gosavi was hiding in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Jalgaon, Lucknow, Hyderabad among other places. Gosavi was using an alias name Sachin Patil during these days and staying at various places, Pune Commissioner Gupta said. “He is saying many things…let us not go into the details at this stage,” he said. When pointed out that Gosavi had spoken about surrender, he said: “He has been saying so for the last few days…but did he (surrender)?”. The Pune Police also said that he has been claiming to be a private detective, into import/export and electronic gadget business, however, all these are subject to cross-checking and verification. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elusive-ncb-witness-kiran-gosavi-arrested-in-pune-in-2018-cheating-case-1044923.html
28-10-2021||West||'Spontaneous' stir by MSRTC employees cripples public bus services in Maharashtra||Services of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) were badly hit across the state since Thursday morning due to a "spontaneous" agitation by its employees over their various demands, including DA merger with salary, officials said. The bus operations at several depots of the state-run transport undertaking, including at Mumbai Central, where the MSRTC's headquarters is located, were stopped in support of the agitation, they said. A spokesperson of the MSRTC told PTI that they were in the process of gathering details, and confirmed that the bus operations at several depots in Maharashtra were affected due to the employees' agitation. The MSRTC is one of the biggest public transport corporations in the county with a fleet of more than 16,000 buses and around 93,000 employees, including drivers and conductors. Before the pandemic, around 65 lakh passengers used to travel in the MSRTC buses every day. According to transport union sources, the operations at 100 to 125 bus depots across Maharashtra were affected due to the "spontaneous agitation" by the employees since morning. A union leader said that no strike call was given by any recognised transport union. They started the agitation spontaneously for their demands for the merger of the dearness allowance (DA) with salary and merger of the MSRTC with the state government, he said. "An action committee of the MSRTC employees' union has started an indefinite agitation for these demands, but no call was given for a strike. The employees have spontaneously stopped bus operations in support of the agitation," the leader said. Earlier this week, state Transport Minister Anil Parab, who is also chairman of the MSRTC, had declared a hike in the DA of the corporation's employees to 17 per cent from the existing 12 per cent, besides payment of October salary before the Diwali festival on November 1, instead of the scheduled 7th day of each month. Parab had also announced, "Diwali Bhet" (bonus) of Rs 2,500 and Rs 5,000 for the MSRTC employees and officers, respectively. The MSRTC is going through tremendous financial stress as its operations have been affected since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Reeling from losses and rising diesel prices, the MSRTC on Monday hiked fares across all its services, except night express buses, with ticket prices going up by a minimum of Rs 5 and travel in AC 'Shivneri' buses between Mumbai's Dadar and Swargate in Pune now costing Rs 525 instead of Rs 450. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spontaneous-stir-by-msrtc-employees-cripples-public-bus-services-in-maharashtra-1044946.html
28-10-2021||West||Sameer Wankhede's sister files police complaint against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik||Yasmeen Wankhede, the sister of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, has filed a police complaint here seeking registration of an FIR against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for allegedly defaming her, an official said on Thursday. Sameer Wankhede is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The officer is facing the departmental vigilance probe. In her two-page complaint submitted to the Oshiwara police here, Yasmeen Wankhede claimed her family was being targeted on social media and that Malik had also called their family trip to Maldives as a "vasooli (extortion) trip", the official said. She alleged that Malik was trying to defame her and her family members. She also claimed that she was being stalked online and the minister was illegally distributing to media persons her personal photographs posted on her social media handles like Instagram and Facebook, according to the complaint filed recently. An official from the Oshiwara police station said they received a written complaint from Yasmeen Wankhede last week, but no FIR has been registered so far. Yasmeen Wankhede also filed a complaint with the National Commission for Women (NCW) and requested it to direct the police to register a case for the alleged offences of stalking, defamation, criminal intimidation and insulting a woman's modesty, as well as relevant sections of the Information Technology Act for violating her privacy and under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and forging documents to secure job. The NCB official has denied any wrong-doing.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sameer-wankhedes-sister-files-police-complaint-against-maharashtra-minister-nawab-malik-1044972.html
28-10-2021||West||NCB being used to 'defame, harass' people: Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil||Maharashtra minister and NCP state chief Jayant Patil on Thursday claimed that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) was being used to "harass and defame" citizens. Speaking to reporters in Ratnagiri, he also said that party leader and state minister Nawab Malik, who has levelled various allegations against NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, was "bringing out the truth". Wankhede is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested earlier this month. The officer is facing the departmental vigilance probe. "The NCB is being used for defaming, harassing and putting people behind bars for longer period...this has happened with Aryan Khan and many others. It has to be probed thoroughly," Patil said. He said state minister Nawab Malik has made certain claims (against NCB officials) which can be substantiated with documents. “Sameer Wankhede is facing an inquiry before senior NCB officials, who have come to Mumbai for an investigation. The certificates provided by him, how he joined the IRS and got quota benefits—all will come out in the coming days. I hope the committee (NCB vigilance probe team) has not come here to cover up his mess,” the state water resources minister said. To a question on Malik's allegations against Wankhede, Patil said the minority affairs minister was "bringing out the truth". "The central agencies are making mistakes and diverting attention as well. These agencies are being used to harass common citizens,” he claimed. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and using forged documents to secure job. Wankhede has refuted the allegations and denied any wrong-doing.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-being-used-to-defame-harass-people-maharashtra-minister-jayant-patil-1044977.html
28-10-2021||West||Amid allegations, Wankhede's wife seeks support from Maharashtra CM||Kranti Redkar Wankhede, the wife of NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, seeking justice in the wake of the "attack on her family and her personal life”. She posted the letter on her Twitter handle and tagged it to the Maharashtra CMO. Sameer Wankhede is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The officer is facing the departmental vigilance probe. State minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik had levelled a string of allegations against the NCB official, including illegal phone tapping. He had also alleged Sameer Wankhede was born as a Muslim, but forged documents, including a caste certificate, to show that he belonged to the Hindu SC category to get a job under quota after clearing the UPSC examination. In her letter to the CM, the NCB official's wife, said, "Being a Marathi person, I expect some justice from your side as my personal life is unnecessarily being dragged into a controversy. Had late Balasaheb Thackeray (father of Uddhav Thackeray) been alive today, he would not have tolerated such personal attack on a woman's dignity.” "I see you as the torch-bearer of his teachings and leadership. The dignity of a woman has become a joke in the regime that draws inspiration from the tenure of 17th-century king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj,” she said. Kranti Redkar, who is a Marathi actress, further said she is an artist and does not understand politics and is not interested in it. "The personal attacks reflect the lowest level of politics. I trust you and feel that there will be no injustice against me or my family,” she said in her letter to the CM. On Wednesday, she had said her husband was born Hindu and he never changed his religion. She had also contested the claim made by the Qazi, who performed the first marriage of Sameer Wankhede in 2006, that he was Muslim at the time of the 'nikah'. Kranti Redkar, who married Sameer Wankhede in 2017, had also slammed Malik for playing "low level" politics by making various allegations against her husband. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-allegations-wankhedes-wife-seeks-support-from-maharashtra-cm-1044979.html
28-10-2021||West||Bombay HC disposes Wankhede's petition seeking relief from probe||The Bombay High Court on Thursday disposed off NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede's petition seeking relief from probe into 'extortion claims' after Maharashtra government's lawyer assured the Court that three days notice will be given before arrest by the Mumbai Police, news agency ANI reported. Wankhede had demanded that a central investing agency like CBI probe the matter.  Maharashtra government lawyer told  Bombay High Court that there are 4 different complaints against Sameer Wankhede. An ACP-level officer is heading the enquiry which has just begun. We have not registered any FIR against Wankhede yet so the application is at premature stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-disposes-wankhedes-petition-seeking-relief-from-probe-1045007.html
28-10-2021||West||Fully-vaccinated Dilip Walse Patil tests positive for coronavirus||Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil has tested positive for coronavirus for the second time in a year. He had taken both the doses of vaccine against Covid-19. Walse Patil in a Twitter post on Thursday said after experiencing mild symptoms, he decided to get tested for Covid-19. "I have tested positive. My condition is stable and I am following my doctor’s advice. I urge all those who came in contact with me during Nagpur & Amravati tour, & other programs, to get themselves tested," he tweeted. The NCP leader had tested positive for the viral infection in October last year also. On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 1,485 new coronavirus cases and 38 fatalities, taking the tally of infections in the state to 66,06,536 and death toll reached 1,40,098, the state health department earlier said. The state now has 19,480 active patients while 1,72,600 people are in home quarantine and 933 in institutional quarantine, as per official data. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fully-vaccinated-dilip-walse-patil-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-1045018.html
28-10-2021||West||Won't arrest Sameer Wankhede without giving prior notice: Maharashtra govt to HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that it will not arrest NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede without giving him a prior notice of three working days, in connection with the allegations of extortion and corruption levelled against him. Wankhede also moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday, seeking interim protection from arrest or any coercive action against him. He sought an urgent hearing of his plea challenging the Mumbai police's decision to form a four-member team to investigate the allegations of extortion and corruption against him, in the aftermath of the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The Maharashtra government initially opposed the plea but subsequently, chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai assured the court that it will give prior notice of arrest to Wankhede. "We assure the court that three working days' notice will be given (to Wankhede) before arrest by Mumbai Police," Pai said. The HC disposed of the plea following the state government's statement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-arrest-sameer-wankhede-without-giving-prior-notice-maharashtra-govt-to-hc-1045024.html
28-10-2021||West||Wankhede family followed Islam; name of Sameer's father is Dawood: NCB officer's ex-father-in-law||The father of the first wife of NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Thursday claimed that he always knew the Wankhede family as followers of Islam and that the name of the officer's father was Dawood. Talking to reporters, Dr Zaheed Qureshi said that when his daughter Shabana married Sameer Wankhede, the latter practised Islam, and would occasionally visit mosques. He also said that he came know about Wankhede being a Hindu after a recent controversy over his birth certificate. His claim came against the backdrop of Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik's allegations that Sameer Wankhede was born as a Muslim, but forged documents, including a caste certificate, to show that he belonged to the Hindu SC category to get a job under quota after clearing the UPSC examination. After Malik's allegation, the NCB officer had said that his father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede was a Hindu and his late mother Zaheeda was a Muslim. He said his father retired as senior police inspector of the state Excise department, Pune, in June 2007. "We always knew the Wankhede family as followers of Islam. In fact, I always knew Dnyandev as Dawood Wankhede. We agreed to the marriage of my daughter Dr Shabana with Sameer because we had cordial relations with his late mother Zaheeda," Dr Qureshi said. It was an arranged marriage between Dr Shabana and Sameer, which took place in 2006. However, after the divorce, as it was a painful thing for us and we never discussed it and burried it in our minds. We even moved on with our lives, he said. When asked about how he came to know about Wankhede's claim of being a Hindu, Qureshi said, "After the controversy broke out about Sameer Wankhede and his birth certificate, my family came to know about it. In fact I knew late Zaheeda's husband's name as Dawood. I knew Sameer used to go to mosque occasionally." Explaining his decision to break his silence over the matter, he said, “When Sameer claimed that he has been a Hindu since his birth, many people asked me how did I allow my daughter to marry him (a Hindu). It became an issue of prestige for me and my family. Hence I am making it clear that when the marriage between my daughter Shabana and Sameer Wankhede took place, the groom was practising Islam. His father's name was Dawood." Two years after Wankhede's marriage, he had secured a government job. Responding to a question related Wankhede seeking a job under quota, Qureshi said, "When Sameer got the job, nobody inquired how he bagged it. You generally don't go so deep into someone else's life. In those days, it was not even a practice to find out whether the job is sought through some quota or not." Responding to the claim made by Sameer Wankhede's father that his name was Dyandev and not Dawood, he said, "All the documents shown by Dnyandev Wankhede are before his marriage with Zaheeda. He has not shown any document after his marriage. He accepted Islam then married to Zaheeda and lived a life of a normal Muslim." "I have no idea how our personal photos and information has come out in media. We have done nothing or did not help anyone for it," he said. Sameer Wankhede had earlier said that he married Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006 under the Special Marriage Act. Both of them divorced mutually through a civil court in 2016. Later, in 2017, he married actor Kranti Redkar. On Monday, Malik had claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth, and alleged that by "hiding" his religion, he (Wankhede) obtained fake documents and through this, the right of a backward class candidate was snatched. However, Wankhede had said that he belongs to a "composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition" and he is proud of his heritage. On Wednesday, the Qazi who had performed the first marriage of Sameer Wankhede, claimed the officer belonged to a Muslim family otherwise the 'nikah' would not have been solemnised as per Islam. An NCB team led by Wankhede earlier this month allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following which Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested on October 3. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs bust case as "fake".  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wankhede-family-followed-islam-name-of-sameers-father-is-dawood-ncb-officers-ex-father-in-law-1045028.html
28-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan case | Bail or no bail, drug possession: What the NDPS Act says||The arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son has created ripples in B-Town as well as political circles. Roles of the central agency, its officers and the nexus between Bollywood and drugs have come undone. While the focus of the investigation has shifted from Aryan Khan to NCB Zonal officer Sameer Wankhede, the question remains: why the son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan was denied bail even when no drugs were found in his possession during the cruise drugs raid? Why was Aryan Khan denied bail initially? An NDPS special court rejected Aryan Khan's bail plea on October 20. However, the Bombay High Court overturned this judgement and granted him bail on October 28. Aryan Khan had, in his bail plea, said the NCB's contention that he was involved in conspiracy and illicit drug trafficking was 'absurd' and pointed out that there was no recovery of drugs made from him. The NCB, however, opposed the bail plea and said Aryan Khan had been consuming drugs for a few years now and was in touch with some persons who appear to be a part of an international drug network for procurement of drugs. The agency was relying on WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan, which they claimed pointed towards procurement of bulk quantities of drugs. The NCB had argued that although there was no recovery from Aryan Khan, the recovery of six grams of charas from his friend Arbaaz Merchant points to “conscious possession" by Aryan Khan. What is "conscious possession"? A probe can be initiated against an individual if the authority believes that he/she is in a "culpable mental state" or in "conscious possession", which basically means that the Act could be invoked if the law enforcement officials believe that there could have been an "intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and belief in, or reason to believe, a fact" regarding narcotics being manufactured, used or smuggled. A court decides to initiate a probe or deny bail to an individual based of this "culpable mental state". According to Section 35 of the Act, ‘presumption of culpable mental state’ can be invoked for prosecution. "In any prosecution for an offence under this Act, which requires a culpable mental state of the accused, the court shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution" Section 35 says. What are the penalties and what quantity of drugs attracts these provisions? Here's a breakdown of the major drugs and penalties that may be imposed according to the NDPS Act, 1985:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khan-case-bail-or-no-bail-drug-possession-what-the-ndps-act-says-1045044.html
28-10-2021||West||Sameer Wankhede rushes to court, gets some relief||Cornered from all sides and two probes, NCB’s controversial Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede sought protection from the Bombay High Court, which gave him partial relief. "I am personally attacked by the state. My apprehension is they will arrest me. I want interim protection in the form of no coercive action,” Wankhede told the court.  An IRS officer, Wankhede also asked to transfer the investigation from the Maharashtra government’s agency to any central agency or to the CBI or NIA.  A division bench comprising Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice SV Kotwal disposed of the petition after an assurance from Mumbai Police. The Mumbai Police was represented by Aruna Pai while Wankhede was represented by counsels Atul Nanda and Rameeza Hakeem  “The Public Prosecutor assures three working days notice will be given before arrest," the court said. Complaints that are being probed into are the ones filed by Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the cruise ship drug case, Nitin Deshmukh and Mumbai lawyer Sudha Diwedi and Kanishka Jain. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sameer-wankhede-rushes-to-court-gets-some-relief-1045078.html
28-10-2021||West||Picture not over yet: Malik targets Wankhede after Aryan Khan's bail||After the Bombay High Court granted bail to Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in the cruise drugs case, Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Thursday continued to target NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede, saying the picture is not over yet. Tweeting in Hindi, Malik said, "Picture abhi baaki hai (The picture is not over yet)." पिक्चर अभी बाकी है मेरे दोस्त The HC granted bail to Aryan Khan and his two co-accused over three weeks after their arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were arrested by the anti-drugs agency on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. Malik, the state minority affairs minister, has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and using forged documents to secure job. In a video message circulated to media on Thursday, Malik said, "The officer (Wankhede) who arrested Aryan Khan and others has now approached the Bombay High Court requesting a restraining order against Mumbai police from arresting him. He had approached Mumbai police in the last week requesting protection. He must have done something really wrong and that is why he is afraid of action against him." " The Mumbai police have informed the Bombay High Court that they would issue a notice of his arrest 72 hours prior if they intend to take any such action. I reiterate my earlier comments that this drug case is completely bogus. The kids were deliberately framed in this case," Malik said. "If the case comes before the Bombay High Court, it will get squashed," the minister added. Two other persons arrested in the case were granted bail a day before by the NDPS court, Malik said, alleging that all the arrested persons were eligible to get bail in this case, but the NCB prosecutor was making fresh claims in the case to delay the bail. Wankhede filed a petition in the high court and sought an urgent hearing, saying he feared arrest by police over allegations of extortion against him in the case related to alleged drug bust on a cruise ship. But the Mumbai Police assured the HC that it will not arrest Wankhede without giving him three days' notice. Earlier, the NCP leader had levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and use of forged documents to secure job.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/picture-not-over-yet-malik-targets-wankhede-after-aryan-khans-bail-1045101.html
28-10-2021||West||Court issues non-bailable warrant against 'untraceable' Param Bir Singh in extortion case||In a significant development, a Magistrate’s Court in Thane on Thursday issued a non-bailable warrant against controversial IPS officer Param Bir Singh, who has been untraceable for the last few months. In a related event, the Crime Branch-CID of the Mumbai Police moved an application in the Mumbai Sessions Court to issue a non-bailable warrant. The court will hear the case on Friday. According to earlier reports, Singh is either in Europe or Russia.  Singh, a Maharashtra-cadre officer of the 1988-batch of IPS is a former Mumbai Police commissioner and last posted as commandant-general of Home Guard.  Singh who has made charges of corruption against the then home minister and senior NCP leader faces multiple cases of extortion and misuse of office in Mumbai and Thane, the places where he led police forces.  Singh had in the past repeatedly failed to appear before the Maharashtra government-appointed Justice (Retd) KU Chandiwal Commission - defying the summons. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-untraceable-param-bir-singh-in-extortion-case-1045104.html
