29-10-2021||First Edit||FB, ‘Meta-stasis’ of hate speech must stop||Internal documents of Facebook, available now in public, have again revealed that the social media giant has been callous in the handling and screening of hate speech, misinformation and inflammatory posts and so could have created and promoted divisiveness and disorder in society. This is not a new finding as there are many known instances of the negative impact of Facebook posts on individuals, sections of people and society. This has been the case everywhere that Facebook, which has renamed itself Meta, operates. Its platforms have been used to incite violence on the basis of racial hatred or religious differences in places like Myanmar and Sri Lanka. Its business has been closely linked to and has thrived on these negative and unhealthy trends. More information about the working of the social media platform has come out recently at a Congressional hearing in the US.  Information that is specific to India shows how fake news and falsehoods are posted and disseminated through Facebook and how the posts create tensions and conflicts. Even when the dangerous nature of such content is known to Facebook, it has been negligent in taking preventive or corrective action. Its policy has been discriminatory, and screening and editorial power have been used selectively in deciding which posts are to be removed. The ruling party and its leaders have benefitted from Facebook’s indulgence. The leaked documents suggest that this is the reason why content posted by “users, groups and pages from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh” get away unchecked. When elements that promote divisions and conflict get more space and traction, that leads to dangerous consequences. One example of the impact of fake news is the mass exodus of migrant workers of North-East origin from many states some years ago. Falsehoods and inflammatory material have led to the lynching of people in some places. In many cases, Facebook did not try to turn off hate speech against Muslims and Dalits. Parties and organisations have used it to subvert elections by spreading fake news and by other means.   Problems of the same kind have been seen in the way posts are managed in Facebook’s subsidiaries WhatsApp and Instagram. India has the highest user base of 350 million for Facebook. Given this, the possibility of its misuse is also highest in India, especially given the current political atmosphere in the country, and that demands better screening and greater vigilance. But 87% of Facebook’s moderation budget, the fund earmarked for tackling misinformation, is used in the US where only 10% of its users live. The fresh revelations again underline the need for better supervision and control over the material that gets posted. This is the change the company must effect — to prevent the ‘Meta-stasis’ of hate speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/fb-meta-stasis-of-hate-speech-must-stop-1045476.html
29-10-2021||In Perspective||Inflation threat: Govt must step in||The bi-monthly meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in early October decided to maintain the status quo: no change in the policy interest, known as repo rate. It is the lighthouse signal: a rate around which all lending rates revolve for loans from financial institutions to borrowers, including households. Accordingly, the repo rate continues to be at 4%. The reverse repo rate remains at 3.35%. This is the rate at which the RBI mops up excess liquidity from the banks, by selling bonds, as an open market operation. The October MPC decision is for maintaining an accommodative stance, “as long as necessary to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy.” The objective of monetary policy is to achieve the medium-term target for consumer price index (CPI)-based inflation of 4% within a band of +/- 2% while supporting growth. Known as ‘headline inflation’, it is obtained as the change in the monthly cost to purchase a fixed basket of goods, for measuring monthly inflation. It is the eighth consecutive MPC decision to maintain a ‘pro-growth’ stance in the midst of a heating up of the economy. There are hopeful signs of Indian economic recovery, supported by a rapid increase in vaccination coverage. Signs of inflation Inflation in advanced and emerging economies, including India, is rising due to stimulus by governments through aggressive fiscal spending for economic revival. Prices of metals and energy as well as agricultural commodities are up. Lower output of raw materials in 2020 due to the pandemic also was another reason behind inflation. Inflation in the US was 4.2% in April this year, 3.6% in September.  Based on the release of CPI and Wholesale Price Index (WPI) data in mid-October, retail inflation and WPI-based inflation for September were 4.35% and 10.66%, as against 5.30% and 11.39% in August, respectively. Both CPI and WPI inflation eased in September, which formed the basis for the RBI’s October decision. In fact, picking up the signs of global economic revival, crude oil prices are also rising. It is an opportunity for the oil-producing and exporting countries to increase crude prices to make up for the loss of revenue since mid-2020.The rising trend in crude price began on September 24, after a gap of stagnant prices over four months. After April 2021, the benchmark Brent crude price of $64.41/barrel began to exceed the dangerous mark of $70 in May and it touched $75.16 in June. On September 24, it reached $77.47, the highest since June 21. There has been no stopping it since. It reached $82.56 on October 5, the day the MPC began its deliberations. The impact of the rising crude price on CPI inflation since September 24 will be known only when the data on CPI and WPI is available in mid-November. The next meeting of the MPC is scheduled for the first week of December. In the meanwhile, the rising trend is still on. Brent crude price hit $84.57 on October 19 and $85.07 three days later. On the same day, petrol prices in rupees per litre hit the ceiling: in New Delhi, Rs 106.89; Mumbai Rs 112.44, and Bengaluru Rs 110.61. Diesel prices in rupees per litre were in New Delhi Rs 95.62, Mumbai Rs 103.63, and Bengaluru Rs 101.49.   India imports 83% of its total requirements of petroleum crude. Transportation costs of raw materials from sources to factories and of manufactured products to retail markets and of food grains, vegetables and fruits from farms to markets will all soar. Retail inflation could exceed the target. Last week, the US Treasury Secretary and IMF staff economists’ latest assessments were that inflation would stay over the next few months and well into the New Year. It is no longer transitory. Anchoring inflationary expectations is now in the hands of the government. Shaktikanta Das, the RBI Governor, is on record as saying, “Efforts to contain cost-push pressures through a calibrated reversal of the indirect taxes on fuel could contribute to a more sustained lowering of inflation.” Cutting indirect taxes is also part of fiscal policy, providing stimulus. That is the challenge before Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. State governments are unwilling to forego their revenue. She knows it. She said in an interview with Bloomberg in New York: “The way fuel prices are leading to a big crest…This uncertainty is a big element for me.” It is time to suspend central excise taxes and cess on fuel for at least one year and review it after that period.   (The writer is Honorary Adjunct Professor, Amrita School of Business, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/inflation-threat-govt-must-step-in-1045474.html
29-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bitcoin scam may put Congress leaders in fix: Karnataka Home Minister||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra stated that the Bitcoin scam may put Congress leaders in trouble and there is no threat to the state government.  He was reacting to a statement by former home minister Ramalinga Reddy that the scam may pose threat to the state government, here on Friday. He slammed that Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah is making meaningless statements on the scam without having accurate information.  He also made it clear that the government is ready to conduct a probe against children of ministers in the Bommai-led government indulged in the scam if Congress leader reveals the names.   Congress leaders are making a futile attempt to fix the government in the scam to win the by-assembly polls to Hangal and Sindhagi constituencies.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bitcoin-scam-may-put-congress-leaders-in-fix-karnataka-home-minister-1045431.html
29-10-2021||Main Article||Protect the minorities||The recent incidents of majoritarian atrocities against Bangladesh’s Hindu minority community during Durga Puja sparked outrage in India, and not without reason. While the ruling Awami League has accused the opposition alliance of the BNP and the Jamaat-e-Islami of masterminding the attacks to create communal tension in the country, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has made righteous noises about the importance of religious freedom and tolerance for her country. Prime Minister Modi has praised his Bangladeshi counterpart for moving quickly to take control of the situation, which irked Bangladeshi Hindus, including the Bangladeshi arm of ISKCON, no end. According to them, the situation on the ground is still far from being normal. Truth is, the minorities of Bangladesh continue to face a number of challenges to their freedom of religion or belief. It seems to be an endless spiral of communal violence, followed by some arrests and a round of pious platitudes about the secular credentials of Bangladesh — until the next round. Under all political dispensations — be it the first post-liberation government led by Mujibur Rahman, the military regimes of Zia ur Rahman or H M Ershad, the democratically elected Bangladesh National Party (BNP) government led by Khaleda Zia, or the Awami League governments led by Sheikh Hasina Wazed — the persecution of religious minorities has continued, albeit, in varying degrees. According to Bangladesh’s 2011 Census, Sunni Muslims constitute 90% and Hindus make up 8.5 per cent of the total population, the rest being Christian (mostly Roman Catholic) and Theravada-Hinayana Buddhist, besides small numbers of Shia Muslims, Bahais, animists, and Ahmadiyya Muslims. Due to societal persecution, discrimination, and mistreatment on a regular basis, the declining number of the Hindu population is of particular concern, as demographers note that their numbers have come down to the present level from 23 per cent at the time of Bangladesh’s independence in 1971. The tale of the missing numbers has given rise to many narratives of torture, dislocation and mass migration. Systematic dispossession began when in 1965, Pakistan introduced the Enemy Property Act, permitting authorities to confiscate land and buildings owned by individuals, particularly Hindus, who had either migrated to India (even if only temporarily) or “were perceived to support India”. Post-liberation, Bangladesh retained the law, renaming it the Vested Property Act which, according to one observer, amounted to sheer land-grabbing, and “caused many Hindu families to emigrate to India and other countries.” In 1974, though the High Court directed the government to refrain from confiscating property under the law, government officials continued to arbitrarily designate Hindu-owned land as ‘enemy property’, confiscate the land, evict the owners, and then lease it out to the majority population. In 2001, the Vested Properties Return Act was enacted to repeal the VPA and return seized property, but the proper and full implementation of the law did not happen on the ground. In 2011, an implementing law was enacted, but its effective ‘implementation’ was marred by the fact that many of the confiscations that had taken place decades ago could not be returned. The political dispensation of the Awami League, according to all received wisdom, is progressive and non-communal and, above all, friendly to India. It is also a fact that her government is fighting a pitched and protracted battle with communal forces. The determination with which it is clamping down on communal rogues, unlike a few other Islamic states that have capitulated to Islamist fundamentalists, is courageous. What is doubly reassuring is that her government is backed by a right-thinking civil society and student groups expressing solidarity with the cause of the persecuted minorities. Clashes had erupted following social media posts about the alleged desecration of the Quran in a Durga Puja pandal in Comilla district. That the mob violence started after rumours spread through social media is alarming. The man who placed the Quran inside the Durga Puja pandal was arrested. The fact that he belonged to the majority community is proof that he did so to trigger communal passions. As has been seen in different communal riots elsewhere, including in India, this is a standard tool for majoritarian riot-mongers — to engage in surreptitious acts of subversion and sacrilege so as to invoke grounds of ‘blasphemy’ or ‘humiliation’. The larger issue is how a number of people remain so deeply communalised in Bangladesh where, though Islam is the State religion, a Supreme Court decision reversed a 1975 amendment and reaffirmed secularism as a Constitutional principle in 2010. The Bangladesh Constitution provides for the right to profess, practice, or propagate all religions, subject to law, public order, and morality, while maintaining that every religious community or denomination has the right to establish, maintain, and manage its own religious institutions. The Constitution-makers – and one may presume the people of Bangladesh as well – chose to stick to the principles of secularism (and freedom of religion) – in view of the communal havoc since the Partition of the subcontinent, and the brutal regime they experienced when they were part of Pakistan. But the removal in 1977 of secularism as one of the four fundamental principles of the Bangladeshi Constitution, and the declaration of Islam as the State religion in 1988, point to how the nation stands torn between religion and secularism. That the 1947 Partition did not provide a ‘solution’ to the ‘communal problem’ is clear by now. And that there has been no let-up in religious persecution can be explained, in part, by the demographic movements across the borders, particularly in the Bengal region. But, if we take recourse to historical precedents arguing that, alongside minorities in Pakistan and Bangladesh, throughout history, majorities have responded to minorities by either acts of genocide and ethnic cleansing (as took place against the Jews in Nazi Germany) or expulsion (Pandits in Kashmir, or Christians in Iraq) or suppression (Kurds in Turkey) or intimidation (Copts in Egypt) or exclusion (Roma people in Europe and Tamils in Sri Lanka) or by demanding integration and assimilation with respect to its Maghrebian communities in France, we would miss the whole point of our sub-continental history and the sanguinary lessons it taught us — that is, to stay away from reactive communal outbreaks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/protect-the-minorities-1045472.html
29-10-2021||National||Kashmiri students held over pro-Pak slogans booked for sedition, sent to 14 day judicial custody||Three Kashmiri students arrested in Agra for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans were on Thursday booked for sedition, Uttar Pradesh Police officials said. The three students, two of them aged 20 and one 21, were also remanded in 14-day judicial custody by an Agra court, the officials said. While coming out of the court, they were allegedly heckled and chased by some people. Meanwhile, a body of Jammu and Kashmir students urged Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath for the withdrawal of the sedition charge against them. Adityanath earlier in the day had said the sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory against India in the recent T20 World Cup match. "The three students were arrested on Wednesday after an FIR was lodged against them at the Jagdishpura police station. They were accused of raising pro-Pakistan slogans in the wake of an India-Pakistan T20 cricket match and posting celebratory messages on social media after Pakistan's victory," a police official said. On Thursday, they were produced in a magistrate's court in Agra, which remanded them in 14-day judicial custody, the official said. "The FIR was initially registered under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups) and 505 (creating or publishing content to promote enmity). Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC was included on Friday in the case," the police official said. The trio studies in a private college affiliated to Agra University. When the students were coming out of the court, some right wing activists raised slogans against Pakistan and chased them. Some lawyers also heckled the students while they were being taken from the court to a police vehicle, according to purported videos that emerged on social media. However, the Agra police said they escorted the students to safety. "The students were taken to the court in a discreet manner and were similarly taken out from there considering the sensitivity of the matter. However, some people heckled the trio on the court premises but none was hurt. They were all safe," the police official told PTI. Nasir Khuehami, national spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir Students' Association, urged the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to drop sedition charges against the students, seeking "mercy on humanitarian grounds". They have urged the chief minister to intervene for the withdrawal of the sedition case and the FIR against the students, he said in a statement. "The college authorities must revoke the suspension of the students, whom we urged to focus on their studies," he said. Mansoor Wani, a research fellow at Agra University and mentor of the accused students, said they were young and needed counselling instead of such heckling. "We apologise on their behalf if they were involved in such an unfortunate incident. But these are young men from financially weak backgrounds. They need guidance. We will counsel them. They should not be booked under such harsh laws. It will ruin their careers," Wani added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmiri-students-held-over-pro-pak-slogans-booked-for-sedition-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-1045239.html
29-10-2021||National||IRCTC asked to restart sharing 50% convenience fee with Railway Ministry||The Railways has asked its online ticketing arm IRCTC to share 50 per cent of its revenue earned as convenience fee from bookings on its website with the national transporter, an arrangement that had been discontinued since the pandemic. In a regulatory filing on Thursday, IRCTC informed SEBI that the Railways has said the revenue-sharing arrangement would be enforced from November 1. Convenience fees charged from customers generated a sizable revenue for both IRCTC and the Railways. The fee is not part of the rail fare. It is for the service of online ticket booking offered by the IRCTC. In 2014-15 when the revenue sharing ratio was 20-80, the Railway's online ticketing and catering arm received a majority of the Rs 253 crore revenue. The following year, the revenue generated from this was Rs 552 crore with a 50-50 share arrangement. In 2016-17, with a similar revenue-sharing model, the fee generated Rs 362 crore as earning for the IRCTC-Railway combine. However, the convenience fee was discontinued thereafter and the duo did not earn any revenue from it till 2019. The IRCTC began charging the fee again during the coronavirus crisis mainly to boost its revenues during the slowdown. The Railways, however, gave up its share. In 2019-20, IRCTC earned Rs 352 crore from convenience fees and in 2020-21, it earned Rs 299 crore. Till August this year, the IRCTC had earned Rs 224 crore. "In compliance with the Regulation 30 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, it is to be informed that Ministry of Railways vide above-referred letter has conveyed its decision to share the revenue earned from convenience fee collected by IRCTC in the ratio of 50:50 w.e.f November 1, 2021," IRCTC stated in the filing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-asked-to-restart-sharing-50-convenience-fee-with-railway-ministry-1045240.html
29-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Aryan Khan case: 'May you get over the hangover soon!'||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who was arrested in the Cordelia drugs-on-cruise case by the Narcotics Control Bureau. Besides Aryan Khan, his friend and social media influencer Arbaaz Merchant and model-designer Munmum Dhamecha were also granted bail. Justice Nitin Sombre of the Bombay High Court granted the bail to the trio after three days of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-aryan-khan-case-may-you-get-over-the-hangover-soon-1045245.html
29-10-2021||National||Govt following up on WHO processes for Covaxin EUL approval: Harsh Vardhan Shringla||The Government is carefully following up on the process to secure the World Health Organization’s recognition for the Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, developed by the Bharat Biotech of India, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. The WHO’s Technical Advisory Group recently sought “additional clarifications” from Bharat Biotech about Covaxin for a final “risk-benefit assessment” to put the vaccine on its Emergency Use List (EUL) of the Covid-19 jabs. “It is a technical and regulatory group. The emergency authorisation by the WHO is based on technical considerations and we are carefully following up the discussions at the WHO. We are hopeful that Covaxin will get approval soon," Shringla told journalists, while briefing media-persons about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Rome and Glasgow for the G-20 summit and the United Nations climate change summit, COP-26. The Prime Minister is likely to call upon the G-20 leaders during the summit in Rome to develop a mechanism for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates issued by the governments to its citizens inoculated with the Covid-19 jabs. He is likely to drive home the point that mutual recognition of vaccination certificates would ease travel and support G-20’s endeavour of boosting recovery from the economic slowdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “The business travellers, tourists, which contribute to the recovery of economies will be greatly benefited from this simplified international travel regime that we are proposing and we have taken it up with the G-20, we have taken it up bilaterally, we have taken it up in plurilateral forums," Foreign Secretary said. “India has proposed to its partner countries, primarily countries that Indian citizens normally travel to, that we should have a mutual (arrangement) that you recognise our vaccine certification and we will mutually recognise your country’s vaccine certification,” Shringla told journalists on Thursday. He said that once the arrangement of mutual recognition of vaccination certificates would be in place, India would not have to approach other nations every time it adds new vaccines to its stock of nationally approved vaccines. “You recognise the certification that we issue, you recognise its integrity and we will give you mutual treatment. I am happy to say that a number of countries have already agreed to that,” said the Foreign Secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-following-up-on-who-processes-for-covaxin-eul-approval-harsh-vardhan-shringla-1045247.html
29-10-2021||National||Fresh petrol, diesel prices hike adds to common man's woes||There appears to be no end in sight for the common man's misery as fuel prices have been hiked again by 35 paise. Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 108.64 per litre, while a litre of diesel is priced at Rs 97.37. In Mumbai, the rate of petrol stands at Rs 114.47, while diesel costs Rs 105.49 a litre each. A litre of petrol in Kolkata now costs Rs 109.02, while the same quantity for diesel costs Rs 100.49. People in Chennai now have to shell out Rs 105.43 for a litre of petrol and Rs 101.59 for a litre of diesel. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-petrol-diesel-prices-hike-adds-to-common-mans-woes-1045254.html
29-10-2021||National||India deploys US weapons to fortify disputed border with china||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen India has deployed recently acquired US-made weaponry along its border with China, part of a new offensive force to bolster its capabilities as the countries remain deadlocked over disputed territory in the Himalayas. The buildup in India’s northeast is centered on the Tawang Plateau adjoining Bhutan and Tibet, a piece of land claimed by China but controlled by India. It holds historical political and military significance: In 1959, the Dalai Lama fled to India across nearby mountain passes to escape a Chinese military operation. Three years later, both sides fought a war in the area. Now US-manufactured Chinook helicopters, ultra-light towed howitzers and rifles as well as domestically-made supersonic cruise missiles and a new-age surveillance system will back Indian troops in areas bordering eastern Tibet. The weapons have all been acquired in the past few years as defense ties between the US and India have strengthened due to rising concerns about Chinese assertiveness. Indian military personnel escorted a group of reporters through the region last week to highlight the country’s new offensive capabilities. Eastern Army Commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande said that boots, armor, artillery and air support were being combined to make the force “agile, lean and mean so that we can employ faster.” “The Mountain Strike Corps is fully operationalised,” he said. “All units including combat and combat support units are fully raised and equipped.” India has moved to bolster its defenses along the border with China after the worst fighting in decades last year led to the deaths of at least 20 Indian army personnel and four Chinese soldiers. While the two sides have engaged in talks to disengage, they have yet to agree on pulling back from a key flashpoint in another border area near the disputed area of Kashmir. India’s deployments show a frustration with the lack of progress on talks with China, said Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan, director of the Centre for Security, Strategy and Technology at the Observer Research Foundation in New Delhi. “That we are looking at a second winter engaged at the border explains why India needs to work on building its capabilities and infrastructure at the border and source more equipment from partners like the US,” she said. Adding to the friction is a new Chinese boundary law that Beijing said was a “unified standard for strengthening border management.” India warned that the new law, passed last week, could affect ongoing border tensions, which China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said was “undue speculation.” The bulk of India’s fresh forces have gone to the east, where a formation of least 30,000 troops have been deployed over the past year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has been concerned about a repeat of a bitter 1962 battle in the Himalayas, when the People’s Liberation Army took Tawang as the under-prepared and poorly led Indian Army withdrew. Unused bunkers and war memorials still dot the lone road that connects Tawang to the plains below. India now wants to use the area to “punch” China if necessary, according to a senior military commander familiar with the situation. The area is crucial to India’s defenses, as the borders stretching east to Myanmar are “poorly held” and the narrow corridor passing by Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh -- which holds gas pipelines and railroads connecting central India to the northeast -- is of “critical concern,” the commander said. The Indian army’s offensive option along the Tawang Plateau, which is in the middle of those areas, would allow India to counter China as it steps up military activity in the area. General Pande said there was a “marginal increase in Chinese patrols in the eastern sector along the Line of Actual Control,” a disputed but de facto boundary between the two countries that runs along the Himalayas. The LAC is patrolled by India and China, although General Pande said the scale and duration of PLA troop exercises on their side have increased since the stand-off in the eastern area of Ladakh last year. India has “adequate number of troops available,” the general said, without giving numbers. `Game Changer’ A newly raised Indian Army aviation brigade, based about 300 kilometers (186 miles) south of Tawang, forms a critical component of the new offensive plan. This was the same base that US aviators took off from to fight the Japanese Imperial Army in China and assist the nationalist forces there in World War II. The Indian aviation brigade is now equipped with Chinook helicopters, which can ferry US-made light howitzers and troops quickly across mountains. It also has Israeli-made unmanned aerial vehicles that relay real-time pictures of the adversary round the clock. “The Chinook are a game changer,” said Major Kartik, a pilot in the newly-formed brigade. “They offer mobility and maneuverability like never before -- troops and artillery guns can be carried from one mountain ridge to other quickly.” The preparations go beyond just boots and new equipment. Engineers in India are digging the world’s longest two-lane tunnel, which is 13,000 feet (4,000 meters) above sea level and runs underneath a critical mountain pass currently accessible by a 317-kilometer meandering road to the disputed border. Strategic Tunnel Construction is ahead of schedule and the structure will be operational by next June, said Colonel Prakshit Mehra, a project director of the tunnel. “Currently snow clearance of the pass requires massive effort, and even then only certain kind of vehicles can cross,” he said. “The tunnel will reduce travel time by hours, allowing faster and unhindered movement of troops round the year.” The tunnel, once operationalised, ensures that India can move its troops without detection from China, according to a senior military commander who asked not to be identified. A new road has been constructed close to the disputed border to move troops and supplies. A second one running along the eastern borders of Bhutan connecting the disputed border to the plains below is nearly complete, throwing up more possibilities for military commanders. “We are more comfortable than what we were a few years ago,” said Major General Zubin A. Minwalla, commander of the 5-Mountain Division of the Indian Army. --With assistance from Philip Glamann, Archana Chaudhary and Reinie Booysen. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-deploys-us-weapons-to-fortify-disputed-border-with-china-1045255.html
29-10-2021||National||India reports 805 Covid-19 deaths, 14,348 new cases||With 14,348 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,42,46,157, while the active cases were recorded at 1,61,334, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,57,191 with 805 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 35 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 124 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 345 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-805-covid-19-deaths-14348-new-cases-1045262.html
29-10-2021||National||Welcome women cadets to NDA with same sense of fair play, professionalism: Army chief||Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane on Friday said as the National Defence Academy (NDA) opens its doors for women cadets, it is expected that they are welcomed with the same sense of fair play and professionalism. He was addressing the cadets after reviewing the passing out parade of the 141st course of the NDA here. "As we open the portals of the NDA for women cadets, we expect you to welcome them with the same sense of fair play and professionalism as Indian armed forces are known world over," General Naravane said. Last month, the Defence Ministry had informed the Supreme Court that a notification allowing women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the NDA will be out by May next year. But observing that induction of women to the NDA cannot be postponed by one year, the apex court had allowed female candidates to take the exam in November this year and not wait till May 2022 as requested by the government. In his speech, the army chief also appealed the cadets to keep abreast with new technology to counter the contemporary challenges. He said he was greatly honoured to review the parade. "A little over 42 years back, when I stood as a cadet at the same drill square as you stand today, little I could have imagined that I would be reviewing this parade," he said. "From here on, you will step into the respective career service academies for more focused military training. You will don different uniforms, but always remember that no single service by itself can fight and win modern wars,” he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/welcome-women-cadets-to-nda-with-same-sense-of-fair-play-professionalism-army-chief-1045273.html
29-10-2021||National||PM Modi lands in Rome, to take part in 16th G-20 Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday arrived here in Italy to participate in the G20 Summit where he will join other leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from Covid-19, sustainable development and climate change. “Landed in Rome to take part in the @g20org Summit, an important forum to deliberate on key global issues. I also look forward to other programmes through this visit to Rome,” Modi said on Twitter soon after landing here. The Ministry of external Affairs (MEA) said in a statement that Prime Minister Modi arrived here for his visit to attend the 16th G-20 Summit. “Prime Minister was received by senior officials of the Government of Italy and Ambassador of India in Italy,” it said. MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Twitter that Modi arrived to a warm welcome. “Arrivo a Roma! PM @narendramodi arrives to a warm welcome in the Eternal City. Looking forward to extensive engagements in bilateral and multilateral formats,” Bagchi said in a tweet. In his departure statement on Thursday, Modi said he will be visiting Rome and the Vatican City from October 29-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, following which he will travel to Glasgow, the UK, from November 1-2 at the invitation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. "In Rome, I will attend the 16th G20 Leaders' Summit, where I will join other G20 leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, sustainable development, and climate change," Modi said, noting this will be the first in-person summit of the G20 since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi said the meeting will allow the G20 to take stock of the current global situation and exchange ideas on how the grouping can be an engine for strengthening economic resilience and building back inclusively and sustainably from the pandemic. "During my visit to Italy, I will also visit the Vatican City, to call on His Holiness Pope Francis and meet Secretary of State, His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin," Modi said on Thursday. The prime minister said on the sidelines of the G20 Summit he will also meet with leaders of other partner countries and review the progress in India's bilateral relations with them. There would also be various bilateral and community-related programmes during this visit, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lands-in-rome-to-take-part-in-16th-g-20-summit-1045275.html
29-10-2021||National||Labour Ministry hikes minimum wages for central sphere workers from October 1||The Ministry of Labour and Employment has revised the rate of variable dearness allowance for 1.5 crore central sphere workers. The hike, which will be effective from October 1, will result in an increase in the minimum wages for central sphere employees and workers. "At a time when the country is struggling with Covid-19 pandemic, in a major relief to different category of workers engaged in various scheduled employments in the central sphere, the Ministry of Labour & Employment has notified and revised the rate of Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) with effect from October 1, 2021," a ministry statement said. The VDA is revised on the basis of average Consumer Price Index for industrial workers (CPI-IW), a price index compiled by the Labour Bureau (an attached office of the Ministry of Labour & Employment). The average CPI-IW for the months of January to June, 2021 was used for undertaking the latest VDA revision. Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav said in the statement that this will benefit around 1.5 crore workers engaged in various scheduled employment in the central sphere across the country. These workers are employed in construction, maintenance of roads, runways, building operations etc.; sweeping and cleaning; loading and unloading; watch and ward; mines and agriculture. He said that this is in line with the Prime Minister's vision of "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas and Sabka Prayas" and this increase will be effective from October 1, 2021 and wished all the nation builders greetings of Happy Deepavali. The rates fixed for scheduled employment in the Central sphere are applicable to the establishments under the authority of the central government, railway administration, mines, oil fields, major ports or any corporation established by the central government. These rates are equally applicable to contract and casual employees/workers. D P S Negi, Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) said that the VDA in respect of scheduled employment under the central sphere is revised twice in a year -- April 1 and October 1. Further, the period under consideration for this order is from January to June, 2021 as per the gazette notification. The enforcement of Minimum Wages Act in the central sphere is ensured through the inspecting officers of Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) Organization across the country for employees/workers engaged in the scheduled employment in the central sphere. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-hikes-minimum-wages-for-central-sphere-workers-from-october-1-1045280.html
29-10-2021||National||Indian-origin artist’s climate action film to premiere at COP26 Summit in Glasgow||UK-based Indian-origin artist and musician Soumik Datta will make his directorial debut at the COP26 Summit in Glasgow next week when his climate action focussed ‘Songs of the Earth’ will be premiered. The London-based multi-disciplinary artist won a British Council Climate Change creative commission in February to develop a film and music project in partnership with Earth Day Network. The result is ‘Songs of the Earth’, an animation film accompanied by an eight-track album responding to climate change, weaving issues from climate migration, extreme weather to ocean pollution, deforestation and sustainable fashion through original narrative, songs and immersive visuals. It had a preview at 10 Downing Street here this week, with the premiere scheduled for November 2. “At the heart of the film and the album is a question – is our behaviour as a people sustainable,” says Datta. “As consumers, many of us are part of a cycle of buying and discarding – and somehow the photos of polluted oceans, landfill mountains and toxic rivers don't always connect back to us. I'd love for young people to respond to ‘Songs of the Earth’ and think about how they could make small changes to the environment around them and start valuing this behaviour as a measure of good citizenship – as a badge of humanity,” he said. The 24 minutes long film is animated by Indian illustrators Sachin Bhatt and Anjali Kamat and follows Asha, a young climate refugee from West Bengal, as she searches for her missing father through the flood banks of the Sundarbans delta, burning forests and melting polar ice caps. Datta adds: “It will be the first short film I’ve written, scored and directed. It’s something I’ve always wanted to do – use different aspects of my creativity within one project. “But I’m most proud of my collaborators Sachin Bhatt and Anjali Kamat who visualised the story from page to screen and helped me manifest my lead character, Asha and the climate emergency that spirals around her.” Rooted in conversations with a panel of climate consultants and associates from the environmental organisation Earth Day Network, the film is a collaboration between artists in the UK and India and will be released at the United Nations (UN) managed Blue Zone of COP26 on November 2, where the climate action negotiations take place. Featuring a suite of original climate anthems written and composed by Datta, including ‘Oceans Rising’ and ‘Fields of Hope’, the lyrics carry deep environmental messages that embody conscious activism. The album features a blend of vocals, saxophone, pulsing drums, sarod, cello and meditative samples of nature, such as leaves, wind and waves. It will release through Bucks Records and features a diverse band of musicians including British-Sri Lankan rising star singer Ashnaa Sasikaran, contemporary cellist Matthew Barley, Indian-Egyptian pianist Rosabella Gregory, British-Tanzanian saxophonist Yasmin Ogilvie and Jake Long on drums. The project, aside from the animated film and album, will also be available as an educational resource for schools in the shape of an e-book. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-artist-s-climate-action-film-to-premiere-at-cop26-summit-in-glasgow-1045284.html
29-10-2021||National||Sabyasachi's Mangalsutra ad campaign draws flak||Following backlash towards advertisements of Tanishq, Manyavar, FabIndia and Dabur, Indian fashion brand Sabyasachi's 'Mangalsutra' ad campaign is the latest to draw the ire of netizens. In a series of posts published on Instagram and Facebook, Sabyasachi announced the launch of its "Intimate Fine Jewellery" titled "Royal Bengal Mangalsutra 1.2 and the Bengal Tiger Icon collection" which comprises "necklaces, earrings and signet rings in 18k gold with VVS diamonds, black onyx, coral and black enamel." One post in particular, which shows a woman in a bra posing intimately with a male model is what has stirred outrage among a number of right-wing accounts. A user on Twitter who identifies as Hindu was of the opinion that such a depiction of the Manglsutra (a necklace worn by married women) "dishonoured our dharma (religion)." Another user on the same platform suggested that the use of 'seminude' models to advertise the jewellery made it seem like a "porn ad" Speaking on the same lines, user @immortalsoulin said on Twitter "Sabyasachi are so creatively bankrupt that they have to use semi naked models for a Mangalsutra ad." She also said that it was "no lingerie or C0nd0m Ad." Previous campaigns from the brands mentioned earlier in the copy were also targeted for supposedly displaying 'Hindu culture' in a bad light. On Tuesday, Dabur withdrew an ad for a fairness product portraying a same-sex couple celebrating Karva Chauth. While a section of netizens slammed Dabur for promoting what they believed to be a 'regressive' and 'patriarchal practice', another section, including Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra, threatened legal action over the depiction of the celebration of a Hindu ritual by lesbians. A week earlier, ethnic and traditional apparel maker FabIndia removed a promotional capsule about its new festive line after backlash from right-wing groups on social media platforms. Prior to that, Tata Group's jewellery brand Tanishq was forced to withdraw an advertisement that showed an interfaith couple at a baby shower organised for the Hindu bride by her Muslim in-laws. It withdrew the advertisement after trolling soon spread to physical threats to company employees and stores. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sabyasachis-mangalsutra-ad-campaign-draws-flak-1045288.html
29-10-2021||National||Indian Railways withdraws IRCTC convenience fee order||The Ministry of Railways has decided to withdraw its decision on sharing of convenience fee earned by IRCTC on online bookings of train tickets, DIPAM Secretary said on Friday. "Ministry of Railways has decided to withdraw the decision on IRCTC convenience fee," DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. The Indian Railways Catering and Transportation Corporation (IRCTC) on Thursday said that the Ministry of Railways has asked it to share 50 per cent of its revenue earned as convenience fee from bookings on its website with the national transporter. Convenience fees charged from customers generated a sizable revenue for IRCTC. The fee is not part of the rail fare. It is for the service of online ticket booking offered by the IRCTC. Shares of IRCTC on Friday tanked nearly 10 per cent in opening trade to Rs 822.40 apiece. It recovered some ground after the government decided to withdraw its decision on IRCTC convenience fee and was trading at 887.35, down 2.89 per cent on the BSE. IRCTC listed on the stock exchanges on October 14, 2019 at Rs 644 apiece after selling shares at Rs 320 apiece in an initial public offering. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-withdraws-irctc-convenience-fee-order-1045289.html
29-10-2021||National||Indian Navy's 7th P1135.6 class frigate launched at Kaliningrad in Russia||The seventh frigate of P1135.6 class for the Indian Navy was launched at Yantar shipyard in Kaliningrad on Thursday in the presence of Indian Ambassador to Russia D Bala Venkatesh Varma, the Defence Ministry said During the launching ceremony, the ship was formally named as "Tushil", which means protector shield in Sanskrit, the ministry's statement noted. The Indian and Russian governments had in October 2016 signed an agreement to construct four additional P1135.6 class ships -- two each in Russia and India. These ships feature "stealth technology" in terms of low radar and under water noise signatures, the ministry stated. "These ships are being equipped with major Indian supplied equipment such as surface to surface missiles, sonar system, surface surveillance radar, communication suite and anti-submarine warfare system along with Russian surface to air missiles and gun mounts," the ministry mentioned.  Senior officials of the Russian government and the Indian Navy were present at Thursday's launching event, it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navys-7th-p11356-class-frigate-launched-at-kaliningrad-in-russia-1045310.html
29-10-2021||National||Suicide rate up in 2020, Maharashtra tops the list with near 20,000||India recorded 153,052 suicides - an average of 418 daily - in 2020, according to the latest central government data. The 2020 figures were more in comparison to 2019 when 139,123 suicides were recorded in the country, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) stated in an annual report. Suicide rate (per lakh population) also increased from 10.4 in 2019 to 11.3 last year, the NCRB, which functions under the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) stated. Majority of suicides, 19,909 in total, were reported in Maharashtra followed by 16,883 in Tamil Nadu, 14,578 in Madhya Pradesh, 13,103 in West Bengal, and 12,259 in Karnataka accounting for 13 per cent, 11 per cent, 9.5 per cent, 8.6 per cent and 8 per cent of the total suicides, respectively, it showed. These five states together accounted for 50.1 per cent of the total suicides reported in the country, while the remaining 49.9 per cent were reported from the remaining 23 states and eight union territories (UTs), the NCRB stated. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state with 16.9 per cent share of the country's population, reported a comparatively lower percentage share of suicidal deaths, accounting for only 3.1 per cent of the total suicides, it added. Delhi, which is the most populous UT, reported the highest number of suicides (3,142) among UTs, followed by Puducherry (408), the report showed. A total of 23,855 suicides were reported in the 53 mega cities of the country in 2020, the report showed, observing that the suicide rate in cities (14.8) was higher as compared to all-India suicide rate (11.3). According to the report, 'family problems' (33.6 per cent), 'marriage-related problems' (5 per cent) and 'illness' (18 per cent) together accounted for 56.7 per cent of total suicides in the country during 2020, it showed. The overall male to female ratio of suicide victims was 70.9 to 29.1, the report stated. Every year over 70,000 people take their own life and there are many more people who attempt suicide across the globe, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). Suicides are preventable, the WHO says, noting that preventive measures could be taken at community and individual levels and across sectors. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suicide-rate-up-in-2020-maharashtra-tops-the-list-with-near-20000-1045332.html
29-10-2021||National||Justice Ashok Bhushan to be new NCLAT Chairperson||The government has appointed Justice Ashok Bhushan, a former judge of the Supreme Court, as chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). Besides, it has appointed Justice Ramalingam Sudhakar, former chief justice of Manipur High Court, as president of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Both the NCLT and NCLAT are getting permanent heads after more than one-and-a-half years following the retirement of their respective incumbents. "The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the proposal for appointment of Justice Ashok Bhushan, former Judge of the Supreme Court of India as Chairperson, NCLAT for a period of four years from the date of assumption of charge of the post, or till he attains the age of 70 years, or until further orders, whichever is the earliest," as per an official notification dated October 28. The appellate tribunal NCLAT is going to have a permanent chairperson after a gap of almost 19 months. Its first chairperson Justice S J Mukhopadhaya had retired on March 14, 2020, and since then it was functioning with Acting Chairpersons. In the last 19 months, NCLAT had three Acting Chairpersons, with two of them getting several extensions. The NCLT, which is handling important insolvency-related matters, was functioning without a permanent president after the retirement of Justice M M Kumar on January 5, 2020, After Justice Kumar's retirement, B S V Prakash Kumar was made Acting President and was also given an extension. This was followed by six Acting Presidents. The NCLT and NCLAT also have a shortage of members and the situation had invited the ire of the Supreme Court. Earlier this month, the government had appointed 21 members -- 11 judicial members and 10 technical members -- to various benches of the NCLT. Presently, the NCLT and NCLAT, like other judicial and quasi-judicial bodies, are conducting virtual hearing of cases. The NCLAT has been constituted under Section 410 of the Companies Act, 2013 for hearing appeals against the orders of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). It has two benches -- one principal bench in New Delhi and the other in Chennai It is also the appellate tribunal to hear and dispose of appeals against orders passed by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India. NCLT, besides a principal bench at New Delhi, has fourteen other benches -- Ahmedabad, Allahabad, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Chennai, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Cuttack, Jaipur, Kochi, Amravati, and Indore. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-ashok-bhushan-to-be-new-nclat-chairperson-1045335.html
29-10-2021||National||India, US to expand intel sharing on terror threats from Afghanistan||India and the United States have agreed to expand sharing of intelligence inputs about potential terrorist threats, particularly from Afghanistan, where the Taliban took control on August 15. The two nations will also step up cooperation in law-enforcement training, including at the central academy of police training in Hyderabad. The senior officials of India and the United States had a meeting of the Joint Working Group on Counter-Terrorism in Washington earlier this week. They decided to further expand terrorist threat information sharing and exchanged information about priorities and procedures for proscribing terrorist groups and individuals. They called on the Taliban to ensure that the territory of Afghanistan is never again used to threaten or attack any country, shelter or train terrorists, or plan or finance terrorist attacks, according to a joint statement issued after the meeting. The two sides committed to continue close consultations on developments in Afghanistan and potential terrorist threats emanating from the country, which had gone back under control of the Taliban on August 15 last. They exchanged views on countering narco-terror networks and trans-national illegal weapons smuggling networks. The inter-agency delegations of India and the US were led by Mahaveer Singhvi, Joint Secretary for Counter Terrorism at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and John T Godfrey, the acting Coordinator for Counterterrorism of the State Department of the American Government, respectively. They pledged to further expand cooperation on law enforcement, information sharing, exchanging best practices, and increasing strategic convergence on counterterrorism challenges. The US reiterated its commitment to standing together with the people and Government of India in the fight against terrorism. The US side joined India to strongly condemn use of terrorist proxies and cross-border terrorism in all its forms and called for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attack to be brought to justice. They called for concerted action against all terrorist groups, including groups proscribed by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) 1267 Sanctions Committee, such as al-Qaeda, ISIS, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM). They discussed ways to prevent ability of international terrorists to travel. They also jointly decided to further expand terrorist threat information sharing, and exchanged information about priorities and procedures for designating terrorist groups and individuals. The Indian and American officials shared best practices on countering terrorism financing and use of the internet for terrorist purposes and decided to continue counter terrorism cooperation in multilateral fora. They emphasised importance of upholding international standards on anti-money laundering and combating financing of terrorism by all countries, according to the joint statement. They discussed mutual legal and extradition assistance and opportunities for bilateral law enforcement training, including at the Central Academy for Police Training in Hyderabad, India. Both sides applauded ongoing Anti-Terrorism Assistance (ATA) training. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-to-expand-intel-sharing-on-terror-threats-from-afghanistan-1045338.html
29-10-2021||National||Nawab Malik demands arrest of Fashion TV head Kashiff Khan||Identifying the “bearded man” on board the Cordelia cruise liner during the 2-3 October raid as Fashion TV India head Kashiff Khan, Maharashtra minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik demanded his immediate arrest in the case as he was the chief organiser of the event. “I spoke of a bearded man being on board the Cordelia cruise ship and dancing with a girl…he is Kashiff Khan, the India head of Fashion TV,” Malik told reporters on Friday. “Kashiff Khan runs drugs racket, sex racket and pornographic racket,” Malik said, reassessing that the “bearded man” was present in the Mumbai-Goa cruise. According to him, Kashiff Khan is a close friend of NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Malik wanted to know as to why Wankhede let the “bearded man” off though who was the organiser of the party. “We came to know, rather from the NCB, that they were planning the raid for around a month…during the course of this one month of planning and investigations, was the NCB not aware as to who had organised the (rave) party,” Malik said. Wankhede, however, refused to comment on the charges. “Absolutely it is a lie…law will take its own course,” Wankhede said in his brief comments. Wankhede’s wife and Marathi actress Kranti Redkar said: “I can’t react everyday to the rubbish someone throws at the media. I have more constructive work to do . Will only go legally henceforth. I firmly believe only in the honourable Constitution of India.” Malik also targeted the BJP over the issue. “I have been saying that a conspiracy to defame the Maharashtra government, its people is being executed through Wankhede and BJP is behind all this,” Malik said. According to him, the conspiracy started after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the arrest of his companion Rhea Chakraborty in a drugs case. “Slowly an attack on Bollywood was mounted,” he said. “They are trying to defame our Bollywood, and take it out of Mumbai to shift it to Uttar Pradesh,” Malik said, referring to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath creating a film city in Noida and the meeting that he had in Mumbai with film industry representatives. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nawab-malik-demands-arrest-of-fashion-tv-head-kashiff-khan-1045347.html
29-10-2021||National||PM Modi holds ‘productive interaction’ with European Council||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a joint meeting with President of the European Council Charles Michel and President of the European Commission Ursula Von Der Leyen here and discussed ways to enhance economic as well as people-to-people linkages aimed at creating a better planet during their “productive interaction”. This is Prime Minister Modi’s first official engagement after he arrived here to participate in the G20 Summit where he will join other leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from Covid-19, sustainable development and climate change. “Official engagements in Rome begin with a productive interaction with @eucopresident Charles Michel and @vonderleyen, President of the @EU_Commission. The leaders discussed ways to enhance economic as well as people-to-people linkages aimed at creating a better planet,” Prime Minister’s Office said in a tweet. The 15th India-EU summit, held in a virtual mode in July 2020, was attended by Prime Minister Modi, European Council President Michel and European Commission President Leyen. In 2020, India was the EU’s 10th largest trading partner accounting for 1.8 per cent of the EU’s total bilateral trade in goods. India-EU bilateral trade in goods in 2020 was valued at Euro 65.30 billion. India-EU bilateral relations date back to the early 1960s with India being amongst the first countries to establish diplomatic relations with the European Economic Community in 1962. The first India-EU Summit took place on 28 June 2000 in Lisbon. The relationship was upgraded to a ‘Strategic Partnership’ during the 5th India-EU Summit held in 2004 in The Hague. The 27-member EU is a political and economic bloc comprising 27 member states located primarily in Europe. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-productive-interaction-with-european-council-1045349.html
29-10-2021||National||'Market research analyst' now a 'special occupation', eligible for H-1B visa||In a major victory for employers, a US court has approved a settlement under which an American immigration agency has agreed to recognise market research analyst as a speciality occupation for the purposes of determining the applications of H-1B visas, most sought-after by Indian IT professionals. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. The settlement approved by the federal district court in the Northern District of California would now let companies request that the USCIS reopen and re-adjudicate their denied H-1B petitions. Based on its prior interpretation of the Occupational Outlook Handbook, a Department of Labour’s Bureau of Labour Statistics publication profiling hundreds of occupations in the US job market, the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determined that market research analysts did not qualify as a "specialty occupation". Leslie K Dellon, senior attorney (business immigration) at the American Immigration Council, said that this settlement is an important victory that will benefit hundreds of American businesses and the market research analysts they sought to employ. "The settlement gives US businesses another chance to have their H-1B market research analyst petitions approved, this time under new guidance worked out by the parties to the lawsuit. Each H-1B petition reopened and approved will represent another opportunity for US employers and the workers they sponsored to advance their business objectives," she said. The class action lawsuit was filed by the American Immigration Council, American Immigration Lawyers Association, and the law firms Van Der Hout LLP, Berry Appleman and Leiden LLP (formerly Joseph and Hall PC), and Kuck Baxter Immigration LLC. Jeff Joseph, partner at Berry Appleman and Leiden LLP, said this settlement finally resolves an issue on which immigration lawyers have been battling the government for years. "This settlement strikes the right balance between what the regulations actually say and how employers evaluate a candidate's professional qualifications in the real world. It is our sincere hope that USCIS will now interpret other specialty occupations from a perspective that is in line with what actually happens in the free market," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/market-research-analyst-now-a-special-occupation-eligible-for-h-1b-visa-1045353.html
29-10-2021||National||Nationwide expansion of pneumococcal vaccine launched||The Union Health Ministry on Friday expanded the use of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in the universal immunisation programme for the entire nation with the hope of reducing death among children by 60%. The nationwide rollout comes a few years after the vaccine was introduced in five states – Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh – that account for nearly 70% of India's pneumonia burden. "Pneumonia is a leading cause of death among children under-5 years old, globally and in India. The nationwide rollout of PCV will reduce child mortality by around 60%”, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said flagging off the expansion. As per a 2019 UNICEF analysis quoted by the Union Health Ministry in the Parliament, India stands second in the world in regard to deaths of children caused by pneumonia with nearly 127,000 child pneumonia deaths recorded in 2018. Surprisingly, the ministry doesn't have any updated information on its own on India's pneumonia burden. A January 2021 report by the ministry on PCV cites statistics from 2010 with officials admitting that the pneumonia data wasn't updated since the last decade when 105,000 pneumonia deaths had occurred in Indian children younger than 5 years. In 2010, 3.6 million cases of severe pneumonia were reported in kids younger than 5 years in India. The estimated incidence of severe pneumonia was 30.7 per 1000 children per year in those less than 5 years of age, and 87.3 in children aged less than 1 year. The three-dose vaccine was administered to children at 1.5 months, 3.5 months and 9 months in Himachal Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh since 2017 with support from GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, benefitting more than 20 lakh kids. Subsequently, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh were brought into the programme. India's infant mortality rate has come down to 30 per thousand live births in 2019 from 47 in 2010 and 129 in 1971. Despite the decline in IMR over the last decades, one in every 33 infants dies within the first year of their life at the national level, according to the latest bulletin released by the Registrar General of India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nationwide-expansion-of-pneumococcal-vaccine-launched-1045357.html
29-10-2021||National||HC orders Aryan Khan to furnish Rs 1 lakh personal bond, asks him to surrender passport||A day after granting bail to Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in the drugs-on-cruise case, the Bombay High Court on Friday made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on him, paving the way for his release from jail. In the five-page order, the high court said that Aryan Khan and and his two co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, shall be released on a personal bond of Rs one lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. As per the conditions set by the high court, the trio will have to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court and that they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday to mark their presence. A copy of the operative order was signed by Justice N W Sambre on Friday afternoon. This would help Aryan Khan's advocates secure his release from the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai by evening. The single bench of Justice Sambre had on Thursday granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The court had said it would give its order on the conditions of bail and surety amount on Friday. A certified copy of the operative part of the HC order would be now taken by Aryan Khan's lawyers to the special court, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) along with the requisite documents and sureties. The special court, after verification, will issue release papers which would then be submitted to the jail for their release. The same conditions shall apply to Merchant and Dhamecha. The court said if the trio violate any of the conditions imposed then the NCB shall "straightaway apply to the special judge/court for cancellation of their bail." "Each of the applicants/accused shall execute personal bond of Rs 1 lakh with one or more sureties in the like amount," the order said. The court said the accused shall not personally or through anyone make any attempt to influence witnesses or tamper with the evidence. The high court directed the trio to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. The accused should give prior intimation to the NCB before leaving Mumbai and shall provide with their itinerary. It added that Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha shall not indulge in any activity similar to the activities on the basis of which the present case stands registered against them for offences under the NDPS Act. The HC further said the trio shall not establish any contact with any of the co-accused in the case or anyone involved in similar activities. The trio would have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2pm to mark their presence. The high court shall attend all dates before the trial court and also join the investigation as and when called by the NCB. "Once the trial begins, the applicants/accused shall not in any manner try to delay the trial," the court said. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison, Dhamecha is at the Byculla women's prison. Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment. The judge will give a detailed order with reasons next week.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-orders-aryan-khan-to-furnish-rs-1-lakh-personal-bond-asks-him-to-surrender-passport-1045377.html
29-10-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar||Paying tributes to noted Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that the coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Rajkumar, 46, died in Bengaluru on Friday following a heart attack. Modi tweeted, "A cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti."  RIP Puneeth Rajkumar: Here are some facts about the Kannada Power Star||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-kannada-actor-puneeth-rajkumar-1045382.html
29-10-2021||National||Four West Bengal Assembly segments up for bypolls; prestige fight for BJP in two seats||With four assembly constituencies in West Bengal going to bypolls on Saturday amid tight security and maintenance of Covid protocols, all eyes will be on Dinhata as TMC heavyweight Udayan Guha is looking to reclaim the seat, which the BJP had snatched from him by a whisker in the April elections. Guha, a two-time MLA, had bagged the seat for forwarding Bloc in 2011 and the TMC in 2016. He is up against BJP's Ashok Mandal, who had defeated him in 2006 as a TMC candidate. Bypoll to Dinhata was necessitated following the resignation of Nisith Pramanik, now Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, as he chose to retain his Lok Sabha membership. Pramanik had defeated Guha by a narrow margin of 57 votes in the assembly elections. The other three seats, where by-elections will be held on October 30 are Santipur in Nadia district, Khardah in North 24 Parganas and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas. In Santipur, too, BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar resigned from the assembly, thus calling for a bypoll. The saffron party has now fielded Brajakishore Goswami from the seat. Goswami has crossed swords with TMC nominee Niranjan Biswas. Bypolls to Dinhata and Santipur are prestige battles for the saffron party, which is currently grappling with the exodus of MLAs and senior leaders. The other two seats, however, fell vacant following the death of the winning candidates. State minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who resigned from Bhabanipur to facilitate Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election to the Assembly, is fighting from Khardah, where TMC's Kajal Sinha died due to Covid-19, just days after polls to the seat were held. Chattopadhyay has locked horns with BJP candidate Joy Saha in Khardah. TMC's Gosaba seat winner Jayanta Naskar, too, succumbed to the viral infection. The ruling party in Bengal has fielded Subrata Mondal from the seat to take on BJP's Palash Raha. The Election Commission has ordered strict maintenance of Covid-19 guidelines during the by-elections to the four seats, where extensive security arrangements have also been made for peaceful polling. It has deployed 27 companies of central armed forces in Dinhata, 22 in Santipur, 20 in Khardah and 23 in Gosaba, an official said. The poll panel had earlier disallowed big rallies as part of political campaigns, in view of the Covid-19 situation, and the parties concentrated on door-to-door visits and street-corner meetings. Apart from TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, veteran MP Sougata Ray and transport minister Firhad Hakim had campaigned for their party candidates. They highlighted the TMC government's achievements over the past decade while criticising the alleged communal agenda of the saffron party and the relentless rise in fuel prices. Similarly, BJP leaders, including the party's state president Sukanta Majumdar, leader of opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari and national vice president Dilip Ghosh, accused the TMC of practising vote bank politics by choosing to maintain "silence" over the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-west-bengal-assembly-segments-up-for-bypolls-prestige-fight-for-bjp-in-two-seats-1045383.html
29-10-2021||National||Aryan Khan spends another night in jail, to be released on October 30||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who spent another night in jail, is expected to be released today. On Friday, the 23-year-old Aryan was expected to be released from the Arthur Road prison. But it was a sort of cliffhanger situation of sorts for SRK, his wife Gauri Khan, and their battery of lawyers.  It took time for completing the formalities and the bail, and release order could not reach the prison before the stipulated time of 5:30 pm.  The junior Khan is now expected to be released by Saturday noon. In fact, SRK or King Khan, as he is popularly known, had left Mannat, his palatial Bandra bungalow to receive his son in the jail, however, he returned back.  SRK’s family friend and actor-activist Juhi Chawla stood surety for Aryan.  “We are happy that Aryan has got bail…we expect the boy to be home soon,” said Juhi.  After Judge Nitin Sambre finalised the bail order, Aryan’s advocate-on-record Satish Maneshinde received it and rushed to the Mumbai Sessions Court, where it was presented before the Special NDPS Court.  "My papers are complete, I am producing the surety of Juhi Chawla, who has known Aryan Khan since childhood. They are professionally associated…the court has accepted surety,” he Manshinde.  Once the order was received, the legal team from the Sessions Court in Fort rushed to the jail in Chinchpokli, however, were caught up in traffic jams and could not reach in time. Apart from conditions like Aryan will have to surrender his passport and will have to report to the NCB office every Friday, the three were asked to submit a surety of Rs 1 lakh each, according to the operative order.  In the five-page order, signed by Justice Sambre, the high court said that the trio will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. Also, they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence, the HC said. The judge will give a detailed bail order with reasons next week. The HC said if the trio violates any of the conditions imposed then the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the cruise drugs case, shall "straightaway apply to the special judge/court for cancellation of their bail." "Each of the applicants/accused shall execute a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh with one or more sureties in the like amount," the order said. The HC said that the accused shall not personally or through anyone make any attempt to influence witnesses or tamper with the evidence. The high court directed the trio to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. T The accused should give prior intimation to the NCB before leaving Mumbai and shall provide their itinerary. It added that Aryan Khan, his friend Merchant and Dhamecha, a fashion model, shall not indulge in any activity similar to the activities on the basis of which the present case stands registered against them for offences under the NDPS Act. The HC further said that the trio shall not establish any contact with any of the co-accused in the case or anyone involved in similar activities, and join the investigation as and when called by the NCB.  (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aryan-khan-spends-another-night-in-jail-to-be-released-on-october-30-1045390.html
29-10-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Twitter to remove objectionable material related to Hindu Goddess||The Delhi High Court Friday asked Twitter to remove certain objectionable material relating to Hindu Goddess from its platform, observing that the social media giant shall respect sentiments of general public as it was doing business for them. The bench said Twitter was doing a good job and people were happy with it. “Things are going to be removed or not?” the court asked the counsel for Twitter. “You should respect the sentiments of general public as you are doing business for public at large. Their sentiments shall be given due importance... Why you should do things like this. You should remove this,” a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said. “You remove it. You have done it in Rahul Gandhi’s case also,” the bench added. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing Twitter, said the court may mention in the order and they will abide by the direction. The court listed the matter for further hearing on November 30. Petitioner Aditya Singh Deshwal said he came across some highly obnoxious posts about Maa Kaali put up by a user with the name @AtheistRepublic and the deity was represented in a disgraceful and outrageous manner. The petitioner, represented through senior advocate Sanjay Poddar, said he intimated the grievance officer of Twitter that the content put by the used was in grave contravention of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 and non-compliance of the rules shall make Twitter lose its legal immunity provided under the Information Technology Act. He claimed that Twitter repudiated that the content in the account is not of a category for which it takes action and therefore, it cannot be removed. The plea sought direction to Twitter to remove the objectionable content from its platform and also permanently suspend the concerned used account.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-twitter-to-remove-objectionable-material-related-to-hindu-goddess-1045401.html
29-10-2021||National||Defamation case: Rahul Gandhi appears in Surat court||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday appeared before a magistrate's court in Surat city of Gujarat to record his statement in connection with a criminal defamation case filed against him over his remark on the "Modi surname". This was the third time the Congress MP appeared before the court in connection with the 2019 case. The court had on October 26 directed Gandhi to appear before it between 3 pm and 6 pm on October 29 to record his statement. The former Congress president landed at the Surat Airport in the afternoon and headed to the court, situated in the Athwalines area of the city. Chief Judicial Magistrate A N Dave had earlier asked Gandhi to appear on October 29 to record his statement further, after the testimonies of two new witnesses were taken since the Congress leader last appeared before the court on June 24 this year. Prior to it, the Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad in Kerala had appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment. BJP legislator from Surat, Purnesh Modi, had filed a complaint against Gandhi in April 2019 under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 499 and 500 that deal with defamation. In his complaint, the MLA had alleged that Gandhi, while addressing a poll rally in 2019, defamed the entire Modi community by purportedly saying "how come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?" Purnesh Modi is now a minister in the Gujarat government led by new Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, holding the portfolios of road and building, transport, civil aviation, and tourism and pilgrimage development. Since Gandhi's last appearance before the court, testimonies were taken of two more witnesses -- the then electoral officer of Kolar in Karnataka, where the Congress leader made the controversial remark, and a videographer employed by the Election Commission to record his speech. In his address at the rally in Kolar on April 13, 2019 ahead of the Lok Sabha polls, Gandhi had allegedly asked, "Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi...how come they all have Modi as the common surname."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defamation-case-rahul-gandhi-appears-in-surat-court-1045402.html
29-10-2021||National||India extends suspension of scheduled international flights till November 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights due to the coronavirus pandemic has been extended till November 30, aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," it added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air-bubble pacts with around 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air-bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories with specific restrictions. The circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) also said the suspension does not affect the operations of international all-cargo services and flights specifically approved by it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-suspension-of-scheduled-international-flights-till-november-30-1045426.html
29-10-2021||National||India will use its 'margin of persuasion' to make sure fuel prices are down: Puri||India will use whatever "margin of persuasion" it has while talking to oil-producing nations to make sure the fuel prices are down in the country, Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday. He added that India's dependence on traditional energy sources such as petrol and coal will remain for a very long time and the transition to green energy sources will be orderly only if their prices are affordable.  In his speech at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue organised by the Indian Navy, Puri said, "As a minister, the government is very sensitive to prices. And I can tell you, with total confidence, that we will use whatever margin of persuasion we have, bilaterally with my counterparts, or multilaterally or plurilateral, to make sure the prices are down." A week back, the minister had said India is looking to bring together public sector undertakings (PSU) and private sector refiners to seek better crude oil import deals from Saudi Arabia and other nations International oil prices climbing to a multi-year high of $85 per barrel has sent local retail petrol, diesel and LPG prices to record levels. India, which imports 85 per cent of its oil needs and is the world's third-largest energy-consuming and importing country, has been impressing upon producers to raise output to help stabilise rates at affordable levels. The minister also said, "We are going to make the transition to green and sustainable energy very quickly but out dependence on the traditional energy is going to be around for a very long time. Let's make no mistakes on that."  "If we don't get the price right, and if we don't allow energy access at affordable prices, we are going to have a problem in ensuring that the transition from here to green energy will be orderly," he mentioned.  India is the only country where the per-capita energy consumption is one-third of the global average, the growth will be exponential in terms of energy requirement, he mentioned.  There is a positive and negative side to it, Puri said. If the prices by the main producers remain high and more oil is not put in the market, it will at some stage affect us, the minister added. Today, India's petrol consumption and diesel consumption is 20 per cent and 12-14 per cent higher than before the Covid-19 pandemic, respectively, he stated.  "This means that the economy is firing away on all six cylinders," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-use-its-margin-of-persuasion-to-make-sure-fuel-prices-are-down-puri-1045428.html
29-10-2021||National||Banned substances can't be used in firecrackers: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered all the States and Union Territories to ensure its directions banning use of Barium salts in fireworks was strictly complied with, clarifying that there was no total ban on use of firecrackers. "Any lapse on the part of the State Governments/State Agencies and Union Territories shall be viewed very seriously," a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said. The court passed its written order on an application in a pending petition filed by Arjun Gopal and others in 2015, just ahead of Diwali which witnesses large scale bursting of firecrackers across the country. The court warned that if it is found that any banned firecrackers are manufactured, sold and used in any particular area, the Chief Secretary of the concerned State, the Secretary (Homes), and the Commissioner of Police, District Superintendent of Police of the concerned area and the SHO/Police Officer in-charge of the concerned police station would be held personally liable.  "Nobody can be permitted to flout or disobey the directions issued by this court. Any wilful and deliberate disobedience shall have to be viewed very seriously," the bench added in its written order. The court said it is unfortunate that there is a blatant violation of various directions issued since it was alleged that manufacture, sale and use of banned fireworks have been continued.  "Even under the guise of ‘green crackers’ banned chemicals firecrackers are being sold and there is a mislabelling on the boxes and even the QR codes provided on the boxes of ‘green crackers’ are alleged to be fake," the bench said, citing a CBI report in this regard. "The allegations, if found to be true, are very serious and cannot be tolerated," the bench said, adding it was the duty of all the states and  agencies to see that the directions issued by it earlier were strictly complied with. The court again stressed that under the guise of celebration, nobody can be permitted to infringe the right to health of the others, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and nobody can be permitted to play with the life of the others, more particularly the senior citizens and the children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banned-substances-cant-be-used-in-firecrackers-sc-1045438.html
29-10-2021||National||Pilot strikes a chord with passengers after Bhojpuri greeting||Before taking off from Patna to the national capital, IndiGo pilot Siddhartha Kumar greeted passengers onboard in his native language Bhojpuri on Thursday. Soon after, a video of the announcement shot by a passenger was shared on social media. Thousands of people have now liked and commented on the video. Bhojpuri language is mostly used in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Jharkhand. About the video, Kumar said he was not aware the announcement was recorded by a passenger. "I am part of the linguistic culture (Bhojpuri) and I believe communication should happen to connect (with people). IndiGo is a fabulous and futuristic organisation, and it encourages constructive experimentation," he told PTI on Friday. Kumar has been with IndiGo, the country's largest airline, for four-and-a-half years. When asked about the video of the pilot's announcement, an IndiGo spokesperson said it is basically the airline's new initiative to reach out to customers in regional languages through announcements on regional routes. In recent months, regional air connectivity has been expanding, with airlines, including IndiGo, starting new routes. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pilot-strikes-a-chord-with-passengers-after-bhojpuri-greeting-1045471.html
29-10-2021||National||Pilots can't withdraw resignation once tendered: Air India tells Delhi HC||Air India on Friday opposed before the Delhi High Court the reinstatement and payment of back wages to over 40 pilots, saying that unless resignation is specifically made prospective, it is effective immediately and a pilot cannot withdraw it subsequently. “Unless otherwise specified, resignation is effective immediately. There is no competence (with pilots) to withdraw on the ground that I am still serving notice period,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Air India, told a bench headed by Justice Rajiv Shakdher. The bench, also comprising Justice Talwant Singh, reserved its judgement on a batch of appeals by Air India against a single judge order quashing the carrier's decision to terminate the services of several pilots, both permanent and on contract, and directing their reinstatement. In its June 1 order, the single judge had said that the back wages, including allowances, have to be paid at par with what in-service pilots were receiving and in accordance with the government rules.  The solicitor general said that there is no such “notice period” within which pilots can be said to have a right to right to withdraw their resignation. Once a resignation is tendered, a pilot has to continue to work for six months in terms of the Civil Aviation Requirements, in the public interest,  he added. “Law stipulates that resignation comes into effect when you tender it. It is because of public interest that six months come into play. Although the relationship severs, he is supposed to work for six months. For training a pilot, a huge amount goes into it. You can't say I won't come from tomorrow,” the solicitor general said. The solicitor general also said that the service conditions for pilots are industry-specific and need not apply even to the ground staff. Earlier, pilots had argued that Air India's stand could not be accepted as a resignation is prospective, which comes into effect after a mandatory six-month notice period. It was pointed out that in certain instances before the court in the present batch of appeals, the withdrawal of resignation was even accepted by Air India. The pilots had moved to the high court after Air India refused to accept the withdrawal of their resignations and terminated their employment. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pilots-cant-withdraw-resignation-once-tendered-air-india-tells-delhi-hc-1045480.html
29-10-2021||National||Rajnath cites Agni-5 test in veiled message to China||Amid tensions with China on the boundary issue, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday referred to India’s growing military prowess, particularly the test firing of 5,000 km range Agni missile. Singh was delivering the valedictory address at the three-day National Conference on ‘Delivering Democracy: Two Decades of Narendra Modi as head of Government’ organised by the Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini. “You know what is Agni missile I will not say anything more about it,” Singh said referring to the testing of a nuclear capable ballistic missile Agni 5 on Wednesday night. In the same breath, Singh said India’s growing strength was not aimed at attacking any country. “We believe on the policy that only a strong person respects another strong person. This is the reason why we are increasing our strength,” the defence minister said, adding, that India’s long history showed that it had never occupied an inch of foreign land, nor has it attacked any country. Earlier, Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ability to take tough decisions has brought about a paradigm shift in the approach to matters of national security. “The successful test of Agni-5 is in line with India’s stated policy to have ‘credible minimum deterrence’ that underpins the commitment to ‘No First Use’,” the Defence Ministry had said in a statement on Wednesday. On Pakistan, the defence minister said India had sent a clear message that there will be action against terrorism on this side of the border, and if required, across the border. After the 2017, incident in Uri and the 2019, incident in Pulwama, surgical strikes and air strikes were carried out as it was felt necessary. “We achieved what we had decided to do. It is not like we think of a certain thing and were unable to implement it,” he said and credited Modi’s leadership for the strong position on national security. Singh said the BJP’s paradigm approach to national security was evident since the days of the Jana Sangh. “The Jana Sangh had passed a resolution favouring nuclear tests in the 1960s. When Atal Bihari Vajpayee became the prime minister, nuclear tests were carried out,” the defence minister said. Similarly, BJP was mocked for promising repeal of Article 370 in every election manifesto, with critics saying that the party only raked up the issue during elections, but had no plans to deliver it. “But, Modi did it swiftly after renewing the mandate in 2019,” Singh said, adding that the move had broken the resolve of militants in Jammu and Kashmir. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-cites-agni-5-test-in-veiled-message-to-china-1045486.html
29-10-2021||National||Sitharaman meets Singapore, Canada FMs, talk opportunities for collaboration||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharman on Friday met her counterparts in Singapore and Canada and discussed various issues, including economy, health and opportunities for collaboration. Sitharaman met Singapore Finance Minister Lawrence Wong and Canada's Deputy Prime Minister & Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland on the sidelines of the G-20 Joint Finance and Health Ministers' meeting. "Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman had an engaging discussion with @cafreeland Dy. Prime Minister & Finance Minister of Canada on the sidelines of #G20 Finance & Health Ministers Meeting in #Rome. The Ministers discussed various issues, including economic and health cooperation," a Finance Ministry tweet said. In another tweet, the ministry said: "Finance Minister @nsitharaman met @LawrenceWongST Finance Minister of Singapore on the sidelines of #G20 Finance & Health Ministers Meeting in #Rome ahead of #G20RomeSummit. Noting strong #IndiaSingapore relations, the ministers discussed opportunities for further collaboration". Sitharaman also met GlobalFund Executive Director Peter Sands and appreciated Global Fund's efforts in fighting AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. "Discussions were held on global preparedness for dealing with future health emergencies and sustaining the campaigns against other diseases," the ministry said. This is the first joint meeting of the G20 Finance and Health Ministers under the Italian G20 Presidency. The Ministers endorsed the Joint G20 Finance and Health Ministers Communique towards strengthening global health financing governance ahead of the G20 Leaders' Summit on October 30-31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-meets-singapore-canada-fms-talk-opportunities-for-collaboration-1045510.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||Buyer was certainly government of India: Chidambaram on Israeli envoy's remarks on Pegasus||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday attacked the Centre over the Pegasus snooping matter citing the Israeli envoy's remarks that his country does not allow firms like NSO to sell products to non-governmental actors, and claimed that in India's case, the "buyer was certainly the government of India".  The Supreme Court on Wednesday set up a three-member independent expert panel to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for targeted surveillance in India, observing the state cannot get a "free pass" every time the spectre of national security is raised and that its mere invocation cannot render the judiciary a "mute spectator" and be the bugbear it shies away from. "After the SC's wise and bold order in the Pegasus controversy, the first skeleton has tumbled out. Yesterday, Israel's Ambassador publicly stated that Pegasus spyware was sold only to government. So, in India's case, the buyer was certainly the Government of India," Chidambaram tweeted. So, in India’s case, the buyer was certainly the Government of India Will the Minister for Telecommunications admit that the buyer of Pegasus was the GoI? If he remains silent, the blot on his report card will remain Will the Minister for Telecommunications admit that the buyer of Pegasus was the government of India, he asked. "If he remains silent, the blot on his report card will remain," Chidambaram said. Israel's newly-appointed Israeli Ambassador to India Naor Gilon said on Thursday said Israel does not allow companies like NSO to sell their products to non-governmental actors. "...Every export of NSO or such companies needs an export licence of the Israeli government. We grant this export licence only for exporting to governments," he had said. "This is the only main requirement...Under the requirements, they cannot sell it to non-governmental actors. What's happening here in India is an internal thing for India and I would rather not go into your internal matters," Gilon said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/buyer-was-certainly-government-of-india-chidambaram-on-israeli-envoys-remarks-on-pegasus-1045295.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||BJP calls me anti-Hindu, but TMC also stands for 'temple, mosque and church': Mamata Banerjee||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday told her party workers in poll-bound Goa that the BJP calls her "anti-Hindu" although it has no authority to give a "character certificate" to her, and added that the initial letters in her party's name - TMC - also stand for temple, mosque and church. The West Bengal chief minister, who arrived in Goa on Thursday evening as part of her three-day visit to the BJP-ruled state, also said her party wants to fight elections here not to divide votes but to make the coastal state "strong and self-sufficient" and asserted that the state will not be run from Delhi. She said her party doesn't divide people on religious lines even if they are Hindus, Muslims or Christians. The TMC has announced its decision to contest all 40 Assembly seats in Goa in the upcoming polls and started inducting several local leaders into its fold. Banerjee's tour is being seen as an attempt by her to gauge political mood in the state ahead of the Assembly polls slated in early 2022. During her maiden interaction with the TMC leaders in Goa, Banerjee accused the BJP of defacing her posters in the state and said people of India will deface the saffron party. "When I come to Goa, they deface my posters. You will be defaced from India," she said. "You deface us (our posters), show black flags, refuse to grant permission (to hold event) because you know that TMC will due but will never compromise," she said while targeting the ruling BJP in Goa. Banerjee said that if the TMC comes to power in Goa, it will not work with the agenda of revenge, but work for the state. Listing out various welfare schemes rolled out by her government in her home state, she said if the TMC can do it in West Bengal, the it can also do it the small state of Goa. "I will be happy to do it. I am not going to be the chief minister of Goa, but I will see that there is policy, mechanism and no corruption in the government," she said. Banerjee said the TMC is a national party and it can go anywhere. "We will work for Goa in a strong manner. It is not that we want to divide votes. You have given opportunity to all parties, now give opportunity to the TMC," she said. She said the initial three letters in her party's name TMC also stand for temple, mosque and church. "BJP calls me anti-Hindu, but they are no one to give me character certificate. They should first decide their own character certificate," the 66-year-old leader said. Stating that the TMC doesn't divide people on the basis of religions - be they are Hindus, Muslims or Christians, Banerjee said, "We unite people." She narrated how she has been associated with the all the religions by way of festivals and rituals. Recalling her stint as a Union minister earlier, the TMC chief said she has travelled the country. "I know India very well," she said. Calling the TMC a transparent party, she said, "If you trust us, the party will give its fullest to back to you...Goa will not be run from Delhi." Banerjee said her party wants to make Goa strong and self-sufficient and also protect the state's cultural heritage. Referring to the Congress, she said the party has contested elections for 60-70 years. "Last time (in 2017 Goa polls), you (Congress) allowed the BJP to form the government. They may repeat the same thing. How can we trust them? TMC is ready to give their blood for Goa, but it will not compromise with BJP," she said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-calls-me-anti-hindu-but-tmc-also-stands-for-temple-mosque-and-church-mamata-banerjee-1045319.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||Leander Paes, Nafisa Ali join TMC in Goa||Tennis veteran Leander Paes and actor Nafisa Ali joined Trinamool Congress Party in presence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee here on Friday. Welcoming Paes (48) during a press conference, Banerjee recalled meeting Paes when the Olympic bronze medal winner was a teenager. “I was the sports minister of the country when I (first) met him,” she said. “I have got my younger brother and sweet and cute brother in the TMC,” she added. Paes told reporters that having retired from tennis, he wants to serve the people through the vehicle of politics to make a difference to country. He said he had met Banerjee when he was 14 and she was the sports minister. “She was very encouraging and supportive. It enabled me as a young boy to embark on this game. I have travelled the world for the last 30 years playing for the country. I have retired from tennis and would like to get the guidance from the powerful young lady (Banerjee),” he said. Paes, who won the bronze medal at the 1996 Olympic Games and is widely regarded as one of the most accomplished doubles players in the world, said he wants to make a difference in the lives of the people. “Didi is a lady of her words. She is a true champion,” he added. Nafisa Ali, who won the Femina Miss India title in 1976 and was the second runner-up at the Miss International contest, had contested the 2004 Lok Sabha elections from South Kolkata against Banerjee. Goa-based entrepreneur Mrinalini Deshprabhu also joined the party in the presence of TMC MP Derek O'Brien. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/leander-paes-nafisa-ali-join-tmc-in-goa-1045320.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah likens previous UP regimes to Mughals, launches BJP membership campaign ||In a clear indication that 'hindutva' would be his party's major plank in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which were barely five months away, union home minister and former BJP national president Amit Shah on Friday said that the rules of the previous regimes in the state were similar to the rule of the Mughals as the people of the state did not 'know' that UP was the land of Rama, Krishna, Shiva and Buddha. ''Mughal kal se lekar 2017 (BJP came to power in 2017 assembly polls in UP) tak yeha ke logon ko ye ehsaas nahin tha ki ye dharti Ram, Krishna, Baba Vishwanath, aur Buddha ki hai'' (From the Mughal period till 2017, the people of the state did not even know that UP was the land of Rama, Krishna, Shiva and Buddha), Shah said while addressing party workers here after launching his party's membership campaign in the state. ''It is the BJP government which made the people realise about it,'' he added. The union minister listed the achievements of the state government and said that it was 'essential' to bring back the BJP government in the state after the polls to make Narendra Modi the prime minister of the country once again in 2024. Shah also asked the BJP workers to hang placards outside their homes stating 'Mera Parivaar, BJP Parivaar' (my family is BJP family) on the occasion of Diwali festival. He asked the party workers and leaders to reach out to the dalits, backwards, poor and women and make them members of the party.  Shah patted the Yogi Adityanath government on the back for what he said was improvement in the law and order situation in the state and ensuring a feeling of safety among the women. ''Now the women in the state feel safe....they can now venture out at night wearing ornaments,'' he added. He also said that the mafia elements were now on the run or languishing in the jails. ''The state government has instilled confidence among the people of the state and has taken several steps for their welfare,'' he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-likens-previous-up-regimes-to-mughals-launches-bjp-membership-campaign-1045321.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||Rai's apology exposes the veil on conspiracy in 2G, coal cases to overthrow UPA: Congress||Latching onto Vinod Rai's apology to former MP Sanjay Nirupam in the 2G spectrum episode, the Congress on Friday alleged that the former Comptroller and Auditor General was the "chief" among the co-conspirators Gen V K Singh, yoga guru Ramdev, Anna Hazare, Arvind Kejriwal, Arnab Goswami and Kiran Bedi and demanded an apology for their "massive conspiracy to discredit" the  "popularly elected " UPA government and "derail" the country's economy. Claiming that Rai could go to any extent if he can "lie to sell his book", Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the "veil on conspiracy" is being exposed and the "co-conspirators" owe an apology to the country following the former CAG's backtracking on his remarks while expressing confidence that people will soon take care of the "master" of the conspirators, Narendra Modi. Khera's comments came a day after Rai tendered an unconditional apology to Nirupam for his repeated assertions in media interviews seven years ago that the former MP pressured him not to name former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in the CAG report on 2G spectrum allocation. Rai's apology, in which he said he was "factually incorrect" about Nirupam and "wrongly mentioned" the politician, ended a defamation case filed against him by Nirupam. "One of the chief co-conspirators was Rai. He admitted he has lied...Yesterday Rai apologised and admitted that he has lied. Imagine a man who lied to sell a book and then imagine what all he can do to push his own agenda and his master's?..."Rai and others should apologise to the country... This is time to undo the wrong done to the Manmohan Singh government, Congress and on the country," Khera told a press conference. Claiming that Rai's apology was the third instance in the recent years in which the "veil on the conspiracy" is being lifted, he said the 2G case court verdict leading to acquittal of accused and the clean chit given to the former Prime Minister in coal scam case were the earlier instances. "This conspiracy has been exposed time and again. Twice through courts in 2G and coal cases and now in Rai's case. The court had come down heavily giving clean chit in 2G case and to Singh in coal scam case," he said. The Congress spokesperson named Union Minister Gen Singh, Ramdev, Kejriwal, Bedi and Anna Hazare as "co-conspirators" and said one should see who is who now. He said Singh has been a minister for the past seven years while Ramdev has become a successful businessman. Journalist Goswami, who was "employed by someone", became an owner of a news channel while "his partner (Rajiv Chandrashekhar) is a minister now", Khera said. Referring to Kejriwal, who has led an anti-corruption movement with Hazare, he said the anti-corruption crusader had promised not to enter politics or avail any government facility or become a Chief Minister. The BJP could not make Bedi the Delhi Chief Minister but finally made her Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, he said adding Rai became the head of Banks Board Bureau. "Where is Anna Hazare? He is back in his village. He doesn't even squeak against the government. Where is that courage," Khera said, asking why nobody bothers about Lokpal, for which Hazare and others carried out a long protest. "Where is Lokpal? One has to Google to know who the Lokpal is. When did Lokpal take suo motu cognizance of a case? Where is the CAG? Earlier, even draft reports of the CAG were discussed on news channels. Forget about TV discussing it, it is not even tabled in Parliament and discussed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rais-apology-exposes-the-veil-on-conspiracy-in-2g-coal-cases-to-overthrow-upa-congress-1045325.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||Will expose nexus between Sameer Wankhede and some BJP leaders: Nawab Malik||Continuing his attack on NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Friday said he would expose some BJP leaders and their alleged connection with the officer in the winter session of the state Legislature to be held in December. Referring to his own - "Picture is not over yet" - tweet that he had posted on Thursday after Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was granted bail by the Bombay High Court in the drugs-on-cruise case, Malik said the picture will end with Wankhede losing his job and facing legal action for forging documents and securing a job that was meant for an SC candidate. Malik has levelled a slew of allegations against Wankhede, who led the raid on a cruise ship off Mumbai coast earlier this month, in which Aryan Khan was arrested. Talking to reporters on Friday, Malik said, "I am going to expose some BJP leaders and their connections with NCB officer Sameer Wankhede in the winter session starting from December 7. It will be a stormy session and once those names are out, the BJP leaders will not be able to show their face in public." He alleged that Fashion TV head Kashif Khan had organised the alleged drugs party on the Cordelia cruise ship. Malik claimed, "Kashif Khan is notorious for distribution of drugs, for running sex and pornography racket and had posted the advertisement of Cordelia drug party on social media. Despite that the intelligent officers of the NCB did not call him for any inquiry or probe." "One NCB official even told me that whenever they tried to take action against Kashif Khan, Sameer Wankhede opposed them. It is a murky business and more such cases will surface in the coming days," the minister said. On his tweet, Malik said that he and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut will have to complete this "picture" just like the famous scriptwriter duo of Salim-Javed, who wrote scripts of several blockbuster movies in Hindi in the 1970s. When asked about how this picture is going to end, Malik said, "The picture will be over with Sameer Wankhede losing his job and facing legal action for forging documents to get recruited via reserved quota for SC category. He was born in a Muslim family, but he forged his birth certificate to get this job." As per Malik's claim, Wankhede was born as a Muslim, but forged documents, including a caste certificate, to show that he belonged to the Hindu SC category to get a job under quota after clearing the UPSC examination. Speaking about his "picture" tweet further, he said, "Sanjay Raut has said that he would take care of the post-interval script. But going by the information coming out, it looks like we both will have to complete the picture like Salim-Javed." Earlier, referring to Malik's tweet, Raut told reporters, "Malik has shown you the picture till interval. Rest of the part will be completed by me." Raut also said that Sameer Wankhede's wife Kranti Redkar has no business in this controversy surrounding the her husband. "This is the case between NCB officials and the arrested persons. There will be no injustice to anyone," he said. On Thursday, Redkar had written a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, seeking justice in the wake of the "attack on her family and her personal life". In her letter to the CM, the NCB officer's wife had said, "Being a Marathi person, I expect some justice from your side as my personal life is unnecessarily being dragged into a controversy. Had late Balasaheb Thackeray (father of Uddhav Thackeray) been alive today, he would not have tolerated such personal attack on a woman's dignity." Talking about it, Raut said, "The ED, CBI and other agencies are harassing Marathi people is more important. False cases are being filed against Marathi people merely to defame the state." "The crime (in drugs party case has taken place here in Maharashtra; thus the investigation will take place here itself," Raut said. Wankhede is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case. The officer is facing the departmental vigilance probe. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-expose-nexus-between-sameer-wankhede-and-some-bjp-leaders-nawab-malik-1045329.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||Attack on Hindus in Bangladesh a well orchestrated conspiracy to uproot minorities: RSS||The RSS on Friday said that the recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja festivities was a "well-orchestrated" conspiracy to uproot minorities and called upon the Government of India to communicate to its neighbour, the global Hindu concern and ensure Dhaka stops the attacks on minorities. Briefing the media about the resolution passed in the three-day all India Executive Committee meeting of the RSS here, its Joint General Secretary Arun Kumar said the Sangh demands the Bangladesh government should act tough against elements who orchestrated the attacks and ensure the perpetrators are handed stringent punishment. The three-day Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal Baithak of the RSS went underway here on Thursday. "The attack on Hindus in Bangladesh is a well orchestrated conspiracy to exterminate and uproot minorities. The objective of the attack was to create religious clashes through fake news," Kumar said, referring to the resolution. The Centre should open all its diplomatic channels with Bangladesh to communicate the global Hindu concern and ask the government there to stop attacks on Hindus and Buddhists, the outfit urged. It also urged the Bangladesh government to act tough against such elements who orchestrated the attacks and ensure the perpetrators are handed stringent punishment. Further, the 'silence' of the United Nations and other human rights organisations on the issue "displays their double standards," it alleged. RSS resolved it wants the perpetrators to be punished so that Hindus, Buddhists and other minorities lead their life with dignity and peace in the neighbouring country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/attack-on-hindus-in-bangladesh-a-well-orchestrated-conspiracy-to-uproot-minorities-rss-1045330.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||SC declines to consider plea against Karnataka govt's order restricting entry of people from Kerala||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a plea questioning the Karnataka government's circular restricting entry of people from Kerala at borders Kasaragod-Mangaluru border at Thalappady, only to people having negative RT-PCR test, saying there was no violation of the fundamental right and the order was issued in larger public health in view of Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai also said that the Covid-19 has not yet ended and the conditions imposed are not unreasonable. The court also noted that otherwise there was no restriction on the movement of citizens from Kerala to Karnataka.  The bench also pointed out the Karnataka government had issued a revised circular on July 31, 2021, which had relaxed the requirement for RT-PCR test taken within three days to 15 days from the date of travel. This was done in the interest of students, business professionals, and others, the court said.   "The rights of movement of individuals from the State of Kerala to the State of Karnataka is not restricted. There is no violation of any fundamental rights of persons in Kasargod district to travel to Mangaluru or other parts of Karnataka," the bench said.  "Circulars issued by the State of Karnataka cannot be interfered with by this court in the interest of larger public health," the bench added.  The court, however, granted liberty to the petitioner to make a representation to the Karnataka government on the issue.  Advocate Haris Beeran, appearing for a Kerala MLA, Manjeshwar constituency MLA A K M Ashraf, submitted that the people in Kasargod depend on Mangaluru city for education, medicare, and other needs. It was also his contention that their travel to Mangaluru daily has been inhibited by the circulars issued by Karnataka. Beeran relied upon the guidelines issued by the Centre to the states and Union Territories (UTs) which asked not to place any restrictions on the intra-state movement of persons and goods by air, water, or road.  Ashraf assailed the September 28 order of the Kerala High Court which had dismissed two pleas challenging the Karnataka government's decision to restrict entry from Kerala at borders, saying the neighbouring state was well within its powers to issue such directions. The High Court had noted there was no blockade of the roads from Kerala to Karnataka and the restrictions, like a negative RT-PCR certificate, were imposed within that state because of the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 pandemic prevalent in Kerala. The High Court also said it has got no territorial jurisdiction as no cause of action has arisen in the State of Kerala. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-against-karnataka-govts-order-restricting-entry-of-people-from-kerala-1045394.html
29-10-2021||National Politics||Delhi's dadagiri has to be put to an end: Mamata Banerjee||States cannot be run by sending across a ‘laddoo’ from Delhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday, while calling for an end to Delhi’s dadagiri, while also rooting for a stronger union of states and a fair federal structure. Addressing a press conference in Goa, where Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress is preparing for the 2022 state assembly polls, the party founder also kept the option of allying with other political parties open and claiming that BJP personal attack at her and the series of defacements of her posters was a sign that the BJP was “cultureless”. “Delhi's dadagiri has to stop. Goa should stand on its own feet and we will help it fight. We will make a system, mechanism (for it),” Banerjee told her press conference, her first since her party dropped anchor in Goa nearly two months back. “It is not that a laddoo will come from Delhi and Delhi laddoo, Goa will run,” she also said. When asked which political party, specifically the BJP, Congress or the Aam Aadmi Party, she was referring to vis a vis her charge of dadagiri, Banerjee said: “It is for everyone, whoever does dadagiri”. The West Bengal Chief Minister also rejected insinuations that the Trinamool Congress would split the opposition vote and benefit the BJP. “We don't want to divide the vote. But don't ask me the question that there will be any feudal landlord-giri, dadagiri that only Delhi people will contest the election, no other people. That is not,” the TMC founder said. “We want to see a strong union of states, states should be self sufficient, federal structure should be strong,” she added. Earlier in the day, Banerjee met representatives from the fisherfolk community and announced several sops including allowances, tripling of existing subsidies for commercial fishing etc. She also visited a series of temples as part of her visit to the poll-bound state. When asked if the TMC was keen on an alliance ahead of the 2022 polls in Goa, Banerjee said: “I cannot discuss everything in detail in this meeting now. It depends on (the) situation and everything and we have to discuss it with the local leaders. It is a collective decision. It is not an individual decision”. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhis-dadagiri-has-to-be-put-to-an-end-mamata-banerjee-1045415.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Live-in relationships part and parcel of life now, says Allahabad HC||Live-in relationships have become part and parcel of life and need to be seen from the perspective of personal autonomy and not the social morality, the Allahabad High Court has said. A bench of justices Pritinker Diwaker and Ashutosh Srivastava gave this ruling on Tuesday while disposing of the pleas by two live-in couples, who had alleged that in both cases, girls’ families had been interfering in their day-to-day lives. "Live-in relationships have become part and parcel of life and stand approved by the Hon'ble Apex Court,” the bench said. “Accordingly, the live-in relationship is required to be viewed from the lens of personal autonomy arising out of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India rather than the notions of social morality," the bench added. The court made the observation underscoring at the outset that the right to life and personal liberty enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India is liable to be protected at all costs. While one petition was filed by Kushi Nagar resident Shayara Khatun and her live-in partner, the second was filed by Meerut’s resident Zeenat Parveen and her lover. The two had also alleged in their pleas that they had approached the local police but got little help from them, leaving them on their fate amid consistent threat to their life and liberty. The court said the police authorities were obligated to protect the rights of the petitioners. The court ordered police to “perform their duties as expected from them under the law” if any of the petitioners approach them complaining of any threat to their life and liberty.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/live-in-relationships-part-and-parcel-of-life-now-says-allahabad-hc-1045233.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Channi meets Rahul Gandhi after Amarinder Singh's announcement on floating his own political party||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi here on Thursday and the two leaders are learnt to have discussed the political situation in the state and the party's prospects in next year's Assembly polls. Channi is also learnt to have apprised Gandhi of the pro-people measures taken by his government since he assumed the charge of the chief minister. The meeting came a day after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh announced that he would float his own political party once the Election Commission approves it. Sources said the two leaders discussed the fallout of Singh launching his own party and the potential impact it would have on the poll prospects of the Congress. Channi is also learnt to have informed Gandhi about the steps being taken to ensure justice in a case involving the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of Sikhs, the sources said. The two leaders also discussed the issue of the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) being extended to 50 km inside the international border, on which the Punjab Assembly will hold a special session. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channi-meets-rahul-gandhi-after-amarinder-singhs-announcement-on-floating-his-own-political-party-1045234.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Nihang members decide to stay put at Singhu protest site||Members of the Sikhs' Nihang order, who are camping at Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border in support of farmers protesting the three central agricultural laws, have decided to "stay put" and "strengthen" the agitation, Nihang leaders said on Thursday. According to Nihang leaders, the decision to "not leave" the protest site was taken in a Mahapanchayat of the religious order held on Wednesday after public support from across the country. "We will stay put here. We are here to support farmers and will keep on strengthening the agitation. Based on public support, we have decided not to leave Singhu Border. We will remain here till the movement is going on," said Jatthedar Raja Raj Singh, a Nihang leader. The decision was announced at a press conference on Thursday at Singhu Border. The development comes after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the protests against the farm laws, had reportedly asked the Nihangs to leave the agitation site following the lynching of a Dalit labourer for allegedly desecrating a Sikh holy book. Singh said that after the lynching, Sikh's Nihang order had sought a public opinion if they should stay put or leave the protest site.  "We have got support not only from the people of Punjab but from across the country. Through phones and other mediums they conveyed us that we should not leave the protest site. So we decided to stay," Singh said. The body of the labourer, Lakhbir Singh, 35, from Punjab's Taran Taran district, with a hand chopped off was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the farmers' protest site at the Singhu border on October 15. Two members of the Nihang order were arrested and two more "surrendered" before Sonipat Police in connection with the lynching incident even as the victim's family questioned the attackers' claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe. Nihangs also demanded "life imprisonment" or "death sentence" for anyone who desecrate holy books or texts or any religion. "We appeal and demand the central and state governments to make a separate law to deal with persons who desecrate holy books and texts or disrespect gods, saints. Such people should be given life imprisonment or death sentence so that we don't have to act," Nihang leader Jatthedar Raja Raj Singh said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nihang-members-decide-to-stay-put-at-singhu-protest-site-1045236.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Delhi Police starts removing barricades at Tikri border point||The Delhi Police on Thursday night started removing roadblocks placed at the Tikri border point where farmers have been protesting against the Centre's three farm laws, with sources indicating that one carriageway of the road will open in the coming days. The move comes days after a Supreme Court hearing that saw farmer unions arguing that the police were responsible for the blockade at the Delhi borders. The police had put multiple layers of barricades on the roads, complete with giant nails and huge concrete blocks as thousands of farmers had tried to cross Delhi borders in November last year. Four out of the eight layers of barricades at the Tikri border have been removed. However, the cement barricades are still there and the road remains closed for commuters, an officer said.  In videos doing the rounds on social media, JCB machines were seen removing blockades at the Tikri border. Sources in the Delhi Police said that such exercise is likely to be launched at Singhu and Ghazipur border points in the coming days. Thousands of farmers have been camping at the three borders points --- Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur --- protesting the Centre's three farm laws since November 26, 2020. About the removal of blockades at the Tikri Border on Thursday night, a senior police officer said some layers of barricades that were placed by the police have been removed.  "The arrangement at the Tikri border in terms of infrastructure has been reduced. Seven to eight layers of different types of barricades were placed earlier and we have removed some of them," the officer said. This is done as a move to open the road for traffic soon, he said. "At present, there is no traffic flow as the roads are closed. Barricades will be completely removed soon to slowly ease the flow of traffic," the officer added. The Supreme Court on October 21 had said farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farms laws have the right to agitate but they cannot block roads indefinitely even as the farmer unions and the government got embroiled in a blame game. While the farmers' unions alleged that the police were responsible for the blockade as it suits them to allow a feeling among citizens that farmers are blocking the road, the Centre said there was an oblique purpose behind the protests. After the court hearing, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), whose supporters and office-bearers led by Rakesh Tikait are camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border since November 2020, had said the barriers at the protest site have been put by the Delhi police and not farmers. Tikait, the national spokesperson of the BKU, said protesters at Ghazipur have cleared the path on a service lane leading to the national capital but Delhi Police's barricades were still present there. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-delhi-police-starts-removing-barricades-at-tikri-border-point-1045238.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Don't commit suicide, working on plan for agricultural growth, Kejriwal tells Punjab farmers||Delhi CM and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal here on Thursday urged farmers not to commit suicide and said his party is working on a special plan for the development of agriculture, which will be announced by him next month. He also promised farmers to pay them compensation for crop failure by April 30 if his party came to power in next year’s Punjab Assembly polls. The AAP’s national claimed that after his party forms the government in the state, no farmer will commit suicide. The Aam Aadmi Party is formulating a special plan for the development of agriculture in Punjab, which will be announced by him next month, the CM said. Kejriwal also attacked Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, saying he was quick to have pictures clicked with farmers who suffered losses due to pink bollworm but failed to give them the due compensation. AAP, if forms the government in Punjab, won't only provide due compensation to farmers who suffered due to any natural calamity but also enhance it in proportion to the production cost, assured Kejriwal. Copying is easy but it is very difficult to implement, the Delhi CM said, accusing the opposition parties of trying to imitate the AAP agenda to woo the voters. He said when the Aam Aadmi Party government was formed in Delhi, they gave farmers more than their cost of production, which was Rs 18,000 to Rs 20,000 per acre. "After April 1, 2022, farmers and labourers in Punjab will not be forced to commit suicide due to crop failure. This is my promise and Kejriwal does what he says. By April 30, crop loss compensation will be credited to the account of each affected farmer and labourer,” he said at a programme here. "When a farmer commits suicide, I feel disheartened. Even after 70 years of independence, farmers are forced to commit suicide but other parties and leaders are not affected by it. If these leaders had such compassion, the country's farmers, farm labourers and all agriculture-dependent businesses would not have been facing such crises," he said. Kejriwal said problems related to adulterated milk, animal insurance and stubble will be solved. "Stubble would be used for power, cardboard and agro-based industries and DAP fertiliser factories, which would also provide employment to the youth of Punjab. Agriculture and all related occupations will be made profitable," he said. He also heard problems of farmers along with AAP leaders Jarnail Singh, Raghav Chadha, Harpal Singh Cheema and Bhagwant Singh Mann. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-commit-suicide-working-on-plan-for-agricultural-growth-kejriwal-tells-punjab-farmers-1045244.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Man attacked with blade near Delhi High Court gate: Police||A man was allegedly attacked with a blade near the parking space outside one of the gates of the Delhi High Court on Thursday, police said. A suspect identified as Mohd Sheru has been detained, they said.   Police said a PCR call was received at Tilak Marg police station regarding a blade injury to a client of an advocate.  According to police, the incident took place near the parking space of gate number seven of the Delhi High Court.  Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said the victim was identified as Abid Khan, who is an accused in a 2011 case of attempt to murder registered at Govindpuri police station and had come to the Delhi High Court in connection with his bail. "When he came out from Gate No. 7 of the court, one unidentified person came from behind him and injured him with a blade. He suffered a cut on his face," he said. The injured himself went to the hospital for treatment, he added. A case under section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and the investigation is underway, the DCP said. "We have detained a person named in the complaint Mohd Sheru and he is being examined in connection with the incident for further details," Yadav said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-attacked-with-blade-near-delhi-high-court-gate-police-1045253.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Criminal killed in encounter with Delhi police, 2 cops injured||A criminal was killed in an encounter with the Delhi Police in Rohini's Begumpur area, police said on Friday. Two police personnel have also received injuries during the exchange of fire, they said. The criminal has been identified as Deepak alias Tiger, they said. Further details are awaited. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/criminal-killed-in-encounter-with-delhi-police-2-cops-injured-1045276.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers ignored completely: Priyanka targets Yogi Adityanath over fertiliser shortage||Continuing her tirade against the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday lashed out against the state government for the prevailing fertiliser shortage in the state as she met the family members of the farmer, who had died while standing in a queue to purchase fertiliser in UP's Lalitpur district, about 400 kilometres from here. Priyanka, who travelled to Lalitpur by train from Lucknow, drove to the house of Bhogi Pal, who had died in the queue a few days back, and assured his family of financial help from her party. ''The governments in the state and at the centre are not concerned about the problems of the farmers...the state is reeling under fertilizer shortage but the government remains unconcerned,'' she told reporters later. She also referred to the farmers' agitation against the new farm laws and said that the BJP government did not have time to even speak to the farmers and resolve their issues. Priyanka had also met the coolies at the Charbagh railway station in Lucknow before boarding the train to Lalitpur on Thursday night. On Friday the Congress leader also visited the famous Pitambara Devi Temple in Datia district of Madhya Pradesh, which was very close to Lalitpur. She offered 'puja' there and was blessed by the priests. Earlier also Priyanka, during her visit to Varanasi, visited the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple and paid obeisance there. She had also performed a 'puja' there for around fifteen minutes. She also visited the 'Kushmanda Temple' at Durga Kund in the town and paid obeisance there.  Priyanka had in the past also visited famous Hindu temples in Saharanpur and Prayagraj dropping hints that she would follow 'soft Hindutva' to counter the BJP in the UP polls.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-ignored-completely-priyanka-targets-yogi-adityanath-over-fertiliser-shortage-1045291.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||3 held under Sedition law for raising pro-Pak slogans during Eid procession in Noida||Sedition charge has been invoked against three men who were arrested in Noida for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans during an Eid Milad un Nabi procession, police officials said on Friday. The accused were arrested on the basis of social media videos that purportedly showed them raising the slogans during the October 20 procession, the officials said. The sedition charge was added against Mohammad Zafar, Samir Ali and Ali Raza after a demonstration by scores of right-wing activists outside the local Sector 20 police station on Thursday who demanded that the law be invoked in the case. "The accused were initially booked under Indian Penal Code section 153A  (promoting enmity between different groups and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony). IPC section 124A (sedition) was added on Thursday," a senior police official told PTI. "All three accused are currently in judicial custody," the officer said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had also said on Thursday that those raising pro-Pakistan slogans in the state would be booked under the stringent sedition law. Three Kashmiri students in an Agra college were also booked for sedition on Thursday by the UP police. The trio had allegedly raised pro-Pakistan slogans and made social media posts after Pakistan defeated India in a T20 cricket match on Sunday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-held-under-sedition-law-for-raising-pro-pak-slogans-during-eid-procession-in-noida-1045294.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Cops removing barricades at Ghazipur farmers' protest site||The Delhi Police on Friday started removing the barricades and concertina wires it had put in place at the anti-farm laws protest site at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Multiple layers of iron and cement barricades, and at least five layers of concertina wires were put up last year, and further strengthened after the January 26 violence this year during the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm laws. Deputy Commissioner of Police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said Friday, "The process of removing barricades on NH-9 has been started. The temporarily barricading is being removed to ease out vehicular movement. However, the National Highway 24 was already opened for the traffic." The opening of the road stretch would help thousands of commuters in Ghaziabad, Delhi, Noida as well as those travelling between the national capital and interiors of Uttar Pradesh to Meerut and beyond. Police officials and labourers were also seen removing iron nails that were studded on the NH9 at Ghazipur, where hundreds of protesters, chiefly belonging to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), have been occupying a road stretch since November 2020. The BKU is a participant in the anti-farm laws movement spearheaded by farmers collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). The removal of barricades comes after the October 21 Supreme Court direction that called for unblocking of roads that have remained out of bounds for commuters due to the protests at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. While the protesting farmers have been claiming that the three laws enacted last year are against their interest, the Centre has been saying these legislations are pro-farmer. Thousands of farmers have been camping at the three borders points --- Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur --- protesting the Centre's three farm laws since November 26, 2020. About the removal of blockades at the Tikri Border on Thursday night, a senior police officer had said some layers of barricades that were placed by the police have been removed. The Supreme Court on October 21 had said farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farms laws have the right to agitate but they cannot block roads indefinitely. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-removing-barricades-at-ghazipur-farmers-protest-site-1045306.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand landslide: Two bodies recovered, toll climbs to 79||Bodies of two persons who went missing after a landslide triggered by heavy rains in Chamoli district on October 19 have been recovered, taking the cumulative toll in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand to 79. Their bodies were pulled out of the rubble by rescuers a short distance away from their village on Thursday, officials said. The two had gone to fix a drinking water pipeline near their village when they got buried in the debris of a landslide, they said. They were identified as 48-year-old Bharat Singh Negi and 33-year-old Virendra Singh, who were residents of Dungri village.   Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had met their kin in the village recently to commiserate with them. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-landslide-two-bodies-recovered-toll-climbs-to-79-1045317.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||J&K govt sacks eight employees over 'corruption' charges||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has ordered the premature retirement of eight employees of various ranks on charges of alleged corruption and misconduct. The employees include four senior J&K Administrative Service (JKAS) officers. They have been terminated under Article 226(2) of the J&K Civil Service Regulations, which says that the government, in the public interest, may retire an employee after he completes 22 years in qualifying service or attains 48 years of age. “As per the recommendations of the Review Committee, the performance of 5 officers was found inefficient and their continuation in the government service against the public interest. Accordingly, Ravinder Kumar Bhat, JKAS, Mission Director RUSA; Mohammad Qasim Wani, JKAS, Regional Director, Survey and Land Records, Srinagar; Noor Alam, JKAS, Deputy Director, ARI & Training department; Mohammed Mujib-Ur-Rehman Ghassi, JKAS and Dr Fayaz Ahmad Banday were given retirement,” an official handout said. “Similarly, three more officials of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs department namely Ghulam Mohi-ud-Din, junior assistant; Rakesh Kumar Pargal, junior assistant and Parshotam Kumar, store keeper were also given retirement in public interest,” he added. A senior officer of J&K General Administration Department (GAD) said there is zero-tolerance for corruption. “We are weeding out corrupt officials after thorough inquiries and in coming months more such officials will be shown the door,” he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-sacks-eight-employees-over-corruption-charges-1045323.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Varun Gandhi demands legal guarantee for MSP||Launching an attack on the Uttar Pradesh government over the issues of farmers, BJP MP Varun Gandhi alleged on Friday that "crippling corruption" in procurement centres is completely out in the open and that they are forced to sell their grains to middlemen.  He also demanded a legal guarantee for the minimum support price (MSP), also one of the demands of farmer unions protesting against three farm laws, saying farmers will continue to be exploited in 'mandis' (markets for agricultural produce) as long as this is not done.  Gandhi sought stringent action in the matter.  He also posted a video of him speaking apparently to a government official at a mandi in Bareilly. Raising the issue of hardship facing farmers, Gandhi is heard saying that it is a matter of "big shame" for the state government.  The "nexus" between officials and middlemen to force farmers to sell their grains at a much lower price than stipulated is visible across the country, he alleged.  He is also heard warning the official that if his representative records any evidence of corruption or ill-treatment to farmers, then he will not make any request to the government but instead move court and get such officials arrested.  "At every procurement centre in the state there is crippling corruption which is completely out in the open. Farmers' grains are forcibly rejected after which they sell their produce out of desperation to middlemen. The administration takes a cut," he alleged.  He added,"With farmers already facing steep input costs, lack of fertilisers and inclement weather, saddling him with a system that ensures he sells at a loss is going to drive the next generation away from agriculture and threaten both our food and national security. It will also lead to social unrest and create fissures where none need exist."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/varun-gandhi-demands-legal-guarantee-for-msp-1045334.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Central Vista: SC to hear plea related to change in land use on November 16||The Supreme Court Friday adjourned to November 16 the hearing on a petition challenging the change in land use of a plot where the new official residences of the Vice-President and the Prime Minister are stipulated as part of the ambitious Central Vista project in Lutyens' Delhi. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar deferred the matter after it was informed that a reply affidavit has been filed by the Centre. "We are informed that a reply affidavit has been filed online. Copy of the reply to be kept in the paper book. Petitioner granted time to file rejoinder as prayed. List on November 16," the bench said. The Central Vista revamp, announced in September 2019 envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will celebrate its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is to be built by 2024 under the project that covers a 3-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in the national capital. The apex court was hearing a petition challenging the change in land use of plot number one from recreational area to residential. The bench had earlier asked the Centre to file a short affidavit on the issue. The counsel appearing for the petitioner had said the authorities have not demonstrated any public interest as far as the change in land use from recreational to residential for the plot is concerned. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had told the bench that official residences for the Vice-President and the Prime Minister are stipulated on the plot. Mehta had said the recreational area could be shifted but he also cited security concerns considering that Parliament would come up there. The bench asked whether he would like to file a short affidavit on the limited point raised in the matter. In January this year, the apex court, by 2:1 majority, had held that the grant of environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use for construction of new Parliament building under the project was valid. The top court's verdict had come on several pleas, including those against various permissions given to the project by authorities including the grant of environmental clearance and the nod to change of land use. The top court had in June this year dismissed a separate plea challenging the Delhi High Court order which had rejected a petition seeking to halt Central Vista construction work in view of the Covid pandemic. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-sc-to-hear-plea-related-to-change-in-land-use-on-november-16-1045337.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi Assembly panel summons Facebook representative to depose on 2020 riots||The Delhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony committee has asked Facebook India to send a senior representative to depose before it on November 2 over the February 2020 riots in northeast Delhi, according to an official statement said. Since Facebook has lakhs of users in Delhi, the summons have been issued in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Court judgment on July 8, 2021, the statement said. The court has held that the committee has the power to direct members and non-members to appear before it and depose on oath, it said. The committee wants to discuss the "important role of social media in curbing the spread of false and malicious messages" which can fan disharmony and affect peace, it said. At least 53 people had died and hundreds were injured in clashes between supporters of the Citizenship Amendment Act and those opposing it between February 23 and February 26, 2020, in North East Delhi. The majority of the victims were Muslim. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-assembly-panel-summons-facebook-representative-to-depose-on-2020-riots-1045342.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Three farm laws will be withdrawn soon: Rahul after cops start removing barricades||After the Delhi Police started removing barricades at the farmers' protest site in Ghazipur, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the three "anti-agriculture" farm laws would also be withdrawn soon. "Only artificial barricades have been removed so far, soon the three anti-agriculture laws will also be withdrawn. Hail Annadata Satyagraha," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag 'FarmersProtest'. अभी तो सिर्फ़ दिखावटी बैरिकेड हटे हैं,जल्द ही तीनों कृषि विरोधी क़ानून भी हटेंगे। Multiple layers of iron and cement barricades, and at least five layers of concertina wires were put up last year, and further strengthened after the January 26 violence this year during the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm laws. Deputy Commissioner of Police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said Friday, "The process of removing barricades on NH-9 has been started. The temporary barricading is being removed to ease out vehicular movement. However, National Highway 24 was already open for traffic." The opening of the road stretch would help thousands of commuters in Ghaziabad, Delhi, Noida as well as those travelling between the national capital and interiors of Uttar Pradesh to Meerut and beyond. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-farm-laws-will-be-withdrawn-soon-rahul-after-cops-start-removing-barricades-1045354.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||'We stand vindicated', say farm unions as cops begin removing barricades at farmers' protest sites||Politics kicked in as the government on Friday removed barricades at two farm protest sites on Delhi border 11 months after Delhi police had put them, evoking strong reactions from farmer groups and social media.  Taking a jibe at the development, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, who had built a momentum against the government in 2014 over the new land acquisition bill, which was finally withdrawn, said the government will soon withdraw the farm laws as well. Meanwhile Samajwadi Party said farmers have already decided to dethrone the BJP in 2022 polls.  There was no indication from the government's side, however, on any climb-down on the issue of the three contentious farm laws even as former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh was in the national capital to meet Home Minister Amit Shah amid buzz of some key announcement to mollify the protesting farmers. Delhi police had put up barricades and concertina at the protest site at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border last year. The Republic Day violence during a protest of farmers had led to further such measures. The police said the temporary barricading is being removed to ease out vehicular movement on the stretch earlier being occupied by a group of farmers on NH-9. The action came after a direction by the Supreme Court on October 21 Supreme Court, which while upheld the farmers’ right to protests also said they can not keep roads blocked for an indefinite time and called for unblocking them. As the removal of the barricading began at two farmer protest sites Tikri and Ghazipur, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmers, said it was the police and not farmers who had blocked roads. Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur were the border points at which the farmers were holding protests against the Centre's three farm laws since November last year. “The future course of the ongoing farmers’ protest would be decided by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is leading the movement against the three farm laws,” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said. "Only artificial barricades have been removed so far, soon the three anti-agriculture laws will also be withdrawn. Hail Annadata Satyagraha," Rahul Gandhi said with the hashtag 'FarmersProtest'.   अभी तो सिर्फ़ दिखावटी बैरिकेड हटे हैं,जल्द ही तीनों कृषि विरोधी क़ानून भी हटेंगे। Congress tweeted “our farmers have been protesting peacefully for 11 months on the borders of Delhi. They have remained steadfast through water canons, lathis and the bitter head and cold. We are committed to their cause and we will help through it all.” SP chief Akhilesh Yadav  said, “farmers are the worst sufferers in this government and agriculture is in trouble. They want to wipe out the BJP.  This is the country of farmers and farmers are losing their lives because they are standing in queues…Five years are going to be completed, at least tell us whether the income of farmers has doubled or not,” Yadav said attacking the BJP government in UP on a number of farmer- related issues. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-stand-vindicated-say-farm-unions-as-cops-begin-removing-barricades-at-farmers-protest-sites-1045362.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||UP principal arrested for hanging kid upside down as 'punishment'||In a shocking incident, a second standard student was allegedly hanged upside down by a school principal from the balcony of the school building in Uttar Pradesh's Mirzapur district, about 300 kilometres from here. The principal was arrested on Friday after a case was lodged against him by the police. ''It is an inhuman act...we will take strict action against the guilty,'' said a senior police official in Mirzapur. Although the incident happened on Wednesday, it came to light on Friday after a photograph showing the kid hanging upside down from the balcony and the principal of Sadhbhavna School at Ahiraura in the district, identified as Manoj Vishwakarma, holding one of his legs, went viral on social media. According to reports, Vishwakarma, who was also the manager of the school, was angry with the kid for being mischievous while eating. One of the students who witnessed the incident took a photograph and uploaded it on social media platforms. The father of the child lodged a complaint with the education officials and the police after his son reached home and narrated the incident. ''The kid was so scared that he refused to go to the school the next day,'' said a family member in Ahiraura. Additional Basic Shiksha Adhikari (ABSA) Arun Singh said that an investigation had been launched into the matter. ''We will cancel registration of the school if the incident turns out to be correct,'' he added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-principal-arrested-for-hanging-kid-upside-down-as-punishment-1045371.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Can't play with lives: SC on revaccinating Covaxin recipients with Covishield for travelling||The Supreme Court on Friday said that it cannot play with the lives of people by directing the Centre to revaccinate people with Covishield who are fully vaccinated with Covaxin to enable them to travel abroad during the Covid-19 pandemic. The apex court was hearing a petition that said that Covaxin was not approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and people here are facing difficulty in getting permission to travel abroad. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said that the court does not have any data of what will be the effect on the people and it cannot simply direct the Centre to re-vaccinate people with Covishield. "We cannot play with the lives of people by directing Centre to revaccinate. We don't have any data with us. We have read in newspapers that Bharat Biotech has filed an application with the World Health Organisation for recognition. Let us wait for the response of WHO. We will take up this matter post-Diwali vacation," the bench said. Advocate Kartik Seth, appearing in person, contended that every day some students and people are willing to go abroad but they are denied entry as Covaxin is not recognised by the WHO. He said that under the present mechanism a person vaccinated with Covaxin cannot register himself on the CoWIN portal to get the Covishield vaccine and a direction can be issued to the Centre in this regard. “We cannot pass a direction to administer another vaccine without any data. We understand your concern but let’s wait for the WHO’s response,” the bench said. The top court said that there is also concern that competitors may in the garb of the PIL try to take advantage of the litigation. Seth said that his PIL is purely a Public Interest Litigation as several students who go abroad to study are denied entries in various countries. The plea filed by Seth said that at the time of rolling out of Covaxin, the government did not make the public aware that it was not approved by WHO. It said that Bharat Biotech has submitted its application for approval as late as April 2021 and in May people came to know many countries are not allowing entry of those who are vaccinated with vaccines other than those enlisted in WHO’s emergency use list. The plea prayed for a direction to the concerned department and release of official data and reasons for the delay in getting approval to Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech. It also sought direction for disclosing the actual data and records to WHO to obtain approval in favour of Covaxin. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-play-with-lives-sc-on-revaccinating-covaxin-recipients-with-covishield-for-travelling-1045441.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Will Captain Amarinder Singh succeed in splitting Congress to build his party in Punjab?||The beleaguered Congress in Punjab is now fraught with the prospect of its MLAs likely to align with rebel former Punjab CM Capt. Amarinder Singh, who has announced he will be forming a new party for the coming elections just months away. Captain maintains many of the party MLAs were in touch with him and they would come out openly in support for him at an appropriate time. Alarmed over the ‘imminent’ crisis, Congress central leadership is ensuring it keeps its flock of disgruntled MLAs together. As the developments unfold, Rahul Gandhi has been meeting some of the Congress MLAs in New Delhi.  Captain, when asked how many MLAs were in touch with him had quipped, "If Rahul Gandhi needs to have back-to-back meetings with Punjab Congress MLAs, what does it mean?” Amarinder Singh needs MLAs on his side to stay in the reckoning in the elections. He has also maintained he would try to forge an alliance with breakaway factions of the Akali Dal. For Singh, this election will determine the traction he commands, having served almost two terms as chief minister.  Congress leaders in Punjab, especially party chief Navjot Sidhu and cabinet minister SS Randhawa, have been attacking Amarinder Singh even on personal issues. As the Congress versus Congress fight gets murkier and real issues grappling Punjab take a back seat in the melee, Capt’s Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam hogs newspaper columns with Randhawa and others raking up the issue in public domain. Sidhu has termed Capt a ‘spent cartilage.’ But all this unsavory war of words may not augur well with the new Congress dispensation in place in Punjab after the Captain's unceremonious exit. He has so far refrained from any personal attack on Congress leaders. Amarinder’s seat-sharing agreement with the BJP, which as it is does not enjoy much political groundswell in this border state, will itself be a challenge. BJP which earlier would fight only 23 seats in Punjab as an ally of the Akali Dal (its former ally), has now said it would fight all the 117 assembly seats. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-captain-amarinder-singh-succeed-in-splitting-congress-to-build-his-party-in-punjab-1045502.html
29-10-2021||North and Central||Change in land use without compromising green area in Central Vista, Centre tells SC||The Centre has maintained before the Supreme Court that the Delhi Development Authority took a holistic view and approved the change of land use in Central Vista Project without compromising with green area, built heritage, transport infrastructure and for better utilisation of the spaces.  The government defended its notification for change in land use in saying the area in question was being used for government offices for 90 years and loss of greenery will be compensated.  An affidavit filed by Central Public Works Department (CPWD) said the area was currently being used as government offices of the Ministry of Defence for almost 90 years now and no recreational activity, neighbourhood play area, existed as per actual ground conditions. However, CPWD said, considering the overall public purpose of the Central Vista and the vision behind it, the government had, in fact, increased various public areas for the purpose of recreation, public amenities, over and above the existing ones, for the larger benefit of the public. For example, north and south blocks, which covered nearly 27 acres, were proposed to be converted into national museums showcasing 'India in making' prehistoric to present date. "In addition, nearly 118 hectare of land on the Eastern and Western Bank of River Yamuna near Akshardham Temple ... and near IP Thermal Power Station on Western Bank is being developed as AMRUT Biodiversity Park to commemorate 75 years of India's Independence," it said. On Friday, a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar allowed petitioner Rajeev Suri to respond to the Union government's stand and put his petition for consideration on November 16. On October 25, the court asked Centre to respond to the plea challenging the land use in Central Vista project. The plea claimed the notification issued on October 28, 2020, notifying the change in land use, would deprive residents of Delhi, a vast chunk of highly treasured open and green space in Central Vistaarea available for social and recreational activity. Responding to the plea, the government said, "the Central VistaDevelopment/ Redevelopment Master Plan has been proposed to meet the present and future needs of space for the Parliament, Ministries/Departments; providing world class public space for interactions, recreation, better public facilities, amenities, parking, vending areas, facilities for conduct of national festivals and to infuse synergy and efficiency by integration of all the buildings of Common Central." Taking a holistic view and complying with Master Plan of Delhi-2021 provisions, the Delhi Development Authority has approved the change of land use without compromising with green area, built heritage, transport infrastructure, better utilisation of the spaces, it added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/change-in-land-use-without-compromising-green-area-in-central-vista-centre-tells-sc-1045514.html
29-10-2021||Opinion||Sangh Parivar queers MEA's efforts on India-Bangladesh relations||India's Ministry of External Affairs finds itself walking the diplomatic tightrope as it works to keep ties with Bangladesh on an even keel, even as right-wing elements mount pressure on the Indian government to take Dhaka to task for the recent spate of violent attacks against members of the Hindu community during the Durga Puja celebrations.  New Delhi knows it has a lot at stake and can ill-afford to allow the communal violence to affect the relationship with Dhaka. After all, under Sheikh Hasina's leadership, the Bangladesh government has been one of India's few steadfast friends in the neighbourhood. What has queered the pitch for South Block is that the domestic protests against the violence and vandalism perpetrated against Hindus in Bangladesh are being spearheaded by outfits such as the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), which is an important member of the Sangh Parivar. Even as South Block works to prevent the attacks from impacting the New Delhi-Dhaka relationship, voices from within the Sangh Parivar such as the VHP, Hindu Jagran Manch and even the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are keeping the pot simmering. The MEA is keen to ensure that communal elements on both sides of the border do not succeed in driving a wedge in the bilateral relationship. New Delhi's response to the acts of violence has been careful and calibrated. The MEA, for one, has desisted from using the words "Hindu community" in its remarks. It simply said it has "seen" the "disturbing reports of untoward incidents involving attacks on religious gatherings in Bangladesh." It was also quick to acknowledge Dhaka's "prompt" and "immediate" action against the perpetrators of the violence. There was even acknowledgement of the support that members of the general public in Bangladesh lent to the Hindu community. If any stronger concerns about the attacks were needed to be conveyed to Dhaka, New Delhi, in all likelihood, has done so behind closed doors in view of the robust ties with Bangladesh under the Sheikh Hasina government.  How vital the bilateral relationship is for New Delhi can be gauged from the recent remarks by Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla while speaking on the 1971 war that liberated Bangladesh. Shringla, who has earlier served as India's envoy to Bangladesh, said relations between the two nations "are deeper than any other strategic partnership." While the attacks on Hindu-owned homes, businesses as well as temples that rapidly spread across several cities in Bangladesh can by no means be condoned, Sheikh Hasina has sought to address Indian concerns with large-scale arrests and promises of bringing the perpetrators to justice. But a lot will depend on the commitment shown by Bangladesh to ensure the requisite punishment for the guilty, especially amid reports that grassroots cadres of the ruling Awami League too were involved in the anti-Hindu violence. The Awami League, in turn, is blaming the hardline Pakistan-leaning Jamaat-e-Islami for the violence. The Sheikh Hasina government will also need to address concerns that those behind violence against the Hindu community were eventually allowed to go scot-free in the past. This, even as Sheikh Hasina has been credited with coming down hard on Islamic fundamentalists in a nation witnessing growing radicalisation in recent years. The communal flare-up in Bangladesh and the protests against it in India have already had a diplomatic fallout. Visits by Bangladesh minister for information Dr Hasan Mahmud and his deputy Murad Hassan to Guwahati and Agartala, capitals of the BJP-ruled states of Assam and Tripura, to inaugurate film festivals showcasing Bangladeshi movies have been "rescheduled". Tripura has been rocked by violence and vandalism, with shops and homes belonging to Muslims being attacked and a mosque burnt by persons said to belong to the VHP. Also "postponed" is an exhibition of the works of Bangladeshi artist Rokeya Sultana at the New Delhi-based Lalit Kala Akademi, which had been organised jointly by the ICCR (Indian Council of Cultural Relations) and the Bengal Foundation. Clearly, diplomacy and party politics in India are not on the same page in their approach, even though the BJP-led government has had significant engagement with the Sheikh Hasina government. She has reciprocated in equal measure, even though the Teesta waters agreement has not been delivered to her and both the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, both seen as anti-Muslim measures, have caused her government considerable discomfiture. The recent action taken to evict Bengali Muslims encroaching on government land in Assam that saw police excesses too has only reinforced the belief that Muslims are being targeted in India.  This, in turn, has helped Islamist elements in Bangladesh push ahead with their narrative of the community's persecution in India. Sheikh Hasina indicated as much when she said that India needs to be aware that incidents that impact Bangladesh and lead to attacks on Hindus should not happen. For sure, the increasing attacks on the minority community in Bangladesh is a cause for concern. But it is an undeniable fact that what happens in India has a fallout in its neighbourhood too. And India would do well to keep this in mind if it seeks to maintain friendly relations with its neighbours.    (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sangh-parivar-queers-meas-efforts-on-india-bangladesh-relations-1045331.html
29-10-2021||Opinion||The Metaverse is Zuckerberg’s escape hatch||When Mark Zuckerberg appeared on screen at Facebook’s virtual Connect conference Thursday, smiling as he wandered through sterile rooms filled with midcentury modern furniture, he looked like a man unburdened. Whistleblower? What whistleblower? Cascading, yearslong trust crisis that has regulators fuming, employees bailing and lawmakers comparing Facebook to Big Tobacco? Hmm, doesn’t ring a bell. Instead, Zuckerberg and his lieutenants cheerfully laid out their vision for the so-called metaverse, the immersive virtual environment that Facebook — which, as of Thursday, has been renamed Meta, although everyone except for a few professionally obligated financial journalists will probably keep calling it Facebook — is trying to build. As with most of Facebook’s strategy announcements, Thursday’s rebranding formalised a shift that has been underway for years. The company already has more than 10,000 people working on augmented and virtual reality projects in its Reality Labs division — roughly twice as many people as are on Twitter’s entire staff — and has said it plans to hire 10,000 more in Europe soon. Earlier this week, the company announced that it would spend about $10 billion on metaverse-related investments this year, and it has been acquiring VR startups in what could amount to a metaverse land grab. There are several types of questions one could ask about this metaverse strategy. The first and most basic is: What is a metaverse, and what will Facebook’s version of one look like? That question was answered, at least partially, by Thursday’s presentation. Zuckerberg painted a picture of the metaverse as a clean, well-lit virtual world, entered with virtual and augmented reality hardware at first and more advanced body sensors later on, in which people can play virtual games, attend virtual concerts, go shopping for virtual goods, collect virtual art, hang out with each others’ virtual avatars and attend virtual work meetings. This vision of an immersive digital realm is not new — it was sketched out almost 30 years ago by science fiction author Neal Stephenson — but Zuckerberg is staking Facebook’s future on the bet that it will become real, saying that the metaverse will be a “successor to the mobile internet.” Another obvious question you could ask is “Will this work?” It’s impossible to say for certain, of course, although personally, I’m sceptical that Facebook — a lumbering bureaucracy whose biggest breakthroughs in the past decade have mostly come by buying competing apps or copying their features, rather than developing its own ideas internally — will create an immersive digital universe that people actually want to spend time in. But the most interesting question, to my mind, is: Why is Zuckerberg doing this? After all, it’s not a prelude to a huge corporate reorganisation or a sign of a chief executive who wants to give himself an easier job, as was the case when Google renamed itself Alphabet in 2015 and Larry Page handed over day-to-day control of Google to Sundar Pichai. And even though some have speculated that the Meta rebranding is meant to distract from Facebook’s most recent round of scandals, it’s bizarre to think that announcing a radical plan to reinvent the digital world would make critics less sceptical of the company’s motives. To understand why Zuckerberg is going all in, it helps to understand that a successful metaverse pivot could help solve at least four big, thorny problems that Facebook faces here in the terrestrial world. The first is one I’ve written about before, which is that Facebook’s core social media business is ageing, and younger users are abandoning its apps in favour of TikTok, Snapchat and other, cooler apps. Facebook’s youth problem hasn’t hurt it financially yet, but ad revenue is a lagging indicator, and there is plenty of evidence that even Instagram — the supposedly healthy app in Facebook’s portfolio — is rapidly losing the attention of teenagers and 20-somethings. The bleakest version of what Facebook might become in the next few years, if current trends hold — a Boomer-dominated sludge pit filled with cute animal videos and hyperpartisan garbage — is clearly not the kind of thing the company wants as its flagship product. (Zuckerberg explicitly endorsed a youth-focused strategy this week, saying that the company’s new focus was attracting and retaining young users.) The metaverse could help with the company’s demographic crisis, if it encourages young people to strap on their Oculus headsets and hang out in Horizon — Facebook’s social VR app — instead of watching TikTok videos on their phones. Another problem that Facebook’s metaverse strategy could address, if it works, is platform risk. For years, Zuckerberg has been irked that because Facebook’s mobile apps run on iOS and Android, its success is highly dependent on Apple and Google, two companies whose priorities are often diametrically opposed to its own. This year’s “app tracking transparency” changes by Apple, for example, dealt a blow to Facebook’s advertising business by making it harder for the company to collect data about users’ mobile activity. And if smartphones remain the dominant way that people interact online, Facebook will never truly control its own destiny. Zuckerberg has been talking about the strategic benefits of the metaverse since at least 2015, when he wrote to his lieutenants that “we need to succeed in building both a major platform and key apps to improve our strategic position on the next platform.” A metaverse strategy, if it worked, could finally get Facebook out from under Apple’s and Google’s thumbs by steering users to Facebook-owned platforms like Oculus, where it doesn’t need to worry about getting kicked out of the app store for snooping on users’ activity or aiding the illegal trafficking of domestic workers. And it would mean that if Facebook wanted to charge for, say, virtual clothing inside one of its metaverse apps, it could do so without paying a 30% fee to a rival. (On Thursday, Zuckerberg obliquely criticised Apple and Google, saying their gatekeeping of the mobile app ecosystem was “stifling innovation, stopping people from building new things, and holding back the entire internet economy.”) The third problem that Facebook faces is regulatory risk. Facebook is not on the verge of being broken up, exactly, but regulators are making enough noise about restricting its growth (by establishing new privacy laws or preventing it from acquiring the next Instagram, for example) that it makes sense to place bets in some areas, like VR and AR, that are less likely to be regulated any time soon. In addition, since so many of Facebook’s regulatory problems stem from the way its apps are used for fractious political debate, the metaverse could allow it to point to a kinder, gentler social universe that hasn’t yet been co-opted by angry partisans. (One group that conspicuously wasn’t pictured hanging out in the metaverse during Thursday’s presentation? Politicians.) The fourth problem, of course, is the reputational damage that Facebook has sustained as a result of its many missteps and scandals. For years, anything that Facebook does — even projects that have nothing to do with social networking, like introducing a cryptocurrency wallet — has been tainted by association. And given that dozens of media outlets are still poring through a year’s worth of damning internal research, the company’s public image is likely to get worse before it gets better. Zuckerberg, whose new public persona is something like “above-it-all futurist,” professes not to have been motivated to rename Facebook by a desire to escape the company’s baggage. But Facebook’s toxic brand has had real consequences. It has demoralised the company’s workforce and made it harder for Facebook to attract and retain talented employees. It has sunk partnerships, set advertisers on edge and turned Zuckerberg — who, despite his professed ambivalence, wants to be remembered as a visionary technologist rather than a destroyer of democracy — into a world-historic villain. Building the metaverse won’t solve any of these problems overnight. It probably won’t solve them at all and could, in fact, invite new kinds of scrutiny that Facebook wouldn’t have faced if it had simply spent the next several years focusing all of its attention on fixing the issues with its existing products. But it would be wrong to write off Facebook’s metaverse as just a marketing gimmick, or a strategic ploy meant to give the company more leverage over its rivals. (Although it is both.) If it works, Zuckerberg’s metaverse would usher in a new era of dominance — one that would extend Facebook’s influence to entirely new types of culture, communication and commerce. And if it doesn’t, it will be remembered as a desperate, costly attempt to give a futuristic face-lift to a geriatric social network while steering attention away from pressing societal problems. Either possibility is worth taking seriously. Regardless, this isn’t a vanity stunt for Zuckerberg. In the metaverse, he has found what may be an escape hatch — a way to eject himself from Facebook’s messy, troubled present and break ground on a new, untainted frontier. No wonder he looks so happy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-metaverse-is-zuckerberg-s-escape-hatch-1045456.html
29-10-2021||Right in the Middle||When a newspaper seller bids adieu||Empty chairs, no newspapers on racks, no magazines on stands, grief-stricken customers and deafening silence prevail at a shop that once used to buzz with life. It was the sudden and unexpected demise of my newspaper seller. I always banked upon Pawan uncle for newspapers and magazines since my college days. The hustle and bustle at his shop turned into a dull and irritating sluggishness.  Be it Sunday or any festival, Pawan uncle was always on time and had never taken any day off from work. Although if it was inevitable, he distributed the newspapers at wee hours so that the newspaper vendors didn't face any trouble. From a stranger to an integral part of my life, he always helped me with newspapers and magazines. He had a unique collection of magazines and newspapers in the city. I started going to him because the newspaper vendor in our locality distributes the newspapers late.  The deserted look of his shop at a crowded Bus Stand market in Patiala, Punjab speaks volumes about the ravages of time, erosion and accretion and how everything is transient. The table where one could not find a space because of the nicely kept newspapers, magazines and books now only houses a lock with a key. The lock kept on the table depicts so much; that which is layered, exhibiting a lock on his dreams, that which has parched the desires of those connected with him and no life. His urge to sell the best to the readers and his customers was irresistible. He is survived by his wife and two children. His wife told me that it was a heart attack. His colleagues were in a shock too as they said he came a day before his death in the morning and left after distributing newspapers to the vendors. It is never easy to fulfil the demands of the customers in times of a highly mechanised world where patience and trust have steeply dropped. The art of convincing was ingrained in him. After his demise, I had been to purchase a newspaper, I didn't get a copy in the entire city which left me wondering how relations matter. Another newspaper seller said he had very cordial relations with all the newspaper distributors who were above him in the chain. They gave him a variety of newspapers and he could return the unsold copies to them. While some newspapers are available only on order, he arranged those copies also. In the matters of life and death, nothing stops and life goes on but with adjustments and several alterations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/when-a-newspaper-seller-bids-adieu-1045473.html
29-10-2021||Second Edit||At Glasgow, the world’s last chance to fight climate change||The climate change conference in Glasgow, which is the 26th meeting of the United Nations Conference of Parties (CoP) and is set to begin on Sunday, is said to be the last chance for humanity to take steps to avert a global disaster. The meeting, to be attended by heads of state from 120 countries, is crucial as it is the culmination of years of international efforts to find a common ground and strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The meeting was to have been held last year but was put off due to the pandemic. All countries had made undertakings to voluntarily reduce carbon emissions at the 2015 Paris Conference. CoP26 was expected to review the progress on this, and that might be done in Glasgow. One benefit of the postponement is the return of the US, under President Joe Biden, to the table, reversing Donald Trump’s withdrawal from it. The participation of the US is important. There cannot be any useful climate agreement without the world's second-biggest carbon emitter being a party to it.  Discussions and negotiations on climate change have underlined the need to formulate strategies that would help to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial level. This was agreed upon in Paris. But this would demand achievement of a 45% reduction in carbon emissions from 2010 levels by 2030 and then ‘net zero' emissions, which means emission levels that can be naturally absorbed, by 2050. These are extremely difficult, even impossible, targets, especially for developing countries. The US, the European Union (EU) and Britain have declared ‘net zero’ targets by 2050; China has set a 2060 target. India has not accepted it. As in the case with the US, no agreement will be possible at Glasgow without the world’s biggest and third-biggest emitters on board.  Developed countries have to go much farther than they have agreed to do till now to ensure that there is an agreement. This is because the present situation is the result of the huge emissions by them in the last 150 years. The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities demands that they compensate developing countries for the mitigation steps, transfer appropriate technologies to them and support them in other ways to implement their development and climate change strategies. But they have not honoured their commitments in these respects. It is difficult to predict whether there will be an agreement acceptable to all countries at Glasgow. It is even more difficult to say if even the best agreement will be good enough to reverse the climate change threat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/at-glasgow-the-world-s-last-chance-to-fight-climate-change-1045475.html
29-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu will not implement NEP, to form expert panel to formulate State policy, says MK Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday reiterated that the State would not implement the Centre’s New Education Policy, 2020, and announced that an expert committee would be set up to formulate an education policy for the State. Defending his government’s latest initiative of Illam Thedi Kalvi (Education at Doorstep) which he launched from Villupuram district on Wednesday, the Chief Minister said, “This novel initiative to bridge the learning gap that got deepened due to the closure of schools (owing to pandemic), will help develop and strengthen education further.” Without going deep into the NEP, the Chief Minister said in a statement that “Tamil Nadu has already made it clear that it will not implement the NEP, 2020. An expert committee will be formed soon to evolve an education policy for the State.” The NEP, approved by the Union Cabinet on July 29, 2020, outlines the nation’s vision. Earlier this month, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan asserted that several provisions outlined in the NEP aims at internationalism in education and help to provide students with an affordable and quality education. “The Illam Thedi Kalvi programme was launched by the government accepting the recommendation of an expert committee. This pioneering effort will further develop the education,” the Chief Minister said. So far about 86,550 volunteers have registered to impart skills to the school students. These volunteers would be trained by the government and their work would be monitored, he said. “It has been planned to enrol about one lakh students in government schools in the coming education year through the Illam Thedi Kalvi programme,” Stalin said and appealed to all sections in society to support the government's initiative. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-will-not-implement-nep-to-form-expert-panel-to-formulate-state-policy-says-mk-stalin-1045237.html
29-10-2021||South||Mullaperiyar dam opened, red alert sounded at Idukki reservoir||Spillway shutters of Mullaperiyar dam at Idukki district in Kerala were opened by Tamil Nadu authorities on Friday morning as the water level in the reservoir crossed 138 feet. People living along the banks of Periyar river in Kerala were shifted as a measure of abundant caution before the two spillway shutters were opened.  Tamil Nadu government officials raised by 0.30 metres the spillway shutters 3 and 4 of the 126-year-old dam at around 7.30 am. According to PTI, 538.16 cusecs of water has been flowing out of these two shutters of the dam since morning. In view of the opening of Mullaperiyar dam and predictions of more rains in the catchment areas, the government has also sounded a red alert in Idukki reservoir. The shutters of the dam were last opened during 2018 floods.  Kerala has been demanding decommissioning of the dam citing safety concerns and mooting constructing a new one but Tamil Nadu, which is managing the dam, has been opposing it.  The Supreme Court on Thursday maintained that the water level should be maintained at 139.5 feet till November 10 as per the rule curve. Meanwhile, many parts of south and central Kerala received heavy rains and suffered minor landslide on Thursday night. No casualty was reported. Besides officials from the two states, Kerala Revenue Minister K Rajan and Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine were present during the opening of the shutters of the dam. Talking to reporters, Rajan said there was no need for any panic as the government has taken measures to ensure safety of the people. He, however, urged the people to maintain vigil. According to officials a total of 1,079 people from 350 families who would be affected by the two-foot-high flood have been evacuated. Mullaperiyar dam, built in 1895 on Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala, is operated by the Tamil Nadu government for its irrigation and power generation needs. Kerala is insisting on building a new dam, citing safety concerns, but Tamil Nadu is against it, saying the present structure was strong. (With inputs from PTI) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mullaperiyar-dam-opened-red-alert-sounded-at-idukki-reservoir-1045279.html
29-10-2021||South||Widespread rains in southern Kerala; 'Orange Alert' sounded in 5 districts||Several parts of the southern districts of Kerala continued to receive widespread rainfall on Friday causing waterlogging in low-lying areas and damage to roads as the weathermen sounded an 'Orange Alert', predicting very heavy rainfall, for five districts. According to the latest update of India Meteorological Department (IMD), isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthita, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki districts. A 'yellow alert', indicating heavy rainfall, was issued in another five districts - Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad. Meanwhile, rain water entered several houses and three vehicles were washed away in the overnight heavy rains and flooding in Punalur-Thenmala region in Kollam district. Incessant rains caused widespread destruction in the region and damaged some portions of the national highway as huge boulders fell down the road, local people said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/widespread-rains-in-southern-kerala-orange-alert-sounded-in-5-districts-1045313.html
29-10-2021||South||Introduce 'permit' for people entering Tamil Nadu: DMK ally||Tamizhaga Vazhurimai Katchi (TVK), an ally of the ruling DMK, has triggered a row by demanding the introduction of a “permit” system for people from other states entering Tamil Nadu to ensure that they don’t “snatch jobs meant for native Tamils.” T Velmurugan, MLA from Panruti constituency who won on the DMK’s Rising Sun symbol, has alleged that private and Central government offices that function in Tamil Nadu “boycott Tamils” as part of “their design” by recruiting 90 per cent of their staff from outside the state.  “The wave of migration is increasing each passing day. We are witnessing a situation where outsiders dominate every sphere of life in Tamil Nadu side-lining the native people. This fails the very purpose on which states were formed on linguistic basis,” Velmurugan said in a statement.  Velmurugan shot into the political limelight after his supporters ransacked a toll plaza managed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in 2018 protesting the delay in the formation of the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) and when his party cadre let out huge black balloons protesting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Chennai.  In the statement, Velmurugan said that if no steps are taken to curb the migration of labourers into Tamil Nadu, native people will become a “minority” and lose their “political dominance.” He also referred to incidents of “non-native” Bengali speakers defacing name boards in Assamese in Assam’s Barak Valley. “To curb the increasing trend of people from other states entering Tamil Nadu, the state government should introduce a permit system for those belonging to other states entering the state,” Velmurugan said.  Though there was no reaction from the DMK, the statement triggered a row on Tamil Twitter with many opposing the “regressive” and “protectionist” move. They sought to know what would happen if other states start doing the same.  “This kind of protectionism will help nobody. Our businesses will be forced to handle more paperwork to hire Indians. Let us also remember Tamils are employed all over India in white-collar & blue-collar jobs. I am sure our CM is wise enough to ignore such calls,” Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) spokesperson Lakshmi Ramachandran tweeted.  In the statement, Velmurugan said if people from other states continue to migrate to Tamil Nadu, the regional parties would be pushed to the second position. “North Indians will only vote for parties like the BJP,” he said.  DMK had in its election manifesto promised to bring legislation to ensure that 75 per cent of jobs in Tamil Nadu are reserved for Tamils. Chief Minister M K Stalin had then justified the move saying Tamil Nadu youth are losing jobs meant for them. “Youth from Tamil Nadu are being ignored in jobs in Central government offices, public sector undertakings (PSUs), banks, and Railways, as people from north India, are preferred for these positions. The BJP has been accommodating north Indian youngsters in jobs in Tamil Nadu only to impose Hindi on the state. Tamil youngsters do not get jobs that are due to them,” Stalin told DH in an interview in March 2021.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/introduce-permit-for-people-entering-tamil-nadu-dmk-ally-1045333.html
29-10-2021||South||Kerala best performing state in 2021: Think-tank||Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana were adjudged as the best performing states during 2021 by the think-tank Public Affairs Centre (PAC) which released the Public Affairs Index 2021 on Friday. G Gurucharan, Director of Public Affairs Centre, said the 6th edition of the Public Affairs Index was important because it analysed the key indicators of the state in the year 2021, which has brought into focus the crucial nature of sub-national governance. "Sub national governance came under focus like never before in the aftermath of the country-wide pandemic that disrupted the economy and society in unprecedented ways," he said.He said the states bore the brunt as they struggled to address the human, economic, social as well as political challenges. "Critical appraisal of their effort is necessary because in the medium to long term, it is likely that much of the current development will centre on some states while others face less than optimal prospects," he said. He said decentralised national governance must be built in states to navigate the context specific, technical and economic bottlenecks. The operations, however, should remain transparent and socially accountable, he added. A Ravindra, Chairman of PAC, announced the winners. He said Kerala was the winner among the large states while Sikkim was the best performer in the small states category while Puducherry was best performing Union Territory. Smridhi Pande, Programme Officer, said the 43 indicators included special development goals, five centrally-sponsored schemes, ranking of the states based on performance during the pandemic.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-best-performing-state-in-2021-think-tank-1045344.html
29-10-2021||South||Badvel Assembly constituency in Andhra Pradesh set to go for bypoll on October 30||The Badvel Assembly constituency in the district is all set to go for a by-poll on October 30 with police making elaborate security arrangements. The polling will be held from 7 AM to 7 PM, a senior official of the State government said. The seat fell vacant following the death of ruling YSR Congress Party legislator Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah in March. The party has fielded Subbaiah's widow Sudha as its candidate while the opposition Telugu Desam Party announced that it would not nominate anyone to the by-poll respecting the widow of the demised legislator terming it "traditional values". BJP's candidate Suresh Panathala supported by actor Pawan Kalyan's Jana Sena Party is in the fray while Congress nominated P Kamalamma as its candidate. Counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. According to Kadapa Superintendent of Police KKN Anburajan, as many as 281 polling stations for the by-poll were set up out of which 148 have been identified as "critical." "Over 2,000 police personnel including central armed police forces have been deployed at all necessary places," the police official told PTI. The constituency has over 2.16 lakh eligible voters. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/badvel-assembly-constituency-in-andhra-pradesh-set-to-go-for-bypoll-on-october-30-1045348.html
29-10-2021||South||Minority scholarship: SC notice to Centre on appeal challenging Kerala HC order||The Supreme Court Friday sought response from the Centre and others on an appeal against the Kerala High Court order which quashed the state government orders sub-classifying the minorities by providing merit-cum-means scholarship. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai issued notices to the Ministry of Minority Affairs, Kerala State Commission for Minorities and others on the state government's appeal and sought their replies within four weeks. In the May 28 order, the high court had quashed the Kerala government orders sub-classifying the minorities by providing merit-cum-means scholarship at 80 per cent to Muslim community and 20 per cent to Latin Catholic Christians and Converted Christians, saying it cannot be legally sustained. Senior advocate C U Singh appeared for the Kerala government. The bench also issued notice on two connected petitions, filed by private organizations — Minority Indians Planning and Vigilance Commission Trust and MSM Kerala State Committee. Advocate Haris Beeran, appearing for petitioner Minority Indians Planning and Vigilance Commission Trust, submitted before the bench that the government order was in operation for the last 13 years and sought a stay on the high court order. The apex court, however, refused to stay the high court order. The high court had also directed the government to pass requisite and appropriate orders providing merit-cum-means scholarship to members of the notified minority communities within the state equally and in accordance with the latest population census available with the State Minority Commission. "Here is a case where without taking into account the entitlement of the Christian minority community within the state available from the population ratio, state is indulging in providing scholarship to the Muslim minority community at 80 per cent, which according to us, is an unconstitutional act and unsupported by any law. "Mere executive orders issued by the State Government cannot overreach the provisions of the Minority Commissions Acts, 1992 and 2014, and the imperatives contained under the provisions of the Constitution of India discussed above. Article 29 also casts a duty to protect the educational interests of the minority community in equal measure and not in a discriminatory manner," the high court had said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minority-scholarship-sc-notice-to-centre-on-appeal-challenging-kerala-hc-order-1045363.html
29-10-2021||South||Rajinikanth undergoes procedure to restore blood supply to brain||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was on Friday “recovering well” after he underwent a procedure known as Carotid Artery Revascularization that restores normal blood flow to the brain at a private hospital here.   The procedure was performed on the actor a day after he was admitted to the hospital following an episode of giddiness.   “He was thoroughly evaluated by the expert panel of doctors and was advised to undergo Carotid Artery Revascularization. The procedure was performed successfully today and he is recovering well. He is likely to be discharged from the hospital after few days,” Dr Aravindan Selvaraj, Co-Founder and Executive Director, Kauvery Hospital, said.   Carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure to remove plaque from the inside of the carotid artery to restore normal blood flow to the brain.   Rajinikanth, who received the Dadasaheb Phalke award in New Delhi on Monday, had watched a preview of his yet-to-be-released movie Annaatthe along with his family members, including his grandchildren on Wednesday. A day later, he was taken to the Kauvery Hospital after he complained of giddiness at his home in upscale Poes Garden here.  Rajinikanth’s wife Latha had on Thursday confirmed that her husband was at the Kauvery Hospital, but termed his hospitalisation as “routine.” The actor, who underwent a renal transplant in the US in 2016, had cited “ill-health” and the Covid-19 situation for his pulling out of an earlier announcement to take the political plunge.   In December 2020, while shooting for Annaatthe in Hyderabad, Rajinikanth spent three days at the Apollo Hospitals in the Telangana capital following fluctuation in his blood pressure.   Meanwhile, Chief Minister M K Stalin wished the actor a speedy recovery.      Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-undergoes-procedure-to-restore-blood-supply-to-brain-1045386.html
29-10-2021||South||Stalin visits Keeladi excavation site||Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday visited Keeladi village where archaeological excavations conducted since 2014 have created a buzz with significant findings that link the artefacts with the Sangam Era. Stalin visited Keeladi, the once nondescript village near Madurai where archaeological excavations have entered the seventh phase and inspected the trenches from where artefacts were unearthed. The seventh phase of excavation came to an end on September 30 and work on writing a report on the findings is on.  T Udhayachandran, Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister who as the Archaeological Commissioner published a report on the findings during the fourth phase, and officials from the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) took Stalin around the excavation site and gave a presentation.  Stalin also visited a hall where some of the artefacts that have been unearthed since 2017 when the TNSDA took over the excavations from the Archaeological Survey of India are displayed. He was also briefed on the work on building a museum at nearby Konthagai village where all artefacts found during excavations in Keeladi, Konthagai, and Agaram will be displayed.  Keeladi is a Sangam Era site and the archaeological excavation in the village has been mired in controversy. After unearthing over 5,000 artefacts from Keeladi, the ASI had in 2017 said there was no “significant finding” during the third phase and wanted to end the excavation. However, the Madras High Court intervened and allowed TNSDA to take over from ASI. Artefacts found during the fourth phase have established that the site belongs to the Sangam Era. Carbon dating of artefacts found that they are 2,600 years old pushing the Sangam Era further by 300 years. The findings encouraged the TNSDA to expand the excavations to Sivagalai in Thoothukudi where carbon dating of a paddy husk revealed its age as 3,200 years old.  During the seventh phase, a ring well incised with the decorated fish symbol was also unearthed, in yet another evidence that the site belonged to the Sangam Age.  The fish symbol, which is an integral part of the flag believed to have been used by the mighty Pandiyan Kingdom, was found incised on a ring well that looked like a design.  Archaeological findings in Keeladi and Sivagalai in the Thoothukudi district have created a buzz with researchers and archaeologists in Tamil Nadu calling them significant as they “narrow down” the gap between the Tamil urban settlements and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). However, they say “more evidence” should be forthcoming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-visits-keeladi-excavation-site-1045417.html
29-10-2021||South||Ex-leader's return a relief to Congress in Kerala amid desertion||In what could be considered as a tit for tat move in Kerala politics, a former Congress local leader who quit the party two decades back returned to the Congress from the left-front on Friday close to the heels of several Congress local leaders leaving the party and joining the CPM. Cheriyan Philip formally announced his return to Congress after a meeting with senior AICC leader A K Antony at his residence in Thiruvananthapuram. Philip, who was once considered as a loyalist of Antony as well as former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, left the Congress in 2001 after he was denied a seat for contesting the Assembly polls. Now his return to Congress is also due to displeasure over the left-front denying seats in the elections. Addressing the media after announcing his return to Congress, Philip said that the CPM did not allow him to grow and hence he decided to return to Congress. When pointed out reports that more from Congress were planning to join the CPM, he said that let them go and suffer. Cheriyan later made serious allegations against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office. He said that many members in the Chief Minister's personal staff, including those who faced probe in connection with nexus with gold smuggling racket, were misleading Vijayan and were posing themselves as super CMs. It was following the announcement of district Congress committee presidents last month that the Congress in Kerala witnessed at least five local leaders quitting the party and joining the CPM. The new leadership of Congress in the state, Kerala PCC president and Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan, even came under criticism from within the party for not initiating any steps to address the concerns of the disgruntled leaders. Hence the return of Philip to Congress camps from the left-front could be a relief for the Congress leadership. Philip, who did not take the CPM membership, was given posts of Kerala Tourism Development Corporation chairman and coordinator of various missions by the left-front governments. But Philip's request for seats in the election was declined by the left-front. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-leaders-return-a-relief-to-congress-in-kerala-amid-desertion-1045458.html
29-10-2021||South||Huzurabad bypoll: KCR's might versus former lieutenant's long association||The Saturday bypoll in Huzurabad would test if voters would remain loyal to former health minister Eatala Rajender, now a BJP candidate, or side with the TRS, the party he had represented in the state assembly elected from here four times. The constituency in north Telangana fell vacant in June after Eatala resigned from the TRS and also the assembly membership, following charges of land grabbing and a probe initiated into the same by the K Chandrasekhar Rao government. Faced with the combination of the "vengeful" senior leader and an emerging BJP, CM Rao had even brought in Dalit-Bandhu, an ambitious scheme providing Rs 10 lakh financial support for Dalit families. Ahead of the polls schedule announcement, the scheme was launched in Huzurabad as a pilot for the state-wide rollout later. Huzurabad with 2.37 lakh voters has a considerable share of Scheduled Caste voters. However, the scheme intended for one community, the TRS leaders fear, could alienate votes of more populous groups like the Backward Castes, to which Eatala belongs. The TRS's candidate is the party's student wing leader Gellu Srinivas Yadav, who is also from the BC community. While the TRS and BJP are engaged in a fierce contest, the Congress party appears to have fallen back and is accusing both the parties of large scale violations of the election model code. "The whole Telangana government is overtly engaged in the by-poll campaign and resorting to unashamed abuse of official machinery, to get an upper hand for the TRS candidate. When CM KCR sensed that even 'Dalit Bandhu' might not work, he has ordered his ministers and MLAs to pull all stops in Huzurabad. Even BJP is using all its political might and money power for votes,” alleged Congress spokesperson Dr Dasoju Sravan while accusing ECI officials in Telangana “of turning a blind eye to the irregularities in Huzurabad.” Badvel, an SC reserved constituency, in Andhra Pradesh would also vote on Saturday but is expected to reelect YSRCP. By-poll here is because of the death of YSRCP sitting MLA Dr Venkata Subbaiah in March due to illness. The main opposition TDP has kept away from the contest as the YSRCP candidate is the late legislator's widow Dr Sudha. The BJP is in the fray, which analysts say is to test its standing in CM Jaganmohan Reddy's home-turf Kadapa district. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/huzurabad-bypoll-kcrs-might-versus-former-lieutenants-long-association-1045468.html
29-10-2021||South||Villagers resent unequal distribution of 'cash for vote' in Huzurabad||A high decibel campaign over the last several weeks with claims of welfare, good governance by the TRS and counter claims by the BJP not enough, both the parties are purportedly distributing 'cash for votes' in Huzurabad to turn the result in their favour.  While various reports, social media posts state that up to Rs 6,000 is being offered in some places for each vote, observers said that the “asking rate” could be even higher in swing vote segments. In rather startling scenes reflective of the ever growing menace in Telangana, voters of some villages in the constituency, especially women, staged protests, road blockades alleging uneven, unfair distribution of cash. Some voters have threatened Panchayat, ward level party functionaries of “unfavoubale outcome” if their “rightful share” is not handed over by Friday night i.e., before the by-election on Saturday. A few have accused local leaders of pocketing the wades of currency notes sent by the top leaders for their village/community. “Political parties should ensure that the election time money is distributed equally to everyone. Offering more money to some sections, caste groups and less or no money to others in the same village is causing quarrels between us,” rued two women who protested along with others in Seethampet village of Illandukunta mandal on Thursday.  Check out the latest DH videos here: The police had a tough time calming the women while explaining to them that seeking benefits for their votes is illegal.  Though the flow of cash, liquor and other allurements during polls has become an open secret in the state, the election investment has reportedly skyrocketed in the constituency where the BJP candidate Eatala Rajender and TRS's Gellu Srinivas are in a close contest. The Congress party on Thursday demanded that the Election Commission cancel the Huzurabad bypoll, accusing “the TRS and BJP of resorting to brazen power abuse and obstruction of a free and fair election.” “Instead of conducting elections, the ECI should auction MLA and MP seats, as only the super rich with money bags can win the polls nowadays,” AICC spokesperson Dr Dasoju Sravan said while charging TRS, BJP leaders of “making a mockery of the electoral system, democratic practices.”  The bypolls for the assembly constituency in north Telangana, necessitated by Eatala's resignation and exit from TRS in June, would take place on Saturday and the results will be declared on Tuesday.  “Huzurabad bypoll could have become the most expensive election in the history of Indian democracy as both TRS and BJP are splurging money earned through corruption. As the campaigning ended on Wednesday, TRS and BJP leaders distributed envelopes containing Rs 6,000 to 10,000 to voters. Alcohol is also flowing freely to unduly influence male voters,” Dasoju said while charging the Telangana Chief Electoral Officer of inaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/villagers-resent-unequal-distribution-of-cash-for-vote-in-huzurabad-1045479.html
29-10-2021||State||RIP Puneeth Rajkumar: A powerhouse performer who became an inseparable part of Kannada Cinema||The mass hero, Kannada matinee idol Rajkumar's youngest child, made his big-screen debut as an infant when he appeared in his father's popular film Premada Kanike, which hit the screens in 1976. 'Appu' won the Karnataka State Film Award for 'Best Child Actor' for his work in Chalisuva Modagalu, which emerged as a commercial success. It featured 'Annavru' in the lead and was later remade in Telugu as Rajakumar. The young master delivered an equally impressive performance in Bettada Hoovu, which attained cult status and helped him win the National Award for Best Child Actor'. Puneeth eventually made his 'official debut' with the 2002 release Appu, which emerged as a sensational hit at the box office. The action-comedy was remade in multiple languages, which helped it attain cult status. He subsequently consolidated his standing in the industry with films such as Abhi, Veera Kannadiga, Arasu, Raaj, Jackie and Anna Bond. Hudugaru clicked with the younger generation, helping him bag a SIIMA Award in the 'Best Actor' category. In 2015, he pushed his limits as a performer when he played a double role in the 'massy' action-thriller Rana Vikrama. He next appeared in the actioner Chakravyuha, which appealed to die-hard fans. The 'Powerstar' scored inarguably the biggest hit of his career when he collaborated with director Santosh Ananddram for the actioner Raajakumar, a subtle ode to his father's evergreen classic Kasturi Nivasa. The film, which hit the screens in 2017, catered to a family audience and had pretty much everything--right for songs to romance-- that one would expect from a commercial entertainer. The film starred Priya Anand, best known for her work in the Hindi movie English Vinglish, as the female protagonist and marked her Sandalwood debut. The two impressed fans with their reel chemistry and emerged as a popular pair. The same year he acted alongaide Rashmika Mandanna in Anjani Putra. The star did not have any major releases the next year but eventually returned to the big screen with the 2019 release Natasaarvabhowma, which got a wide release in Karnataka. His last movie Yuvarathnaa released earlier this year, receiving positive reviews. It, however, could not reach its potential due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. He was working on James and Pavan Kumar's Dvitva. The actor also produced movies such as French Biriyani, Kavaludaari and Law. His untimely death is a big loss for Kannada cinema.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rip-puneeth-rajkumar-a-powerhouse-performer-who-became-an-inseparable-part-of-kannada-cinema-1045322.html
29-10-2021||State||RIP Puneeth Rajkumar: How the superstar met his wife Ashwini||Their love blossomed under limelight yet remained under wraps. Scion of Sandalwood’s first family, he was a superstar-in-waiting. She, a feisty and effervescent youngster, not really daunted by his status. Puneeth Rajkumar had basked in the limelight as a child superstar and was bracing himself up for a shot at superstardom, as an adult when he met Ashwini, who had just completed her studies, through common friends. There were no instant sparks though. But they moved around in common circles for a while before realising that they were getting closer. They soon began dating and the courtship lasted a year before they decided to tie the knot. “I still remember how nervous I was to broach the subject of my marriage with Ashwini to my parents. I had never spoken to them so freely and openly about such matters. It was the first time I stood before my father and told him I wanted to marry this girl I loved. He then asked me to tell my mother and soon things began falling in place,” Puneeth told Metrolife. At first, the idea of a joint family and nothing less than 30 members in one house irked Ashwini. But it was not long before Ashwini slipped into the groove and made herself at home. “Appaji loved sweets and I would make sure that my weekends were devoted to making sweets and desserts for the family,” she says. It’s been 10 years since the couple tied the knot. “And it’s been great. We have had our differences but we sort it out in no time to get back together,” says Puneeth. Ashwini pitches in, “I am a little egotistic and don’t give in so easily but Puneeth brings me around and soon our differences become no differences at all.” she says. Ashwini says she is proud to be married into the Rajkumar family. “The love, affection and the sense of togetherness that the family has taught me is truly amazing,” she confesses. She had watched enough Rajkumar’s films and had a great regard for the thespian. She confesses that she’s not much of a movie buff and that she has only watched a few films that Puneeth has acted in but she’s thrilled about Puneeth’s performance in Raaj the Showman and says this is one movie that Puneeth has truly excelled in. “My wife is my best critic. There are times when she tells me that I have overacted in a particular scene and that my dance or a fight sequence is not up to the mark,” says Puneeth. Ashwini and the children accompany Puneeth on his shooting schedules abroad. “My children and I go sight seeing and shopping while Puneeth shoots.” Ashwini is close to most of Puneeth’s female co-stars and therefore there is a certain level of comfort during such schedules. Besides lending silent support, Ashwini hasn’t really gotten involved much in the production of his films. But she chooses Puneeth’s costumes most of the time. “He’s very brand conscious whether it’s his shoes, accessories or clothes. I am not a brand person and anything would do for me but now he’s bringing me around to being more brand wise,” she says. Puneeth says that he has grown up watching his mother take active part in their home productions. “She has made us what we are. She built the business and brought us thus far. It’s her determination, persistence and courage that have given us a boost,” says Puneeth, who believes that every woman has talent and that talent must be utilised to the hilt. Puneeth’s children, both girls, Drithi and Vanditha, six and three years old, respectively, love watching their father on the screen. “Vanditha is a very people’s person and she goes all out to shake hands and mix with people when we’re out. The older one is a little more reserved,” says Ashwini. The kids are taken out to parties, shooting schedules and are accustomed to travelling. The couple loves globetrotting, shopping and reading. And, of course, spending weekends with the kids is what makes for their quality time. “I am a foodie and have my favourites, Puneeth is more controlled and doesn’t indulge as much as I do,” Ashwini signs off. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rip-puneeth-rajkumar-how-the-superstar-met-his-wife-ashwini-1045359.html
29-10-2021||State||KRS reservoir reaches the brim||With the regions under the Cauvery basin receiving rainfall over the past few days, water level at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk in the district reached the brim on Friday. The water level reached 124.80 feet and the crest gates of the dams have been opened. The inflow was 6,883 cusec and outflow was 6,262 on Friday evening. The dam used to fill up in the months of July and August but, this time it has been delayed by two months due to insufficient rainfall and release of water to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/krs-reservoir-reaches-the-brim-1045481.html
29-10-2021||State||Four die as lorry falls into deep ditch on Agumbe ghat ||As many as four persons have reportedly died and five others been injured when a lorry fell into a deep ditch while it was negotiating the cross number 9 on Agumbe ghat road in Thirthahalli taluk that connects Shivamogga district with Udupi. According to police, the injured persons have been admitted to KMC hospital in Manipal and their condition is said to be critical. Agumbe and Hebri police rushed to the spot. The incident took place when the lorry was heading towards Someshwara of Udupi district from Agumbe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-die-as-lorry-falls-into-deep-ditch-on-agumbe-ghat-1045518.html
29-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sandalwood superstar Puneeth Rajkumar passes away at 46||Kannada cinema’s reigning star and celebrity television host Puneeth Rajkumar, known for films such as “Appu”, "Veera Kannadiga" and “Maurya", died here on Friday following a massive heart attack, the hospital said. He was 46. Puneeth, who was known to be a fitness enthusiast, was rushed to Vikram Hospital after he complained of chest pain following a two-hour workout in the gym, doctors treating him said. He died shortly after. He is survived by his wife Ashwini Revanth and two daughters Dhriti and Vanditha. Restless crowds of stunned fans milled around the hospital complex as news came in of the sudden death of the actor, the son of much-loved matinee idol Rajkumar who fast outgrew his father’s shadow to carve a place all his own in the Kannada showbiz industry. Puneeth's body will be kept at the Kanteerava Stadium to enable the public to pay their last respects, state minister R Ashoka told reporters. He said Puneeth's last rites will be performed with full state honours and the family will decide when it will happen. According to the hospital, the actor was brought to the hospital with a family doctor diagnosing that he had had a heart attack. "At the time of arrival to the emergency, the patient was non-responsive and was in cardiac asystole. Hence, immediate advanced cardiac life support measures were initiated for resuscitation..." "The panel of medical experts extended all efforts to save him. He was declared dead at 2.30 pm on 29.10.2021," read the statement by Dr Ranganath Nayak, a cardiologist at Vikram Hospital. Condolences at the death of the actor, who began his career as a child artist appearing in movies such as "Thayige Thakka Maga" and "Bhagyavantha", poured in from political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, colleagues in the southern film industry as well as those in Bollywood -- their messages echoing his legions of fans grieving the hero who had gone too soon. Sharing a picture with the actor and his family, the prime minister said, "A cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti." Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was among the first to condole the death. “A huge personal loss and one that's difficult to come to terms with. Praying the almighty gives the Rajkumar family and fans the strength to bear this loss." he tweeted,” the chief minister said. Bommai said the actor was supposed to meet him on Friday to plan Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1. "But the destiny had something else in store. Instead of meeting me, he went somewhere else. This is extremely shocking," the CM told reporters. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also paid her condolences. “A bright star. He had a long promising career ahead. My condolences to his family, his innumerable fans and followers," she posted on Twitter. Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah, BS Yediyurappa and S M Krishna also condoled the actor's death. After a stint as a child actor, Puneeth made his debut as a leading man in the 2002 movie "Appu" and followed it up with a string of successful movies, including "Abhi", "Maurya", "Ajay" and "Arasu". Puneeth was also a popular celebrity host on television. He hosted the first two seasons of "Kannada Kotyadhipati", the Kannada version of Amitabh Bachchan's "Kaun Banega Crorepati". He also emceed Colors Kannada's reality show "Family Power". Colleagues such as Chiranjeevi, Mahesh Babu, Prakash Raj as well as Abhishek Bachchan and Sonu Sood posted their condolences on Twitter and other social platforms. "Ahh Noooo .. Gone too soon my dear Appu. I’m shattered .. Heartbroken .. not fair #BlackFriday #PuneethRajkumar," Prakash Raj said on Twitter. "Shocking, devastating & heartbreaking! #PuneethRajkumar gone too soon. Rest in Peace! My deepest sympathies and tearful condolences to the family. A huge loss to the Kannada / Indian film fraternity as a whole. Strength to all to cope with this tragic loss!" added Chiranjeevi. Actor Parvathy Thiruvothu shared a throwback photograph with Puneeth from one of their films. "It aches beyond words could ever express. Puneeth Broken heart #PuneethRajkumar" she captioned the picture. Actor-producer Prithviraj Sukumaran said he was heartbroken. "This hurts so much! Rest in peace superstar! May the family, friends and millions of fans have the strength to tide through this sorrow! #PuneethRajkumar Folded hands." Mahesh Babu said Puneeth's sudden demise has left him "shocked and deeply saddened" and recalled Puneeth as being one of the most humble people he had met. "Heartbreaking news! Gone too soon. #PuneethRajkumar My condolences to his family and his fans. You will be missed," said Abhishek Bachchan. Singer Shreya Ghoshal said the actor's death has left her devastated. "This can’t be true! Devastated to hear this. #PuneethRajkumar. A humble superstar, so young, at the pinnacle of his life, simply left the world. My deepest heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and fans. Om Shanti," she wrote. Actor Sonu Sood condoled the death of the Kannada power star and said, "Heartbroken 💔Will always miss you my brother. #PuneethRajkumar." More details awaited. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sandalwood-superstar-puneeth-rajkumar-passes-away-at-46-1045316.html
29-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bitcoin case: Karnataka government will not compromise on probe, says CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said everybody involved in the Bitcoin-and-drugs case will be brought to justice, refuting the Congress’ claim that the government was trying to hush it up to ‘protect’ influential people. In his first detailed statement on the case that has gained much traction in the past couple of days, Bommai told reporters that the prime accused, hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki, was allowed to go scot-free in February 2018 when he was named in an FIR of an brawl case. This is the infamous Farzi Cafe case when the Siddaramaiah-led Congress was in power. "Five or six people were arrested, but he was not," Bommai said, adding that it was the BJP government that arrested him. “[Congress] let him go. We [BJP] caught him. If only he was caught in 2018, his misdeeds could have been discovered then itself,” Bommai said. Sriki was caught in 2020 while importing drugs on the darknet as part of the government’s ‘war on drugs’ when Bommai was the home minister. "Several influential people were named in the FIR and they were arrested also, both in 2018 (assault case) and 2020 (drugs). Only during the inquiry conducted after his arrest in 2020 was it revealed that [Sriki] was a hacker and had hacked into several sites," he said. As a result, three separate cases were filed against him. Inquiry is complete in all three cases and chargesheets also filed, the CM said. "Not only was he chargesheeted, as soon as we got to know about his accounts in foreign countries, we referred the case to ED on March 3, 2021," he said. Another case of hacking involving multiple nations was referred to the Interpol branch of CBI with all the required details on April 28, 2021. Bommai was responding to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s charge that the government was out to cover up the case. “This allegation is part of the narrative being set by them in the face of imminent defeat in the bypolls,” he said. "The BJP government has a clear stance of 'no compromise and zero tolerance on this issue. That is why we pursued the case. Or else, we would have let him go like the previous government,” he said. He further asked Siddaramaiah to furnish evidence for his claims. “He has tweeted vaguely, alleging that politicians and officials were involved and attempts are being made to bury the case. I agree that there should be a comprehensive probe. That’s why we’ve referred the cases to the central agencies. He should speak with some evidence about who was involved. He cannot repeat a lie, blaming it on others. If he comes with evidence, we will probe," he said. Due to the efforts of the state government, central agencies are now probing the case, Bommai added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bitcoin-case-karnataka-government-will-not-compromise-on-probe-says-cm-bommai-1045340.html
29-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Puneeth Rajkumar, the multi-talented star||In a shocking development on Friday, Kannada icon Puneeth Rajkumar passed away after a heart attack. He was 46 and leaves behind wife Ashwini Revanth and daughters Drithi and Vanditha.  The fifth and youngest child of thespian Dr Rajkumar and producer Parvathamma Rajkumar, Puneeth first dazzled on screen as a child actor. He starred in Rajkumar's hits like 'Vasantha Geetha', 'Bhagyavantha', 'Chalisuva Modagalu', and 'Bhakta Prahaladha'. He won the National Award for 'Best Child Artist' for his performance in 'Bettada Hoovu'.  Apart from his father Rajkumar, his elder brother Shivarajkumar is an established superstar with over 100 films to his name. His other brother, Raghavendra Rajkumar, too is a seasoned actor.  Ironically, his demise coincides with the release of Shivarajkumar's big-scale film 'Bhajarangi 2', which hit around 1,000 screens across India on Friday. Puneeth and Shivarajkumar had shared the stage a couple of days ago during the film's pre-release event.  He made a roaring debut as the lead in 'Appu', directed by Puri Jagannadh. He received the screen title of 'Powerstar' and gave several hits in the first phase of his career like 'Abhi', 'Maurya', 'Akash', and 'Ajay'.  With an affable smile and an easy-style of acting, Puneeth not just aced the 'mass' hero roles but also impressed audiences in the roles of nuanced characters. His relationship drama 'Milana' enjoyed a 500-day run and also gave him the State Award. He was praised for similar roles in 'Pruthvi' and 'Paramathma'. He replicated the massive success of 'Milana' with the family drama 'Raajakumara' that is learnt to have made Rs 75 crore at the box office, an industry record. His last film was 'Yuvarathnaa' which released on April 1. He was the darling of the family audience.   Puneeth forayed into television with 'Kannadada Kotyadipathi', the Kannada version of the quiz game show 'Kaun Banega Cororepati'. Puneeth's hosting was widely appreciated and the show became a massive hit.  A fitness freak, Puneeth was popular for executing his own stunts in several films. He had many big projects lined up such as the psychological thriller 'Dvitva', action drama 'James' and an untitled project with director Dinakar Thoogudeepa.  Puneeth was a terrific dancer and his moves in films had become a rage among his fans. He was also a gifted singer, often singing peppy numbers that went on to become chartbusters.  He opened his production house 'PRK Productions' that decided to back small, content-oriented films. Films such as 'Mayabazar', 'French Biriyani' and 'Law' were from the banner. In total, Puneeth Rajkumar won four State awards. The Kannada film industry condoled his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/puneeth-rajkumar-the-multi-talented-star-1045341.html
29-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bitcoin scam probe will be transparent: Ashwath Narayan||The investigation into the Bitcoin scam will be conducted in a transparent manner and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has already clarified on the kind of investigation and the case being referred to central investigation agencies, said Minister for Higher Education, IT and BT, Science and Technology, Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood Dr C N Ashwath Narayan. "The government has taken its stand on the Bitcoin scam. There is no threat to the state government from the scam. The Chief Minister only has said that the state government had entrusted the probe to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). There is no threat to the government and we are following the law,” he told mediapersons in Mangaluru. To a query on BJP leaders involved in Bitcoin scam, the Minister said that the opposition is levelling baseless allegations. "They are trying to create confusion without knowing the truth," he said. The voters in Sindagi and Hanagal are in favour of the BJP. By supporting the BJP candidates in the by-elections, the people in both the constituencies will help in strengthening the hands of CM Bommai. To a query on IT raid on D K Shivakumar’s close aide, the IT department does not look into the political parties. It will conduct raids on those who try to evade tax. The department collects a lot of information before conducting any raid, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bitcoin-scam-probe-will-be-transparent-ashwath-narayan-1045343.html
29-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'I was to meet Puneeth Rajkumar today', says devastated Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Sandalwood star Puneeth Rajkumar’s last rites will be performed with full state honours. “We spoke yesterday and I was supposed to meet him today,” Bommai told reporters outside Vikram Hospital where the 46-year-old actor battled for life following a heart attack. “I was supposed to inaugurate his website on November 1. But fate had other plans. I couldn't meet him.” Bommai said Puneeth’s final resting place will be decided by his family. Sulking, Bommai repeatedly expressed shock over Puneeth’s demise. “Puneeth went to the gym as was his routine. Then, he complained of fatigue and met his family doctor. He was told that his heart condition was critical and was referred to Vikram Hospital. All attempts were made to revive him. But, there was no success,” Bommai said. Hailing Puneeth as a youth icon, Bommai said the actor had achieved much at a young age. “His family and the entire state are in despair,” he said. “This is a big loss for cinema and the arts. He had leadership potential. He had a bright future with much more that he could have done.” Bommai said he went back a long way with thespian Dr Rajkumar’s family. Bommai addressed Puneeth as Appu, his moniker. He remembered launching the ‘Dr Rajkumar Learning App’, an social initiative by Puneeth, two months ago, soon after he took charge as chief minister. “We spent two hours at the event,” he said. “This is so cruel. This loss can’t be filled up.” RIP Puneeth Rajkumar: Here are some facts about the Kannada Power Star||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-was-to-meet-puneeth-rajkumar-today-says-devastated-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1045365.html
29-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Puneeth said no to politics, did not charge money for social campaigns||Sandalwood star Puneeth Rajkumar was a sought-after celebrity for the government to promote various social causes. However, the actor consciously resisted attempts to get him into politics. Over the years, Puneeth endorsed the Right to Education (RTE), Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Nandini milk, election franchise (right to vote) among other social initiatives.  In March 2020, Puneeth was roped in by the government as the development ambassador for the backward Chamarajanagar district.  In June this year, the government got Puneeth to create awareness on Covid-19 precautions and vaccination.  “He was always available for all government initiatives and awareness campaigns for which he never charged a single penny,” IPS officer Isha Pant, deputy commissioner of police (command centre), said in a tweet. “For the Bengaluru City Police Twitter handle, too, he did so many awareness videos with his charismatic smile always on his face.” For the 2014 Lok Sabha and the 2018 Assembly elections, Puneeth was featured by the Election Commission, with the actor urging citizens to vote. That was the closest he would get to politics.  “We tried much to bring him into politics. But, Puneeth would not let his mind be changed on this,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said, remembering Puneeth as his childhood friend and neighbour in Sadashivanagar. “We spent 8-10 years in the Affinity gym in the locality.” Like his siblings Shivarajkumar and Raghavendra Rajkumar - also actors - Puneeth maintained distance from politics while having cordial relations with leaders from all political parties.  Puneeth’s sister-in-law Geetha (Shivarajkumar’s wife) is, perhaps, the only member of the Rajkumar household to have an active political life. Geetha, former chief minister S Bangarappa’s daughter, had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Shimoga as the JD(S) candidate. Puneeth did not campaign for her.  In fact, Puneeth issued a public statement in March 2019 asking people to keep him away from politics. “I have nothing to do with politics...As an actor, I identify myself with the arts and not politics,” Puneeth had said, in response to speculation that he would campaign for Sumalatha Ambareesh in the 2019 Mandya Lok Sabha poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/puneeth-said-no-to-politics-did-not-charge-money-for-social-campaigns-1045429.html
29-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Puneeth Rajkumar's fan dies of cardiac arrest||A 30-year-old fan of actor Puneeth Rajkumar died of cardiac arrest after learning about the death of the actor on Friday. Muniyappa of Maruru village near Ponnachi in the taluk is deceased. Muniyappa is Puneeth’s fan from his childhood days and he collapsed after learning about the death of Puneeth. Though he was rushed to a primary health care centre, he died. Muniyappa was survived by a one-year-old daughter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/puneeth-rajkumars-fan-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-1045433.html
29-10-2021||West||Honorary 'Doctor of Science' conferred on Sharad Pawar, Nitin Gadkari||Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari and NCP chief Sharad Pawar received honorary 'Doctor of Science' degrees during the 35th convocation of Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV), Rahuri on Thursday. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who presided over the convocation of the agriculture university in Ahmednagar district, conferred the degrees on Pawar and Gadkari for their contribution to agriculture, an official release said here. Koshyari said the work done by these two leaders in the fields of agriculture and technology has provided guidance to the country. Agriculture steered the economic growth when industries were shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Koshyari said. The governor also urged varsities to provide education of agriculture and technology-related subjects in Marathi.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/honorary-doctor-of-science-conferred-on-sharad-pawar-nitin-gadkari-1045235.html
29-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan's lawyers await HC order copy on his bail to secure his release from jail||Even as the Bombay High Court has granted bail to actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who was arrested in drugs-on-cruise case, his lawyers will have to wait till they get the high court's operative order for taking further steps towards securing his release from jail. Once the high court gives the order copy on Aryan Khan's bail, his lawyers will have to take it to a special court hearing the NDPS cases along with other necessary documents, like sureties. The special court will then issue the release papers, which will have to be submitted to the jail superintendent by 6 pm to secure his release this evening. In case of any delay in the procedure, Aryan Khan will have to spend one more night at the Arthur Road jail in central Mumbai, where he is currently lodged, and could be released on Saturday. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre on Thursday granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The HC also granted bail to his co-accused and his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. The high court had said it would provide a copy of its order on Friday. Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde on Friday said they are ready with all the requisite documents, including the sureties, and are waiting for the order copy from the high court. "We are prepared with our sureties. We are hoping to get the order copy from HC today. Once we receive it, we will submit the same along with all the necessary documents to the special NDPS court,” Maneshinde told PTI. The NDPS court once satisfied with the sureties and other papers shall issue release papers which shall then be submitted to the jail, he added. "We hope to do it by this evening itself so that we can get Aryan Khan out of jail," Maneshinde said. As per procedure laid down, if the formalities, which include submission of sureties, are complete and the release papers are submitted to the jail Superintendent by 6 pm, then the accused would be released on that day. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 and were booked under the relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment to commit an offence. Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison since October 8 after they were sent to judicial custody. Dhamecha has been lodged at the Byculla women's prison since October 8. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khans-lawyers-await-hc-order-copy-on-his-bail-to-secure-his-release-from-jail-1045300.html
29-10-2021||West||'UPwood' won't come up by defaming Bollywood: Nawab Malik targets BJP over drugs-on-cruise case||Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Friday trained guns on the BJP, alleging that there is a conspiracy to defame the Maharashtra government and people via Wankhede. "I've been saying conspiracy to defame Maharashtra's government and people is being executed via Wankhede. It's BJP conspiracy. Yogi Maharaj wants a Film City in Noida. It's their misconception if they think 'UPwood' will come up by defaming Bollywood." Meanhwile, Malik continued to attack NCB Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede by releasing a video of the 'real drug dealer' Kashif Khan, who was present on the cruise that was raided by the NCB team. Taking a dig at Wankhede and another witness Kiran Gosavi, Malik said, "You can see that situation has completely changed. The man who was dragging Aryan Khan to NCB office, is now behind bars. The man who was doing everything to ensure that Aryan Khan and others are not given bail, was knocking the court's door yesterday." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/upwood-wont-come-up-by-defaming-bollywood-nawab-malik-targets-bjp-over-drugs-on-cruise-case-1045304.html
29-10-2021||West||Published Wankhede's former wife's photos with her consent: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Friday claimed that he made public the photos of the first wife of NCB officer Sameer Wankhede with her prior consent. The minister also said he has never said anything against Wankhede's current wife, actor Kranti Redkar, and she should not play the "Marathi card". Malik was asked by reporters whether it was appropriate on his part to use the photos of Dr Shabana Qureshi, the first wife of Sameer Wankhede, when the couple had divorced by mutual consent some years ago. Some BJP leaders too had raised this point. The NCP leader said when he received the photos from someone, he was told that the person (in the photographs) had agreed that they could be used. "Dr Shabana Qureshi was never willing to come forward or speak over this issue (earlier). When Sameer Wankhede started stressing that he is Hindu, they had to speak up. Her father then told everyone that they always knew Wankhede family as being Muslim,” Malik said. The state minority affairs minister also said he never made any comment or allegation against Kranti Redkar. "While she has been playing the Marathi card, I want to underscore the fact that I and my family have been living in Maharashtra for almost 70 years. Am I not a Maharashtrian?" said the NCP leader. Redkar should not forget that her husband was "part of a conspiracy to defame Maharashtra and Mumbai," Malik further said. "I do not think a person will be saved only because he is a Maharashtrian, even if he belongs to certain caste or religion,” he added. Malik has levelled several allegations against Wankhede, the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau, following a raid by the NCB on a cruise ship during which drugs were allegedly recovered and actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan was arrested along with others. The minister claimed that Wankhede got a government job in the Scheduled Castes category even when he was Muslim by birth. The NCB official has maintained that he is Hindu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/published-wankhedes-former-wifes-photos-with-her-consent-nawab-malik-1045500.html
