30-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka bypolls: Voting underway in Sindagi, Hangal Assembly constituencies||Voting is underway for the bypolls in Sindagi and Hangal assembly constituencies in Karnataka, election officials said on Saturday. The polling began at 7 am will go on till 7 pm. A total of 19 candidates are in the fray in the two constituencies, including six from Sindagi and 13 from Hangal. Two candidates from Sindagi are women. The counting of votes will take place on November 2. There are a total of 4,39,148 eligible voters, including 230 service voters from both constituencies, who can cast their votes at 560 polling stations. The by-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindagi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP's C M Udasi from Hangal. While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindagi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal constituency. The Congress has named M C Managuli's son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindagi, while former MLC Srinivas Mane is its candidate from Hangal. The JD(S), which was the first to announce its candidates, has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindagi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. This is the first electoral challenge for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after taking charge. Retaining Hangal is even more important for him as it is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment. The Congress, by ensuring a win, wants to give momentum for its preparations in the run up to 2023 assembly polls in the state, while the JD(S) is looking to retain Sindagi seat and thereby prove that it still commands a support base in the northern districts. Congress leaders have alleged that the JD(S) deliberately fielded minority candidates for the Hangal and Sindagi by-elections to help the BJP. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bypolls-voting-underway-in-sindagi-hangal-assembly-constituencies-1045610.html
30-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fan of Puneeth Rajkumar dies due to shock||A fan of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar died due to shock late night on Friday at Shindoli village in Belagavi after coming to know about the actor's death. He has been identified as Parashuram Hanumant Demannavar (33). Parashuram had been working as a labourer and was a fan of Puneeth and Shivarajkumar, locals said. Parashuram was in a state of shock after getting to know about Puneeth's death and had been sitting before television having glimpses of the body being kept at the Kanteerava stadium in Bengaluru for fans to pay their tributes. It is feared that he suffered cardiac arrest due to shock and died. Another fan, Rahul Gadivaddar, attempted to end his life by hanging at Athani. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fan-of-puneeth-rajkumar-dies-due-to-shock-1045642.html
30-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru mourns Puneeth Rajkumar's death: Posters put up in streets, youths chant 'Appu'||From major streets in the main city to markets facing the iconic Chamundeshwari Temple atop a hill, admirers of Kannada superstar Puneeth Rajkumar have put up large posters of him with garlands at many places in Mysuru to mourn his death. The actor and celebrity television host, fondly known as 'Appu' and 'Yuvarathnaa' after his eponymous films, died at 46 at a hospital in Bengaluru on Friday afternoon after suffering a massive heart attack, plunging his legions of fans into a state of extreme grief and anguish. By late evening on Friday, several big posters bearing his images had sprung up at various spots in the city. A huge framed poster was mounted near Hardinge Circle in the heart of the city, while a smaller was pasted on a security barricade in a market zone right outside the premises of the centuries-old Chamundeshwari Temple, revered as the presiding deity of city of Mysuru. Almost all posters had a white garland made of mogra flowers. A digital billboard on a street near an educational institution also displayed condolence messages along with the actor's photograph. Puneeth Rajkumar's untimely demise shocked the Kannada and other film fraternities and drew condolences from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Union Culture Minister G Kishan Reddy, among others. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the current scion of the Mysore royal family, also expressed his condolences in a statement issued on his official social media platforms, and prayed for the actor's "soul to attain peace and tranquility". Soon after the news came out that he had suffered a heart attack, scores of anxious fans started gathering around Vikram Hospital, where he later died at 2.30 pm despite best efforts by doctors to save him. On Friday, the mood was sombre in Mysuru as people struggled to come to terms with the sudden death of the superstar. "Everyone is feeling low due to his death. He was a superstar, his father was a legendary film icon, and both were greatly admired by generations of fans," said Ganesh K, who works at Hotel Mayura Hoysala here, run by the Karanataka State Tourism Development Corporation. After midnight, many of the fans took to the streets as their chants of 'Appu love you' in Kannada broke the silence of the night. Around 1 am, a group of youth assembled near the Mayura Hoysala located on Jhansi Laxmibai Road near the Mysuru Railway Station and chanted 'Appu, Appu' to show their adoration for the actor. While some fans chose to play full blast hit songs from the actor’s films inside their cars as they drove around the city, thumping their fists out of the windows and raising slogans in chorus. Puneeth Rajkumar was the son of much-loved matinee idol Rajkumar and fast outgrew his father's shadow to carve a place of his own in the Kannada showbiz industry. He was adored by his fans and gave a series of hits starting with Appu, which later became his nickname following the success of the film. Many of his fans also call him 'Power Star'. After a stint as a child actor, the Kannada film star had made his debut as a leading man in the 2002 movie Appu and followed it up with a string of successful films, including Abhi, Maurya, Ajay and Arasu. He was also a popular celebrity host on television. He hosted the first two seasons of "Kannadada Kotyadhipati", the Kannada version of Amitabh Bachchan's "Kaun Banega Crorepati". He also emceed Colors Kannada's reality show "Family Power". "We used to watch his shows on TV. He was talented, cheerful and a man with a large heart. I heard he had donated his eyes, such a good human being. We really enjoy serving our guests, but today the enthusiasm is running low," said a senior employee of a leading luxury heritage hotel in Mysuru. Puneeth Rajkumar's body will be kept at the Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru for the public to pay their last respects, state minister R Ashoka told reporters on Friday. He said the actor’s last rites will be performed with full state honours and the family will decide when it will happen. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-mourns-puneeth-rajkumars-death-posters-put-up-in-streets-youths-chant-appu-1045686.html
30-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ruckus in Mangaluru council meeting over garbage row||The row over failure on the part of the door-to-door waste collectors to collect garbage, resulting in many public places in the city turning into garbage black spots, created ruckus in the council meeting of Mangaluru City Corporation. The meeting was chaired by Mayor Premananda Shetty. Opposition leader A C Vinayraj alleged that people have been throwing waste by the roadside due to the failure on part of the contractors, who engage in door-to-door waste collection in the city. Corporators Praveenchandra Alva and Naveen D’Souza alleged sanitary inspectors were failing to monitor waste collections in the city. The arguments on waste collection led to Congress members entering the well of the house and holding a protest for a few minutes. While convincing the corporators from Congress, the Mayor said that “dumping waste in public places was witnessed even when the Congress was in power. Our team of officials have been identifying all the black spots and clearing it. CCTV cameras have been installed at many places to penalise those who dump waste in the city.” Row over LED lights Corporator from the Congress Lancelot Pinto raised the issue of LED lamps of low luminosity being installed as part of the LED streetlight project taken up under Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL). Vinayaraj said that the contractors have been installing only 20 watt LED lamps. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said three showcase notices have been served on contractors. “So far, the contractors have installed 6,842 LED streetlights. We have sought the contractors and their lead partners to provide an explanation before the city corporation. If they continue to delay the work, we will issue a pre-termination notice. If the luminosity is less than the agreement, then it will be replaced through our engineers,” he added. On-site compost units The council of the city corporation has resolved to withhold the October 31 deadline given for bulk waste generators to install on-site compost units to process wet waste. The Mayor said that there are a lot of confusions in the rule that mandates on-site compost units mandatory by the bulk waste generators in the city. The council also has approved a proposal to appoint 35 vacant posts of data entry operators to expedite the process of e-payment facilities. Another proposal to name a circle at Surathkal after Veer Savarkar mooted by Mangaluru City North MLA Y Bharath Shetty was referred to the Standing Committee on Town Planning. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ruckus-in-mangaluru-council-meeting-over-garbage-row-1045767.html
30-10-2021||National||Pneumonia vaccine to be rolled out nationwide||The Union Health Ministry on Friday expanded the use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in the universal immunisation programme for the entire nation with the hope of reducing death among children by 60%. The nation-wide rollout comes a few years after the vaccine was introduced in five states -– Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh -– that account for nearly 70% of India’s pneumonia burden. “Pneumonia is a leading cause of death among children under five years old, globally and in India. The nationwide rollout of PCV will reduce child mortality by around 60%,” Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, flagging off the expansion. According to a 2019 UNICEF analysis quoted by the Union Health Ministry in Parliament, India stands second in the world with regard to deaths of children caused by pneumonia with nearly 1,27,000 deaths in 2018. Surprisingly, the ministry doesn’t have any updated information on its own on India’s pneumonia burden.  A January, 2021 report by the ministry on PCV cites statistics from 2010 with officials admitting that the pneumonia data wasn’t updated since the last decade when 1,05,000 pneumonia deaths had occurred in Indian children younger than five years. In 2010, 3.6 million cases of severe pneumonia were reported in children younger than five years in India. The estimated incidence of severe pneumonia was 30.7 per 1,000 children per year in those less than five years of age, and 87.3 in children aged less than one year. The three-dose vaccine was administered to children at 1.5 month, 3.5 months and 9 months in Himachal Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh since 2017 with support from GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, benefitting more than 20 lakh children. Subsequently, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh were brought into the programme. India’s infant mortality rate has come down to 30 per thousand live births in 2019 from 47 in 2010 and 129 in 1971. Despite the decline in IMR over the last decades, one in every 33 infants die within the first year of their life at the national level, according to the latest bulletin released by the Registrar General of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pneumonia-vaccine-to-be-rolled-out-nationwide-1045540.html
30-10-2021||National||Indian Railways start first AC-3 economy coaches train||Indian Railways started its first fully AC-3 tier economy coaches in the Gati Shakti superfast special train between Anand Vihar Terminal and Patna Junction on Friday. "For the convenience of the rail passengers and to clear extra rush of passengers during ensuing festivals, Indian Railways is going to introduce a special train 01684/01683 Anand Vihar Terminal-Patna-Anand Vihar Terminal Gati Shakti Superfast Special train having composition of 20 new 3 AC Economy coaches," the railways said in a statement. The train will make a total of five trips till November 7. The base fare of Economy AC-3 tier coach is 8 per cent less than the normal AC-3 class of coaches. Each economy AC coach has 83 berths, 11 more than the conventional AC-3 coaches of railways. The space for the additional berths has been created by moving the main electrical controls under the coach. The railways has provided aircraft-style personalised AC vents for each berth. Other features of the Economy AC coach including fire-proof berths, modified ladder for easy access to middle and upper berths, personalised reading lights, modular bio-toilets, one divyang friendly bio-toilet. The railways has already been running the new Economy AC coaches in trains since September this year and plans to manufacture a total of 800 such coaches this year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-start-first-ac-3-economy-coaches-train-1045568.html
30-10-2021||National||BJP accuses Mamata Banerjee of 'disrespecting Hindu sentiments' during temple visit||The BJP on Friday accused Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee of disrespecting Hindu sentiments during the visit to a temple in Goa. State BJP spokesperson Siddharth Kunkolienkar said Banerjee during her visit to the famous Mangueshi temple threw the `teerth' (holy water) on the ground. A video showed the West Bengal chief minister sprinkling the teerth over her head. Banerjee is on a three-day visit to the BJP-ruled state. Her party has announced that it would contest the next year's Goa Assembly polls. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-accuses-mamata-banerjee-of-disrespecting-hindu-sentiments-during-temple-visit-1045573.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi to hold one-on-one meeting with Pope Francis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a one-on-one meeting with Pope Francis on Saturday at the Vatican City ahead of the delegation-level talks during which they are expected to discuss a range of areas of interests in terms of the general global perspectives and issues such as Covid-19. "The Prime Minister will have a separate call. He will be meeting his Holiness on a one-on-one basis. And that could, after a certain period of time, be followed up by delegation-level talks,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters here on Friday while briefing the details of the Prime Minister’s engagements in Italy. Shringla said the Vatican has not set any agenda for the talks. “I believe tradition is not to have an agenda when you discuss issues with His Holiness. And I think we respect that. I'm sure the issues that will be covered would cover a range of areas of interests in terms of the general global perspectives and issues that are important to all of us,” he said. "Covid-19, health issues, how we can work together...and this is something that, I think would be the general trend in the discussions," he added. In his departure statement on Thursday, Modi said he will be visiting Rome and the Vatican City from October 29-31. "During my visit to Italy, I will also visit the Vatican City, to call on His Holiness Pope Francis and meet Secretary of State, His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin," Modi said. From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow, the UK, at the invitation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-hold-one-on-one-meeting-with-pope-francis-1045578.html
30-10-2021||National||Fuel on fire! Petrol, diesel prices hit all-time high||Prices of petrol and diesel across India surged to an all-time high after fuel rates were hiked by 35 paise for the fourth consecutive day. A litre of petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 108.99 and a litre of diesel Rs 97.72. In Mumbai, the rate of petrol currently stands at Rs 114.81 and diesel Rs 105.86 a litre each. Petrol and diesel cost Rs 109.46 and Rs 100.84, respectively, in Kolkata and Rs 105.74 and Rs 101.92, respectively, in Chennai. In Bengaluru, a litre of petrol is available at Rs 112.79 and diesel at Rs 103.72. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-on-fire-petrol-diesel-prices-hit-all-time-high-1045584.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi to call upon G20 leaders to ensure mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccines, inoculation certificates||The G20 Summit in Rome during the weekend is likely to see the leaders of the rich nations endorsing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposal to work out a global mechanism for mutual recognition of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and inoculation certificates issued by the governments of the different countries. Modi arrived in Rome early on Friday to attend the summit, which would be hosted by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi on Saturday and Sunday. He is expected to call upon the G20 nations to ensure mutual recognition of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines developed or being developed and the certificates issued to the inoculated people by the authorities in countries around the world. The Prime Minister had a meeting with the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, and the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, in Rome on Friday. He discussed the global response to the Covid-19 pandemic during the meeting. He also had a bilateral meeting with the Italian Prime Minister. The EU leaders and the Italian Prime Minister lauded the Government of India for the progress in inoculating people with anti-Covid-19 vaccines, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said. He said that Modi had also discussed with the EU leaders and the Italian Prime Minister climate change and the situation in Afghanistan.   Union Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal said that India’s proposal for mutual recognition of the vaccines and the inoculation certificates had already received “tremendous support” from the other G20 nations. Goyal is New Delhi’s ‘sherpa’ for the G20 Summit and he has been in Rome for the past three days overseeing preparations for the Prime Minister’s participation in the conclave. He told journalists in Rome on Friday that the G20 had endorsed India’s position that extensive Covid-19 immunisation was “a global public good”. He said that the discussions were going on among the officials of the G20 nations to incorporate in the summit communiqué the call for mutual recognition of the Covid-19 vaccines, test reports and the inoculation certificates in order to ease international travels and thus help revive the global economy hit hard by the pandemic. “There is a broad consensus on the issue. All nations want to bring back normalcy,” said the Commerce and Industry Minister. India had to press some European Union nations hard earlier this year to make them individually exempt its citizens inoculated with Covaxin or Covishield from travel restrictions as the two anti-Covid-19 vaccines had not been among the ones approved by the bloc for its “Green Pass” programme. The “Green Pass” – formally known as the EU Digital Covid Certificate – was recognised by the members of the EU from July 1. It is proof in digital format or on paper that a person has been vaccinated against the Covid-19, tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection or recovered from infection. Some of the EU nations later started recognising the vaccination certificates issued by the Government of India to the people inoculated with Covishield, which was developed by the AstraZeneca PLC and the Oxford University and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in India. The Covaxin, however, is still hardly recognised by any other country, as the World Health Organization has not yet approved it and put it on its Emergency Use List. The British Government’s new travel rules, which came into effect on October 4 last, too had initially refused to recognise travellers inoculated with Covishield in India as fully vaccinated and to exempt them from mandatory quarantine requirements on arrival in the UK. After New Delhi had warned of “reciprocal measures”, the British Government had on September 22 revised its travel rules to recognise the Covishield as one of the “approved” anti-Covid-19 vaccines, but still refused to recognise the certificates issued to people, who had been inoculated with the jab in India. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Government finally relented and agreed to exempt travellers inoculated with the two doses of the anti-Covid-19 Covishield vaccine in India from mandatory quarantine requirement on arrival in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-call-upon-g20-leaders-to-ensure-mutual-recognition-of-covid-19-vaccines-inoculation-certificates-1045585.html
30-10-2021||National||Modi 24-carat gold, perhaps only leader after Gandhi with deep understanding of our society: Rajnath Singh||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "24-carat gold", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said he is perhaps the only leader after Mahatma Gandhi with deep understanding of Indian society and its psychology. Singh, a former BJP president, said Modi's political journey of last two decades as head of government should be taught in management schools as a case study on "effective leadership and efficient governance". Speaking at length about the last two decades of Modi's political journey, Singh said, "A true leadership is identified by its intent and integrity and in both cases, Modiji is 24-carat gold. There is not a single stain of corruption on him even after being the head of a government for 20 years." He was speaking at the valedictory session of a national conference on 'Delivering Democracy: Reviewing 2 Decades of Narendra Modi as Head of Govt'. Singh said Modi is not merely a person, but an idea, a thought. "If we look at his political journey of the last two decades, we will find that new challenges kept coming before him. But the way he faced those challenges should be taught in management schools as a case study on effective leadership and efficient governance," the defence minister said. Singh said the way Modi overcame challenges, it shows his deep understanding of Indian society. "He is perhaps the only leader after Mahatma Gandhi with deep understanding of Indian society and its psychology." Referring to the systematic changes that the Modi government is trying to bring in, Singh said the government has changed many times in this country, "but for the first time efforts are being to made change the system. You can find loopholes in this effort but Modiji's intent cannot be disbelieved." Touching upon the government's agenda of a self-reliant India, the defence minister said hundred years ago Mahatma Gandhi spoke about 'Swadeshi' and after him, Deendayal Upadhyaya spoke about it. "Now Modiji has brought Swadeshi 4.0 with new context and subtext. This is not a campaign against anyone but a positive effort to strengthen local products and brands," Singh said. Talking about Modi's tenure as Gujarat chief minister, Singh said he took the state on the path of holistic development and worked for the progress of every section of the society. The defence minister said Modi gave the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' and then as prime minister added 'Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas' to it. "Yeh nara 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' dete huiyae Narendra bhai  Modi ne Gujarat mein panth nirpekshta ki ek nai ibarat likh di (By giving this slogan of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', Narendra Bhai Modi in Gujarat wrote a new chapter of unbiasedness towards any religion)," Singh said, adding secularism does not mean unbiasedness towards any religion. Singh also cited various reforms and schemes started by Modi as Gujarat chief minister. Stating that there is no difference between Modi's words and deeds, the defence minister said he accepted the crisis of credibility in Indian politics as a challenge and overcame it. Discussing Modi's commitment to development, Singh said for a long time, promotion of trade, industry and business was avoided in this country. "It was believed that if you stand with business and industry then your social commitment is weak. Modiji gave a tough challenge to this misconception. He recognised and respected industry and entrepreneurs in nation building, supported and promoted them also," Singh said. Singh shared details of his long association with Modi when they were chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat respectively, and said Modi's amazing decision-making ability and imaginative power impressed him the most. Modi served as chief minister of Gujarat from 2001 till his election as prime minister in 2014. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-24-carat-gold-perhaps-only-leader-after-gandhi-with-deep-understanding-of-our-society-rajnath-singh-1045586.html
30-10-2021||National||DH Toon | This festive season, beware of new variants while shopping||The number of Delta AY.4.2 variant of coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly in some foreign countries, has increased to seven in Karnataka with three more people found to be infected with it in the Bengaluru. Speaking to reporters here, State Health and Family Welfare Commissioner D Randeep said, "There are seven cases (of AY.4.2) in the state -- three in Bengaluru and four in different parts of the state."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-this-festive-season-beware-of-new-variants-while-shopping-1045588.html
30-10-2021||National||Former Himachal minister G S Bali passes away||Former Himachal Pradesh minister Gurumukh Singh Bali passed away in Delhi on Friday night. He was 67. A senior Congress leader, Bali breathed his last at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Friday night, his son Raghubir Singh Bali informed in a Facebook post on Saturday morning. Leader of Opposition in state Assembly Mukesh Agnihotri expressed grief on Bali's demise. In a Facebook post, he said Bali's body would be brought to Himachal Pradesh and kept for 'antim darshans' for the public. Born on July 27, 1954, in Kangra, Gurmukh Singh Bali was a diploma holder in Mechanical Engineering. He was elected as MLA from Nagrota Bagwan four times in a row in 1998, 2003, 2007 and 2012 and served as the food supply, transport and technical education minister. A founder president of Himachal Nagrik Sudhar Sabha, Bali was vice chairman and later chairman of the Himachal Social Bodies Federation. He was the Convener of the Indian National Congress Vichar Manch from 1990 to 1997. He was also the President of the Congress Seva Dal from 1995 to 1998 and the Joint Secretary of the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee from 1993 to 1998. His body will be flown to Dharamsala on Saturday evening and the last rites will be performed in Chamunda Dham on Sunday, according to family sources. His son and AICC secretary RS Bali said: “With a very sad heart, I have to inform you that my father and your dear Shri GS Bali ji are no longer. Last night he breathed his last at AIIMS in Delhi. My father always used to say, whether GS Bali is in the world or not, he will always be in the hearts of his supporters. His ideals and guidance will always remain in our hearts.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-himachal-minister-g-s-bali-passes-away-1045599.html
30-10-2021||National||India reports 14,313 new Covid-19 cases, 549 deaths||With 14,313 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,42,60,470, while the active cases were recorded at 1,61,555, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,57,740 with 549 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 36 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 125 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 221 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,41,175, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.34 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.22 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 26 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below 2 per cent for the last 36 days, according to the health ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 105.43 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 549 new fatalities include 471 from Kerala and 36 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the last few days, hence the death tally of the state is high. Of the 471 deaths, 86 were reported in the last few days, 276 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 109 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said on Friday. A total of 4,57,740 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,170 from Maharashtra, 38,061 from Karnataka, 36,083 from Tamil  Nadu, 31,156 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,113 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-14313-new-covid-19-cases-549-deaths-1045600.html
30-10-2021||National||Mumbai drugs bust case likely to be handed over to NIA: Report||An NIA team had visited the Mumbai zonal office of the NCB and spent hours inside, the report stated. DH couldn't independently verify the report. NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who led the raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month, is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion and his alleged connection with BJP leaders. Prabhakar Sail, one of NCB's independent witnesses in the cruise drugs case, has alleged that he overheard K P Gosavi, another witness, talking to one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore, including Rs 8 crore for Wankhede, to let off Aryan Khan arrested in the case. Taking potshots over a meeting between family members of Sameer Wankhede and BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik accused the BJP of misusing central agencies to defame Maharashtra and Bollywood. "I had already raised questions about BJP's uneasiness when I was targeting an NCB official for his alleged involvement in the fraud.” The state minister, who has dubbed the cruise drugs case as "bogus", also accused Wankhede of forging documents to get a government job and lying about his religion, among other things. The IRS officer and his family have denied all allegations. Wankhede has denied all allegations. Meanwhile, the Special Enquiry Team (SET) of the NCB, which is probing allegations of the extortion attempt, said that it can not make any progress unless it speaks to Sail.  Check out latest videos from DH:  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-drugs-bust-case-likely-to-be-handed-over-to-nia-report-1045612.html
30-10-2021||National||Drugs-on-cruise case: Aryan Khan walks out of jail after nearly 4 weeks||Amid the beating of drums and bursting of firecrackers, Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan returned home on Saturday after nearly four weeks behind bars.  Aryan walked out of the Arthur Road prison at Chinchpokli at 1100 hrs and straight entered into the car which sped away.  SRK's bodyguard Ravi Singh was there outside the Arthur Road jail to receive Aryan and ensure that he is away from the media. In around 40 minutes, he reached Mannat, the palatial bungalow of SRK and Gauri Khan in Bandra. At home, he was welcomed by the couple and their two other kids - daughter Suhana and son AbRam. The 23-year-old Aryan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) during the 2-3 October raid on Cordelia cruise ship. On Friday, Justice Nitin Sambre of the Bombay High Court granted him bail - after two attempts to secure bail failed - first from the Esplanade Magistrate Court and then Special NDPS Court.  Aryan should have been released on Friday, however, since the formalities took time, he could not walk out of the high-security undertrial prison.   The legal team of Aryan spearheaded by senior advocate Satish Maneshinde - put the bail papers and release orders and the jamanat-peti or dropbox of the jail, which was opened at 0530 hrs in the morning.  A total of 20 accused were arrested in the case.  The Bombay High Court besides Aryan had also granted bail to his friend Arbaaz, a special media influencer and son of senior lawyer Aslam Merchant and designer-model Munmun Dhamecha.  A lot of SRK fans assembled outside the Arthur Road prison even as some fans outside Mannat came with ‘dhols” and welcomed the star-sun with drum beats.  Some of the fans carried banners like “Stay Strong Aryan Khan” to welcome the junior Khan. On Tuesday, the Special NDPS Court had granted bail to Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu, two accused who hails from Odisha.  Meanwhile, on Saturday, the NDPS Court granted bail to seven more accused Nupur Satija, Gomit Chopra, Gopalji Anand, Samir Sehgal, Manav Singhal and Bhaskar Arora. Meanwhile, SRK is in constant legal consultations with the battery of lawyers on how to formulate the defence in the case.  On Thursday, Justice Nitin Sambre of the Bombay High Court had granted him bail after two attempts to secure bail failed — first from the Esplanade Magistrate Court and then Special NDPS Court. Aryan should have been released on Friday, but could not walk out as the formalities took a long time to get completed. The 23-year-old's legal team, spearheaded by senior advocate Satish Maneshinde put the bail papers and release orders in the jamanat-peti or dropbox of the jail, which was opened at 05:30 am on Saturday morning. A total of 20 accused were arrested in the case.  Besides Aryan, the Bombay High Court had also granted bail to his friend Arbaaz, a media influencer and son of senior lawyer Aslam Merchant and designer-model Munmun Dhamecha. A number of SRK fans assembled outside the Arthur Road prison even as some standing outside Mannat came with ‘dhols' and welcomed the star's son with drum beats. On Tuesday, the Special NDPS Court had granted bail to Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu, two accused who hail from Odisha. Check out latest videos from DH:  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-on-cruise-case-aryan-khan-walks-out-of-jail-after-nearly-4-weeks-1045596.html
30-10-2021||National||'Loot' through electricity bills will be ended when Congress forms govt in UP: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday alleged that people of Uttar Pradesh are reeling under the "loot" of electricity bills in the BJP-ruled state and said this will be ended when her party comes to power. The Congress general secretary also tagged a media report, which claimed that the electricity department has given an electricity bill notice of over 19 crore to a labourer. "The common people of the state are reeling due to the electricity bills and smart meters loot under the BJP rule," she said in a tweet in Hindi.  "The electricity department gave an electricity bill notice of Rs 19 crore 19 lakh to a family working hard to earn a living," she added. This "loot" of electricity bills will be ended when Congress forms the government in the state, Gandhi said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loot-through-electricity-bills-will-be-ended-when-congress-forms-govt-in-up-priyanka-gandhi-1045629.html
30-10-2021||National||It feels like heaven: Shah Rukh Khan fans cheer as Aryan returns home||It was the homecoming of their "prince" Aryan Khan and superstar Shah Rukh Khan's fans made sure to make it special as they thronged in larger numbers outside the actor's bungalow here, celebrating with music, dance and firecrackers. Aryan walked out of the Arthur Road prison after 22 days in the central Mumbai facility following his arrest during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. He came out of the prison shortly after 11:00 am, a day after a special court issued his release memo. As Shah Rukh's convoy arrived at the star's landmark bungalow Mannat, around 11.33 am, hundreds of fans of the actor gathered to catch a glimpse of the Khan family. The supporters ran alongside the car, shouting, "We love Shah Rukh, we love Aryan". As soon as Aryan arrived at the bungalow, fans started dancing to the beats of the drums and burst firecrackers. The police had barricaded the area outside Mannat to control the crowd and the media contingent present. Three police vans and nearly 30 cops were present at the spot. While the media -- which was camping outside the bungalow throughout Aryan's arrest earlier this month -- started arriving as early as 5:00 am, fans slowly started to trickle in. A majority of them turned up after Shah Rukh's convoy left around 8:00 am from his residence. "Welcome home Aryan Khan. Stay strong prince Aryan. Everything will be alright soon," read a banner by a group of fans who arrived at the actor's Bandra residence early in the morning. "Today we are standing outside Mannat and we finally feel like jannat (heaven). It was a tough time. But Shah Rukh and the family have sailed through it," a fan said. Kavita, who had come to Bandra to support her favourite actor before going for a job interview at a corporate firm, said it was important for her to "witness the moment". "It's an emotional moment. I have my job interview later in the afternoon but I timed my visit here in a way that I get to witness the moment and be a part of the community that is Shah Rukh Khan fans. We are with him always," she said. Fans across all ages, children, college students and even elderly couples, showed up to celebrate Aryan's return to his home. The lane to Mannat's entrance was jam-packed with crowds. Police and Shah Rukh's private security had to clear the area for the car to move smoothly. Even after the actor's convoy went inside the bungalow, many fans waited in the hope that Shah Rukh might wave to the eager supporters, as he does annually on his birthday. Among all the fans present, was also a Baba, who, in the morning, sat outside the gate of Mannat to pray for Aryan and "the youth of Maharashtra so that they don't fall into the trap of drug addiction." On Friday evening, Mannat was decked up with lights, signalling the celebrations for his release, Shah Rukh's birthday on November 2, Diwali on November 4 and then Aryan's birthday on November 13. The Bombay High Court had granted bail to Aryan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 3. He was earlier denied bail by the special Sessions court in Mumbai that was hearing the case. In the five-page order, the High Court said that Aryan and his two co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, shall be released on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. The National Crime Bureau (NCB) had alleged that Aryan was part of an international drug conspiracy, based on his WhatsApp chats, and that he would tamper with evidence if let out on bail. However, Aryan’s counsel refuted the claim, calling it “inherently absurd”. Throughout Aryan's stay in jail, various celebrities including Hrithik Roshan, Rahul Dholakia, Sanjay Gupta, Hansal Mehta, Raveena Tandon, Johnny Lever, Kanika Dhillon, Reema Kagti, Farah Khan, Suzzane Khan, Ali Fazal, and others supported Shah Rukh and wife Gauri Khan. Superstar Salman Khan visited the actor twice after his son's arrest.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-feels-like-heaven-shah-rukh-khan-fans-cheer-as-aryan-returns-home-1045630.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi arrives in Vatican to meet Pope Francis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday arrived at the Vatican to call on Pope Francis, the first-ever one-to-one meeting with the head of the Catholic Church. At the Vatican, Modi was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. It is the first-ever one-to-one meeting between Prime Minister Modi and Pope Francis, the head of the Catholic Church. Modi is also the first Indian Prime Minister Francis has met since becoming Pope in 2013. The Prime Minister will also meet Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State of the Vatican City State. Ahead of the historic meeting, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday said that the Prime Minister will have a separate meeting with the Pope. “He will be meeting his holiness on a one-to-one basis,” he said during a press conference in Rome. “Tomorrow, the Prime Minister will pay a call on His Holiness, Pope Francis at the Vatican City, and thereafter, he will attend G20 sessions, where he will also hold more bilateral meetings and we will continue to keep you informed,” Shringla said. The meeting could, after a certain period of time, be followed up by delegation-level talks, he said. “The Vatican has not set an agenda. I believe, tradition is not to have an agenda when you discuss issues with His Holiness. And I think we would respect that. “I am sure the issues would cover a range of areas of interest in terms of the general global perspectives and issues that are important to all of us, Covid-19, health issues, how we can work together to maintain peace and tranquility and this is something that, I think would be the general trend in the discussions,” the Foreign Secretary added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-arrives-in-vatican-to-meet-pope-francis-1045633.html
30-10-2021||National||Cruise drugs case: NDPS court grants bail to 7 more accused||A special court on Saturday granted bail to alleged drug peddler Aachit Kumar and six others arrested in a drugs seizure case, in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is one of the accused. Special court judge V V Patil, hearing cases related to the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, granted bail to the seven accused. With this, 12 of the 20 arrested accused have got bail in the high-profile case so far. Earlier, the NDPS court had denied bail to Aryan Khan. However, the Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to him and his two co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. The NCB had claimed that it had arrested Aachit Kumar based on the statements of Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant. The agency has alleged that he used to supply drugs to Aryan Khan. The other accused whose bail pleas were allowed by the special court on Saturday are Nupur Satija, Gomit Chopra, Gopalji Anand, Samir Sehgal, Manav Singhal and Bhaskar Arora. The court's detailed bail order is yet to be made available. On October 26, the special court had granted bail to two other accused in the case - Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu. They were the first ones to get bail in this case. On October 2, the NCB had raided the cruise ship and claimed to have seized banned drugs. Earlier on Saturday, Aryan Khan walked out of the Arthur Road jail in central Mumbai, where he was lodged for the last 22 days following his arrest in the case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drugs-case-ndps-court-grants-bail-to-7-more-accused-1045634.html
30-10-2021||National||After 'a very warm' meeting, Modi invites Pope to visit India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited Pope Francis to visit India as the pontiff gifted him a silver plaque with the inscription “The Desert will become a Garden” during a meeting in the Vatican on Saturday. Modi met the head of the Catholic Church even as the Christians in Karnataka and other states ruled by his Bharatiya Janata Party had not only been alleging persecution but also been opposing laws already introduced or proposed to be introduced to ban religious conversions. The Prime Minister is currently on a visit to Rome to attend the G-20 summit. He met the Pope at the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican on Saturday. He earlier had an interaction with the representatives of Hindus and Sikhs living in Italy. Modi gifted Pope Francis a silver candle-stand and a book on the commitment to the environment. The pontiff had reciprocated by gifting the Prime Minister a bronze plaque with the inscription “The desert will become a Garden”. He also gifted Modi volumes of papal documents, his message for World Day of Peace and the document on Human Fraternity, which he and Grand Imam of Al Azhar had signed in Abu Dhabi on February 4, 2019. The Prime Minister extended an invitation to Pope Francis for an early visit to India. The Pope accepted the invitation with pleasure, calling it “the greatest gift”, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla told journalists. This was the first meeting between a Prime Minister of India and the Pope in more than two decades. The then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had last visited the Vatican and met the then Pope, John Paul II, in June 2000. Modi and Pope Francis discussed the Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences for people around the world. They also discussed the challenges posed by climate change. The Prime Minister briefed the pontiff about the ambitious initiatives taken by his government in combating climate change as well as its success in administering one billion Covid-19 vaccination doses in India. The Pope appreciated India’s assistance to countries in need during the pandemic, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, said. The Press Office of the ‘Holy See’ stated that the Pope and the Prime Minister had discussed the “cordial relations” between India and the Vatican City. Pope Francis had on October 2, 2016, stated that he would visit India and Bangladesh in 2017 as part of a tour to Asia. Though the Catholic Bishop Council of India had conveyed to the Modi Government its request for inviting the pontiff for a visit to India, the proposed papal visit had not taken place so far, with New Delhi citing difficulties in scheduling it. The Pope had visited two other South Asian nations – Myanmar and Bangladesh – from November 27 to December 2, 2017, but not India. Pope John Paul II was the last pontiff to visit India. He had visited as many as 14 cities across the length and breadth of India during his 10-day tour in February 1986. He had again visited India in November 1999, but his itinerary had then been limited to New Delhi only. His successor Pope Benedict XVI had given India a miss during his eight-year-long papacy. The last papal visit to India had taken place when Vajpayee had been heading the BJP-led government in New Delhi – a fact the Prime Minister’s Office, as well as the MEA, underlined after Modi’s meeting with Pope Francis on Friday. The meeting between the Prime Minister and the Pope took place just days after Metropolitan Archbishop of Bengaluru, Peter Machado, reiterated his concerns over a proposed survey of the churches in Karnataka by the police. Machado, the President of the Karnataka Region Catholic Bishops’ Council, also said that he would meet Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai again to convey concerns of the Christians of the State over the BJP government’s plan to introduce a new law to ban religious conversions. Uttar Pradesh, which is also ruled by the BJP, also introduced a new law earlier this year to ban religious conversions. The BJP’s mentor Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its other offshoots have since long been accusing the Christian missionaries in India of converting the Hindus, either forcibly or by offering them money or employment. The BJP government's move to restrict the flow of foreign funds to some non-profit organisations, including Compassion International and other Christian NGOs, operating in India also drew criticism – not only within the country but also from outside, including the United States. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-a-very-warm-meeting-modi-invites-pope-to-visit-india-1045636.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi says had ‘great interaction’ with members of Indian diaspora in Italy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that he had a “great interaction” with members of the Indian diaspora in Italy, including those who are studying about India and those who have developed a close bond with their home country over the years. On the second day of his visit to Italy for the G20 Summit, Prime Minister Modi took to Twitter to share “glimpses” from the community interaction in Rome. “In Rome last evening, I had a great interaction with members of the Indian diaspora in Italy, those who are studying about India and those who have developed a close bond with our nation over the years. It was wonderful to hear their views on diverse topics,” he said in a tweet. Swamini Hamsananda Giri, the President of Sanatan Dharma Sangha, termed her meeting with Prime Minister Modi as “moving”. “It was (meeting with Prime Minister Modi) moving of course, because to be Hindu in Italy is not so easy but to meet the Prime Minister, it was a great honour for us. Hindus in Italy are in minority,” she said. The culture of India is a treasure for the humanity because it is a culture of ancient times since now for the whole human being and this is a culture of non-violence (Ahimsa), of harmony and respect for the nature and environment since the beginning of this culture, she said, adding that it is a culture for the welfare of human being. “As Sarvjan Hitaye, every human being, every being in the world has to live in harmony and in peace and we say Shanti, Shanti, Shanti. “To each of us he asked something very peculiar of us and asked what I like if we go to India where and what we like from India so and I said Tamil Nadu and he spoke to me in Tamil,” Giri added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-had-great-interaction-with-members-of-indian-diaspora-in-italy-1045645.html
30-10-2021||National||Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha bypoll: 23% voting till 11 AM||A voter turnout of 23.44 per cent was recorded till 11 AM in the bypoll to the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha constituency on Saturday where a triangular contest is on among candidates of Shiv Sena, BJP, and Congress. Officials said the polling largely remained peaceful so far. This bye-election was necessitated due to the death of sitting MP (Independent) Mohan Delkar, who was found hanging at a hotel in Mumbai on February 23. Delkar, who had been a member of both the Congress and the BJP at different times of his political career, was elected seven times to the Lok Sabha from Dadra and Nagar Haveli. In 2019, he had won the seat as an independent by defeating then sitting MP Nathubhai Patel of BJP by a thin margin of 9,001 votes. Officials of the Election Commission (EC) said 23.44 per cent voting was recorded in the first four hours till 11 AM after voting began at 7 AM in the Dadra and Nagar Haveli constituency. Voting is underway across 333 booths and tight security arrangements have been made with the deployment of 10 companies of paramilitary forces, officials said. There are a total of 2.58 lakh voters in this constituency, including 1.36 lakh male voters and 1.22 lakh female voters, the officials said, adding that around 1,500 people were deployed for election duty. The Shiv Sena and the Congress are constituents in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, but they are contesting against each other in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. Delkar's widow Kalaben Delkar is contesting from Shiv Sena against Mahesh Gavit of BJP and Mahesh Dhodi of Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dadra-and-nagar-haveli-lok-sabha-bypoll-23-voting-till-11-am-1045646.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi meets Pope Francis; discusses climate change, poverty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on Pope Francis on Saturday and discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making the planet better by fighting climate change and removing poverty during their first-ever one-on-one meeting. It may be recalled that the last Papal Visit happened in 1999 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister and Pope John Paul II came. Now it is during Modi’s prime ministerial term that the Pope has been invited to visit India, sources said. The meeting between Prime Minister Modi and Pope Francis that was scheduled only for 20 minutes went on for an hour, they said. They discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making the planet better such as fighting climate change and removing poverty, sources said. At the Vatican, Modi was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. The Prime Minister also met Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State of the Vatican City State. Ahead of the historic meeting, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday said that the Vatican has not set an agenda for the meeting. “I believe, tradition is not to have an agenda when you discuss issues with His Holiness. And I think we would respect that,” he had said. “I am sure the issues would cover a range of areas of interest in terms of the general global perspectives and issues that are important to all of us, Covid-19, health issues, how we can work together to maintain peace and tranquility and this is something that, I think would be the general trend in the discussions,” he had added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-pope-francis-discusses-climate-change-poverty-1045648.html
30-10-2021||National||Government invites applications for post of Sebi chairman in place of Ajay Tyagi||The finance ministry has invited applications to appoint the next chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to succeed Ajay Tyagi, whose five-year term comes to an end in February. Tyagi, a 1984 batch IAS officer of Himachal Pradesh cadre, was appointed as Sebi chairman on March 1, 2017, for a period of three years. Subsequently, he was given a six-month extension and later in August 2020, tenure was extended by 18 months. In a public notice dated October 28, the ministry has invited applications from eligible candidates for the post of Sebi chairman for a maximum period of five years or till 65 years, whichever is earlier. Applications of eligible candidates in prescribed proforma along with certified copies of required documents may be forwarded, through a proper channel (wherever applicable) on or before December 6, 2021 a public notice issued by the Finance Ministry's Economic Affairs Department said. "Incomplete applications and applications received after the last date shall not be considered," it said. In the past, the government has given extension to U K Sinha for three years, making him the second longest-serving chief of Sebi after D R Mehta. In the case of Tyagi, the government issued appointment notification twice. According to the first notification issued on February 10, 2017, Tyagi, the then Additional Secretary (Investment) in Department of Economic Affairs, was appointed chairman of Sebi for a period not exceeding five years or till the age of 65 years or until further order, whichever is earlier. Subsequently, another notification curtailed his appointment to an initial period of three years. As per the procedure for the appointment of regulators, the candidates will be shortlisted by the Financial Sector Regulatory Appointments Search Committee (FSRASC) headed by Cabinet Secretary. The shortlisted candidates are interviewed by the panel comprising Economic Affairs Secretary and three external members having domain knowledge. Based on interaction, FSRASC recommends name to the Appointments Committee of Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approval. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-invites-applications-for-post-of-sebi-chairman-in-place-of-ajay-tyagi-1045649.html
30-10-2021||National||Drugs-on-cruise case: NCB used same witness in 5 cases, says report||Even as some officials earlier claimed that none of the independent witnesses were known to the NCB before October 2, sources quoted by the publication said that "they have to fall back on known panchs as it is practically difficult to get persons willing to come on board during drug raids, out of fear and to avoid legal entanglements." DH couldn't independently verify the report. Recently, another witness in the drugs case, Prabhakar Sail, had claimed that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone — after Aryan was taken to the NCB office — about a demand of Rs 25 crore, and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede", the zonal director of the NCB who supervised the raid on the cruise ship. Usmani was cited by the NCB as a panch witness in five other cases since 2020 — 36/2020 (seizure of commercial quantity of LSD); 38/2020 (seizure of non-commercial quantity of mephedrone or MD, and commercial quantity of LSD); 27/2021 (seizure of commercial quantity of MD); 35/2021 (seizure of commercial quantity of LSD and ganja); and 38/2021 (seizure of LSD and ganja) — the report stated. In all the cases, the panchnama has the same address for Usmani. Earlier on Saturday, Aryan Khan walked out of the Arthur Road jail in central Mumbai, where he was lodged for the last 22 days following his arrest in the case. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-on-cruise-case-ncb-used-same-witness-in-5-cases-says-report-1045654.html
30-10-2021||National||Tamil Nadu CM must clarify on water release from Mullaperiyar dam: AIADMK||The opposition AIADMK on Saturday demanded that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin clarify the release of water from the Mullaperiyar reservoir by Kerala, and sought his immediate intervention into the issue. Taking strong exception to the release of water before the dam could reach its full level capacity of 142 feet, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam claimed that Kerala had released 514 cusecs of water from Mullaperiyar in the presence of Tamil Nadu officials on Friday. “This proves that the ruling DMK is doing what it had not said. That is, before (the Assembly) elections, the DMK said it will raise its voice for our rights. Now (after capturing power) it is lending its hands (of support),” Panneerselvam sarcastically remarked. In a statement, Panneerselvam accused the Kerala government of going against the Supreme Court verdict (in 2014) that water could be stored upto 142 feet in the Mullaperiyar dam. “Media reports indicate that 514 cusecs water was released from the reservoir by Kerala in the presence of Kerala Irrigation Minister, Kerala Revenue Minister and Idukki district collector,” the former CM said. Farmers’ associations from Theni, Madurai, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts have registered their protest against Kerala’s move, in their submission before the Theni District Collector, claiming that this would deprive their districts of water as they lacked direct access to dam water. The farmers had also said this would deny Tamil Nadu’s rights, the AIADMK senior said condemning the neighbouring State. He said experts have already clarified that the dam was safe enough to impound water till its full level capacity. Eyebrows are being raised if the water was released in consultation with Tamil Nadu government and the farmers of the five districts. “The Tamil Nadu government is duty bound to answer. I request the Chief Minister to immediately intervene in the issue of Mullaperiyar dam, which is the lifeline of the ryots in Tamil Nadu, and openly inform the true situation to the people and farmers of the State,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-cm-must-clarify-on-water-release-from-mullaperiyar-dam-aiadmk-1045660.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes on Thevar Jayanthi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid rich tributes to late freedom fighter Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar on his birth anniversary, saying he devoted his life to public welfare and social justice.  Thevar was a freedom fighter who went on to play an important role in Tamil Nadu politics. His birthday is celebrated as Thevar Jayanthi, especially in the Thevar community.  On the special occasion of Thevar Jayanthi, I recall the rich contributions of the illustrious Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar. Extremely brave and kind hearted, he devoted his life to public welfare and social justice. He made many efforts for the welfare of farmers and workers. Modi tweeted, "On the special occasion of Thevar Jayanthi, I recall the rich contributions of the illustrious Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar. Extremely brave and kindhearted, he devoted his life to public welfare and social justice. He made many efforts for the welfare of farmers and workers." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-on-thevar-jayanthi-1045680.html
30-10-2021||National||Warrant issued against IPS officer Param Bir Singh, second this week||A magistrate's court here on Saturday issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in an alleged extortion case registered in suburban Goregaon. This is the second such order against Singh this week. On Tuesday, a court in neighbouring Thane had issued an NBW against him in connection with another extortion case registered against him. The crime branch of Mumbai Police said it approached the Mumbai court for issuance of an NBW as Singh did not respond to its summons to join the investigation. The summons were issued to Singh twice, once at his official residence here and another at his Chandigarh address, said a police official. The court issued a warrant against businessman Vinay Singh and alleged gangster Riyaz Bhatti too. Besides Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Waze is also an accused in the case registered at Goregaon police station. Builder-hotelier Bimal Agrawal, the complainant, had alleged that Singh and others tried to extort money from him. Singh was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March 2021 in the aftermath of the discovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai and the arrest of Sachin Waze in the case. Singh later accused then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption. The IPS officer is also facing an inquiry by the Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau, and a case filed by a police officer from Akola against him under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act). Recently the Maharashtra government had told the Bombay High Court that it did not know Singh's whereabouts. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/warrant-issued-against-ips-officer-param-bir-singh-second-this-week-1045719.html
30-10-2021||National||From Puneeth Rajkumar to Sidharth Shukla: Untimely deaths leave family and fans stunned||Shocking those who knew him and his cinema, and even those that didn’t, Puneeth, a known fitness enthusiast, was rushed to a Bengaluru hospital after he complained of chest pain following a two-hour workout on Friday, doctors treating him said. The hospital added that he was non-responsive when he was taken and advanced cardiac life support measures were initiated for resuscitation. Barot, whose father died of a cardiac arrest at a relatively young age of 42, said he was feeling unwell while watching TV at home and died while being taken to a hospital. He is survived by his mother and wife, who is expecting their first child. Ashesh Dhar, a senior Tata Motors executive, also died of a heart attack on July 24. A non-smoker, marathon runner and a regular at the gym, the 51-year-old religiously followed his health regimen. Dhar, head of sales, marketing and customer care, electric vehicles, had returned from daily jog when he suffered a cardiac arrest, his wife Meenakshi Dhar said. The trailer of Kaushal's last directorial "Akkad Bakkad Rafu Chakkar '' was unveiled on an OTT platform on Friday. Earlier in the month, on June 4, noted entrepreneur Ankur Bhatia, executive director of Bird Group and owner of Roseate Hotels, also succumbed to a heart attack at the relatively young age of 48. Credited with launching the country's first natural and perennial indoor ice-skating rink and café, iSKATE, in Gurgaon’s Ambience Mall, he is survived by his wife and their two children. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-puneeth-rajkumar-to-sidharth-shukla-untimely-deaths-leave-family-and-fans-stunned-1045724.html
30-10-2021||National||PM's meeting with Pope an occasion fit for history books: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda lauded the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pope Francis on Saturday as an occasion fit for the history books, and said it is a great step towards peace, harmony and inter-faith dialogue. He also used the occasion to highlight the contributions of Christians to various fields in India. "India is a vibrant and inclusive democracy, where the Christian community has played a pivotal role in areas like politics, films, business & armed forces. Under Modi Ji's leadership India is marching ahead on the path of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas'," Nadda said in a tweet. "The meeting between Prime Minister of the world's largest democracy and the supreme head of the world's largest Christian denomination is an occasion fit for the history books. It is a great step forward towards peace, harmony and inter-faith dialogue," he added. Though Christians account for less than 2.5 per cent of India's population, they are in significant numbers in some states, including poll-bound Goa, Kerala and the northeast. Modi on Saturday said he had a "very warm meeting" with Pope Francis and discussed a wide range of issues, including the COVID-19 pandemic and the challenge posed by climate change, with the head of the Roman Catholic church and also invited the Pontiff to visit India at an early date. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-meeting-with-pope-an-occasion-fit-for-history-books-j-p-nadda-1045725.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi gifts specially-made candle holder, book on India's climate initiatives to Pope Francis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi gifted a specially-made silver candelabra and a book on India's climate initiatives to Pope Francis on Saturday as they held their first one-to-one meeting. Modi explained to the 84-year-old Pontiff that the candelabra was specially made and the book is on climate change, an issue close to the Pope. According to the Vatican News, the Prime Minister gifted the head of the Roman Catholic church a specially-made silver candelabra and a book, “The Climate Climb: India's strategy, actions and achievements" during their meeting which lasted for an hour. The Pope reciprocated with a bronze plaque with the inscription “The desert will become a garden”, volumes of papal documents, his message for World Day of Peace and the document on Human Fraternity, signed on February 4 of 2019 in Abu Dhabi by the Pope and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar, it said. Modi is the first Indian Prime Minister to meet Francis since he became Pope in 2013. This was the first meeting between an Indian Prime Minister and the Pope in more than two decades. In June 2000, late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had last visited the Vatican and met the then Pope, His Holiness John Paul II. India and The Holy See have friendly relations dating back to the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1948. India is home to the second largest Catholic population in Asia. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-gifts-specially-made-candle-holder-book-on-indias-climate-initiatives-to-pope-francis-1045729.html
30-10-2021||National||RSS plans to expand its base in all development blocks of India||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as part of expanding its activities is mulling reaching all development blocks of the country in the next three years, RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale said on Saturday. "We have decided to expand our activities. At present we have our presence in 4,683 out of 6,483 development blocks but we want to reach all the development blocks of India by March 2024," he said, briefing reporters on the decisions taken during the three-day Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal (ABKM) meeting here, which concluded today. The Sangh has also appealed to those who wish to volunteer to work for two years to expand its base across India and ensure its presence in all the development blocks by 2025 when it celebrates its centenary. The RSS functionary said the Sangh does not have its activities in Mizoram, Nagaland, Kashmir and Lakshadweep. He added that the Sangh was running its Shakhas in Kashmir but after the migration of Hindus from there, activities were affected. After reaching their states, the regional Pracharaks of the RSS will have to plan a strategy in their states for the Sangh's expansion. Speaking about the Sangh's activities, Hosabale said the daily Shakha operations are taking place at 34,000 places, which was earlier disrupted due to COVID-19. "Sangh Shakhas are held at 55,000 places including daily Shakhas (branch), weekly Shakhas, fortnightly and monthly Shakhas," the RSS leader said. Since this year is the platinum jubilee of Indian independence, the Sangh has decided to organise exhibitions remembering the contributions of great freedom fighters as well as many unsung heroes of the freedom struggle, Hosabale said. He said the Sangh is also planning to organise various events paying tributes to the ninth Sikh Guru, Tegh Bahadur. The Sangh also wants to focus on employment generation and skill development. To a query on population policy, Hosabale said every nation should have a population policy that should be applicable to all. He also said the Sangh had passed a resolution to this effect a few years ago. To a query on cracker ban on Deepavali to prevent pollution, Hosabale said such steps should be taken at the beginning of the year and not when the festival is around. Banning crackers just ahead of the festival will lead to a major loss to manufacturers and traders, he said. The ban will also have a bearing on lakhs of people working at fireworks factories, which should also be taken into account, he explained. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-plans-to-expand-its-base-in-all-development-blocks-of-india-1045750.html
30-10-2021||National||Gold set to sparkle this 'Diwali'; drop in price, pent-up demand to drive sales: Jewellers||Finally, gold is set to regain its sparkle this Diwali as jewellers are expecting up to 30 per cent sales growth over the pre-Covid levels on the back of a faster-than-expected economic recovery along with lower prices and pent-up demand. The gems and jewellery industry witnessed a near washout during 'Diwali' and 'Dhanteras' 2020, following the Covid-19 related disruptions, including lockdowns and restrictions in movements across the country. "We are witnessing a growth in momentum since 'Shradh', the third quarter of the calander year, usually considered a subdued month for the industry. However, the drop in gold prices to around Rs 42,500 per 10 grams level resulted in uptick in consumer demand," All India Gem And Jewellery Domestic Council chairman Ashish Pethe told PTI. He said the healthy Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in the last few months indicates that economic recovery is on track and the weddings postponed due to the pandemic taking place this year end will boost gems and jewellery sales. "Looking at the the positive consumer and market indications we expect 20-25 per cent growth in sales compared to 2019. We are witnessing this positive momentum from across the country," Pethe added. Gold price, which had touched a peak of Rs 56,000 level, on Saturday was ruling over Rs 49,200 per 10 grams level in the country. Meanwhile, World Gold Council (WGC) Regional CEO, India, Somasundaram PR demand is primarily driven by what appears to be a firm grip on the pandemic with higher vaccination rates and falling infection rates, leading to a strong rebound in economic activity. "While gold jewellery demand increased by 58 per cent to 96.2 tonnes, investment demand for bars and coins also grew by 18 per cent, in the July-September quarter that tends to be seasonally subdued due to monsoons and inauspicious periods like Pitru-Paksha when buyers stay away. Softer gold prices has also generated significant consumer interest ahead of seasonal demand," he said quoting WGC's Q3 Gold Demand Trends 2021 report. Looking ahead with restrictions being gradually lifted across the country, retail demand is bouncing back to pre-Covid levels, he stated. "With the upcoming festive and wedding season, there is all the more enthusiasm towards gold demand, and we anticipate it to be the busiest gold-buying season, since the start of Covid-19 pandemic," he added. PNG Jewellers Chairman and Managing Director Saurabh Gadgil stated that the market has been seeing strong demand since the start of Navratri. "We expect to 25-30 per cent more business compared to 2019 and almost double than last Diwali, which was a near washout. People seem to have moved past Covid-19 and there is new enthusiasm and excitement among consumers. They are betting on a positive future and are making themselves happier by purchases like jewellery. Also, the wedding season is expected to continue for the next 3-4 months, which is a great boost to the industry and the positive effect of the same is likely to spill over through march next year if there is no impact of the third wave," he added. Malabar Gold & Diamonds Chairman Ahammed MP said the company expects healthy consumer demand for gold jewellery during Dhanteras this year due to pent-up demand. "As the economic recovery is gaining pace, we expect a positive consumer sentiment during Diwali. We expect a 30-40 per cent increase in sales compared to that of last year during Diwali," he added. WHP Jewellers Director Aditya Pethe said the industry is very optimistic about the upcoming festive season and has very high expectations from the same. "Since Dussehra we are seeing a good build up in sales. Slowly the clouds of the pandemic are fading and consumer confidence is recovering. We are expecting the pent-up demand to boost sales during Diwali and the upcoming wedding season. We are expecting a good uptake in demand and hope to achieve a growth of at least 35-40 per cent year-on-year. Look forward to good sales in the festive season," he added. Pooja Diamonds Director Shrey Mehta stated that the industry has high expectations from the season, including Dhanteras as the wedding season is just embarking and there is a lot of pent-up demand. "We are expecting this enthusiasm to continue post Diwali and expect that this positive consumer sentiment will carry on till first half of next year," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gold-set-to-sparkle-this-diwali-drop-in-price-pent-up-demand-to-drive-sales-jewellers-1045757.html
30-10-2021||National||Special court denies bail to late Sushant Singh Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani||A special NDPS court here on Saturday once again denied bail to Siddharth Pithani, the flatmate of Sushant Singh Rajput, in a drugs case linked to the Bollywood actor's death in June 2020. Pithani was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on May 28 this year from Hyderabad and he is currently in judicial custody. He was booked under section 27 (A) (financing illicit traffic and harboring offenders) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, among other charges. His latest bail plea was rejected by Special Judge D B Mane. Earlier, his regular bail plea was rejected in August though the court had given him interim relief to attend his marriage. On Friday, Pithani moved another bail application saying section 27A of the NDPS Act was wrongly applied and prayed for bail saying only a small quantity of (drugs) was seized. Section 27A pertains to punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders. Special Public Prosecutor Advait Sethna, appearing for NCB, argued that all these grounds raised by Pithani were considered earlier. Sethna argued that Pithani had not challenged the previous bail order in the High Court. As section 27A is invoked and the court found substance (in NCB's arguments), the anti-drug agency got 180 days to file a chargesheet, which is also not over. Hence his bail application be rejected, he said. The NCB has been probing the drugs angle post the death of Rajput, whose body was found hanging in his flat, based on some WhatsApp chats about the alleged supply of drugs to some actors in Bollywood. Following the actor's death, the NCB began a probe into alleged drug links in the film industry based on WhatsApp chats, and several people were arrested under the NDPS Act in this connection, most of who are out on bail currently. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-court-denies-bail-to-late-sushant-singh-rajputs-flatmate-siddharth-pithani-1045758.html
30-10-2021||National||Cruise case extortion claims: NCB team leaves Mumbai without recording statement of Prabhakar Sail7||A special team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing allegations of extortion in the drugs-on-cruise case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is one of the accused, left for Delhi on Saturday without recording the statement of witness Prabhakar Sail, who had raised serious charges against Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede and others, an official said. The five-member team, headed by NCB Deputy Director General (northern region) Gyaneshwar Singh, reached Mumbai on Wednesday to record statements after a departmental vigilance probe was ordered against Wankhede and others following Sail's claims that a pay off of Rs 25 crore was discussed in connection with the case of which Rs 8 crore was meant for Wankhede. In the last three days, the NCB special team recorded statements of eight persons, including Wankhede, and collected some important documents and recordings related to the cruise drugs case, the official said. However, the team failed to record the statements of Sail and K P Gosavi, another NCB witness in the cruise drugs case. Sail, an independent witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, had claimed that he overheard Gosavi, arrested by the Pune Police in a cheating case on Thursday after remaining absconding, discussing the Rs 25 crore demand. Sail used to work as a bodyguard for Gosavi, who claims to be a private detective. Wankhede had dismissed all allegations against him as "baseless" and said he conducted a fair probe in the cruise drugs case. Officials of the NCB team had said that Sail was a "critical witness" in the inquiry and without his statement, the team will not be able to reach any conclusion. DDG Gyaneshwar Singh had appealed to Sail through media to come forward to record his statement and submit related evidence if any. Singh had also written to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale to convey to Sail to present himself before the NCB team on Saturday, but Sail did not turn up. As both the witnesses- Gosavi and Sail- were not available, the NCB team left for Delhi, the official said. It was not immediately clear whether the NCB team will return to Mumbai again. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-case-extortion-claims-ncb-team-leaves-mumbai-without-recording-statement-of-prabhakar-sail7-1045759.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi meets French President Macron on sidelines of G20 summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday met with French President Emmanuel Macron on the sidelines of the G20 summit here and the two leaders had "productive discussions" on a range of issues of mutual and global interests. Prime Minister Modi, who is at the summit at the invitation of his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi, was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar during his meeting with Macron. "Productive discussions between PM @narendramodi and President @EmmanuelMacron on the sidelines of the @g20org Summit. India and France are cooperating extensively in various sectors. Today’s talks will add momentum to the bilateral ties between the two nations," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. The meeting comes more than a month after the two leaders held a telephonic conversation, amidst Paris' strong criticism of the AUKUS (Australia-UK-US) security partnership. During the telephonic conversation last month, the two leaders had agreed to "act jointly" in the Indo-Pacific to keep the region stable, rules-based and free from any hegemony. At the time, the two had reviewed the increasing bilateral collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region and the important role that the India-France partnership plays in promoting stability and security in the region. They had vowed to maintain regular discussions to coordinate ahead of upcoming events, in particular the G20 and the COP26 on climate change, and continue with their joint actions against the Covid-19 pandemic.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-french-president-macron-on-sidelines-of-g20-summit-1045762.html
30-10-2021||National||AAP MLA urges Delhi LG to allow Chhath Puja on Yamuna banks||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Sanjeev Jha on Saturday urged Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to allow people perform Chhath Puja on the banks of Yamuna river. In a letter to the Lt governor, the AAP leader said Chhath Puja celebrations cannot cause pollution in the river as the devotees clean the ghats (river banks) to perform the rituals. He also sought an appointment from the Lt governor to discuss the issue with him. This comes a day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said that  Chhath puja celebrations will be allowed at designated sites in the city, except on the banks of the river Yamuna. "I have requested Lt governor to allow Chhath puja on the banks of the Yamuna river because people who believe in Chhath puja clean the ghats and the rivers before performing the rituals," Jha said in a statement. Chhath puja "never causes" pollution in Yamuna, he added. In his letter to the Lt governor, the AAP MLA noted the DDMA has stated that Chhath Puja cannot be celebrated on the banks of the Yamuna. "Whereas, every year, Delhi's Purvanchalis observe Chhath puja on the banks of the Yamuna," he contended. Drawing attention of the Lt governor on the issue, Jha said the divisional commissioner told him at a meeting that Chhath puja cannot be celebrated on the banks of Yamuna this year "because it increases the level of pollution in the river as it happens during Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga puja celebrations". "I want to tell you that on the day of Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja, idol immersion takes place in the river, whereas Chhath Puja is a festival which is celebrated completely in nature's companionship," the AAP MLA said in his letter to the Lt governor.  People who have faith in this puja clean the ghats and rivers before performing rituals, he added. The four-day Chhath Puja this year falls on November 8-11.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-mla-urges-delhi-lg-to-allow-chhath-puja-on-yamuna-banks-1045766.html
30-10-2021||National||India's vaccination coverage crosses 106 crore doses||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 106 crore on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said. Almost 62 lakh (61,99,429) vaccine doses were administered on Saturday till 7 pm and this number is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-vaccination-coverage-crosses-106-crore-doses-1045777.html
30-10-2021||National||India ready to produce 5 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses by 2022 end: PM Modi at G20||India will produce five billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of the next year, not only for its own citizens, but for the people around the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the leaders of the other G20 nations on Saturday. The Prime Minister, however, underlined that it would be easier for New Delhi to help other countries with the Covid-19 vaccines when the World Health Organization (WHO) would approve the Covaxin developed and produced by India's Bharat Biotech, and put it on the Emergency Use List. Modi is currently on a tour to Rome to take part in the G20 summit, which is being hosted by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. As he participated in the G20 session on global health and global economy in Rome, the Prime Minister highlighted the success of his government in administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccines to over a billion people in India. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla quoted the Prime Minister saying that India would support the endeavours by the international community to address the problem of vaccine inequity by supplying Covid-19 jabs to other developing nations. Modi also referred to India’s medical supplies to over 150 countries around the world since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, Shringla told journalists in Rome. The Prime Minister called upon the G20 nations to ensure mutual recognition of the Covid-19 vaccines developed or being developed and the certificates issued to the inoculated people by the authorities in countries around the world. He also referred to India’s contribution to the fight against pandemic. The Modi government sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 22 this year, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses contributed to the COVAX, an initiative launched by the WHO for equitable distribution of the antidote against the SARS-CoV-2 infection. New Delhi paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore during the brutal second Covid-19 wave in India and slowed down the inoculation programme in the country itself. It, however, restarted sending out vaccines to other countries early this month. Shringla quoted the Prime Minister calling upon the G20 nations to make India a partner in diversifying the supply chains in the post-Covid-19 era. He noted that India remained a trusted partner for the world despite challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ready-to-produce-5-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-by-2022-end-pm-modi-at-g20-1045816.html
30-10-2021||National||IPL Economics: BCCI sets Rs 90 cr as salary purse, 42 cr for maximum 4 retentions||The BCCI has set a salary cap of Rs 90 crore for 10 IPL franchises, including the two new entrants, for the next season and allowed a maximum of four retentions for the eight established teams. As PTI had reported on Friday, the two new franchises -- Lucknow and Ahmedabad -- will be given a choice to pick three players from the auction pool after the old teams announce their choice of retentions. "The BCCI had sent a letter to all the franchises, updating them about the new rules where four retentions will cost a team Rs 42 crore while three retentions will lead to reduction of Rs 33 crore," a senior IPL franchise official told PTI. "Two players retained will mean that Rs 24 crore is deducted while a single player retained means that one has to shell out Rs 14 crore out of the 90 crore purse," he added. He also informed that retention amount and the amount paid to the player is not always the same. "Suppose Delhi Capitals retains Rishabh Pant as their 'player 1' among four maximum players, then the purse deducted will be Rs 16 crore. But in reality, Pant's actual take home salary is not the reflection of what is deducted from purse. It could be much lesser. I am just giving an example," the official stated. In case of four retentions, it could be either three Indians and one foreign player or at the maximum two Indians and as many foreigners. In case of the two new franchises, when they are allowed to select from the pool, they will have the right to pick two Indian and one foreign players from the available pool. In case of uncapped players, the old franchises will get two picks and new ones will have one choice. The letter stated that the entire month of Novemver could be used for retention by eight old franchises and then from December 1-25, Lucknow and Ahmedabad would get a chance to pick their three players before the auction in early January. "The window for the eight existing teams to retain the players will be from the 1st November 2021 to 30th November 2021. Thereafter the 2 new teams will have the window to retain the players starting from 1st December 2021 to 25th December 2021," the letter stated. In case of salary purse deductions per player, there are separate figures for four distinct slabs. In case of 'Slab 1' and four players retained -- 'Player 1' will be valued at Rs 16 crore, 'Player 2' at Rs 12 crore, 'Player 3' at Rs 8 crore and 'Player 4' at Rs 6 crore. Therefore, the total purse deducted will be Rs 42 crore and that franchise will have Rs 48 crore to play with at the big auction. In case of 'Slab 2', 'Player 1' is valued at Rs 15 crore, 'Player 2' at Rs 11 crore and 'Player 3' will have Rs 7 crore earmarked for deductions. Therefore the total of Rs 33 crore will be deducted from full purse and that particular franchise will have Rs 57 crore to bid at auction. For 'Slab 3', in which two retentions are possible, 'Player 1' is valued at Rs 14 crore and 'Player 2' at Rs 10 crore and a total of Rs 24 crore deducted from the purse. The franchise, which opts for two retentions, will go in with Rs 66 crore at auction. 'Slab 4' will have only one retention available for Rs 14 crore and Rs 76 crore available for auction buy. However, in case of an uncapped player being retained, the deduction will be Rs 4 crore. While franchises have a month to retain their choice of players, here is a look at the likely retentions of eight original franchises and options available for Lucknow and Ahmedabad. All likely options (3+1 or 2+2) (Subject to players agreeing to be retained): 1. Chennai Super Kings: Ruturaj Gaikwad, Ravindra Jadeja, MS Dhoni, Faf du Plessis/Moeen Ali/Dwayne Bravo (overseas) 2: Mumbai Indians: Rohit Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah, Suryakumar Yadav, Kieron Pollard (overseas) 3. Kolkata Knight Riders: Shubman Gill, Varun Chakravarthy, Venkatesh Iyer (uncapped), Sunil Narine (overseas) 4: Royal Challengers Bangalore: Virat Kohli, Devdutt Padikkal, Yuzvendra Chahal, Glenn Maxwell (overseas) 5. Delhi Capitals: Rishabh Pant, Prithvi Shaw, Kagiso Rabada, Anrich Nortje 6. Kings XI Punjab: No retentions likey as KL Rahul looking for new team 7. Rajasthan Royals: Sanju Samson (if he agrees), Ben Stokes (if available post Ashes) 8. SunRisers Hyderabad: Rashid Khan (if agreeable) Lucknow RP-SG: Shreyas Iyer, David Warner Ahmedabad: Pandya brothers -- Hardik and Krunal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ipl-economics-bcci-sets-rs-90-cr-as-salary-purse-42-cr-for-maximum-4-retentions-1045820.html
30-10-2021||National||PM Modi holds 'fruitful meeting' with Singapore counterpart in Italy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a "fruitful meeting" with his Singapore counterpart Lee Hsien Loong here on Saturday during which they reviewed the full range of the friendly ties between the two countries and discussed issues related to trade and efforts to contain the pandemic. Modi, who is here at the invitation of his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi, met Prime Minister Lee on the sidelines of the G20 summit. "A fruitful meeting between Prime Ministers @narendramodi and @leehsienloong in Rome. The two leaders reviewed the full range of the friendly ties between India and Singapore,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted. In a tweet, Modi said he had an "excellent meeting" with Prime Minister Lee on ways to further scale-up the friendship between India and Singapore. “Our talks focused on trade, culture and other subjects,” he added. Briefing the media, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that Prime Minister Modi met his Singapore counterpart on a number of occasions but this is their first meeting in the post-pandemic period. During the meeting, Prime Minister Modi discussed global efforts to combat climate change and the forthcoming COP26, Shringla said. "They discussed efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic through expedited vaccination efforts and ensuring supply of critical medicines. In that context, Prime Minister Modi thanked the Prime Minister of Singapore for his assistance and that of the government and people of Singapore during our second wave of the crisis,” he said. Shringla recalled that India was able to source a very large number of requirements in terms of ISO Cryogenic tankers, concentrators, oxygen equipment from Singapore during the second wave of pandemic early this year. "Prime Minister Lee congratulated our prime minister on the rapid vaccination drive in India. They discussed ways to enhance people-to-people ties, in particular resumption of early travel between both countries,” he said. On the sidelines of the G20 summit, Prime Minister Modi also exchanged pleasantries with several world leaders, including US President Joe Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and South Korean President Moon Jae-in among others. Italy has been holding the presidency of the G20 since December last year. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-fruitful-meeting-with-singapore-counterpart-in-italy-1045824.html
30-10-2021||National||Centre should open passage for fulfilment of farmers' demand on agri laws: SKM||After one carriageway of the Delhi-Haryana road was opened following the removal of barricades at Tikri border, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday asserted that if the Centre wants to open the passage completely, it should also open the way for dialogue for fulfilment of farmers' demand on agri laws. The morcha, which is spearheading the protests against three central farm laws enacted in September last year, maintained that farmers have never blocked roads. On Saturday, after 11 months, authorities on Saturday opened one carriageway of the road from Delhi to Haryana after barricades were removed at the Tikri border. The SKM said the Delhi Police tried to open a 40-foot passage at Tikri border for traffic on Friday even though talks between the administration and farmer leaders were inconclusive. "The Delhi Police Commissioner in a media interview said that they would like to restore normalcy for commuters. There was heightened tension in the area for some time, with farmers stepping up their protection at the morcha site. Farmers are pointing out towards the possibility of accidents," the SKM statement said. "The SKM has always maintained that it is the police which had blocked the roads. The SKM has already clarified that it has allowed two-way movement of traffic in the past, and will do so in future too at the morcha sites. "If the government wants to open the passage completely, it also has to open the passage to fulfilment of the farmers' demands," the SKM said in the statement. Whether the farmers' agitation will continue in the same location or whether it will move into Delhi is a collective decision that will be taken at an appropriate time, the statement added. Earlier on Saturday, the carriageway was opened following meetings between farm union leaders and the police. The Delhi Police on Thursday evening started removing the barricades and concertina wires it had put at Tikri Border on the Delhi-Rohtak highway. The police had also removed similar blockades on one of the carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at Ghazipur border on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-open-passage-for-fulfilment-of-farmers-demand-on-agri-laws-skm-1045834.html
30-10-2021||National||Innovative steps taken to ensure swift justice delivery system: Rijiju||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said the Centre is committed to provide justice to every citizen and that various innovative steps have been taken to ensure a swift justice delivery system in the country. The minister was addressing an awareness-cum-mega legal aid camp at Chandigam in Lolab valley of Kupwara district. He said the objective of his visit to the north Kashmir district was to assess the implementation of various development and welfare-oriented programmes initiated by the central government. Rijiju said he felt satisfied with the feedback received from the administration regarding effective implementation of various schemes. The minister said horticulture and handicrafts of Kashmir are world famous for quality and uniqueness and added that the central government is making every possible effort to make Jammu and Kashmir a hub of prosperous economy. The minister said Rs 9,000 crore has been allocated for the development of lower judiciary in the country. He praised para legal volunteers and said that the legal aid system is going in a proper direction in the union territory. The programme was part of a pan-India awareness-outreach campaign under the aegis of the National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) and organised under the supervision of the J-K Legal Services Authority and the District Legal Services Authority of Kupwara in association with the district administration. The Union Minister of Law and Justice also inaugurated a mega legal awareness and services camp at ITI Pattan in Baramulla district. The camp was organised by the District Legal Services Authority of Baramulla under the aegis of the J-K Legal Services Authority with an active collaboration of the district administration. Justice Ali Mohammad Magrey, Executive Chairman of the J-K Legal Services Authority, and Justice Vinod Chatterjee Koul, judge of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir & Ladakh, were present on the occasion. The minister inspected various stalls installed by different departments to disseminate necessary information about various schemes. He complimented the efforts of the union territory administration and the District Legal Services Authority for providing hassle-free services to people and added that the central government and the UT administration is duty bound to provide justice to various sections of the society. Rijiju pitched for making every endeavour and effort to make the availability of justice for all a reality according to the mandate of the Constitution. He said access to justice is important for ensuring protection of rights of citizens under various enactments and social welfare schemes. The minister said the government is regularly monitoring the implementation of social services and welfare schemes being provided to the people of Jammu and Kashmir on the ground level. He said Jammu and Kashmir is progressing tremendously in every field and the need of the hour is to provide social services and justice at the doorstep of every citizen. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/innovative-steps-taken-to-ensure-swift-justice-delivery-system-rijiju-1045835.html
30-10-2021||National||Court refuses to stay production warrant against Sachin Vaze in extortion case||A magistrate on Saturday refused to stay a production warrant issued against dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze in an extortion case, citing that the accused cannot approach the court directly with a plea saying he should not be produced before the court. The special NIA court had on Friday allowed the Mumbai police to take custody of Vaze for interrogation in connection with an extortion case registered at Goregaon police station. The special court had directed the prison authorities to hand over Vaze's custody to the crime branch on November 1 and has further instructed the prison to take back Vaze's custody after he is produced before the magistrate court. Vaze's lawyer Raunak Naik approached the magistrate court on Saturday, seeking a stay on the production warrant it had issued. The accused in his plea claimed that he has not fully recovered post his complex heart surgery in September, and has been advised to follow certain dos and don'ts. Appearing for the Mumbai police, advocate Shekhar Jagtap vehemently objected the application on the ground that there is no provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to stay a production warrant. After hearing both sides, additional chief metropolitan magistrate S B Bhajipale found that the application was not maintainable and rejected it. As per provisions in the CrPC, the officer in charge of prison may abstain from carrying out the production warrant on the ground of reason of sickness or infirmity of the person, unfit to be removed from the prison, the court said. However, the court noted that the jail authorities had not intimated it about such a situation. "The accused cannot claim directly by approaching before this court that he should not be produced before the court," the magistrate said. It further said that the investigating officer is authorised to take a decision regarding the place of interrogation of the accused. "Considering the facts and circumstances, I have come to the conclusion that the present application is not maintainable, hence rejected." Vaze, an accused in the Antilia bomb scare case and in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, is currently in judicial custody and lodged in Taloja jail. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-refuses-to-stay-production-warrant-against-sachin-vaze-in-extortion-case-1045837.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Bypolls to 29 Assembly and 3 LS seats in 13 states on Oct 30; Cong has 10 sitting seats, BJP 6||Governments face no threat as 29 Assembly and three Lok Sabha seats in 13 states and a union territory go to bypolls on Saturday but the results will have an impact on leading parties in states like Karnataka, Rajasthan, Telangana, Haryana, Bihar, Karnataka and Assam. Of the 29 Assembly seats, ten are sitting seats of Congress while six were with the BJP and two each with JD(U) and Trinamool Congress. Two of the three Lok Sabha seats were won by the BJP last time while the third was won by the Congress. Already, an NDDP candidate has won unopposed in Nagaland's Shamtorr-Chessore, the 30th seat that was announced to go to bypolls on October 30. Except for six Assembly seats -- three in Assam and one in Telangana where MLAs defected to the BJP and resignation of two in West Bengal to remain as BJP MPs in Lok Sabha, the bypolls were necessitated in other Assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies due to the death of sitting MLAs. While there is no threat to the Karnataka government, the bypolls in Sindagi and Hangal are crucial for Basavaraj Bommai, who has just completed three months as Chief Minister. Sindagi is a sitting seat of the JD(S) while Hangal belongs to BJP, which is also trying to usurp Sindagi seat amid a turf war between Congress and JD(S). In Telangana, TRS supremo and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is not leaving any stone unturned in the Huzurabad bypoll, as he wants to avenge the BJP's poaching of former Health Minister Eatala Rajendran, who was dropped from his Cabinet following corruption allegations. The Deglur seat in Maharashtra is also keenly watched as the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi has fielded Jitesh Antapurkar, the son of sitting MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar who died recently. The BJP has fielded former Shiv Sena leader Subhash Sabne and a defeat in a sitting seat would be a setback for the ruling coalition. Haryana's Ellenabad will witness INLD's Abhay Chautala, son of Om Prakash Chautala, fighting for victory one more time. He had quit the seat in protest against the three contentious farm laws and the seat is vital for the party as the bypoll comes after Dushyant Chautala quit the INLD to form a new party JJP and became Deputy Chief Minister in a BJP-led government. Eyes will also be on Assam where five seats -- Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamlpur, Mariani and Thowra -- are going to the bypoll. Of this, bypolls to three seats -- two held by Congress and one by AIUDF --  are happening because the sitting MLAs quit their parties to join the BJP and are being re-fielded by Chief Minister Himanta Biswas Sarma. Two seats -- Gossaigaon and Bhabanipur -- were held by BPF and UPPL respectively. The two seats in Rajasthan -- Vallabh Nagar held by Congress and Dhariawad by BJP -- will also be keenly watched as it comes against the backdrop of intensifying infighting by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot. In Madhya Pradesh, Jobat, Prithvipur (held by Congress) and Raigaon (by BJP) Assembly seats as well as Khandwa Lok Sabha seat held by BJP are going to bypoll. Bihar is another state with two bypolls -- Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur (both held by JD-U) -- that has become one to watch with allies RJD and Congress fighting each other. The RJD not leaving the Kusheshwar Asthan had prompted the Congress to fight against the Lalu Prasad-led party, leading to war of words between each other. JD(U) is hopeful but has its fingers crossed as an adverse result would further corner Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Another interesting battle will be in West Bengal where BJP's two MLAs resigned to remain as Lok Sabha MPs soon after elections while two Trinamool Congress MLAs died necessitating the bypolls. The Trinamool and the BJP are turning every leaf to ensure victory of these seats. Himachal Pradesh has Mandi Lok Sabha seat as well as three Assembly seats -- Arki, Fatehpur (both Congress) and Jubbal Kotkhai (BJP) -- going to bypolls. Arki was represented by former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. Singh's wife Prathiba is contesting from the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. There are bypolls to Turial in Mizoram and three seats -- Mawryngkneng, Mawphlang and Rajbala -- in Meghalaya besides Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha seat. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bypolls-to-29-assembly-and-3-ls-seats-in-13-states-on-oct-30-cong-has-10-sitting-seats-bjp-6-1045574.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||'Modi will become more powerful': Mamata takes a dig at Congress for 'not taking politics seriously'||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will become more powerful as the Congress party is not serious about politics, and also accused the grand old party of not taking decisions. Apparently targeting the BJP-led central government, she said there was enough of Delhi's 'dadagiri' (bullying). Addressing media persons in Panaji on the last day of her three-day visit to the coastal state, where Assembly polls are due early next year, Banerjee also said that the country is suffering as the Congress could not take decisions. "I cannot say everything right now because they didn't take politics seriously. Modiji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress...If one cannot take decision, why the country should suffer for that?" she said. "They (Congress) got opportunity (in the past). Instead of fighting against BJP, they contested against me in my state. Don't you think when they contested against me, when they contest my political party in Bengal...,” she said. Banerjee said the TMC believes in distributing seats for the regional parties in elections. TMC has announced that it will be contesting all 40 seats in the upcoming Goa elections. "I want that the regional parties should be strong. We want that the federal structure should be strong. We should make states strong, if states are strong, then the Centre will be strong. Delhi ka dadagiri amka naka (We don't want Delhi's bullying), enough is enough," she said. When asked about what decisions she thinks Congress should be taking, she said, "I am not going to discuss the Congress because this is not my party. I have set up my regional party and without any support of anybody, we formed three times government." "Let them decide. That is my system also, I don't interfere with any other political party's business, I can say about my political party and our fight will continue. We are not going to bow down our head to BJP," she added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-will-become-more-powerful-mamata-takes-a-dig-at-congress-for-not-taking-politics-seriously-1045626.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Coalition govt with Congress as major party will come to power at Centre in 2024: Sanjay Raut||Taking potshots at the ruling BJP, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said a coalition government with Congress as a major party will come to power in 2024, when general elections are due, which will end the reign of the incumbent one-party government. Speaking to reporters in Pune city of Maharashtra after addressing JS Karandikar memorial lecture organised by the Pune press club, Raut said, "No government can be formed without Congress, which is a major and deeply-rooted party in the country. Congress is the main opposition party too. Others are regional parties." Queried about political strategist Prashant Kishor's reported statement that BJP will remain in power for many decades, Raut said the BJP will stay in Indian politics but as an opposition party. "BJP claims that it is the world's biggest party. If the world's biggest party loses elections they will become an opposition party. For example, in Maharashtra, the BJP is the main opposition party with 105 MLAs", he said. The BJP's estranged ally Shiv Sena shares power with NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. Speaking about the upcoming Assembly elections in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Raut said, "Presently we are focusing in Dadra, Nagar Haveli, and Goa. There is still time for UP elections. We are a smaller player in UP but we will contest". Earlier, addressing the lecture, Raut underlined various challenges being faced by the media. "Since the last two years, media persons are not allowed in the central hall of Parliament by the ruling party citing the reason of coronavirus pandemic. But the real reason behind the ban is fear that many things might come out if reporters are allowed to speak to ministers who are being asked to maintain distance from journalists. They (the Central government) has asked ministers to keep their distance from reporters, even they are under the scanner. Media was not stopped even during Emergency like it is now," Raut claimed. He underlined various challenges before the print and electronic media. Raut alleged the (Central) government only wants favourable reporting. "After a newspaper reported about corpses floating in the Ganga river (during the worst phase of the Covid-19 pandemic) the Income Tax department raided the offices of that newspaper," he said. He alleged that industries that wanted licenses to operate were made to invest in media organisations so that they (the government) can control the media. "Top ten industries have bought media houses. The government is behind this," he alleged.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coalition-govt-with-congress-as-major-party-will-come-to-power-at-centre-in-2024-sanjay-raut-1045715.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh rejects reports of backend talks, says 'decision to leave Congress final'||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday dismissed reports of backend talks with the Congress, saying the time for rapprochement is over and his decision to leave the party is final. Singh reiterated that he will soon launch his political party and said he wanted to build "a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab". "Reports of backend talks with @INCIndia are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. The decision to part ways with the party was taken after much thought and is final. I'm grateful to (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi Ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now," tweeted Singh's media advisor quoting the former chief minister. Singh was reacting to some media reports which suggested that some Congress leaders are engaged in backend talks to persuade him to remain in the party. "I will soon launch my own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with @BJP4India (BJP), breakaway Akali factions and others for the Punjab (assembly) elections in 2022 once farmers' issue is resolved. I want to build a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab and its farmers," Singh said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi border points against three central farm laws, which were enacted in September last year, and are demanding these be repealed. The former chief minister on Wednesday had said that he would launch his new political party as and when the Election Commission clears the name and the symbol He had also slammed Congress while claiming that many people from the party are in touch with him. Punjab goes to the polls early next year. Singh had earlier said that he would soon launch his own party and that he was hopeful of a seat adjustment with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers' stir against farm laws was resolved in their interest. He had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-rejects-reports-of-backend-talks-says-decision-to-leave-congress-final-1045727.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Uncertain of re-nomination, 6 BSP legislators, BJP MLA join Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh||With the next Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh getting closer, party-hopping among the MLAs who are not certain of re-nomination, has started. Six BSP BSP legislators and one BJP MLA joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Saturday in the presence of SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav. The MLAs who joined the SP included Sushma Patel, Hargovind Bhargav, Aslam Chaudhary, Aslam Raini, Hakim Lal Bind and Mujtaba Siddiqui (all BSP) and Rakesh Rathore (BJP). BSP had already expelled all these six MLAs. Rathore had been served a show-cause notice for spewing venom against the BJP leadership. Barely a few days ago, two senior BSP leaders, including Ram Achal Rajbhar and Lalji Verma, both former UP ministers, had joined the SP. Speaking to reporters, Akhilesh said that BJP was going to 'lose' the next Assembly polls and desertion of one of its MLAs was 'proof' of the same. Taunting the BJP over latter's slogan 'Mera Parivaar, BJP Parivaar' (My family, BJP family) which was coined by former BJP president Amit Shah, Akhilesh sought to rephrase the slogan as 'BJP Parivaar, Bhagta Parivaar' (BJP family on the run). According to the sources in the SP, Akhilesh has assured all the seven MLAs who joined his party that they would be given a ticket in the next Assembly election. The deserting MLAs also claimed that more BSP and BJP legislators could leave their parties in the days to come and join the SP. BJP has hinted that it may deny re-nomination to around 100 of its sitting MLAs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uncertain-of-re-nomination-6-bsp-legislators-bjp-mla-join-samajwadi-party-in-uttar-pradesh-1045731.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Gehlot should come out of his residence and ask people about their condition: Anurag Thakur||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday said Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot should come out of his residence and ask people about their condition. Thakur’s remarks come in response to Gehlot's allegation against Union Home Minister Amit Shah that the latter had conspired to topple the Rajasthan government last year. “He (Gehlot) should come out of his residence and ask about the condition of the public,” the I&B minister said. Thakur arrived here to hold a meeting of his department. He said the Union home minister has a lot of work to do and is engaged in the work for the nation. Taking another dig at the Rajathan CM, the I&B minister said Gehlot could not keep his colleagues together and that he should focus on his party. Talking about the promotion of sports, Thakur, who is also the sports and youth affairs minister, said the corporate sector and educational institutes should come forward for the promotion of games. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gehlot-should-come-out-of-his-residence-and-ask-people-about-their-condition-anurag-thakur-1045797.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Modi-led government changing fate of farmers: Satish Poonia||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Center is "changing the fate” of farmers with its commitment towards their welfare. He was addressing the state level workshop of Farmer Producer Organization (FPO) at the BJP state headquarters here. "It is because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s commitment towards the welfare of farmers that today both the fate and the scenario of farmers of the country and Rajasthan is changing," he said. He said that the Modi government is dedicated to the goal of doubling the income of farmers by increasing the support price of crops from time to time. The BJP leader also accused the Congress government in the state of not fulfilling its promises. The programme was also addressed by Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary, Kisan Morcha state president Hariram Rinwa, former state agriculture minister Prabhu Lal Saini. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-led-government-changing-fate-of-farmers-satish-poonia-1045815.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Unlike TMC, we won't label Mamata Banerjee as outsider when she visits other states: BJP leader||The West Bengal BJP in Bengal said on Saturday that it had no qualms if Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee toured different states across the country, and unlike the TMC boss, who labelled leaders from Delhi as "outsiders", the saffron camp won't create a ruckus over her visits. Addressing a press meet, BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said if the TMC boss, on her return from Goa, went ahead with her proposed trip to Benaras in UP, it will make his party happy as Banerjee will get to see "how the riverfront has been developed in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's constituency". "We remember what Mamata Banerjee had said when leaders from Delhi and other states came to Bengal. Her party had described them as outsiders. But the BJP is not narrow-minded. We believe that the TMC supremo and her party members can go anywhere in the country for their endeavours," Bhattacharya told reporters. He further quipped that the CM must be currently admiring Goa's landscapes. The feisty TMC supremo is currently campaigning for her party in the poll-bound western state. "We hope that she sticks to her plan of visiting Benares. She will certainly enjoy her trip to the holy city, where a spree of development initiatives has been taken under the leadership of Narendra Modi," Bhattacharya said. "Banerjee should visit the Ganga ghats and see how these have been renovated. Perhaps the trip will inspire her to refurbish the river ghats in Kolkata and its neighbourhood," Bhattacharya claimed. Asked about TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee's assertions that the BJP was "thwarting his party's campaigns in Tripura" as it was afraid of losing assembly polls there in 2023, the saffron party spokesperson said no one has stopped the leaders of the Mamata Banerjee-led camp from entering the northeastern state. To a question about the relentless rise in fuel prices, Bhattacharya said that the Centre was doing its bit to control the prices, but the state, too, could have helped mitigate the woes of common people by partially waiving the tax it charges on petrol and diesel. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unlike-tmc-we-wont-label-mamata-banerjee-as-outsider-when-she-visits-other-states-bjp-leader-1045826.html
30-10-2021||National Politics||Moderate to hight turnout in bypolls to 29 assembly and 3 Lok Sabha seats||A turnout of 50 per cent to over 75 per cent was recorded on Saturday in bypolls to three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly seats spread across 13 states, with INLD leader Abhay Chautala, who quit the Haryana assembly in protest against the agri laws, and Congress' Pratibha Singh, wife of late chief minister Virbhadra Singh, among the prominent candidates in the fray. The polling passed off peacefully and it was ensured that all Covid-19 safety measures were followed, officials said. The Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha constituency recorded 75.51 per cent turnout as the voting concluded at 7 PM, Election Commission officials said. The by-election in the constituency, which is part of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, was necessitated due to the death of seven-time independent MP Mohan Delkar whose wife Kalaben Delkar is contesting as Shiv Sena candidate against BJP's Mahesh Gavit and Congress' Mahesh Dhodi. In Himachal Pradesh, the Mandi Lok Sabha seat from where Pratibha Singh is contesting saw a relatively lower turnout of 49.83 per cent till 5 PM. She was pitted against BJP's Khushal Singh Thakur, a Kargil war hero who is trying his luck at the hustings for the first time. The Mandi seat fell vacant after the death of Ramswaroop Sharma (BJP) in March. The first voter of independent India, 104-year-old Shyam Saran Negi, cast his vote at the model polling station of Kalpa in Kinnaur district The polling per centage in the three assembly seats - Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai - was 62.4 per cent, 61.33 per cent and 66.1 per cent respectively till 5 PM. The byelections in Himachal Pradesh are crucial as assembly polls are due in the state early next year. Besides the three assembly seats in HP, bypolls were held in five assembly seats in Assam, four in West Bengal, three each in Madhya Pradesh and Meghalaya, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan and one seat each in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram and Telangana. Out of these, the BJP was holding around half a dozen seats, the Congress had nine, while the rest were with the regional parties. The counting of votes will take place on November 2. Over 73 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 5 PM in the bypolls to the Ellenabad Assembly constituency in Haryana, necessitated by the resignation of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala as MLA in protest against the Centre's new farm laws. Chautala, son of INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala, is contesting against Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal and BJP-JP candidate Gobind Kanda, the brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and legislator Gopal Kanda. It is an important contest for the Chautalas as Abhay had won the 2010 bypolls from Ellenabad, when Om Prakash Chautala vacated the seat, and then retained it in 2014 and also in 2019 Assembly polls, when he was the lone INLD MLA in the House. Khandwa Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh, whose MP Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan of the BJP had died, witnessed a turnout of 63.88 per cent, while an estimated 64.60 per cent voting was recorded in the three Assembly seats. In Assam, 69.60 per cent was reported in five assembly constituencies of Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra seats till 5 PM. The ruling BJP has fielded candidates in three seats leaving the other two to alliance partner UPPL. The Congress put up nominees in all five, while its former allies, the AIUDF and the BPF, are contesting in two and one seats respectively. A high voter turnout of nearly 71 per cent was recorded till 5 PM in West Bengal's four assembly constituencies. The BJP and TMC held two seats each. Barring a few stray incidents, polling, which began at 7 AM, passed off peacefully in all four constituencies, an Election Commission official said. Scuffles between TMC and BJP supporters were reported outside a booth in Khardah and security personnel used batons to disperse the crowd. Kajal Sinha's death due to Covid-19 necessitated the bypoll in Khardah. According to TMC members, Sinha's son Arjodeep was injured in the melee and had to be hospitalised. In Dinhata, TMC heavyweight Udayan Guha is looking to reclaim the seat, which the BJP had snatched from him in the April elections. The by-election was necessitated following the resignation of Nisith Pramanik, now Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, as he chose to retain his Lok Sabha membership. In Santipur, BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar resigned from the assembly, thus calling for a bypolls. Bypolls to Dinhata and Santipur are seen as a prestige battle for the BJP, which is currently grappling with an exodus of MLAs and senior leaders. In Bihar, an estimated 49.60 per cent voting was recorded in the two assembly constituencies of Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur which were held by the JD(U). An average of 65 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypolls to Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar assembly constituencies of Rajasthan till 5 PM. The bypolls were necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP legislator from Dhariawad Gautam Lal Meena. In Vallabhnagar, the ruling Congress party has given a ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife, Preeti Shaktawat, while the BJP has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala. The Congress has fielded Nagraj Meena in Dhariawad against BJP candidate Khet Singh Meena. Though the number of constituencies going to bypolls is not crucial from the viewpoint of the government's stability, the results will send a message across the state about the performance of the Congress-led government, which had faced a major threat last year due to rebellion of the then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs led by him. An estimated 56.78 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypolls to Sindgi and Hangal assembly constituencies in Karnataka. The by-elections have been necessitated following the death of Sindgi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP's C M Udasi from Hangal and will be the first electoral test for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had replaced B S Yediyurappa. While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in the 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindgi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal constituency. The Congress has named M C Managuli's son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindgi, while former MLC Srinivas Mane is its candidate from Hangal. The JD(S), which was the first to announce its candidates, has fielded 33-year-old Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindgi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. In Telangana, byelection was held in the Huzurabad assembly constituency with the ruling TRS, opposition BJP and Congress locked in a triangular contest. The by-election has been necessitated in view of the resignation of Eatala Rajender in June following his removal from the state Cabinet over allegations of land grabbing. Rajender, who dismissed the allegations, had quit the TRS and is contesting on a BJP ticket. The byelection is seen as a do-or-die battle for Rajender, while it is significant for the BJP as it aims at emerging as the alternative to ruling TRS in the 2023 Legislative Assembly elections. Though byelection was also announced for the Shamator-Chessore assembly constituency in Nagaland, Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party candidate S Keoshu Yimchunger was declared elected uncontested on October 13. Bypolls were also be held in Andhra Pradesh's Badvel seat, earlier held by YSRC . Meghalaya's Rajabala, Mawryngkneng and Mawphlang seats recorded a voting per centage of over 64 per cent. Former national footballer Eugeneson Lyngdoh is contesting the election from Mawphlang on a United Democratic Party (UDP) ticket. He is up against former Congress MLA Kennedy C Khyriem and a sitting member of the district council (MDC) from the NPP, Lamphrang Blah. By-election was held in Deglur in Maharashtra, earlier held by the Congress, and Tuirial assembly seat in Mizoram. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/moderate-to-hight-turnout-in-bypolls-to-29-assembly-and-3-lok-sabha-seats-1045827.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Prior notice to victims under Atrocities Act to be enforced conscientiously, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said the statutory requirement of a prior notice to victims cannot be dispensed with while considering bail to accused under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.  "Atrocities against members of the SC and STs are not a thing of the past. They continue to be a reality in our society even today. Hence the statutory provisions, enacted by Parliament as a measure of protecting the constitutional rights of persons belonging to SC/STs must be complied with and enforced conscientiously," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The top court set aside bail granted to the accused in one such case as there was no notice to the complainant.  It said Section 15A of the SC/ST Act -- dealing with timely notice to victims in respect of bail, parole, discharge etc -- contained important provisions that safeguard the rights of the victims of caste-based atrocities and witnesses.  The court said investigations in India are the exclusive domain of the police, where victims are often relegated to the role of being a spectator in the criminal justice system.  Victims from SC/STs specifically suffered on account of procedural lapses in the criminal justice system. They faced fear of retribution from members of upper caste groups, ignorance or police apathy, and they are vulnerable to intimidation, violence and social and economic boycott. Shoddy investigations and the negligence also resulted in low conviction rates under the SC/ST Act giving rise to the erroneous perception that cases registered under the Act are false and that it is being misused, the court added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prior-notice-to-victims-under-atrocities-act-to-be-enforced-conscientiously-says-supreme-court-1045570.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Indian Army sets up voluntary civil defense force along LoC in Jammu||The Indian Army has set up a voluntary civil defence force along the Line of Control in Jammu district, officials said on Friday. The force, comprising ex-serviceman and volunteer youth of border villages of the Akhnoor region, was raised in the Jourian border belt of the district, they said. "It aims to strengthen rear area security during war," Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said. Named as 'Manawar', the force comprises 10 platoons based on the names of the villages, and sections based on the names of martyrs of the area on the concept of "sons of the soil", he said.  In order to prepare the force for its envisaged task and to keep them ready for employment in rear areas along with the army, it was trained under the guidance of the army in September and October this year, Lt Col Anand said. He said the force was trained for the envisaged role by carrying out detailed briefing, firing and practice of manning of vulnerable areas and domination of routes.  The event highlighted high-level synergy that exists between forces and villagers and demonstrated the unwavering commitment of citizens to defend the motherland, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-sets-up-voluntary-civil-defense-force-along-loc-in-jammu-1045571.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal to perform Diwali puja at Thyagaraj Stadium||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will perform the Diwali puja at Thyagaraj Stadium, where his government is constructing a replica of the Ayodhya’s Ram temple. According to officials, the replica of the temple is being built as part of the government's “Delhi ki Diwali” celebrations. The officials said the replica of the temple will be part of the stage where the puja will be performed. The Diwali puja will be live telecast. Last year, Kejriwal had performed the puja at the Akshardham temple. Kejriwal had recently visited Ayodhya, the birth place of Lord Ram, and offered prayers there. He also took part in an “aarti” on the bank of the Saryu river. AAP is fighting the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, which are scheduled early next year. Earlier this week, Kejriwal also announced to include Ayodhya in the Delhi government's pilgrimage sites. He said the Delhi government will take senior citizens on pilgrimage to Ayodhya free of cost.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-to-perform-diwali-puja-at-thyagaraj-stadium-1045572.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||JNU cancels webinar on Kashmir, says subject 'objectionable'||The Jawaharlal Nehru University has cancelled a webinar on Kashmir since the subject was found to be "objectionable and provocative", and the organisers had not sought permission for the event, vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said on Friday. The Centre For Women's Studies at the university was to host a talk titled "Gendered Resistance and Fresh Challenges in Post-2019 Kashmir". Ather Zia, a political anthropologist, author, poet, and activist was the speaker at the webinar. "The notice of the webinar says 'this talk will draw and build upon the ethnography of…gendered resistance to Indian occupation in Kashmir'. This is a highly objectionable and a provocative subject, which questions the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. "JNU cannot be a platform to this kind of very questionable webinars. The matter is being inquired into," Kumar said in a statement. An immediate response was not available from the faculty members of the Centre For Women's Studies. Kumar said, "As soon as it came to our notice that an online webinar titled 'Gendered Resistance and Fresh Challenges in Post-2019 Kashmir' was going to be organized at 8.30 pm today by Centre for Women Studies, the JNU administration immediately instructed the faculty member organising the event to cancel it," Kumar said. Kumar said "the program was cancelled forthwith and the faculty member did not seek the permission of administration before planning such an event." Meanwhile, the JNU unit of RSS-affiliated Akhi Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad demanded action against the chairperson of the Centre for holding such an event. Rohit Kumar, secretary ABVP-JNU said, "We demand immediate action against the chairperson of the Centre for Women's Studies, concerned faculties and JNU registrar who allowed the program and who all have mindlessly organised such an webinar by twisting facts on the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir with the intention to create a distorted narrative on Jammu and Kashmir."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-cancels-webinar-on-kashmir-says-subject-objectionable-1045575.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||DDMA decision not to allow Chhath celebrations on Yamuna banks invites BJP's ire||The Delhi BJP leadership strongly objected to the DDMA's decision not to allow Chhath Puja on the banks of the Yamuna and asserted that they will reach sites in the vicinity of the river to celebrate the festival, notwithstanding the ban. BJP MP from Northeast Delhi Manoj Tiwari said the move is like "playing with the religious beliefs of Poorvanchalis", while West Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh said he will celebrate Chhath at Yamuna ghat only. Poorvanchali is a term used for natives of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order released on Friday said Chhath Puja celebrations will be allowed at designated sites in the city except on the banks of the Yamuna River. Tiwari in a statement said he was "stunned" to know that devotees are not allowed to worship on the banks of the Yamuna during Chhath celebrations. "I am stunned to know that the Delhi government has again banned Chhath celebrations on the banks of Yamuna. This is an effort to play with the religious beliefs of Poorvanchalis. Anti-Hindu policy of Arvind Kejriwal is getting exposed. We Poorvanchalis do not accept this," Tiwari said in a statement in Hindi. There are over 1,000 Chhath ghats across the city of which 10-15 major ghats are located alongside the Yamuna. A majority of Chhath devotees of the city go to Chhath ghats along the Yamuna. Tiwari, a former Delhi BJP president, said the city government had earlier denied permission to celebrate Chhath, but allowed it later. "Now they are saying you cannot celebrate Chhath on the banks of Yamuna. This is complete injustice (to Poorvanchalis). Why are you (Kejriwal) doing this only with Chhath?" Tiwari asked. West Delhi MP Singh also expressed his anger over the decision and said he will celebrate Chhath at Yamuna ghat only. "Chhath is the biggest festival for brothers and sisters of Poorvanchal and putting restrictions on it is like playing with their beliefs. Kejriwalji, I will myself go to Yamuna to ensure Chhath Puja is celebrated there. Stop me if you can," Singh said in a tweet in Hindi. Chhath, celebrated after Diwali by people belonging to Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, involves the offering of  'Arghya' by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water. Earlier, in an order issued on September 30, the DDMA had prohibited Chhath celebrations at public places, including at riverbanks, water bodies and temples, in view of the threat posed by Covid-19. Following this, the BJP staged protest across the and also at the residence of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and demanded that public celebration of Chhath be allowed in Delhi. On October 14, Kejriwal wrote a letter to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to allow Chhath Puja in Delhi. In a meeting attended by LG Baijal and Kejriwal, the DDMA earlier this week allowed Chhath Puja celebrations at designated spots in the national capital amid strict Covid protocols. Check out DH's latets videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-decision-not-to-allow-chhath-celebrations-on-yamuna-banks-invites-bjps-ire-1045576.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Principal held for hanging Class 2 student upside down from balcony||The principal of a school in Uttar Pradesh's Mirzapur dangled a Class 2 child upside down from the first floor of the building, punishing him for eating ‘golgappas’ as other children watched in shock, an official said on Friday. Following the incident, which occurred on Thursday, an FIR was lodged against Principal Manoj Vishwakarma of the Sadbhavna Shikshan Sansthan Junior High School under Ahraura police station and he was taken into custody, the police said. A video of the shocking incident has gone viral on social media. Police said the school headmaster inflicted the shocking punishment on the child for having 'golgappas' at a stall outside the school without informing the teacher. After the child came back to the school, the headmaster caught hold of him by his ankles and dangle him upside down from the first floor of the school building, police said. Scared by the shocking treatment, the child began crying and told his parents about the incident after reaching home, the police said. The child’s father Ranjit Yadav subsequently lodged a complaint with the police following which an FIR was lodged on Thursday night, Mirzapur District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Lakshkar. On coming to know about this, the district basic shiksha adhikari too investigated the matter and on the basis of his report, an FIR was registered against the school headmaster, the DM said. The FIR was registered against Vishwakarma under relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice Act and Indian Penal Code, even as the teacher tendered an apology to the child’s father, regretting his act.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/principal-held-for-hanging-class-2-student-upside-down-from-balcony-1045583.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Voting begins for bypolls to Vallabhnagar, Dhariawad Assembly seats in Rajasthan||Voting for bypolls to the assembly constituencies of Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) and Dhariawad (Pratapgarh) in Rajasthan to decide the fate of 16 candidates began amid tight security arrangements on Saturday morning. The polling began at 7 am in both the constituencies and will go on till 6 pm, Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta told PTI. Counting of votes will take place on November 2, he said. The bypolls were necessitated by the demise of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP legislator from Dhariawad Gautam Lal Meena. A total of 5,11,455 voters – 2,53,831 in Vallabhnagar and 2,57,624 in Dhariawad – will be able to exercise their franchise. Nine candidates are in the fray for the Vallabhnagar seat and seven for Dhariawad, Gupta said. A total of 638 polling booths have been set up in both the constituencies, and 119 of them are sensitive. Webcasting will be done in 64 sensitive booths and videography in 29. Gupta said that 4,468 security personnel have been deployed in both constituencies to ensure free, fair and peaceful voting. The voting will be conducted according to Covid-19 guidelines, he added. In Vallabhnagar, the ruling Congress party has given its ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife, Preeti Shaktawat, while the BJP has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala. The Congress has fielded Nagraj Meena in Dhariawad against BJP candidate Khet Singh Meena. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-begins-for-bypolls-to-vallabhnagar-dhariawad-assembly-seats-in-rajasthan-1045597.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Over 13% polling till 9 am in Ellenabad bypoll in Haryana||Over 13 per cent polling was registered till 9 am in the bypoll to the Ellenabad assembly constituency in Haryana, officials said on Saturday. The polling began at 7 am and will continue till 6 pm, they added. The bypoll was necessitated by INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala's resignation as MLA from the seat in January over the Centre's farm laws. More than 1.85 lakh voters will decide the fate of 19 candidates, including INLD's Chautala, Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal and BJP-JJP candidate Gobind Kanda, in the fray for the bypoll. A total of 211 polling booths have been set up and 121 of these have been categorised as "vulnerable" and "most vulnerable", the officials said. Tight security arrangements have been made for the bypoll with the deployment of 30 companies of central security force, five companies of the Rapid Action Force and Haryana Police. Gobind Kanda, brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and legislator Gopal Kanda, had joined the BJP recently. Beniwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous assembly poll against Chautala, recently switched over from the BJP to the Congress. Chautala, Beniwal and Kanda are locked in a triangular contest. People, including women and elders, queued up at various polling centres to cast their votes. Beniwal cast his vote in Darba Kalan village in the morning. In a tweet, Chautala urged people to come out in maximum numbers and play the role of a responsible citizen by participating in this festival of democracy. Winning the bypoll is crucial for Chautala as a loss will deal a body blow to the India National Lok Dal (INLD), which in recent years is reeling under a series of electoral setbacks. A major part of the Ellenabad assembly constituency is rural with people mostly relying on agriculture. Counting of votes will take place on November 2, the officials said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-13-polling-till-9-am-in-ellenabad-bypoll-in-haryana-1045601.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh bypolls: Arki assembly seat records highest turnout till 10 am, Mandi LS seat lowest||The Arki assembly seat in Himachal Pradesh witnessed highest voter turnout of over 8 per cent while Mandi Lok Sabha seat saw the lowest polling at over 5 per cent till 10 am on Saturday as voting for the bypolls to four seats in Himachal Pradesh started on a slow pace, officials said. Bypolls to Mandi Lok Sabha and Arki, Fatehpur, and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seats in Himachal Pradesh began at 8 am, they said. Mandi recorded 5.82 per cent voting, while the turnout in Fatehpur, Arki, and Jubbal-Kotkhai was 8.20, 8.33 and 7.02 percent respectively in the first two hours, they added. Voting is underway in a peaceful manner in pleasant weather conditions and is gaining momentum, they said. A total of 12,99,756 voters for Mandi Lok Sabha, 87,222 for Fatehpur, 92,609 for Solan (Arki) and 70,965 voters for Jubbal-Kotkhai Vidhan Sabha seats may exercise their right to franchise till 6 pm. According to officials, 2,484 polling stations and 312 auxiliary polling stations have been set up for bypolls. The by-elections were necessitated following the death of sitting members. Meanwhile, tight security arrangements have been made for the smooth conduct of the by-elections. State Chief Electoral Officer C Palrasu informed that 50 per cent of the polling stations will be connected through web-casting. This facility will be available in 1,383 of the total 2,796 polling stations, he added. The counting of votes for all seats will be held on November 2. A total of 18 candidates are in the fray, including 12 for the three assembly seats and six for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. A direct contest is expected between the ruling BJP and Congress on all seats except Jubbal-Kotkhai where rebel BJP candidate Chetan Singh Bragta is trying his luck as an independent candidate. However, all eyes are on the Mandi parliamentary bypoll as the constituency is the home turf of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The BJP has fielded Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Singh Thakur from Mandi against Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, the wife of late chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-bypolls-arki-assembly-seat-records-highest-turnout-till-10-am-mandi-ls-seat-lowest-1045602.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Voting under way in bypolls to one Lok Sabha, three Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh||Voting began Saturday morning for bye-elections to one Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, an official said. As many as 48 candidates are in the fray in four constituencies where straight fights are expected between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress. Voting started at 7 am and will end at 6 pm, the official said. Altogether 26,50,004 voters are eligible to exercise franchise during the bypolls. Of 3,944 polling centres across four constituencies, 865 are deemed as sensitive by the administration. Webcasting has been arranged at 874 polling stations while CCTV cameras have been installed at 361 centres. Sixteen candidates each are in the fray for bypolls to Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and Raigaon (SC) Assembly constituency. In these seats, two ballot units have been placed in each polling centre due to the high number of candidates. Ten candidates are in the fray in Prithvipur and six in Jobat (ST) assembly constituencies. Counting of votes will take place on November 2. The Khandwa parliamentary seat and Raigaon assembly seat in Satna district were held by the BJP while Jobat in Alirajpur and Prithvipur in Niwari districts were with the Congress. In Khandwa, the BJP has fielded former district panchayat president Gyaneshwar Patil, denying the ticket to Harshvardhan Chauhan, the son of sitting MP Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan whose demise necessitated the bypoll. The Congress has fielded former MLA Rajnarayan Singh Purni. In Jobat, Sulochana Rawat is the BJP's nominee against Congress candidate Mahesh Patel. The seat fell vacant due to the death of sitting Congress legislator Kalawati Bhuria. Rawat, a former MLA, joined the BJP recently after quitting Congress. She had won from Jobat on Congress's ticket in 1998 and 2008. In Raigaon (SC) seat, the BJP has fielded Pratima Bagri, the daughter-in-law of MLA Jugal Kishore Bagri whose death necessitated the bypoll. She will face Congress' Kalpana Verma. Verma had been defeated by Jugal Kishore Bagri in the 2018. In Prithvipur, the BJP has fielded former Samajwadi Party leader Shishupal Singh against Congress's Nitendra Rathore, the son of former minister Brajendra Singh Rathore whose death necessitated the bypoll. Additional chief secretary Rajesh Rajora said 58 companies of special armed forces — including 50 from other states — have been deployed for ensuring fair and peaceful polls. A total of 55 flying squads and 64 static surveillance teams have been pressed into service. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-under-way-in-bypolls-to-one-lok-sabha-three-assembly-seats-in-madhya-pradesh-1045603.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Lawyer shot at by 3 assailants in UP||A lawyer was shot at by three assailants in a village here, police said Saturday. Afzal was shifted to a hospital after the three men opened fire at him on Sunday evening in Nagla Rudurpur village that falls under Khatoli police station, they said. The incident took place when the lawyer was returning to his village from Muzaffarnagar on a bike, they added. Police suspect old enmity to be the reason behind the attack. Further investigation in the case is on, they said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lawyer-shot-at-by-3-assailants-in-up-1045628.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan bypolls: More than 27% polling in Dhariawad, over 23% in Vallabhnagar till 11 am||Over 27 per cent polling was registered in the bypoll to the Dhariawad (Pratapgarh) assembly constituency while the figure for the Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) seat was more than 23 per cent till 11 am.  Voting for bypolls to the assembly constituencies of Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad to decide the fate of 16 candidates began amid tight security arrangements at 7 am. According to official information, Dhariawad registered 27.13 per cent voter turnout while the voting percentage was 23.30 in Vallabhnagar till 11 am.  The bypolls were necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP legislator from Dhariawad Gautam Lal Meena. A total of 5,11,455 voters — 2,53,831 in Vallabhnagar and 2,57,624 in Dhariawad — will be able to exercise their franchise. Nine candidates are in the fray for the Vallabhnagar seat and seven for Dhariawad, Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said. A total of 638 polling booths have been set up in both the constituencies, and 119 of them are sensitive. Webcasting will be done in 64 sensitive booths and videography in 29.  Gupta said 4,468 security personnel have been deployed in both the constituencies to ensure free, fair and peaceful voting. The voting is being conducted according to COVID-19 guidelines, he added. In Vallabhnagar, the ruling Congress party has given its ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife, Preeti Shaktawat, while the BJP has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala. The Congress has fielded Nagraj Meena in Dhariawad against BJP candidate Khet Singh Meena. In the house of 200, the ruling Congress has 106 MLAs, while the BJP has 71, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party has three, the CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party have two each, the Rashtriya Lok Dal has one and 13 are independent legislators. Two seats are vacant on which the bypolls are being conducted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-bypolls-more-than-27-polling-in-dhariawad-over-23-in-vallabhnagar-till-11-am-1045653.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh bypolls: Congress alleges MCC violation by BJP MLA, seeks repoll at Mandi||The opposition Congress on Saturday sent a complaint to the election commission against a BJP MLA accusing him of violating the model code of conduct (MCC) and sought repolling at a Mandi polling station. Voting for Mandi Lok Sabha and three Vidhan Sabha seats of Fatehpur, Arki, and Jubbal-Kotkhai is underway in Himachal Pradesh. The BJP has fielded Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Singh Thakur from Mandi against Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, the wife of late chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Pratibha Singh's son and Shimla (rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh told media that the complaint was e-mailed to the commission against Bharmour MLA by the state Congress legal cell general secretary Pranay P Singh. In his complaint, Pranay Singh alleged that the BJP MLA stood inside the polling station while votes were being cast in a bid to influence the voters, which is a violation of the MCC guidelines. Urging the commission to take immediate action, he sought repolling at the polling station. The Congress leader has also sent a video to the commission in this regard and urged it to debar the MLA from taking part in the election process. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-bypolls-congress-alleges-mcc-violation-by-bjp-mla-seeks-repoll-at-mandi-1045657.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh takes swipe at Shah for sharing dais with Ajay Mishra||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday took a swipe at Union Home Minister Amit Shah for sharing a dais with his junior colleague Ajay Mishra, under a cloud over the recent violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight people were killed. In a post on Twitter, Yadav also tagged a photograph of the two ministers during a programme of Uttar Pradesh's ruling BJP here on Friday. "Jhoothi doorbeen lekar dhoondne ka dhong pura tha, jabki bagal mein chora jagat dhindora tha (the pretense of searching with false binoculars was complete, the person being searched was standing alongside)," the SP president posted. The reference was to Shah's remark during his speech on Friday that no 'bahubali', as politicians with a criminal history or strongmen are often called, can be found even if you look for them with binoculars. Praising the law and order situation under the Yogi Adityanath government, Shah had said, "Before  2017, seeing the bad condition of the law and order of Uttar Pradesh my blood would boil. In the era of the earlier government, girls could not come out of the house. There were two-three 'bahubalis' in every district but today, even if I look with binoculars, I do not see any 'bahubali' anywhere.” On October 3, of the eight people killed during the violence in Lakhimpuri Kheri, four were farmers. Union Minister of State for Home Mishra's son Ashish has been arrested. Some farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles that ran down the four farmers, an allegation denied by him and his father. Opposition parties, including the SP and the Congress, have demanded the dismissal of Ajay Mishra. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-takes-swipe-at-shah-for-sharing-dais-with-ajay-mishra-1045662.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Hospitals may use beds reserved for Covid cases for dengue patients: Delhi government||Delhi government has said that hospitals may use one-third of the beds reserved for coronavirus patients for those suffering from vector-borne diseases, if the need arises. The order came in the wake of surge in cases of dengue in the capital. Delhi has reported over 1,000 cases of dengue this year, with more than 280 cases logged in the last week, according to a civic report released on Monday. Of the total number of dengue cases this season, 665 were recorded in the first 23 days of this month alone. The city recorded its first death due to the vector-borne disease this season on October 18. "It is observed that the number of cases of Dengue/Malaria/Chikunguniya are on a rise, with increasing demand of beds for these patients. Further many of the beds reserved for Covid cases are lying vacant due to the decline in number of Covid cases," the order issued on Friday read. The health department directed the medical directors and medical superintendents of Delhi government run hospitals to use one third of the beds reserved for treating of COVID patients, including ICU beds, for treating people suffering from dengue, malaria and chikunguniya , if required. Out of 10,594 beds for Covid-19 patients in hospitals across the national capital, only 164 are occupied. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hospitals-may-use-beds-reserved-for-covid-cases-for-dengue-patients-delhi-government-1045664.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan bypolls: More than 14% polling in Dhariawad, over 11% in Vallabhnagar till 9 am||Over 14 per cent polling was registered in the bypoll to Dhariawad (Pratapgarh) assembly constituency while the figure for Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) seat was more than 11 per cent till 9 am, officials said on Saturday. Voting for bypolls to the assembly constituencies of Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad to decide the fate of 16 candidates began amid tight security arrangements at 7 am. According to officials, Dhariawad registered 14.26 per cent voter turnout while the voting percentage was 11.20 in Vallabhnagar till 9 am, according to official data. The bypolls were necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP legislator from Dhariawad Gautam Lal Meena. A total of 5,11,455 voters -- 2,53,831 in Vallabhnagar and 2,57,624 in Dhariawad -- will be able to exercise their franchise. Nine candidates are in the fray for the Vallabhnagar seat and seven for Dhariawad, Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said. A total of 638 polling booths have been set up in both the constituencies, and 119 of them are sensitive. Webcasting will be done in 64 sensitive booths and videography in 29. Gupta said 4,468 security personnel have been deployed in both constituencies to ensure free, fair, and peaceful voting. The voting is being conducted according to Covid-19 guidelines, he added. In Vallabhnagar, the ruling Congress party has given its ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife, Preeti Shaktawat, while the BJP has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala. The Congress has fielded Nagraj Meena in Dhariawad against BJP candidate Khet Singh Meena. In the house of 200, the ruling Congress has 106 MLAs, while the BJP has 71, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party has 3, the CPI(M) and Bharatiya Tribal Party have two each, the Rashtriya Lok Dal has one, and 13 are independent legislators. Two seats are vacant on which the bypolls are being conducted. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-bypolls-more-than-14-polling-in-dhariawad-over-11-in-vallabhnagar-till-9-am-1045679.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Blood count test must for every fever patient, Mathura health officials told||As a measure to control the raging fever, health department officers here have been instructed to conduct a CBC test of every fever patient, a senior state government officer said on Saturday. “Get Complete Blood Count (CBC) done of every fever patient as a precautionary measure to counter Dengue”, Mayur Maheshwari, Mukhya Karyapalak Adhikari Industries, Kanpur, was said to have instructed local officials in a meeting on Friday. He directed the Mathura Chief Medical Officer (CMO) to get sampling done for dengue in each such case where patient shows any symptoms of the fever. Sampling of at least 100 persons should be done daily at every community health center, said Maheshwari, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 for Mathura. The official also directed the CMO to take maximum samples from dengue-affected villages. The district Inspector of schools was directed to ensure there is no stagnant water in or around schools and the inter college. Emphasis was given to cleanliness around schools with regular spray of anti-larva chemical or DDT at vulnerable areas. Agriculture and revenue officials posted in Mathura were also told to ascertain actual loss caused to paddy crop owing to recent heavy rains. “Overcome the problem of farmers related to the sowing of their paddy, potato, and wheat crop, and availability of fertilizers”, the official said. The meeting was concluded with stress on advance arrangements to counter Covid-19. The nodal officer also made surprise checks at Nagar Palika Parishad, Kosikalan, CHC Kosikalan, a school in Dautana village of Chhata tehsil, and Mathura New Bus Stand, and issued instructions to those in-charge.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/blood-count-test-must-for-every-fever-patient-mathura-health-officials-told-1045687.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 45.67% turnout in bypolls to three Assembly segments and of 39.08% in Khandwa LS seat till 1 pm||A voter turnout of 45.67 per cent was recorded till 1 pm on Saturday in the bypolls to three Assembly seats and of 39.08 per cent in the byelection to the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency in Madhya Pradesh where ruling BJP and opposition Congress are locked in a straight contest. Jobat, Prithvipur and Raigaon Assembly constituencies recorded turnouts of 40.61 per cent, 53.90 per cent, and 44.52 per cent per cent, respectively, in the first six hours of voting till 1 pm, officials said. A total of 48 candidates are in the fray in these four constituencies where polling will be held till 6 pm, the officials said. These byelections were necessitated due to the death of sitting MLAs and an MP. Of the four seats for which the bypollls are underway, two constituencies namely Khandwa (Lok Sabha) and Raigaon (SC) were held by the BJP while Jobat and Prithvipur were with the Congress. Altogether 26,50,004 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise during the bypolls. Of 3,944 polling centres across the four constituencies, 865 are deemed as sensitive by the administration. Webcasting has been arranged at 874 polling stations while CCTV cameras have been installed at 361 centres. Sixteen candidates each are in the fray for by-polls to Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and Raigaon (SC) Assembly constituency. In these seats, two ballot units have been placed in each polling centre due to the high number of candidates. Ten candidates are in the fray in Prithvipur and six in Jobat (ST) assembly constituencies. The counting of votes will take place on November 2. The Khandwa parliamentary seat and Raigaon assembly segment in the Satna district were held by the BJP while Jobat in Alirajpur and Prithvipur in Niwari districts were with the Congress. In Khandwa, the BJP has fielded former district panchayat president Gyaneshwar Patil, denying the ticket to Harshvardhan Chauhan, the son of sitting MP Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan whose demise necessitated the bypoll. The Congress has fielded former MLA Rajnarayan Singh Purni. In Jobat, Sulochana Rawat is the BJP's nominee against Congress candidate Mahesh Patel. The seat fell vacant due to the death of sitting Congress legislator Kalawati Bhuria. Rawat, a former MLA, joined the BJP recently after quitting Congress. She had won from Jobat on Congress's ticket in 1998 and 2008. In Raigaon (SC) seat, the BJP has fielded Pratima Bagri, the daughter-in-law of MLA Jugal Kishore Bagri whose death necessitated the bypoll. She will face Congress' Kalpana Verma. Verma had been defeated by Jugal Kishore Bagri in 2018. In Prithvipur, the BJP has fielded former Samajwadi Party leader Shishupal Singh against Congress's Nitendra Rathore, the son of former minister Brajendra Singh Rathore whose death necessitated the bypoll. Additional chief secretary Rajesh Rajora said 58 companies of special armed forces -- including 50 from other states -- have been deployed for ensuring fair and peaceful polls. A total of 55 flying squads and 64 static surveillance teams have been pressed into service. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-4567-turnout-in-bypolls-to-three-assembly-segments-and-of-3908-in-khandwa-ls-seat-till-1-pm-1045706.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Channi, Sidhu should explain Tytler being named permanent invitee to Delhi Congress committee: BJP||BJP leader Tarun Chugh on Saturday asked Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress' state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to clarify if they have endorsed naming Jagdish Tytler as a permanent invitee to the Delhi Congress' new executive committee. Tytler's name had earlier figured in connection with the anti-Sikh riots of 1984. In a statement issued here, BJP national general secretary Chugh said, "Tytler has been named as one of the key Congress leaders in Delhi, but he, Kamal Nath and Sajjan Kumar continue to be the blue-eyed boys of the party in spite of the fact that their role in the riots against Sikhs has been always highlighted by many witnesses." "Sidhu had confessed that he barely escaped the anti-Sikh riots in 1984 and now he feels proud of being a leader of the Congress?" he said. Chugh said Sikh leaders, including Channi and Sidhu, owe an explanation to the people of Punjab for being part of the Congress. Ahead of the civic body polls in the national capital early next year, the Delhi Congress on Thursday got its new executive committee. Congress national general secretary KC Venugopal in a statement had said Congress president Sonia Gandhi has approved the formation of the executive committee. The list of permanent invitees included senior leaders JP Agarwal, Ajay Maken, Kapil Sibal, Janardan Dwivedi, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Subhash Chopra and Tytler.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channi-sidhu-should-explain-tytler-being-named-permanent-invitee-to-delhi-congress-committee-bjp-1045710.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||T20 WC: Mehbooba writes to PM Modi over action against Kashmiri students, seeks intervention||Expressing shock at the punitive action against some Kashmiri students for allegedly celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in a cricket match, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday and sought his intervention so that their future is not destroyed. She noted that such punitive actions will only further the sense of mistrust and alienation between the younger generation in Kashmir and the rest of the country, and added patriotism and a sense of loyalty have to be cultivated with compassion. "I write to you with a deep sense of disappointment and concern about the alarming situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Not too long ago when you presided over an all-party meeting in Delhi you expressed your intention to remove 'dil ki doori' between Delhi and J&K. In my capacity as the President of PDP, I suggested a few confidence building measures that would have provided a sense of relief and breathing space to the people of J&K," Mehbooba wrote. "We had been waiting for the roll-out of a policy to address the hearts and minds of people, especially youth," she said. The PDP president said there were also expectations that Union Home Minister Amit Shah's recent visit to J&K would have led to a meaningful reach-out, especially after his statement about engaging with the youth here. "Instead, what followed was shocking and worrying. A friendly cricket match between India and Pakistan that was solely a source of entertainment for people here...led to booking (of) youngsters under the draconian UAPA for simply choosing to cheer the winning side," she said. Mehbooba said the brightest young people pursuing professional courses like MBBS have been targeted and slapped with anti-terror laws. "...three students in Agra too have been arrested and charged with sedition for the same reasons. This, despite the college's own admission that they didn't engage in any activity that might be construed as anti-national," she said. The former chief minister said patriotism and a sense of loyalty have to be cultivated with compassion and cannot be "forced by wielding the baton or by the barrel of a gun". "Such punitive actions laced with contempt will only further the sense of mistrust and alienation between the younger generation and rest of the country.... Wisdom deems it prudent for this government to engage with them, understand their aspirations and goals. I fervently request you to intervene so that the future of these young bright minds is not destroyed," she wrote to Modi. Mehbooba said political parties and their fortunes will wax and wane over the course of time, but what matters the most is the future generation that will have to carry the burdens of the past yet strive to fulfil the expectations of a better tomorrow. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/t20-wc-mehbooba-writes-to-pm-modi-over-action-against-kashmiri-students-seeks-intervention-1045714.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Shah seeks another term for BJP for continued development of Uttarakhand||Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday sought a fresh mandate for the BJP-led government in Uttarakhand, citing the spate of development initiatives in the hill-state and cautioning against the “appeasement policies” of the Congress. Addressing a public rally in Dehradun, Shah listed out projects such as Char Dham highway, Rishikesh-Karnaprayag railway line, and the reconstruction of Kedarnath, which faced massive destruction in 2013 flash floods as achievements of the BJP government. Shah said Modi would inaugurate the re-developed Kedarpuri project and unveil a 12-foot statue of Adi Shankaracharya in the temple town nestled in the Himalayas on November 5. Targeting the Congress, Shah accused the opposition party of pursuing politics of appeasement and not for the welfare of the people. “Earlier, when I came here during the Congress government, my convoy was stopped. I asked, what happened? They said, sir, don’t you know today is Friday. ... There is permission to block the National Highway to perform Namaz. They (Congress) even dared to declare Holiday on Friday. Friends, those doing appeasement cannot do good for Devbhoomi,” Shah said. Shah said Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh by the NDA government led by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Modi will rebuild the hill-state which will witness all-round development. Shah claimed that the Congress leaders could not be seen during the Covid-19 pandemic or floods but appear when elections are around the corner and start doing press conferences. He said that Uttarakhand has seen overall development in the last four years and asserted that BJP was committed to the development of the state under the leadership of Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. Shah praised Dhami for the urgency with which he responded to the natural disaster in Uttarakhand, saying he hardly left room for the Centre to do anything. “Reacting to the crisis immediately, Dhami returned from Ayodhya cancelling all his programmes and began his tour of the affected areas. Relief and rescue operations were launched immediately and not a single pilgrim was allowed to die. When I arrived to take stock of the situation I realised there was hardly room for me to do anything,” Shah said referring to the heavy rains that lashed the state a fortnight back. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shah-seeks-another-term-for-bjp-for-continued-development-of-uttarakhand-1045717.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Consensual sex with major not 'offence' but 'immoral': Allahadbad HC||The Allahabad High Court, while rejecting the bail plea of a gang-rape accused on Saturday, held that consensual sex with a major is not an "offence" but is "unethical, immoral, and against established Indian tradition". Dismissing the bail plea of one of the four accused in the case, Justice Rahul Chaturvedi said that it was the duty of the man, claiming to be a minor's boyfriend, to protect her when she was being sexually assaulted by the other co-accused. "The moment the applicant submits that the victim is his beloved, it becomes his binding duty to protect the dignity, honour and reputation of his girlfriend. If a girl is major, then having sex with her consent is not an offence, but certainly it is unethical and immoral, and also not in consonance with the established social norms of the Indian society," he said. The court termed the act of the applicant "highly deplorable and unbecoming of a boyfriend" and stated that "he remained a mute spectator when the co-accused were brutally assaulting his beloved in front of him". According to the FIR, on February 19, the victim, a resident of Kaushambhi district, had gone for her stitching lessons at an institute and spoke to her boyfriend Raju and they both planned to meet. Later, they met at a secluded place near a river. It was here that the three other persons came, abused and beat the applicant, and committed the crime. On February 20, an FIR was lodged by the 15-year-old victim against four accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including rape, assault, and criminal intimidation of the IPC and Sections 5 and 6 of POCSO Act at Akil Sarai police station of Kaushambhi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/consensual-sex-with-major-not-offence-but-immoral-allahadbad-hc-1045730.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi University releases fourth cut-off list||The Delhi University on Saturday released its fourth cut-off list, with unreserved category seats already filled in some much sought-after colleges like the Hindu College and the Shri Ram College of Commerce in the previous lists. Since the first cut-off list was declared on October 1, a total of 63,504 students have secured admission by paying their fees. At the Hansraj College, BA (Honours) Economics, BA (Honours) History and BCom (Honours) courses are still open for admission, while most of the other courses are closed for the unreserved category. The Hindu College had closed admissions to BA (Honours) Philosophy after the first cut-off list but it was opened under the special list with a cut-off of 97.75 per cent. The minimum marks required for admission has come down by 0.25 per cent. Admission to all other courses at the college have been closed. At the Kirori Mal College, BA (Honours) Economics, BA (Honours) History and BA (Honours) English and BCom (Honours) courses are still open for admission. The Shri Ram College of Commerce has closed the admission process for BCom (Honours) and Economics (Honours) for general category aspirants. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-releases-fourth-cut-off-list-1045754.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||BJP pushes brand Modi in UP, Uttarakhand amid anti incumbency against state governments||Amid realisation that local leadership faces strong anti-incumbency in poll-bound states Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, BJP has gone for a big 'brand Modi' push months ahead of the assembly elections. After telling UP electorates the victory of Yogi in 2022 is necessary for the win of Modi in 2024 general elections, Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday sought repeat mandate for the party in Uttarakhand flagging how “Modi brought road and rail infrastructure development projects worth Rs 85,000 crore to the state during his tenure”. Stressing that Modi’s “heart aches for the poor” and he understands the problems of the poor,  Shah flagged how electricity and cooking gas have reached every household across the country due to this  and challenged the opposition Congress to show what it had done for the state during its time. “I had once said Uttarakhand was created by Atal ji and Modi ji will build it. My words have come true. The Modi-Dhami team will bring prosperity to every home," he said. Battling performance issues and internal dissension in the party-led government BJP has had three Chief Ministers in the hill state in a year and the incumbent Pushakar Singh Dhami is considered a political greenhorn. Hence the party is banking big on Modi’s charisma to win the hill state for it. Uttarakhand has in the last few years been changing governments alternatively. BJP has made a clean sweep in the state in 2019 Lok Sabha polls but this time a divided party state unit and the government facing Covid backlash is pitted against Congress led by a veteran Harish Rawat, the former Chief Minister. Hence the Modi push is understandable. On Friday addressing a party event in Lucknow, Shah brought Modi directly into the picture for UP polls saying Yogi Adityanath has to become chief minister in 2022 for Narendra Modi to be sworn in as the prime minister again in 2024. “When Modi Ji is the prime minister, he gives all that is required by Uttar Pradesh. The foundation of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, which has to be won under the leadership of Modi Ji will be laid in the 2022 assembly elections here,” Shah said. The Home Minister also flagged how “under the guidance of Modi Ji,” the UP Chief Minister has run the government for the poor, women, youth and the unemployed. The BJP believes that PM Modi is still their best bait when they go in for elections, even in states. In UP, the Opposition has made a huge campaign around images of bodies buried in the sands of Ganga and later floating in the river water during the peak of the second wave of Covid pandemic this year. While Priyanka Gandhi is steering the Congress campaign, the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party is emerging as the principal challenger to the BJP with leaders from other parties flocking to SP. Even on Saturday seven MLAs  joined it. One of them was from the BJP and six from the BSP, who were suspended earlier. BJP believes There Is No Alternative (TINA) factor in favour of Modi at the Centre and while it will work in Lok Sabha polls, projecting Modi also yields gains to the party in states like, where it finds the going tough in post Covid-19 scenario. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-pushes-brand-modi-in-up-uttarakhand-amid-anti-incumbency-against-state-governments-1045755.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Two soldiers killed in blast along LoC in J&K's Rajouri||Two army personnel were killed and another was injured in a landmine explosion near a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials said. The army said the blast occurred when the troops were on an area domination patrol in the Naushera sector. "On October 30, during an area domination patrol in Naushera sector, a mine blast occurred wherein two Indian Army soldiers suffered critical injuries and later succumbed to their injuries. Another soldier who received injuries was evacuated and is under treatment," Jammu-based Defence PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said. Officials said the blast took place in the Kalal area of Nowshera when the army team was on patrol duty as part of measures to check the infiltration of terrorists from across the border. They said the area is dotted with landmines planted by the army as part of the counter-infiltration arrangement. The defence PRO identified the deceased as Lieutenant Rishi Kumar and Sepoy Manjit and said they were brave and extremely committed to the profession of soldiering and made the supreme sacrifice for the nation in the line of active duty. Lieutenant Kumar is a resident of Begusarai in Bihar, while Sepoy Singh is a resident of Sirvewala village of Bhatinda in Punjab. "The nation and Indian Army shall forever remain indebted to the brave hearts for their supreme sacrifice," the spokesperson said. General Officer Commanding of the Jammu-based 16 Corps Lt Gen Manjinder Singh and other ranks saluted the brave hearts for their supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. The army's 16 Corps is also known as the White Knight Corps. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-soldiers-killed-in-blast-along-loc-in-jks-rajouri-1045763.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||New excise policy: Delhi may see rise in liquor prices||Liquor prices in the city might go up as private vends open from November 17 under the new excise policy of the Delhi government. The Delhi government's excise department, which is in the process of fixing maximum retail price (MRP) of brands to be registered in Delhi, said in an order on Thursday that the wholesale prices of all types of liquor are likely to increase by eight to nine per cent. "The increase in wholesale price will lead to at least five to10 per cent increase in MRP of liquor, although the actual effect will be realised only after the new retail system as per the excise policy for 2021-22 is in place," said a liquor trader. Senior officers of the department did not reply when reached for comments. In the new Excise Policy 2021-22, the excise duty and VAT have been subsumed in the licence fee. Nominal excise duty and VAT at the rate of one per cent each on wholesale price (WSP) will be levied to arrive at the landing price to the retailer, said the order.  The impact on WSP due to incorporation of various factors like central sales tax at two per cent, profit margin for wholesaler, import pass fee, and freight and handling charges, as approved in the Excise Policy 2021-22, will cause 10 per cent to 25 per cent rise for some brands of whisky (Indian manufactured foreign liquor or IMFL), with fluctuation per unit from eight per cent (Royal Stag Premier) to 25.9 per cent (Blenders Pride Rare). "Due to revised parameters incorporated in the cost card of Indian and foreign liquor vide new Excise Policy 2021-22, the new WSP to be arrived is likely to increase by approximately 8-9 per cent," the order said. A similar impact is expected on ether categories of liquor as well, it pointed out. Under the Excise Policy 2021-22, all the 849 vends will be operated by private entities from November 17. So far, the majority of retail sale in Delhi was handled by the city government's agencies that will shut shop on November 16. About 260 private vends were closed on September 30 in view of the implementation of the new excise policy. It would be a reasonable assumption that since all vends shall be operated by private business entities in a competitive market environment, they would operate at their maximum efficiency, and the market size in terms of the number of casks sold is likely to show a significant increase as compared to 2019-20, the order stated. The capping of Rs 50 as retail margin on the sale of IMFL and Rs 100 on sale of foreign liquor has been discontinued. There will be no cap on the retail margin of IMFL, foreign liquor, beer, and wine, and the competitive market forces will keep watch over the sale price to the consumer, the order said. Also, a discount on MRP has been allowed in the Excise Policy 2021-22 to bring competitive market forces into effect.  "It is important that the consumer should not be burdened with a price increase. The changes brought about in the new excise policy will need reasonable time to play out in the market. "In the overall interests of consumers of Delhi, to prevent the interstate smuggling, the MRP for 2021-22 should as far as possible be in the same range as prevailing in Delhi," it stated. The impact of an increase in WSP (if any) as per the parameters approved for the year 2021-22 also needs to be factored in while fixing the MRP, said the order.  The Excise Commissioner will fix MRP for each product after taking into account the input of licensees and the price of the product in the neighbouring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Rajasthan. The licensees have either sought a flat per centage increase in the existing MRP or have suggested an ad valorem formula for arriving at the MRP.  The MRP prevailing in Delhi was compared with the neighbouring states and found to be generally lower. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-excise-policy-delhi-may-see-rise-in-liquor-prices-1045769.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Farmer hangs self in UP village over non-availability of fertilisers||A 37-year-old farmer allegedly hanged himself in Masaura Khurd village here on Saturday due to unavailability of fertilizers and debts he owed. The body of Raghuveer Patel was found hanging, and it was sent for a post-mortem examination, Sadar Kotwali Police Station SHO VK Mishra said. Police recovered a note from Patel’s pocket, in which he mentioned unavailability of fertilisers as the reason of suicide. It couldn’t be established prima facie if the note was genuine, as there was no signature on it, Mishra said. According to Patel’s family, he took the extreme step as he was worried over fertilisers and debts he needed to repay, he said. The matter is being probed, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-hangs-self-in-up-village-over-non-availability-of-fertilisers-1045773.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Street vendors have fundamental right but can't impinge upon others' rights: HC||No right is absolute and it needs to be balanced with others’ rights, the Delhi High Court observed Saturday, saying street vendors do have a fundamental right but when they use a public way, they impinge on someone else's right to walk. Hearing a batch of petitions on the Street Vendors Act, 2014, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said hawkers should get proper places to sit and proper kiosks in every market. "They should have a proper licence. Then you don't have to pay 'hafta' to the police," the court said. The court asked what was the "bottleneck" in the implementation of the Act. "What is the hesitation for the last seven years?" The bench said the authorities should come out with the Street Vending plan taking into consideration aspects like safety, security, hygiene, roads etc. The authorities need to have a plan every five years but "unfortunately, there is no plan for now", it said. "People who have been squatting should be required to disclose their assets and income. Those selling on streets have fundamental rights but no right is absolute. Even if he is an old squatter, he should give way so that the old site is allotted fairly. When you want to use a public way or a street, you are impinging on somebody else's right to walk. "It cannot be like no one can touch you. There has to be some application of mind that what can be allowed. You have to see the density of the area, how many vends can be allowed," the bench said. The court commenced hearing arguments on a batch of petitions challenging the validity of the Street Vendors Act, its implementation, certain provisions of Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme, 2019, and other connected issues raised by various market associations and vendors and hawkers. Senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, appearing for New Delhi Traders Association, which represents shop owners and operators in the Connaught Place (CP) area, explained to the bench previous judgements on the issue and how the things have proceeded before the courts. Ralli, along with advocate Mohit Mudgal, while referring to a previous judgment, said no hawker can defeat the rights of other citizens. When some of the counsel tried to intervene and make submissions, the court said, "We want to first see what judgments were delivered, then in that context we want to see how the Street Vendors Act came about. We do not want to lose our focus." "This is a dynamic situation. What we are looking at is the Act that came in 2014 and its implementation... There are more and more areas. There may be more people who may be allowed to vend. So we will have to see the Act and the scheme but firstly, the street vending plan has to come,” it said, adding that, "We are not coloured by any picture or paint." The bench remarked, "Can it be said that just because the Act is not being implemented properly so the vendors will sit wherever they want. We want proper implementation of the Act so that the problems of vendors end. They should get proper places to sit, proper kiosks in every market." The court heard the arguments advanced by Ralli and listed the matter for further hearing on November 18. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/street-vendors-have-fundamental-right-but-cant-impinge-upon-others-rights-hc-1045779.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||Police remove barricades from protest sites; farmers assert agitation to continue||After a rap from the Supreme Court, Delhi Police have removed the barricades on roads leading to Haryana on the Tikri borders, where farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the past 11 months. Similar clearing of roads was also underway at the Ghazipur border with Uttar Pradesh in East Delhi, which triggered speculation about the continuance of the farmers' protests. “Delhi Police is rectifying its mistake after submitting an affidavit in the Supreme Court. The farmers' agitation will continue as before. Farmers are present in large numbers at the protest site,” Dharmendra Malik, spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said. Malik said there have been attempts to weaken the agitation but farmers were ready to take on every challenge to break such efforts. A farmer leader said traffic movements were allowed on the Delhi-Haryana stretch along the Tikri borders on Saturday for light vehicles including bikes, auto-rickshaws and cars and ambulances. The opening of the road stretch at the Tikri border would help thousands of commuters of Bahadurgarh and Delhi as well as those travelling between the national capital and going to Rajasthan from Haryana. While the police removed a large portion of the barricades, wirings and iron nails from NH-9 (the Delhi-Meerut Expressway flyover) at Ghazipur border by Friday evening, the tents and other temporary structures erected by the protesters continued to remain there. Multiple layers of iron and cement barricades along with concertina wires were put up by the police last year. The arrangements were further beefed up after the January 26 violence in Delhi during the farmers’ protest against three new agriculture laws of the Centre. The process to remove the barricades started following the October 21 Supreme Court direction calling for unblocking of the roads that have remained out of bounds for commuters due to the laws protests at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-remove-barricades-from-protest-sites-farmers-assert-agitation-to-continue-1045781.html
30-10-2021||North and Central||4,200 women artisans, weavers in Uttar Pradesh join BJP||More than 4,200 women artisans and weavers from 26 districts in Uttar Pradesh joined the BJP in the presence of Union minister Smriti Irani on Saturday. Motivating the women to join the saffron party, Irani said the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government has given health insurance of Rs 5 lakh to more than 6.25 crore people under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme. From the organisation to government, the party is trying to empower every part of society, she said as she threw light on various welfare programmes of the state and central government. Khsipra Shukla, co-convenor, Artisan and Weaver Cell of UP BJP, said, "Every woman has embodied Goddess Durga in herself. She can do any task in hand. Under the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, initiatives to empower women are being accorded utmost importance." Irani also inaugurated 'Hello Kamal Shakti' mobile application to establish direct communication between women and organisations. She also announced that mobile number 9534350350 can be used for the same purpose, according to a statement issued by Shukla. UP MSME Minister Uday Bhan Singh and UP BJP's general secretary Ashwini Tyagi were also present on the occasion. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4200-women-artisans-weavers-in-uttar-pradesh-join-bjp-1045836.html
30-10-2021||Opinion||Delhi should fully back Hasina against Bangladesh’s Islamic radicals||Attacks on Hindu temples, defilement of places sacred to Hindus, vandalising Durga Pooja celebrations, killing Hindu priests, destroying villages with Hindu majority are all not new in Bangladesh. They have been going on for some years now. The recent cycle of violence, which reportedly spread to nearly 23 districts of Bangladesh, is perhaps the worst since Sheikh Hasina came to power 12 years ago. Around elections and the Durga Pooja have been particularly bad times for Bangladesh’s more than one crore Hindus who have become easy targets for Islamic fundamentalists in recent years. Durga Pooja is the most popular festival for the Bengali population all over Bangladesh and hence a favourite target of the Islamic radicals. The attacks have become as much an annual ritual as the pooja itself. This time, the riots assumed disturbing proportions and have been more organised and focussed. The riots started after a rumour circulated that a copy of the Quran had been placed in one of the pooja pandals. The instigators who placed the Quran, said to be two small shop-owners in Comilla, have been arrested. The Hasina government swung into action and arrested more than 500 people. She has avowed to mete out “such tough and exemplary punishment that none will dare repeat these acts of violence”. Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal has said the police is investigating the rioters’ links with radical Islamic outfits. The government has also deployed border guard troops and units of the elite Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) to control the rioting. It is no secret that Hindu voters strongly back Hasina and her party, the Awami League. On her part, she has assiduously built relationships with the Hindu community at various levels. She even fulfilled the long-pending demand of return of the land belonging to the Dhakeshwari Temple back to the temple committee. Beside the Hindu support base, Hasina has steadfastly carried on the fight against Islamic radicalism in Bangladesh. This has helped her in more ways than any politician could ask for. The Islamic radical elements are a threat not only to the Hindu community but also to the strong vote-bank of the Awami League which has always accused the main opposition party, the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), of hobnobbing with the Jamaat-e-Islami (Jamaat) and other radical outfits to win elections. The BNP has rubbished these allegations, but the radical outfits have somehow made deep inroads into the BNP’s cadre base and surface during elections to swing support in favour of BNP. To a very large extent, the core team of the BNP has not been able to pull itself out of the clutches of the radical elements. Delhi has repeatedly warned Dhaka of the dangers of the revival of radical Islamic movements and the terror threat that such outfits pose to India from the East, just as Pakistan-backed terrorist groups do in the West. With the resolve to fight Islamic radicalism as the primary objective, the Hasina government is reportedly planning to table a bill in Parliament to take the country back to the 1972 (secular) Constitution enacted by the first government under Hasina’s father and the popular leader of the freedom struggle, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman. That Constitution had been junked by Maj Gen Zia ur Rehman, who seized power in a coup after Mujibur Rehman’s assassination on August 15, 1975. Zia, much as his namesake General in Pakistan did, junked the idea of secularism and took Bangladesh on the path of Islamic radicalism. Later, in 1988, Gen Ershad declared Islam as the State religion of Bangladesh. In this background, the statement by the Minister of State for Information & Broadcasting Murad Hassan who said that Bangladesh cannot be a haven for radilcal Islamists and will revert to the 1972 Constitution is heartening. “We have the blood of freedom fighters in our body. At any cost, we have to go back to the Constitution of 1972…I will speak in Parliament to go back to the Constitution …Even if no one speaks, Murad will speak in Parliament”, he said, demonstrating the government’s resolve against Islamic radicalism. Islamist outfits have, in the meanwhile, threatened to resort to violent protests if such a bill is tabled in Parliament. The radical outfit Hifazat-e-Islam’s secretary-general Nurul Islam Jihadi has asserted, “Islam was the State religion, it is the State religion, it will remain the State religion” and threatened “a bloody campaign” against the proposed bill. There are reports of close connections between Pakistan’s ISI and some of the radical outfits in Bangladesh, including the Jamaat and the Hifazat-e-Islam, which successfully got removed Bangladesh’s ‘Statue of Liberty’, a saree-clad woman holding a scale signifying justice, placed outside the Supreme Court building in Dhaka. There are serious indications that Pakistan’s ISI wants Sheikh Hasina out of power and install a puppet regime of radical Islamic outfits that would be supported and controlled by Islamabad. Such a regime would suit China also as it is looking for a Beijing-friendly regime that will keep New Delhi at a safe distance and cancel all economic agreements with it. Given the highly surcharged atmosphere, it will be tempting for some elements to resort to jingoism and calls for action against Dhaka. A strong and safe Hindu population in Bangladesh is good for India. There is every need to protect them and assure them of all our support. But it is equally important to partner with the Sheikh Hasina government and support its anti-radicalism and counter-terrorism initiatives. It is in New Delhi’s interest to support Hasina in her fight against Islamic radicalism in Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/delhi-should-fully-back-hasina-against-bangladesh-s-islamic-radicals-1045845.html
30-10-2021||South||Voting begins for bypoll to Huzurabad Assembly seat in Telangana||Voting for the bypoll to Huzurabad assembly constituency in Telangana began amid tight security arrangements on Saturday. Polling began at 7 am and would continue till 7 pm in 306 polling stations in the constituency. As many as 2,37,036 voters, including 1,17,933 male and 1,19,102 female voters, will be able to exercise their franchise. Officials said 1,715 polling personnel, including Presiding Officers, have been posted on election duty. The administration has also made arrangements to follow precautions against Covid-19. Karimnagar Police Commissioner V Satyanarayana said 107 polling stations have been identified as sensitive and additional forces are deployed there. As many as 3,865 police personnel have been stationed to ensure peaceful voting. Twenty companies of central forces are also deployed. The by-election has been necessitated in Huzurabad in view of the resignation of Eatala Rajender in June following his removal from the state cabinet over allegations of land grabbing. Rajender, who dismissed the charges, has quit TRS and joined the BJP. He is seeking re-election on BJP ticket. Though as many as 30 candidates are in the fray, the main contest is among Gellu Srinivas Yadav (TRS), Eatala Rajender (BJP) and Venkat Balmoori (Congress). The bypoll is a do-or-die battle for Rajender, while it is significant for the BJP as it aims at emerging as the alternative to ruling TRS in the 2023 Legislative Assembly elections. It is crucial for the TRS as well as it would like to demonstrate that its dominance in state politics continues unchallenged. The counting of votes would be taken up on November 2. Check out DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/voting-begins-for-bypoll-to-huzurabad-assembly-seat-in-telangana-1045619.html
30-10-2021||South||Mullaperiyar dam shutters raised further||Shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam in Kerala, operated by Tamil Nadu, were raised further on Saturday morning as the water level in the reservoir rose to 138.90 ft, officials here said. The three spillway shutters were raised to a height of 70 cm each and 1,675 cusecs of water was being released to the downstream, they said. Earlier in the day, Kerala Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine urged the Tamil Nadu authorities to draw more amount of water from the dam as their was no dip in the inflow. He also wanted the neighbouring state to maintain the water level as per the Central Water Commission-approved Rule Curve. After the further raising of shutters, the minister told media that there was no need for any anxiety among those living in the catchment area of Periyar river. Even if they (Tamil Nadu) release four times more water than the present amount, it would not be a problem for Kerala, Augustine added. Shutters of the the Mullaperiyar dam were raised on Friday as the water level in the reservoir crossed 138 ft. Tamil Nadu government officials raised the spillway shutters 3 and 4 of the 126-year old dam by 0.3 metres around 7.30am. Later at 9 PM, one more shutter of the dam was raised as the water level in the 126 year old dam continued to rise. Mullaperiyar dam, built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala, is operated by the Tamil Nadu government for its irrigation and power generation needs. Kerala is insisting on building a new dam, citing safety concerns, but Tamil Nadu is against it, saying the present structure is strong.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mullaperiyar-dam-shutters-raised-further-1045652.html
30-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Day to be celebrated on July 18, not November 1: M K Stalin||Reversing a previous AIADMK government's decision, the ruling DMK in Tamil Nadu on Saturday said the state's Formation Day will now be celebrated on July 18, in lines with the rechristening of its name to the present one and not on November 1. Chief Minister M K Stalin's announcement in this connection drew the AIADMK's criticism, which alleged it was done due to "political vendetta." K Palaniswami, as Chief Minister in 2019, had announced Tamil Nadu Day will be observed on November 1 following requests from various quarters then. On Saturday, chief minister Stalin said that on November 1, 1956, Linguistic Reorganisation of States was done in the country following which parts of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala "went away" from the then Madras State. Subsequently, the previous government had announced November 1 from 2019 as Tamil Nadu Day, he recalled. "However, various sections including political parties, Tamil scholars, activists and associations have been insisting that November 1 would only signify the "border struggle" and that it would not be appropriate to celebrate the day as Tamil Nadu Day," he said in a statement. They had suggested that July 18 - when Tamil Nadu got its present name following an Assembly legislation heralded by Dravidian veteran and late chief minister CN Annadurai, should be the day to be celebrated as the state's formation day, he added. "After carefully considering the pleas of various organisations, a Government Order will soon be issued to celebrate July 18, when mother Tamil Nadu was named as Tamil Nadu by Anna," as the state's formation day, the CM added. Further, as a special gesture, 110 people involved in the "border struggle" will be honoured with Rs one lakh each on November 1, he said. The opposition AIADMK lashed out at the government's decision to change the state's formation day celebrations. Just because Palaniswami had announced that November 1 will be celebrated as Tamil Nadu Day, "I condemn portraying history according to your convenience (due to) political vendetta," party spokesperson Kovai Sathyan said in a tweet, tagging Stalin and top party leaders O Panneerselvam and Palaniswami. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-day-to-be-celebrated-on-july-18-not-november-1-m-k-stalin-1045655.html
30-10-2021||South||Medical aspirant kills self over NEET in Tamil Nadu||Apprehensive over the outcome of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), a 20-year old medical aspirant allegedly died by suicide in the district. K Keerthivasan of Sangarayapuram near here had appeared for the entrance exam held in September for the third time, the results of which are expected in a couple of days. According to police, the youth had taken up the test in 2019 and 2020, but could not clear. So he tried his luck for the third time this year. With National Testing Agency publishing the answer key, the youth was said to be upset and told his parents that he may not be able to clear the test this year also, they said. Despite the advise from his parents to wait for the results, Keerthivasan allegedly consumed pesticides on Friday afternoon and was admitted to Pollachi Government hospital. The doctors attending to the youth referred him to the Government hospital, where he died at night, they added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/medical-aspirant-kills-self-over-neet-in-tamil-nadu-1045673.html
30-10-2021||South||Kerala man's artistic signature goes viral||At a time when digital signatures are becoming quite common, a conventional signature of a government official in Kerala is going viral on social media. It is the artistic touch that makes the signature of M K Jayan, block development officer of Mananthavady in Wayanad district, different. Jayan's signature that resembles a peacock's sketch is being widely shared across social media. Jayan, who is also a poet known by the name Jayan Kuppady, has been using the signature over the last three decades. But it went viral on social media after someone recently shared a picture of Jayan's signature in an official document. Jayan, who has a passion for drawing, says that he put this signature when his teacher in tenth-standard advised that students should ensure that the signatures they put on their Secondary School Leaving Certificates should be unique one and should be their life long signature. Though Jayan has put his artistic signature on hundreds of official documents over the years, only now are people showing keen interest in seeing his signature. Jayan, a native of Wayanad, did his schooling in the district itself and went to colleges in adjacent Kozhikode district. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mans-artistic-signature-goes-viral-1045684.html
30-10-2021||South||Avoid misreporting on Mullaperiyar, only 500 cusecs released by Tamil Nadu: Durai Murugan||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday asked the media to refrain from misreporting on the Mullaperiyar Dam in the interest and well-being of both the states - Tamil Nadu and Kerala, and said only 500 cusecs of water (against 514 according to some news reports) was released by the Tamil Nadu State Water Resources Department officials with prior intimation to Kerala. Flaying a section of media for inaccurately reporting that the dam water was released by Kerala on Friday, The Tamil Nadu Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan said, “The misreporting on the Mullaperiyar Dam in a section of media appears to be intentional. This should be avoided in the interest and wellbeing of the states concerned,” he said in a statement here. Explaining, the Minister said the Madurai regional Water Resources Department decided to open the dam after taking into account the surging water-level in the reservoir. “It was opened on the morning of October 28 by the engineers of the Water Resources Department as the water in the dam continued to rise. Prior intimation was given to Kerala government, as per the standing guidelines and the water was released in the presence of the Kerala Water Resources Minister and Kerala officials,” he said. “This being the case, a section of the media falsely reported that the Kerala government had opened the dam,” the Minister said and recalled his statement on Friday that 500 cusecs of water was let out from 7.30 AM. “As per the storage position at 8 AM today, the reservoir has 138.85 feet water with an inflow of 3,404 cusecs. About 2,340 cusecs of water was drawn through the tunnel to the Vaigai Dam with a discharge of 875 cusecs,” he said. The quantum of water to be released would vary according to the inflows, the Minister added. Tamil Nadu Water Resources Department is monitoring the level of water in the dam on a regular basis as accorded by the Central Water Commission (CWC) and as per the order of the Supreme Court. “There is no doubt that the dam can impound water up to the permitted level of 142 feet depending upon the inflows from November 30. It is the Tamil Nadu government which owns, maintains and operates the Mullaperiyar Dam (located in Kerala), as per the 999-year lease agreement signed by Tamil Nadu and Kerala in 1886,” he pointed out. Earlier in the day, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam demanded the Chief Minister M K Stalin to clarify on media reports claiming 514 cusecs water was released from the dam by Kerala. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/avoid-misreporting-on-mullaperiyar-only-500-cusecs-released-by-tamil-nadu-durai-murugan-1045712.html
30-10-2021||South||Kerala BJP moves to cash in on PM Modi-Pope Francis meeting||The meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Pope Francis in Rome seems to be a shot in the arm by BJP leaders in Kerala in its efforts to make inroads into the decisive Christian vote banks of the state. BJP leaders from Kerala, including Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, were quick to make statements in this regard, and BJP state president K Surendran called on a prominent church leader during the day. While Muraleedharan stated that Modi's meeting with the Pope highlights the care and concern of the BJP government towards the Christian community, Surendran called on Major Archbishop of Syro-Malabar Malankara Catholic church Cardinal Baselios Cleemis in Thiruvananthapuram. Cleemis later said that Modi's meeting with Pope was very hopeful for the Christian community. The Christian community in Kerala forms 18.38 per cent of state's population as per the 2011 census and are decisive vote banks in many parts of the state, especially central Kerala. The BJP has been making efforts to make inroads into the community by initiating talks between the church leaders and BJP national leaders. BJP leaders were also backing the concerns of some church leaders over alleged 'love jihad'. But the BJP were yet to get any electoral advantage from such efforts. Hence the PM's meeting with Pope Francis is being considered by the BJP camps of Kerala as a shot in the arm. The Christian vote banks of Kerala was so far considered as pro-Congress. However, in the recent Assembly elections a shift in Christian vote banks in favour of the Left Front was quite evident, and the rapport developed Chief Minster Pinarayi Vijayan with church leaders was considered to be the major factor for this change. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bjp-moves-to-cash-in-on-pm-modi-pope-francis-meeting-1045736.html
30-10-2021||South||PM's decision to invite Pope Francis to India historic: Catholic Bishops' Council||The Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC), a body of Catholic Bishops in the State, on Saturday welcomed the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pope Francis by saying the decision to invite the pontiff to India was a historic one. The Prime Minister, who is in Italy to attend the G20 Summit, invited the head of the Roman Catholic church to visit India at an early date. "Inviting Pope Francis to India was a historic decision and this will raise the stature of the country among the nations of the world. His visit will help to strengthen the diplomatic relation between both the countries. It will also help to nurture the relationship between various sects of Christianity and other religions," KCBC said in a release. Cardinal Mar George Alenchery, the president of the KCBC, said all Indians, especially Christians, are glad to learn about the invitation extended by Modi. "We hope the Pope will visit India soon. The Pope's visit will pave the way for fostering brotherhood and co-operation in a pluralistic India," Alenchery said. The KCBC appreciated Modi for extending the invitation. This was the first meeting between an Indian Prime Minister and the Pope in more than two decades. In June 2000, the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had last visited the Vatican and met the then Pope, His Holiness John Paul II. India and The Holy See have friendly relations dating back to the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1948. India is home to the second largest Catholic population in Asia. The last Papal Visit happened in 1999 when Vajpayee (now deceased) was the Prime Minister.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pms-decision-to-invite-pope-francis-to-india-historic-catholic-bishops-council-1045743.html
30-10-2021||South||TDP's Chandrababu Naidu: Once 'king-maker' at the Centre, now fights political irrelevance||In his 46 years-long political life, Nara Chandrababu Naidu has fought numerous battles either to rise to or retain power but the one he is waging now appears to be to avoid an ignominious fading into oblivion. The Telugu Desam Party's electoral performance is at its lowest with 23 MLAs out of 175 in the assembly, three Lok Sabha MPs out of 25 from Andhra Pradesh and has seen continuous losses in all forms of polls — Panchayat, municipal, bypolls — in the state since Jaganmohan Reddy stormed to power in 2019 summer. Now, at the age of 71, the three-time chief minister and third-time opposition leader sat on a 36-hour fast in the TDP's central office near Vijayawada which was vandalised by miscreants allegedly belonging to YSRCP. The ruling party claims that a TDP leader's derogatory remark on Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has angered his admirers. Naidu, however, condemned the attacks as “state-sponsored terrorism, carried out with active connivance of AP police”, and even demanded President's rule in the state. The TDP chief, who is already struggling to keep his party legislators intact, is also seeking central forces security for his party offices. While Naidu's position in the state seems hapless, his New Delhi tour earlier this week with the above demands showed the stark contrast from the TDP chief's glorious “king-maker” run at the Centre. The most influential politician in the country for about a decade till 2004 whose opinion was crucial in deciding who the Prime Minister and President will be, had to return without an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. With just three Lok Sabha MPs from about 30 then, Naidu, analysts say, has become irrelevant in the Delhi power corridors. “Naidu's mortification is the result of a string of political miscalculations.” The TDP chief who romped to power in 2014 in an alliance with BJP and Janasena, abandoned the Narendra Modi-Shah duo in March 2018, over a year ahead of the 2019 general elections. The departure was over the Centre's refusal to accord a special category status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh for its industrial and overall growth. “You are falling into the YSR trap,” Modi had then warned Naidu. Quite prophetically,  Andhra Pradesh voters ousted TDP from power and SCS is something no one talks about in the state now. And in some now regrettable actions, Naidu had attacked the Modi leadership while camping with the Congress and other opposition parties. In May 2018, the TDP cadres allegedly hurled stones at the convoy of Shah, then BJP president, when he visited Tirupati. The YSRCP is now reminding of such vilification as Naidu looks keen, or like YSRCP parliamentary party leader Vijayasai Reddy says is “buttering up” the BJP leadership with a friendship request again. Vijayasai says that Naidu is offering 13 Lok Sabha seats to the BJP for the 2024 elections, in return for more assembly presence to help TDP regain power in Andhra Pradesh in the simultaneous polls. In 2014, TDP had offered five seats to the saffron party while it contested in the rest 20 Lok Sabha constituencies winning in 17. BJP won two segments. Exiting and reentering the BJP fold would not be new to Naidu. He had left the NDA fold in 2004 citing Gujarat riots among other issues but allied with the Gujarat CM Modi in 2014 to defeat Jagan. The question is if BJP top brass would be interested in readmitting Naidu, whom Shah has described as “the most opportunistic person in the country” during the 2019 poll campaign. To take on Jagan's might in 2024, observers say Naidu would in any case need actor turned politician Pawan Kalyan's Janasena support too, like in 2014. In the meanwhile, Naidu is not sitting quietly. After the unenviable Delhi circuit, he is now on a two-day tour in Kuppam, his assembly constituency and TDP's citadel, where the YSRCP managed to make inroads in the local body polls. “The fan (YSRCP's poll symbol) has stopped working. It is time now for our bicycle's (TDP symbol) fast pace,” Naidu said, attempting to uplift the cadre's morale. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdps-chandrababu-naidu-once-king-maker-at-the-centre-now-fights-political-irrelevance-1045747.html
30-10-2021||South||Kerala schools to reopen on Monday amid Covid concerns||The Kerala health department is keeping its fingers crossed as primary school children come back to school from November 1 after nearly one and half years even though serosurvey showed that around 60 per cent of students in the state didn't have antibodies against Covid-19. Classes for standards one to seven and tenth and twelfth will commence initially and classes for eighth, ninth and eleventh standards will commence by November 15. Kerala health department sources said that the chances of formation of Covid clusters among children could not be ruled out. A senior doctor in the state health department said that while a serosurvey conducted in September showed that only 40 per cent of students in the 5-17 age group in Kerala had antibodies, a May serosurvey done at the national level showed the number to be around 55 per cent. Even though the number vindicates the Kerala government, it also highlights the risk involved in opening schools. This decision, however, is based on experts' opinions that Covid infection would not be severe among children. Moreover, since the vaccination among adults in Kerala was progressing well with over 52 per cent being fully vaccinated and 95 per cent having gotten the first dose, chances of Covid-19 spread among adults through children could be minimised, said the doctor. The existing online classes would continue and attendance at offline classes would not be mandatory. A large chunk of parents are unlikely to send their children to school from Monday, said government sources. Schools have received guidelines to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines and only vaccinated teachers would be allowed to come to schools. Kerala still has a comparatively high number of Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, 7,427 fresh cases were reported taking the total active cases to 78,624. The seven-day average test positivity rate was 10.49 per cent on Friday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-schools-to-reopen-on-monday-amid-covid-concerns-1045780.html
30-10-2021||South||Huzurabad registers higher voting in bypoll; BJP confident of victory||Huzurabad registered 86.33 per cent polling till 7 PM on Saturday, further escalating the anxiety in the TRS and BJP camps about the verdict. The counting of votes will take place on Tuesday. The bye-elections where ex-TRS leader Eatala Rajender has challenged his former boss K Chandrasekhar Rao's power has witnessed hectic campaigning by both parties. While the bypoll turnout is already two per cent higher than during the 2018 Assembly elections, the figure could go up further as voters were still waiting in queues at some polling stations at 7 PM. Stray incidents of TRS and BJP workers clashing with each other were reported from several places, though the voting was largely peaceful. Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said that several cases were registered based on the complaints from the parties. Speaking to the reporters after the polls, Eatala accused the TRS government of spending about Rs 500 crores in the constituency to entice the voters. “But Huzurabad people were determined to protect dharma and democracy,” the former health minister said. A few exit polls gave the BJP candidate a slight edge over the TRS. The constituency in north Telangana fell vacant in June after Eatala resigned from the TRS and also the assembly membership following charges of land grabbing and a probe was initiated into the same by the Rao government. He later joined the BJP. Meanwhile, Badvel in Andhra Pradesh, which also went to bypolls on Saturday, recorded a 68.12 polling percentage. The ruling YSRCP is likely to retain the assembly seat as the main opposition TDP kept away from the polls, in solidarity with the deceased YSRCP MLA's wife Dr Sudha, the ruling party candidate. The BJP which is in fray has complained to the Election Commission of India stating that YSRCP leaders were re-cycling and rigging votes, with the support of local police. “Persons from other villages were using fake voter ID cards to cast bogus votes,” AP BJP chief Somu Veerraju has alleged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/huzurabad-registers-higher-voting-in-bypoll-bjp-confident-of-victory-1045805.html
30-10-2021||State||Karnataka retracts its stand on deportation of Rohingyas in Supreme Court||The BJP government in Karnataka has filed a revised affidavit before the Supreme Court, retracting from its earlier statement that there is no immediate plan to deport Rohingyas, living in Bengaluru.  In a fresh affidavit, the Home Department has said the Karnataka State Police have not housed Rohingyas in any camp or detention centre within its jurisdiction. However, 126 Rohingyas have been identified in Karnataka state.  It has also said that whatever order would be passed by the top court will be scrupulously adhered to and followed in its letter and spirit. The written response of the state government filed earlier this month in a 2017 PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay had asked the court to dismiss the plea seeking the court's direction to deport illegal Rohingyas.  It had earlier termed Upadhyay's petition as devoid of merit and not maintainable in law and facts. The state government had earlier said, "72 Rohingyas identified in Bengaluru city are working in various fields and Bengaluru city police have not taken any coercive action against them as of now and there is no immediate plan of deporting them." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-retracts-its-stand-on-deportation-of-rohingyas-in-supreme-court-1045638.html
30-10-2021||State||Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites to be held today, says CM Basavaraj Bommai||As thousands of grieving fans continue to flock to the Kanteerava Stadium on Saturday to pay their final respects to Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the last rites of the actor will be performed on October 31. The late actor's family and the government had earlier planned to perform the last rites this evening, once his daughter, who is in the US, reaches the city. "Puneeth's daughter has reached Delhi and is travelling to Bengaluru and may reach the city by about 6 pm. Secondly, there is a lot of crowd here (Kanteerava Stadium) and many people wish to see him for one last time, also after 6 pm when it will be dark it will be difficult to perform last rites there (Kanteerava studio)," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said keeping all this in mind and after discussing with Puneeth's elder brothers Shivarajkumar, Raghavendra Rajkumar and other family members, it has been decided to conduct the last rites tomorrow. "So we have made an opportunity for more people to pay their last respects till tomorrow morning. I appeal to his (Puneeth's) fans to pay their last respects with patience and by maintaining peace, as there is time till tomorrow morning," he said. Considered as the Kannada cinema’s reigning star, Puneeth, youngest of the five children of thespian and matinee idol Dr Rajkumar, passed away at the age of 46, after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday. Requesting fans to cooperate with police as there is enough time, the CM said, "Police personnel are here for us and to see to it that things go on in a disciplined way, they too are our people and are fans (of Puneeth)." "Everyone should cooperate in maintaining peace and order... the timing of the last rites will be decided late night, depending on the situation and will be informed," he added. Puneeth's elder brother and actor Raghavendra Rajkumar too thanking fans for cooperation so far clarified that last rites will be during the first half tomorrow. "As Appu's (as Puneeth is fondly called by fans) elder daughter was in New York for studies, there is some delay in her arrival. As the last rites cannot be performed after dark, we will decide on the timing of the last rites tomorrow, late in the night today, once she arrives. We are aware that you (fans) are also in pain," he said. The state government has made arrangements for all Puneeth's fans to pay homage, he further said as he sought their cooperation until the last rites tomorrow. Mortal remains of the actor, wrapped in the national tri-colour, have been kept at the Kanteerava stadium, to enable fans and well-wishers to pay tributes. A steady stream of people from across the state has been pouring into the arena since last evening. Several film and political personalities have paid their respects to the departed soul. Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accompanied by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other ministers of the state cabinet, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, former CM S M Krishna, pontiffs of various mutts paid their respects today. Leading South Indian film stars such as N Balakrishna, Chiranjeevi, Junior NTR, Venkatesh, Arjun Sarja and ace choreographer Prabhu Deva also paid their tributes to the Kannada actor. "The feeling is like losing a son of our house," a tearful elderly woman fan said here. "Our Appu might have physically gone, but he will remain with us through his acting and the impact he has left on us because of his good and friendly nature," said a young fan. The government has announced that Puneeth's last rites will be conducted with state honours at Dr Rajkumar Punyabhoomi in Kanteerava Studio, next to his father and mother. According to official sources, the mortal remains will be taken in a procession for about 13 km from Kanteerava stadium to Kanteerava studio. The late actor is survived by his wife Ashwini Revanth and daughters Drithi and Vanditha. The CM's repeated appeal for peace comes in the backdrop of the large-scale violence that took place in the city, following the death of Puneeth's father Dr Rajkumar in 2006. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/puneeth-rajkumars-last-rites-to-be-held-today-says-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1045635.html
30-10-2021||State||Like father, like son: Puneeth Rajkumar donates eyes||Since 1994, Dr Rajkumar Eye Bank in Rajajinagar has collected 14,901 eyes. On Friday, sandalwood actor Puneeth Rajkumar became the third member of his family to donate his eyes after his father Dr Rajkumar and mother Parvathamma. Founder and Chairman of Narayana Nethralaya (which owns Dr Rajkumar Eye Bank) Dr Bhujang Shetty got a call from Raghavendra Rajkumar, Dr Rajkumar's second son on Friday afternoon. The call brought back some rather painful memories as it was Dr Shetty who had retrieved the eyes of Dr Rajkumar in 2006 and of Parvathamma in 2017. Now it was the veteran actor's youngest son. "I admire the composure of his family to have honoured their promise thrice till now to donate their family members' eyes. It is not easy to have called us for the third time straight. Even in 2017, it was Raghavendra who had called me. The retrieval was done by around 2.45 pm and by Saturday or Sunday, we will find two suitable patients for the transplant. He was young and had no eye problems or procedures in the past, so his corneas were perfectly healthy," Dr Bhujang Shetty told DH. As per the Eye Bank Association of India's guidelines, adhering to the Covid protocols in place, the hospital also took nasopharyngeal swabs of the actor to rule out Covid before the impending corneal transplants that will be done over the weekend. Eyes are supposed to be retrieved as soon as possible, preferably within six hours of death. His second visit to the family in less than five years made him recall Dr Rajkumar's pledge. "What is the point of eyes burning with the pyre after death when it can help two people see. Not just me, my entire family including my children and their grandchildren will pledge their eyes," Dr Rajkumar had said. "Back in the 90s, we would get eyes from Sri Lanka despite being such a populous country as there were not many donations. When we approached Dr Rajkumar to use his name for the eye bank, he readily accepted. Now with his son's donation, public awareness about eye donation will increase. Eye donations were massively hit during the pandemic," Dr Shetty said. Narayana Nethralaya Vice Chairman Dr Rohit Shetty said, "Owing to his healthy lifestyle, Dr Rajkumar's corneas were of A-grade quality, so are his son's today. The corneas are currently in our Rajajinagar eye bank. Age and blood group are the main factors for compatibility. Someone young will receive the actor's eyes." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/like-father-like-son-puneeth-rajkumar-donates-eyes-1045640.html
30-10-2021||State||This Diwali, you will be able to burst only green crackers in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday issued an order allowing only green crackers this Deepavali. The order came even as Ecology & Environment Minister Anand Singh said, earlier this week, that the government would not ban firecrackers. The green cracker mandate is in line with Supreme Court guidelines, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said in his order. Green crackers are basically made of reduced shell sizes without ash, fewer raw materials and come with dust suppressants to reduce emissions. They are believed to be less polluting than conventional crackers. The shops selling crackers will have to take requisite permission from the government and sell only green crackers. These shops can open only from November 1 to November 10, will have to function away from residential areas and on open grounds apart from ensuring adequate ventilation. The shop keepers will have to put in place all Covid-19 regulations including maintenance of six feet distance between customers, thermal screening and sanitisation, Kumar, who is also chairperson of the state Disaster Management executive committee, said.  Meanwhile, the fire department, too, has issued safety guidelines for bursting crackers. The guidelines ask parents to ensure that children light firecrackers only under adult supervision, hold sparklers away from the body, not light crackers at home, not wear loose flowing clothes while lighting crackers, never return to fire once lit as it may explode and never light a flower pot holding it in the hand.  As a precautionary measure, the department has asked everyone bursting crackers to keep water handy in case of accidents and to immediately contact fire control 101 in case of an emergency. The department has also urged people to be sensitive to senior citizens and animals, apart from not lighting firecrackers near hospitals. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/this-diwali-you-will-be-able-to-burst-only-green-crackers-in-karnataka-1045644.html
30-10-2021||State||Karnataka bypolls: 56.78% voting in 2 assembly segments till 3 pm||An estimated 56.78 per cent voter turnout was recorded in by-poll bound Sindgi and Hangal assembly constituencies in Karnataka till 3pm, election officials said on Saturday. While Sindgi has recorded 51.6 per cent voting so far, in Hangal it is 62.72 per cent. The polling began at 7 am and will go on till 7 pm. A total of 19 candidates are in the fray in the two constituencies, including six from Sindgi and 13 from Hangal. Two candidates from Sindgi are women. The counting of votes will take place on November 2. There are a total of 4,39,148 eligible voters, including 230 service voters from both constituencies, who can cast their votes at 560 polling stations. The by-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindgi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP's C M Udasi from Hangal. While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindgi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal constituency. The Congress has named M C Managuli's son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindgi, while former MLC Srinivas Mane is its candidate from Hangal. The JD(S), which was the first to announce its candidates, has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindgi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. This is the first electoral challenge for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after taking charge. Retaining Hangal is even more important for him as it is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment. The Congress, by ensuring a win, wants to give momentum for its preparations in the run up to 2023 assembly polls in the state, while the JD(S) is looking to retain Sindgi seat and thereby prove that it still commands a support base in the northern districts. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bypolls-5678-voting-in-2-assembly-segments-till-3-pm-1045722.html
30-10-2021||State||Elephant destroy crops in Baachahalli||Wild elephants raided crops and also damaged water supply pipes at Baachahalli in Hettur hobli of Sakleshpur taluk. The elephants destroyed ginger and paddy crops. The elephants raided fields of H N Vishwanath, Arpith, Sharat, H V Krishna, Kushalraj, Manjegowda, Keethi of Hettur village. The Forest officials visited the village and inspected the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/elephant-destroy-crops-in-baachahalli-1045728.html
30-10-2021||State||No conviction in past cases not ground for bail, says Karnataka High Court||Not being convicted in any case in the past is not a ground to grant bail, the high court has said. The court made this observation while denying bail to an accused facing five cases under the Excise Act. The authorities had seized 7,200 litres of liquor and eight litres of illegal toddy from the suspect. The petitioner, Nagaraj, is a resident of Waddar Colony in Bidar. When the excise inspector along with a team of officials raided Nagaraj’s house, he escaped from there. The officials had seized in total 7,200 litres of liquor and eight litres of illegal toddy. A case was registered against him for offences under various sections of the Karnataka Excise Act.  The petitioner contended that though five cases are registered against him, he is not convicted in any case and claimed that false cases were registered against him. He submitted that he may be enlarged on bail as offences are not punishable with death or imprisonment for life. The government advocate opposed the petition and said that the petitioner was a habitual offender and had been indulging in similar offences from 2016-17. The counsel said he would indulge in similar offence if he is enlarged on bail. Justice H P Sandesh noted that the accused is facing six cases under the Excise Act. “If he is enlarged on bail, he would again indulge in similar offence and not being convicted in any case is not a ground to grant him bail,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-conviction-in-past-cases-not-ground-for-bail-says-karnataka-high-court-1045811.html
30-10-2021||State||Female fans make a beeline for one last glimpse of Puneeth Rajkumar||As fans turned up in lakhs at the Kanteerava stadium from various parts of Karnataka to catch a glimpse of their favourite actor Puneeth, what caught the attention of many was the large population of women and young girls waiting in line to pay their last respects to the power star. 'Appu' was not just the heartthrob of youngsters, but even earned love and affection of elders and women. The affection was so much that many even chose to skip voting in constituencies that went to byelections and landed in Bengaluru to pay their respects. Hundreds of female fans in their mid-40s had come in large numbers from various districts to pay homage to their icon. Watching him since their childhood, many had even named their children after his screen names, a testimony to the profound influence the actor had on their lives. "I named my son 'Vamshi' after being inspired by his acting in a movie by the same name. Even though my in-laws were not happy with the film, as Appu's character was related to the underworld, I did not mind. It was the mother-son sentiment and bonding that influenced me," said Premalatha, a fan from Tumakuru. Yamuna Bai from Ramanagara, 75, was inconsolable. "God is so cruel, he could have taken me instead of Puneeth. What is there for me to achieve at this age, why is fate so cruel?" 'Appu' has always been a common name in a majority of households in Karnataka. "When our son was born, we named him Yashwanth, but when we were looking for a pet name, nothing but Appu came to our mind. He is 17 years old now, but we still call him Appu," said Anupama, a fan.  Rukmini, a fan from Chitradurga who had come with her entire family, said, "The first song I taught my son was 'Kanadante Mayavadanu Namma Shiva...' from Puneeth's movie Chalisuva Modagalu and I do not even remember how many times I have shown him the 'Bhakta Prahlada' movie in his childhood." Remembering that Puneeth-starrer 'Mourya' brought about a complete change in her son, Sumana, another female fan, said, "My son was not very close to me for many years. But after watching 'Mourya,' he apologised and started loving me. Till date, his mobile caller tune is 'Amma Amma I love you..., 'a song from the movie."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/female-fans-make-a-beeline-for-one-last-glimpse-of-puneeth-rajkumar-1045812.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Every saint has a past and every sinner has a future: Karnataka HC gives murderer parole||“Every saint has a past and every sinner has a future.”  The High Court of Karnataka cited this famous line from Irish poet and playwright Oscar Wilde’s 1893 play ‘A Woman Of No Importance’ to order the release of a triple murderer on 15-day parole so that he can attend his daughter’s wedding scheduled for November 7 and 8 in Kollegal, Chamarajanagar district.  Justice Krishna S Dixit passed this order on a petition filed by the convict’s wife. Prison authorities had turned down his representation for permission to attend the wedding. The convict, a resident of Gangalu village in Hoskote taluk, Bengaluru Rural district, has been serving jail term since March 2, 1999, for killing three people. He is presently lodged at the Central Prison in Hindalga, Belagavi.  Opposing the parole petition, the Additional Government Advocate contended that parole and furlough are not a matter of right. The prisoner was convicted for the murder of three persons and therefore whatever arguable right he had for parole does not avail him, the counsel stated.  The bench took a different view.  A convict has to keep in contact with civil society although sporadically so that his societal roots do not dry up when he languishes in the jail, the bench noted. “Otherwise, when he returns from the prison after completing the term of sentence, he may be a total stranger and life may prove hard to him; this is not a happy thing to happen in a welfare state,” the court stated.  Justice Dixit affirmed that when a young daughter is getting married, the presence of her father is desirable. “He had violated some parole condition earlier, maybe true; however, one cannot forget that every saint has a past and every sinner has a future; the fact that a person is convicted and put behind the bars does not render him a destitute of all liberty and dignity,” the judge said.  The court has directed the authorities to release the convict on parole/furlough from the forenoon of November 1, 2021, until the afternoon of November 15, 2021.  The respondents are to stipulate strict conditions as are usually stipulated to ensure the return of the convict to the jail, and that he shall not commit any other offence, the court stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/every-saint-has-a-past-and-every-sinner-has-a-future-karnataka-hc-gives-murderer-parole-1045533.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DCC banks lending arbitrarily, complaints have reached Amit Shah, says state Cooperation Minister||Complaints regarding fraudulent activities in district central cooperative (DCC) banks and other cooperatives in Karnataka have reached Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah, state Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar has said.  Somashekhar said this at a preparatory meeting ahead of the 68th All India Cooperative Week celebrations on Thursday, in which officials got a dressing-down on the state of affairs.  “We’re getting hundred of complaints daily...the compaints have reached Amit Shah as well,” the minister said. “What [Shah] will do is to take a decision that there should be Apex Bank and Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) only,” Somashekhar said.  The minister rued that DCC Banks were lending arbitrarily, citing the examples of Kolar, Chikkaballapur and Tumakuru.  “In Kolar, just three taluks have been given loans worth Rs 30 crore. In Tumakuru, loans are being given just like that,” he said. “If cooperative institutions should survive, we should show that there’s a department by following the law. What’s the point in having this department otherwise?”  Bringing up the case of milk adulteration at the Mandya Milk Union Ltd (Manmul), Somashekhar said he was shocked to discover the scale of the illegality.  “The case has been given to the CID, but the investigation is progressing at a slow pace,” he added.  “I was shocked to see how water was being filled into a milk tanker. The tanker driver or contractor cannot do that so easily without everybody’s involvement,” he said and vowed to amend the existing laws to strengthen the cooperative sector.  According to him, presidents of cooperative bodies are not following the rules. “One thing I am determined to do is to introduce reservation to the posts of presidents and vice-presidents for cooperative bodies — PLD banks, DCC banks and the state-level federation,” Somashekhar said.  “Tenure-based reservation of two and a half or five years will be introduced,” he said, adding that he will move the amendment in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dcc-banks-lending-arbitrarily-complaints-have-reached-amit-shah-says-state-cooperation-minister-1045534.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC to run 1,000 additional buses||The KSRTC will run 1,000 additional buses from October 29 to November 7 for the convenience of the public. Buses will be operated from Bengaluru to destinations in Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Hassan, Mysuru, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Davangere, Hubballi- Dharwad, Belagavi and other places.  Buses will also operate on inter-state routes like Tirupati, Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Chennai, Coimbatore, Pune and other places.  There will not be any hike in the fares, stated a press release from the KSRTC.   Passengers can book tickets in advance through ksrtc.karnataka.gov.in and the reservation counters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-to-run-1000-additional-buses-1045535.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka TAC suggests periodic Covid vaccination surveillance||The state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended periodic surveillance of last-mile vaccination coverage, especially of the second dose. “We have proposed a particular methodology for it. It will be unique to Karnataka. There is consensus that the Delta sub-lineage AY 4.2 may not be as big a threat. We have also had Delta Plus cases that were halted in its track. The answer to containing the spread of new variants is the completion of the second dose vaccination. “Currently, in terms of Covid cases, we are in a similar position as we were in March this year, when there was a dip before the second wave,” a source said. The proposals were made at a midnight meeting of the TAC on Thursday. It suggested the periodic survey be conducted once in two weeks. The TAC has also recommended to the state to focus on vaccination at schools and workplaces, besides a headcount of the unvaccinated in villages by the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Department. The house-to-house vaccination proposed by TAC is already underway in several districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-tac-suggests-periodic-covid-vaccination-surveillance-1045536.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shock and disbelief: Puneeth Rajkumar dies of heart attack||Sandalwood's Power Star Puneeth Rajkumar, 46, passed away on Friday afternoon following a massive heart attack. The youngest son of legendary Kannada matinee idol Dr Rajkumar, Puneeth complained of chest pain during a workout session in the morning, which was his everyday routine. The actor has been described as a 'fitness freak' by family and friends. Family friends and gym mates immediately rushed him to physician Dr Ramana Rao's clinic where he underwent an ECG. According to doctors at Vikram Hospital on Cunningham Road, the actor's ECG showed that he had a massive myocardial infarction (heart attack). But by the time he reached the hospital he had become unresponsive and was in cardiac asystole or cardiac flatline, which is a state of total cessation of electrical activity from the heart. "He was immediately brought to the emergency department of Vikram Hospital at 11.40 am. But enroute, he had a cardiac arrest and when he came here, there was no cardiac activity. For nearly three hours, he was put on a ventilator, and his heart was massaged. We tried for hours to see if there is any response. But nothing happened. The heart rate did not pick up," said Dr Ranganath Nayak, HOD, cardiology, Vikram Hospital. "Unfortunately, by then, the heart had become very weak due to the massive attack. So, we could not opt for any surgical procedure. There was no cardiac activity. Even medicines did not work, neither did defibrillation (shock therapy)," he said. After a prolonged struggle by the entire team consisting of emergency department specialists, intensive care doctors and the cardiology team, they had to stop resuscitating measures at 2.30 pm. Vikram Hospital in a statement said, "Immediate life support measures were initiated. In spite of prolonged, advanced and aggressive measures, the patient continued to be non-responsive and asystolic. The panel of medical experts extended all efforts to save him. He was declared dead at 2.30 pm." "At such a young age, it wasn't supposed to pan out like this but it did," he said. Asked if the actor had any history of heart complaints, Nayak said, "He had none. Puneeth was an extremely fit gentleman."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shock-and-disbelief-puneeth-rajkumar-dies-of-heart-attack-1045543.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Action, sentiment and dance ruled Puneeth’s world||Puneeth Rajkumar, who died at 46 on Friday, was a dynamo of energy and one of south India’s most bankable stars. It is tragic and ironic that he was gymming when he suffered a heart attack —- he was a role model for fitness buffs, and his workouts were legendary. In many hits, such as 'Appu' (2002), 'Vamshi' (2008), and 'Jackie' (2010), he deployed his athletic skills to full advantage. He took pride in doing his own stunts, and had trained in martial arts like Kalaripayattu to be able to do realistic action. Clearly, action was his first love, and he danced well, too. Born into the first family of Kannada cinema, Puneeth, then called Lohith, debuted as a child actor when he was just six months old. He was noticed in the Rajkumar-Saritha film Chalisuva Modagalu (1982), in which he also sang a folksy number. In 'Bhakta Prahlada' (1983), he played the titular role, opposite Rajkumar, who plays the demonic Hiranyakashipu. Puneeth went on to win a national award for best child artiste for his role in 'Bettada Hoovu' (1985). The youngest of Rajkumar and Parvathamma’s five children, Puneeth returned as a full-fledged hero with 'Appu' (2002). It fared spectacularly at the box office and inaugurated the second innings of a career that spanned nearly two decades and at least a dozen blockbuster hits. His 'Rajakumara' (2017) was the highest grossing Kannada film before it was overtaken by 'KGF' (2018). Few child actors retain their charm when they grow up and try their luck as grown actors, but Puneeth was one who graduated to youth roles with chutzpah. Perhaps the only other child actor in India who became a sensation in his youth is Kamal Haasan. Puneeth chose action and romance, and stayed away from gangster films, such as 'Om' (1995) and 'Jogi' (2004), that helped his elder brother Shivarajkumar score at the box office. In fact, Puneeth continued the legacy of his iconic father Rajkumar, doing films aimed at family audiences, and conforming to mainstream cinema’s idea of wholesome entertainment. His sentimental love story 'Milana' (2007) came in the wake of the runaway rom-com 'Mungaru Male' (2006), and featured bhavageete-style lyrics and lilting melodies, staying away from the more aggressive music that had then caught on. In his 29 films as hero, Puneeth played many roles —- upright official fighting the mining mafia ('Prithvi', 2010), NRI giving up wealth for the woman he loves ('Arasu', 2007), and student leader taking on the private education racket ('Yuvarathnaa') —- but one genre that he stayed away from was the mythological. This is an operatic, rhetorical genre that Rajkumar excelled at, thanks to his training in classical music and company-drama acting conventions. Puneeth represented a later generation of English-educated heroes with little training in the traditional arts. His singing therefore was more casual Gaana than formal raga. In his screen image, he was to Kannada what Mahesh Babu is to Telugu, and Vijay is to Tamil. A lover of world cinema, Puneeth was acutely aware of what producers and fans expected of him, and did not deviate from his do-gooder image. However, he sought to support more adventurous cinema with his production house PRK Productions and had just begun working with the maverick young director Pawan Kumar. Puneeth took on a role similar to Amitabh Bachchan’s and hosted the TV quiz show ‘Kannadada Kotyadhipathi’. The gentleman presenter was not just a persona: his colleagues loved his friendly and easy manner and his fans were often astonished at how approachable and down to earth he could be. Puneeth's untimely departure is a big shock not just to his family and friends but also to the Kannada film industry, only now recovering from the ravages of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/action-sentiment-and-dance-ruled-puneeth-s-world-1045545.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka slips in governance indicators in new study||Karnataka has fared poorly in some governance indicators in a new study conducted by the Bengaluru-based think tank Public Affairs Centre (PAC) amid the pandemic.   The Public Affairs Index 2021, which was released on Friday, analysed the performance of all the states and Union Territories against several parameters, including sustainable development goals (SDG). While performing moderately in other sectors, Karnataka scored poorly in equity and in the implementation of centrally-sponsored schemes such as Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and the National Health Mission (NHM), aspects that touch and affect the common man in a big way. In terms of the overall rankings, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana emerged as the top three performers while Karnataka was ranked 7(12th in 2020), mainly due to its good performance in growth and sustainability.  Karnataka fell from 12th rank in 2020 to 16th in the equity principle, faring worse than Telangana (6), Bihar (12), West Bengal (14) and Maharashtra (15). Its performance in 'good health and well being' and 'voice and accountability' was no better, with the state placed at 16th and 17th in those two parameters. Karnataka scored 10 in implementing ICDS and 11 in NHM. To measure equity, the study analysed the effectiveness of schemes and the general livelihood of people beset by harsh inequalities. The 'welfare of society' considered the opportunity provided to all people, particularly the vulnerable, to have a say in governance. G Gurucharan, Director of Public Affairs Centre, said the 2021 study was important as it has brought into focus the crucial role of state governance. "Sub-national governance came under focus like never before in the aftermath of the country-wide pandemic," he said. He said critical appraisal of states' effort was necessary as not all states have enough backing to make a successful turnaround. "In the medium to long term, it is likely that much of the current development will centre around some states while others face less than optimal prospects," he said, stressing the need to improve decentralised national governance in states. Samridhi Pandey, Programme Officer at PAC, said utilisation of funds doesn't in itself decide the performance of the states in the rankings. "It's the accessibility of the scheme and coverage of the scheme to eligible beneficiaries which drives the performance," she said, adding that states punching above their weight score better, leaving others behind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-slips-in-governance-indicators-in-new-study-1045552.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Thousands flock Bengaluru's Kanteerava Stadium to pay tribute to Puneeth Rajkumar||Thousands of grieving fans continue to flock the city's Kanteerava stadium on Saturday to pay their final respects to Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar, whose last rites is likely to be performed by this evening. Considered as the Kannada cinema’s reigning star, Puneeth, youngest of the five children of thespian and matinee idol Dr Rajkumar, passed away at the age of 46, after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday. Mortal remains of the actor, wrapped in the national tri-colour, have been kept at the Kanteerava Stadium, to enable fans and well-wishers to pay homage all day on Saturday. A steady stream of people from across the state have been pouring into the arena since last evening. Several film and political personalities also paid their respects to the departed soul. Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accompanied by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other ministers of the state cabinet, Telugu actor Nandamuri Balakrishna, ace choreographer Prabhu Deva, were among those who paid their respects today. "The feeling is like losing a son of our house," a tearful elderly woman fan said here. "Our Appu (as Puneeth is fondly called by fans) might have physically gone, but he will remain with us through his acting and the impact he has left on us because of his good and friendly nature," said a young fan. The state government has announced that Puneeth's last rites will be conducted with state honours at Dr Rajkumar Punyabhoomi in Kanteerava Studio, next to his father and mother. The late actor is survived by wife Ashwini Revanth and daughters Drithi and Vanditha. Speaking to reporters Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the last rites will be performed after Puneeth Rajkumar's daughter arrives from the US, and called on the people to maintain peace and see off their "favourite actor" in a dignified way. "There is a sea of people descending to pay last respects to Puneeth Rajkumar and the government has made arrangements for it at Kanteerava Stadium. As we want the further process also to go on smoothly, police and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike officials are at work. Necessary works are on at Kanteerava Studio for last rites, where only family members and dignitaries will be allowed," he said. Necessary arrangements have been made for quick immigration clearance and others procedures, as soon as Puneeth's daughter reaches Delhi from the US. Bommai further said depending on her arrival, the timing of the final rites will be decided, and route by which the mortal remains will be taken to final resting place is being worked out. "My only appeal is, yes, Appu's death has caused us a lot of pain, but it is our duty to send him off peacefully and with utmost respect, so everyone should cooperate. Without getting emotional everyone should behave responsibly. People have cooperated in a good way so far, continuing in the same way will be our true tribute to Dr Rajkumar and Appu," he added. The CM's request for peace comes in the backdrop of the large-scale violence that took place in the city, following the death of Puneeth's father Dr Rajkumar in 2006. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/thousands-flock-bengalurus-kanteerava-stadium-to-pay-tribute-to-puneeth-rajkumar-1045669.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 347 fresh Covid infections, 10 fatalities||Karnataka on Saturday continued to report more new cases than recoveries with 347 fresh Covid-19 cases and 255 discharges. The caseload in the state has swelled to 29,88,041 while 10 new fatalities have taken the toll to 38,071. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.31 per cent while case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.88 per cent. The total number of recoveries are now 29,41,233, leaving 8,708 active cases. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 166 new cases. The city saw 100 discharges and 4 deaths. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Chikkaballapura, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Hassan, Haveri and Mysuru districts recorded one death each. Mysuru recorded the second highest fresh infections with 44, Dakshina Kannada 21, Tumakuru 19, Udupi and Uttara Kannada 14 each. A total of 1,08,868 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday. As many as 2,00,367 Covid vaccine doses were administered in the day, taking the tally to 6,53,00,111.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-347-fresh-covid-infections-10-fatalities-1045806.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fire officials release safety measures for Deepawali ||Fire and Emergency officials on Saturday released a set of 17 guidelines for accident-free Deepavali festival ahead. Calling upon members of the public to follow the guidelines, the department officials said that children should be allowed to light the crackers only under the supervision of elders.  Follow these guidelines  * Don't light crackers inside the home * Light the crackers outside and away from combustible materials * Don't wear loose, flowing clothes; hold sparklers away from the body * Light crackers from the side; do not bend over the fireworks * Never light fireworks in a metal container * Never keep fireworks in the pocket * Never store or open the fireworks near flame or source of heat * Don't return to the fireworks once lit * Never light fireworks like flower pots holding in hand * Avoid lighting rockets or take precautionary measures * Don't take unnecessary risks to show off to your friends * Keep a bucket of water. In case of a burn injury, pour the water on it immediately  * Show concern for infants, aged persons, sick and animals * Follow the guidelines of Covid-19 * In case of a fire accident, call 101 or 080-22971500||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fire-officials-release-safety-measures-for-deepawali-1045807.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RSS opposed to forced religious conversion, says Hosabale||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Sarkaryavah (national general secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale said on Saturday that the RSS has welcomed the Anti-Conversion Law which would cover forced religious conversions with ulterior motives.  Participating in the three-day RSS Akhila Bharat Karyakari Mandal meeting at Rastrotthana Vidya Kendra here which concluded on Saturday, he told media persons, “RSS per se is not opposed to voluntary conversion from one religion to another. But the forced conversion by minority communities just to increase their numbers is not acceptable”.  Hosabale said, “The opposition by the minority communities to the Anti-Conversion Law reveals their intention. Already, ten states have passed the law and in Himachal Pradesh, the Congress government has passedthe law.” “In Karnataka, let the law be passed. If there are shortcomings, amendments can be made. It is not correct to oppose the law even before it is passed.”  Replying to a question on Prime Minister Narendra Modi meeting the Pope at the Vatican City, Hosabale said there is nothing wrong with the prime minister of a country meeting the dignitaries or heads of other countries as that would enhance India’s prestige. National Population Policy On National Population Policy, Hosabale said every country should have its own population policy to ensure that the benefits of development reach all the people. “The size of the population should depend on the natural resources and the geographical area available, and the policy cannot be discriminatory to different religions,” he felt. India needs a population policy that is applicable to all and the RSS has passed a resolution regarding this in the past. This is reiterated by RSS chiefMohan Bhagwat recently, Hosabale said. On Uniform Civil Code To another question, Hosabale said the BJP-led Union government has already stated that it would bring the Uniform Civil Code and hoped that it would keep its word. On the proposal to ban the bursting of firecrackers during Deepavali, he said environment protection is a major concern and it should be an ongoing activity. “Why this question arises only during Deepavali? If it is to be banned, there should be a comprehensive plan well in advance, based on wide discussions with stakeholders.” “Many people are employed in the making of firecrackers and without providing alternative employment for them, banning firecrackers at the eleventh hour is illogical. There should be a comprehensive policy to ban all the activities that cause pollution of all types,” he said. Hosabale, reacting to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s remark that moral policing is a reaction to action said, nobody should take the law into their hands. “However, when someone’s feelings are hurt there is bound to be a reaction. But that does not justify taking the law into their hands,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rss-opposed-to-forced-religious-conversion-says-hosabale-1045809.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada activism goes digital||Earlier this week, a mass rendition of Dr Rajkumar’s iconic song ‘Huttidare Kannada Naadalli Huttabeku’ at Vidhana Soudha went viral. Elsewhere, hundreds gathered at Jog Falls in Shivamogga to sing ‘Nityotsava’ penned by poet K S Nisar Ahmed. They were taking part in the state government’s ‘Kannadakkagi Naavu’ (We stand for Kannada) campaign to mark Rajyotsava.  As part of a month-long Kannada campaign, the government is making use of social media to promote the regional language. The government initiative is only reflective of a larger trend of Kannada activism increasingly becoming digital. Many Kannada activists and organisations have transitioned to online advocacy, moving away from acts such as blackening English or Hindi boards. Take the instance of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), one of the oldest Kannada activism groups in the state, which has increased its online presence. The nature of the campaign is no more an emotional response to language issues but a more strategic one, explains Arun Javagal, organisation secretary, KRV. He gives the example of their recent campaign for free vaccination. “People demonstrated in front of their houses with a banner demanding free vaccination. This was then posted online. This took place in front of 8,000 houses,” he says.  With numerous cases slapped against Kannada activists taking part in protests over the years, the Vedike now wants to avoid such incidents. Going online gives them the advantage of a wider reach without legal tangles. That apart, the organisation has also given a collaborative touch to its activism. “While earlier, Kannada activism was isolated, we are now collaborating with similar organisations in Maharashtra and West Bengal, which are also campaigning against Hindi imposition,” Javagal adds, saying this was possible only through digital collaboration.   Be it campaigns against Hindi imposition or demands for adequate funding to the Kannada University, organisations like the Vedike were able to create impact through online campaigns, author and critic Rahamat Tarikere points out. “While earlier they took up only language issues, they have now extended it to other regional issues. Also, people who would not have taken part in a street protest are now participating in hashtag campaigns. This has made the movement more inclusive. Digital campaigning has paved way for intellectualisation and maturity of Kannada activism,” he adds. A diverse set of individuals and groups promoting Kannada are active in the online space today. One such example is that of Kannada activist Roopesh Rajanna. As an individual, he collaborates with fan associations of Kannada film stars for promoting awareness on issues. “Online spaces enable us to easily reach people in positions of power. Tweet storms are also a display of strength of the campaign,” he says.  Kiran Kodlady, online incharge, Kannada Grahakara Koota, feels digital campaigns have also enabled global support. Earlier, a person had to invest a whole day for a protest, limiting the number of participants. Now, they can support from their homes, he says. The Grahakara Koota campaigns for consumer service in local language. They have campaigned for Kannada labels on products in supermarkets, local language display in ATMs and have been successful in getting several companies to have a Kannada version of their advertisements. Be it the recent online campaign against the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) not including Kannada as a language option to write the exam or the 2017 #HindiBeda campaign, which demanded Kannada display in metro stations, online Kannada campaigns have made an impact in Karnataka. However, activists feel that the way ahead for Kannada activism is a hybrid of both offline and online protests. Online will complement ground-level activism, they say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-activism-goes-digital-1045810.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites on Sunday to be closed for public, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that Kannada superstar Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites would be closed for the public. Earlier today, it was announced that the last rites of the actor will be performed on October 31. "Due to space constraints at Kanteerava Studio, it will be open only to his family members and some VIPs," he said. Puneeth's body will leave from Kanteerava Stadium "as early as possible" on Sunday morning, Bommai said. "The family has to perform rituals. So, they have decided that the body should be taken to the Kanteerava Studio as early as possible." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/puneeth-rajkumars-last-rites-on-sunday-to-be-closed-for-public-says-karnataka-cm-1045829.html
30-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Genetic factors may have led to Puneeth Rajkumar’s death||Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar’s sudden death on Friday came as a shock to his family and legion of fans. A question that popped up amid the mourning was: how could the star, physically fit and a fitness enthusiast, suffer a heart attack? Doctors say that three factors may have led to his death: a genetic predisposition to cardiological problems, lack of regular follow-ups with cardiologists and the lack of access to a defibrillator which could have potentially saved his life.  The late actor was made aware of his susceptibility to cardiac problems during a social visit to Jayadeva Hospital on 27 September 2017, when doctors told him about this chink in his otherwise good health. Cardiologist Dr C N Manjunath, director of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said that a study — which the actor had ironically released as the chief guest during this visit — had shown that nearly 7.5% of all heart patients below the age of 45 have a genetic or family predisposition to cardiac problems.  “The risk factor profile for young versus old is different,” said Dr Manjunath. “Smoking is a common factor between the two, but the incidence of diabetes and high blood pressure is more among older people.” According to Dr Manjunath, in the study done by the hospital, 15% out of 2,000 young patients had a strong family history of heart problems. “If any member of a family suffers a heart attack below the age of 50, that is the strongest indication of risk in other members of the family,” he added. In the case of the Rajkumar family, Dr Jagadish Hiremath, Senior Cardiac Intensivist and Chairman AASRA multispeciality hospital, noted that two of Puneeth’s brothers and their father had artery-related problems. “It is very clear that Puneeth had genetic issues,” Dr Hiremath said. Indians more vulnerable Dr Devi Shetty, Chairman of Narayana Health, said Indians are more susceptible to cardiac problems than others. “Indians are three times more vulnerable to heart problems than Caucasians because of a genetic predisposition,” Dr Shetty told DH, adding that “Indians develop heart attacks at a much younger age than Caucasians”. This casts doubt over the commonly held assumption that people are healthy if they are physically fit. “You have all these youngsters exercising. But for me, there is no value in anybody past the age of 35-40 saying that they are perfectly fit and can run 10 miles unless there is an ECG report, echocardiogram and cardiac-CT to testify that they are normal,” Said Dr Shetty. This is because, Dr Shetty said, “45% of Indians suffer from silent ischemia - they can suffer a massive heart attack without even being aware of it”.  No shock machine Experts noted that soon after Puneeth suffered a heart attack, he underwent a condition called ventricular fibrillation. During that critical time, a shock from a defibrillation machine needs to be delivered within four minutes of the event to save the patient. According to Dr K S Ravindranath, a senior cardiologist at Jayadeva, the cause was the rupturing of cholesterol ulcers (otherwise called plaques) inside coronary arteries.  “Sudden high-intensity exercises sometimes cause stress on the arteries, which ruptures the plaques, rapidly clogging up a normal artery, resulting in a heart attack,” Dr Ravindranth said. Sufferers of silent ischemia have no warning at all, said Dr Manjunath. “They have zero blockage until the plaques rupture and clog the artery within minutes. The unfortunate patients develop ventricular fibrillation, which causes their hearts to cease pumping blood. A shock from a defibrillation machine needs to be delivered within four minutes of the event,” he said According to sources, Puneeth Rajkumar initially suffered a heart attack on Friday morning and subsequently went into ventricular fibrillation while being transported by car to Vikram Hospital on Cunningham Road. Cardiologist Dr P Ranganath Nayak, who was one of the receiving doctors at the hospital, said, “Puneeth was completely unresponsive when he arrived. There was no brain activity.” A source later said that if Puneeth had been in an ambulance with a shock defibrillator, he could have been saved. “A DC shock is enough to revive them and they go on to lead healthy lives for the next 30-40 years. So, timing is important,” Dr Manjunath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/genetic-factors-may-have-led-to-puneeth-rajkumar-s-death-1045830.html
30-10-2021||West||Bombay HC rejects Anil Deshmukh’s plea||Facing charges of corruption and misuse of office, former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh received yet another jolt when the Bombay High Court dismissed his plea seeking quashing of summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate.  The court, however, granted liberty to 72-year-old Deshmukh, a veteran politician,  to move a competent court seeking relief under Section 438 CrPC for protection from arrest. “To conclude, the applicant has failed to make out a case under section 482 CrPC and for no coercive action against the applicant. Like any other person apprehending arrest, he shall approach the competent court under section 438 of CrPC,” a division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotal said.  ‘The applicant failed to make out a case to quash the summons,” the bench stated.  Meanwhile, the Bombay High Court has partially allowed his prayer to permit his lawyer to remain present during interrogation. “Applicant’s lawyer can remain present at a visible distance but beyond audible range during questioning,” it stated.  Deshmukh sought quashing of summons and interim protection from coercive action while apprehending arrest under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Deshmukh was represented by senior counsel Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam. Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, who represented the ED, had opposed the plea. The ED had  issued five summons asking Deshmukh to join investigations, however, he had failed to appear. The senior politician from Vidarbha had to resign from the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh  - who is now untraceable - alleged that the minister has fixed a Rs 100 crore per month collection target for now dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze.  It may be mentioned that Vaze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the twin cases of  planting of a gelatin sticks-laden Mahindra Scorpio near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran slapping and faces murder and terror charges. Deshmukh, his wife Aarti Deshmukh and their son Hrishikesh Deshmukh had so far not appeared before ED.  Deshmukh, however, had been grilled by the CBI. It may be mentioned that the ED had arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde - and they have been chargesheeted by the ED, which has also attached properties to the tune of Rs 4.20 crore which are linked to Deshmukh and his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-rejects-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-1045569.html
30-10-2021||West||Woman killed, forced to write 'suicide note' after husband fails to repay loan||Police have arrested a 38-year-old man from Kanjurmarg in Mumbai for allegedly strangulating a woman to death after forcing her to write a 'suicide note' over a financial issue, an official said on Saturday. The woman, 36, was found hanging at her residence in Navi Mumbai's Ghansoli on October 21 and the suicide note was recovered from the spot, he said. The accused, Samadhan Srimant Lendve, was arrested on October 28, the police official said. "Initially, a case of accidental death was registered and a probe into the case was launched," Assistant Commissioner of Police Vashi Division Vinayak Vast said. During the investigation, it came to light that the husband of the deceased had borrowed Rs 6.50 lakh from Lendve, his acquaintance, to buy a house. However, he could not repay the amount to Lendve due to financial problems, he said. Lendve used to frequently visit the house of the deceased to demand his money back. On the day of the incident, he came to her residence and again sought repayment of his loan amount. He then pressured her to write a suicide note. After that, Lendve dragged her to the bedroom and strangulated her to death, the official said. The accused then tied a saree around her neck and bent a blade of the ceiling fan to wrongly show that she had hanged herself to death, Vast said. Based on the intelligence inputs, police nabbed Lendve and questioned him, following which he admitted that he had killed the woman. A case under IPC section 302 (murder) was registered against the accused at Rabale police station in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-killed-forced-to-write-suicide-note-after-husband-fails-to-repay-loan-1045641.html
30-10-2021||West||INS Shikra inducts two ALH choppers||INS Shikra, the premier helicopter base of the Indian Navy at Mumbai, inducted two modern advanced light helicopters (ALH MK III) into its 321 Flight on Friday. At present, the 321 Flight comprises Chetak helicopters that will be progressively replaced with the more capable and versatile ALH MK III aircraft that are equipped with state-of-the-art surveillance, communication, safety and survival equipment, and will be a force-multiplier at sea as well as ashore. Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Naval Command was the chief guest at the induction ceremony that included a traditional water cannon salute to the aircraft. The Commander-in-Chief congratulated the ALH MK III crew and highlighted the importance of rotary-wing aircraft in coastal security, SAR/HADR tasks, and a host of other operational deployments. He pointed out that the newly-inducted ALH MK III helicopters will add significant muscle and versatility to the operational capabilities of the Indian Navy at Mumbai. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ins-shikra-inducts-two-alh-choppers-1045650.html
30-10-2021||West||Congress's poll promises not just commitment, but guarantee: Rahul Gandhi||Kickstarting the Congress's poll campaign in Goa, where Assembly elections are due early next year, party leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday asserted that the assurances that his party gives in its election manifesto is not just a commitment but a "guarantee". Addressing the members of the fishermen community in South Goa following his arrival in the state for his day-long visit, he also alleged that while the BJP indulges in hatred and divides people, the Congress spreads love and affection as it believes in uniting people and taking them forward. "I want to make very clear what is the difference between the BJP and the Congress is. The Congress believes in uniting India's people and taking them forward. For us, every single Indian has the right to be given the space that he requires," he said addressing the gathering. Congress's response to the hatred spread by BJP is love and affection, he said. "So, wherever they spread anger hatred and division, we spread love and affection," he added. "I am not here to waste your time or my time. Just as your time is important, my time is also important. The commitment that we will make to you in manifesto is not just a commitment but a guarantee," he added. Talking about the assurances made by the Congress, he said, "My credibility is important to me. Unlike many other leaders, when I say something here, I will make sure it happens." "If I come here I say to you that we will not allow coal hub and I don't do it, next time I come here I will have no credibility," he said in his address to the fishermen, who are opposing the project of double tracking of South Western Railway as they allege that it is an attempt to turn the state into a coal hub. Gandhi said that the party has fulfilled the commitments made to the farmers at Chhattisgarh on waiving their loan. "You can go to Punjab and Karnataka, we did the same (thing of keeping up the commitment)," he said. During his visit, Gandhi will be addressing party workers' convention in the evening and will also meet those dependent on the mining industry. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congresss-poll-promises-not-just-commitment-but-guarantee-rahul-gandhi-1045659.html
30-10-2021||West||Will contest all Maharashtra polls, says AIMIM chief Owaisi||The All India Majlis-e-Itthehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will contest all elections in Maharashtra from here on and the option of entering into alliances is also open, party president Asaduddin Owaisi said here on Saturday. On a two-day tour of Aurangabad, Owaisi also criticised the Narendra Modi government on what he claimed was the inept handling of the China and Kashmir issues. "China is on your ground but the government refuses (to acknowledge it). If nobody is holding onto your land, then why have these rounds of talks (between the two nations). The BJP should take a team of MP's to Ladakh and show the ground reality then. But the BJP and RSS are quiet on this issue," he alleged. He also said that moves like doing away with the provisions of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir had done nothing to change the ground situation in the restive region, as jawans and civilians were being killed in terror attacks. Queried on the possibility of a national alliance against the BJP, Owaisi said he was not an astrologer to say anything now about the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. "I don't have any idea who will be the face of it (such an alliance). I cannot say anything about the Uttar Pradesh polls either. Let the model code come in, then I will talk," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-contest-all-maharashtra-polls-says-aimim-chief-owaisi-1045693.html
30-10-2021||West||Had a dream to become CM of Goa: Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday recalled how he decided to let go of the opportunity to become a class I officer so that he can join politics and said he had once dreamt of becoming a CM of the state. Sawant took charge of the office on March 19, 2019, after the demise of BJP stalwart Manohar Parrikar who was heading the government at that time. “I passed my 12th science from GVM higher secondary. I let go class 1 gazetted officer's post so that I can enter politics,” Sawant said while addressing a gathering of youngsters in Ponda taluka. Sawant said he didn't let go of that opportunity just because it occurred to him in his dreams that he will become an MLA or a CM one day. “But I sure had a dream to become an MLA and a chief minister of Goa,” he said. Referring to criticism of the Goa government, Sawant said, “You often criticise the government of Goa. Then you give a thumbs up and do a lot of other things (online in support of this criticism).” "There is nothing wrong in that. I am not worried about that. But I am worried that you don't know on which website can you find information about various schemes of the government,” he said. The CM appealed to young people to go through the 'Know Your Scheme' section in the Goa online portal. Recently, former governor of Goa Satya Pal Malik had alleged corruption under Sawant's watch in Goa. A remark of an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader in Delhi that BJP was planning to replace the Goa CM had triggered various speculations. The Goa BJP unit had denied any such move. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/had-a-dream-to-become-cm-of-goa-pramod-sawant-1045718.html
30-10-2021||West||Won't allow Goa to be reduced to a coal hub: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a strong stand against the upcoming three road, rail and power projects along the Goa-Karnataka border, assuring the people of the state that Goa would not be allowed to reduce into a coal hub. Speaking to farmers at South Goa's Velsao village, where members of the coastal fishing community expressed fears about Goa being turned into a coal hub, Gandhi said that Goa's environment needed to be protected at all costs. "We are pretty clear that we are not going to allow Goa to become a polluted place, we are not going to allow this idea that Goa, which is a pristine place, should become a coal hub," Gandhi said. The three projects include rail track expansion by the South Western Railway from Castlerock railway station in Karnataka to Tinaighat railway station in Goa, the National Highway-4 four-laning and the drawing of a power line. All three projects run through protected forest areas in both Goa and Karnataka territories which are a part of the UNESCO-endorsed Western Ghats region. For the three projects, 50,000 trees in and around Mollem, a village located along the Goa-Karnataka border, have been slotted for felling, cleared by the state and the central government's Ministry for Environment and Forests.   Activists and Opposition parties in Goa have been demanding a review of the three projects, claiming that they were hurriedly granted permission during the pandemic without due diligence. Opponents of the projects had alleged that the doubling tracking of railway tracks and expansion of the National Highway 4 would lead to increased transportation of coal imported to the Mormugao Port Trust in South Goa to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary region. Gandhi also said that Goa and its environment should be preserved, not just for the local community but also tourists who visit the state, citing the example of his mother, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who vacations in South Goa regularly. "I love the sea here. Sometimes when my mother is not feeling well, she comes here. She takes benefit of your beautiful climate, your beautiful environment, your beautiful sea and there are thousands and thousands of people in India, who also love the sea here, love the environment here," Gandhi said.   Reacting to Gandhi's Goa visit, Karnataka BJP MP Tejasvi Surya, who is in Goa to participate in a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha event, said that Gandhi was in Goa as a tourist, because his favourite tourism destination Thailand, had not opened its doors to tourists yet. "Rahul Gandhi, like Mamata Banerjee, like the Aam Aadmi Party, is a political tourist in Goa. Because of Covid, Thailand may be not taking new tourists and Rahul Gandhi has come for his regular vacation to Goa," Surya told a press conference in Panaji on Saturday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-allow-goa-to-be-reduced-to-a-coal-hub-rahul-gandhi-1045733.html
30-10-2021||West||Rahul, Mamata, AAP in Goa on political tourism: BJP MP Tejasvi Surya||BJP Lok Sabha MP and the party's Yuva Morcha national president Tejasvi Surya on Saturday said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee were visiting Goa ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls as part of "political tourism". He further taunted that Gandhi was visiting Goa as Thailand, also a tourism hub, was closed for the past one-and-half years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing a press conference, Surya said despite the entry of TMC and Aam Aadmi Party into the state, the people knew the ruling BJP was a "tried and tested model of politics". "Mamata Banerjee and Rahul Gandhi are both in Goa on political tourism. I can understand Rahul Gandhi's difficulty as due to Covid-19, during the last one-and-half years, Thailand is not allowing visitors. Similarly, AAP is also here for political tourism," he said, adding that he wished the Congress leader a "happy vacation". “People have reposed their trust in the BJP twice (2012 and 2017). I can assure you none of these political tourists will be able to dent the BJP's popularity in Goa. Our party will to come to power for a third term (in 2022) here," Surya claimed. He said the Congress has no vision or leaders or cadre at the national and state levels, while only the BJP can find an "organic leader" like (chief minister) Pramod Sawant who was not handed anything on a platter. He said the AAP was a "non-starter" in Goa as the Arvind Kejriwal-led party had no hold outside Delhi. As for the TMC, he said Banerjee claims her party stood for "temple, mosque and church", whereas it actually stood for "terrorism, mafia and corruption". "The TMC is only found in hoardings in Goa. It does not have cadre or organisation or policy here. What can Banerjee, known for misrule in West Bengal, offer Goa, which is being ruled well by CM Sawant," he said. Attacking the TMC further, Surya said the culture of Goa was about harmony and no one got killed here for their political ideology. "There is a culture of political respect. The TMC will bring its terror driven, violence-driven political model. Every Goan should ensure such a culture doesn't land in Goa. Tourism cannot survive where there is terrorism,” Surya asserted. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rahul-mamata-aap-in-goa-on-political-tourism-bjp-mp-tejasvi-surya-1045761.html
30-10-2021||West||Six arrested in Gujarat for assaulting Dalit family over visiting village temple||The Kutch police on Saturday arrested six persons for allegedly assaulting a Dalit family, reportedly for visiting newly-inaugurated Ram temple in the village. After the incident was highlighted by several leaders, including independent MLA Jignesh Mevani, who demanded action against the accused, the state government announced Rs 21 lakh ex-gratia to the victims' family. "We have arrested six persons so far and two are under surveillance in the hospital where they are admitted. The victims have stated in the FIR that they were attacked for visiting the newly-inaugurated village temple. I won't be able to say for sure what led to the assault as we are yet to catch other accused to get other version," said Superintendent of Police, Kutch (east), Mayur Patil. On October 26, two incidents occurred at Ner village in Bhachau taluka. Patil told reporters that in the first incident, a group of 20 accused attacked relatives of the victims' family for resisting cattle which had entered their farm about 4 km away from the village. The accused persons thrashed Govind Vaghela and his uncle Ganesh for resisting. The duo escaped and came back home. Later, the same group came to Govind's house in the village holding axes, sticks and rods and assaulted the family members including his father Jagabhai, 64, his wife Baddiben, son Bhura and nephew Hasmukh. Several videos of the victims in pool of blood have gone viral on social media platforms. The victims' family has alleged that it was part of the conspiracy by the accused who were against their community visiting the temple earlier this month. The police have registered two separate FIRs against 20 accused for attempt to murder, conspiracy and sections Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (prevention of atrocities) Act. Police said that earlier this month, one of the victims, Jagabhai, had complained that upper caste villagers were not accepting his contribution for the temple. Jagabhai was pacified by the village leaders, saying that donations had already been collected seven years ago when temple construction began and there was no need for further donation. "Then, Jagabhai told the villagers that he wanted to visit the temple for darshan. The villagers accepted it and he visited the temple during pran-pratishtha ceremony. A week later, his family members were assaulted in two separate incidents for which we have registered FIRs,"Patil told reporters. "Now, these cases are being presented in media and social media as upper caste vs SC community or village vs one SC house which is, perhaps, far from facts. I would like to say that three to four years back Jagabhai won an election with 80% votes in the village and every community voted for him. Jagabhai is a respected panchayat member. So, to say that entire village is against a community or a caste is far from the facts. As far as legal actions are concerned, we have already arrested six of the accused," he said while adding that 12 different teams have been formed to nab other accused. Meanwhile, Gujarat government announced financial assistance of Rs 21 lakh to the six victims and while stating that "necessary steps are being taken." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-arrested-in-gujarat-for-assaulting-dalit-family-over-visiting-village-temple-1045771.html
30-10-2021||West||Men close to NCB's Sameer Wankhede are framing people in false cases: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday reiterated his allegation that some people who are close to the NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede were implicating innocent persons in false cases. Malik has been targeting Wankhede, who had led a raid on a cruise ship here during which drugs were allegedly recovered, for the past several days. Speaking to reporters, the minister alleged that Wankhede had formed a "gang" of private individuals who implicated innocent people by planting drugs. Wankhede had earlier refuted similar allegations by Malik. The minister also reiterated the claim that the entire operation on the cruise ship on October 2, during which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan was held among others, was "fake". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/men-close-to-ncbs-sameer-wankhede-are-framing-people-in-false-cases-nawab-malik-1045774.html
30-10-2021||West||Will probe Wankhede's caste certificate allegations if complaint is received: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde said his department can probe if someone objects to the validity of the caste certificate of Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede. Munde's NCP and ministerial colleague Nawab Malik has alleged earlier that Wankhede was born a Muslim but he forged documents, including a caste certificate, to pass off as a Scheduled Caste (SC) person to get recruitment under quota after clearing the UPSC exams. Speaking to reporters in Pune on Friday, Munde said, "If someone objects to the validity of the caste certificate of Sameer Wankhede and files a complaint with the social justice department, we will probe the matter.” Hitting back, BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Saturday said the MVA government's single point agenda was to attack Wankhede. "The state social justice department has the right to probe if they receive a complaint. Targeting Wankhede seems to be the government's single point agenda. Wankhede is not our party worker or the relative of any BJP leader. Targeting an official who is taking action against drug peddler is unacceptable,” Darekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-probe-wankhedes-caste-certificate-allegations-if-complaint-is-received-maharashtra-minister-1045798.html
