31-10-2021||Comment||What COP-26 means for us||The much-postponed global UN climate change convention is finally happening in Glasgow, with several world leaders, corporates, activists and academics in attendance. While many have written about what is at stake at the climate meet, every country and region looks at the convention from its own perspective. India — the world’s third-largest emitter (though the per capita carbon emissions are less than half of the world average) — will be a key player. So, what does India expect from the convention? Here, we have to ask a question: Which India? There are two Indias. One consists of the urban rich and middle class, policy makers and corporates. The other consists of over 800 million poor and rural communities, who are directly exposed to and impacted by climate change; farmers, fishermen, forest dwellers, coastal settlements, and people living in flood, drought and cyclone-prone areas. In mass media and government circles, the focus is entirely on greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, net zero emissions, funding from richer countries, technology transfer, capacity building, etc. But the priorities of 800 million people living in rural, coastal and mountain regions are different. Let's focus on the 70% of India’s population, which directly depends on climate-sensitive sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, forests and livestock rearing. Here, the issues of GHG emission reduction are not relevant since their per capita emission is a fraction of the urban and rich population in the country. Their concern is also not about financing mitigation since the poor will not be involved in mitigation efforts. Their concern will not be technology transfer or capacity building since these are relevant only to large industries, power generation, electric vehicles, urban transportation, etc. The middle class or rich may not be much worried about the success of the UN climate convention, or COP-26. Its failure may even enable them to continue their resource and energy-intensive lifestyle. They do not need to pay carbon tax or shift to public transport like metro or buses or reduce the use of air conditioners; they do not have to worry about installing solar PV systems or energy-efficient home appliances. So what is actually at stake for the 70% of Indians and what does a successful COP-26 mean for the poor in India? In simple terms, COP-26 should aim at stabilising global warming between 1.5 to 2 degrees Celsius to minimise the adverse impacts of climate change. This requires immediate greenhouse gas emission reductions, even before 2030. The earth has warmed by nearly 1.2 degrees Celsius and we have already seen the extreme events around the world including India — heat waves, floods, cyclones, forest fires, droughts, etc. In all likelihood, the earth is on track to warm by around 3 degrees Celsius, even if all the commitments made under the voluntary Nationally Determined Contributions on Greenhouse gas reductions to UN are met, which is highly unlikely to start with. So the expectation for the poor would be that the world community would increase their ambition to quickly reduce their emissions to slow or halt warming. This need not mean any sacrifice of quality of life for the rich, but will involve doing all the right things such as using energy-efficient systems and shifting to renewable energy sources or growing forests. Today, solar PV electricity is cheaper than coal thermal electricity on per unit basis, even excluding the cost of environmental and health damage from coal extraction, transportation and burning. Further, renewable power generation creates more jobs and clean jobs per MW of installed capacity. Conserving existing forests, planting more trees to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and storing in trees and soil are good for biodiversity conservation, watershed protection, creating jobs, etc. The rural and poorer communities expect dedicated research and dissemination to build resilience to climate risks, especially from extreme events such as floods, heat waves, forest fires, droughts and cyclones. This requires large investments in adaptation programmes. India has been implementing large developmental programmes, which can also contribute to reducing vulnerability to climate change risks and building resilience in communities and ecosystems. These include MGNREGA, integrated watershed management programmes, national afforestation programmes. How can we enhance the adaptation or resilience benefit from these programmes? How can we mainstream adaptation or resilience in developmental and infrastructure programmes? What dedicated programmes do we need? How can we improve early warning systems not just for cyclones, but also for droughts, floods, heat waves, and improve weather forecasts for farmers and fishermen? There is only a cursory coverage of climate change concerns of the poorer sections of India compared to energy use or consumption lifestyles. Agreed that richer countries have a larger responsibility in mitigating climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions sooner. But this should include the upper middle class or rich Indian families also, whose carbon footprint may be closer to richer countries of Europe. The failure of COP-26, which means no serious agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the coming one or two decades, will spell doom for the poor, with increased and intensive heat waves, floods, droughts and cyclones. Mitigation efforts at the global level may take decades to have any impact on rural community in the form of reduced climate extremes and impacts. Rural and poorer communities cannot wait for decades for mitigation efforts to take effect, though it is very critical in the long-term perspective. They need to be protected now, their vulnerability for climate risks needs to be reduced now and adaptive capacity needs to be enhanced to cope with the adverse impacts of climate change in the next five to 10 years. They can't wait till 2050 for net zero emission and mitigation measures. To conclude, we need to remember what Mahatma Gandhi said, “Recall the face of the poorest and weakest man you have seen, and ask yourself if this step you contemplate is going to be of any use to him” or protect him from climate change risks. (The writer is a former professor at the Indian Institute of Science and a climate change expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/what-cop-26-means-for-us-1046103.html
31-10-2021||First Edit||Not a privilege to be secured the hard way||As a country, we are yet to realise that freedom is not a gift from above nor a privilege to be secured the hard way by individuals, but a natural of state of existence for everyone. Too often, it is treated as a legal right to be fought for and won in courts, and it is not recognised that it is the default state of human condition. This misconception about freedom has shaped dominant attitudes about it in society, but more importantly, the policies and actions of the state that works through the government. It diminishes freedom when the government thinks that individuals are always subordinate to the community, that individual autonomy should be tethered to collective interests and that duties are more important than rights. It is specially problematic when the government defines the community and decides what the community’s interests are. Though this misunderstanding about the nature of freedom is common and influences individual conduct and social action in many ways, it becomes most hurtful when it manifests in police actions and judicial responses to it. Nowhere is it more explicit than in the bail petitions made to the courts. The latest case is that of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a raid in a luxury liner. It took about a month for him to gain freedom though the case against him was extremely weak. Two lower courts refused to grant him bail, and the bail hearing in the high court extended over three days. The court granted bail on Wednesday and released the operative part of its order on Thursday, and all formalities were completed on Friday. Still, he was released only on Saturday. This long fight for bail and the judicial, procedural and other delays that happen in such cases should be seen against a dictum pronounced by the highest court in another bail case last year. In the Arnab Goswami case, Justice D Y Chandrachud said that “deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many’’. It is not realised that this judicial dictum is about every day of Aryan Khan’s nearly four weeks in jail, including the last day. The dictum is also about the days of thousands of others who are in jail and cannot fight for freedom as Aryan Khan did. Is freedom a luxury to be fought for and won only with the help the country’s best lawyers? The law and the system based on it should aid and support the weakest man against the strongest state. But we are at a pass where even the strongest have to fight, without always the hope for success, to exercise their natural rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/not-a-privilege-to-be-secured-the-hard-way-1046108.html
31-10-2021||In Perspective||Miles to go before you renew your driver's license||Sooner or later, whether you like it or not, your driving licence comes up for renewal. In the living memory of most people, this meant visiting the jurisdictional Road Transport Office (RTO), putting up with long queues, bringing meaningless certificates together, confronting rude staff, that is, if you manage not to succumb to the entreaties of a multitude of touts and middlemen loitering around the RTO premises, who not only promised to but also surprisingly got your licence-related jobs done minus the hassle. It is the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) that is accountable for increasing the mobility and efficiency of road transport system in the country by administering the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, ensuring that no person drives a motor vehicle in any public place unless one holds an effective driving licence authorising one to drive that vehicle. Fortunately, the MoRTH has become very proactive of late in smoothening the process of issue of driving licences (DLs) and alleviating problems faced by the general public. The MoRTH began by facilitating the computerisation of more than 1,300 Road Transport Offices (RTOs) across the country. Earlier, when a manual process was in place, each state enforced different policies resulting in a DL becoming invalid in a state different from the state that issued it. This necessitated the redefining of standards to ensure interoperability, correctness and timely availability of all related documents on a pan-India level. In early 2000, the MoRTH entrusted the National Informatics Centre with developing a standard called the 'Smart Card Operating System for Transport Applications' (SCOSTA) by standardising and deploying a software 'SARATHI' to facilitate the issue of driving licences and compile relevant data in the states and national registers. It was essential to adhere to all the mandates of the Central Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, besides ensuring the core was customised to the requirements of all states of the Indian Union. Additionally, the use of a smart card ensured stored data was protected against unauthorised access and modification.  After a national rollout, the DL has now become readable from state to state. These initiatives should ideally have ensured higher transparency, security and reliability of operations permitting citizens to perform most RTO-related transactions from the comfort of their homes. Not only citizens, but the RTOs themselves should also have eliminated the hassles and queues faced by citizens, minimised extensive paperwork, drastically reduced the workload of RTO staff and got rid of touts and middlemen from exploiting uninformed applicants. The MoRTH portal does portray a 92% success rate, showing 13.64 crore applications received to date in total, from which 12.53 crore DLs have been issued. But what is the reality on the ground? What does a person required to renew his/her DL in Bengaluru experience? Understandably, the SARATHI portal has simplified procedures, making it easy to record the details of the applicant, upload documents and photographs, facilitate the booking of a slot for a visit to the RTO and paying the requisite fee, all from the applicant’s home. Unfortunately, one upload or the other is constantly declared incorrect, the system loop becomes incomplete and no payment is accepted. Visiting the RTO’s office, standing in monstrous queues, submitting copies of all documents that have been uploaded before for the RTO to verify once more becomes unavoidable. After submitting the documents you qualify to stand in the payment queue to make the payment further qualifying you to stand in the photograph queue. You are required to leave behind a self-addressed envelope so that the new DL will reach you by post. A month or two later, when your DL fails to arrive, you trudge back to the RTO, navigate the huge queues from the entrance to the RTO’s office onwards and confront the RTO himself. Extremely courteous, he rues the lack of staff, blames technical issues but miraculously produces your renewed DL. The MoRTH needs to do a lot more to improve service access, quality and efficiency in service delivery, enhance transparency in the system and derive the benefits of reduced RTO staff workload. Why this meaningless duplication of submitting another set of uploaded documents that the RTO needs to verify once again? Why upload a photograph when you have to visit the RTO and get yourself photographed anyway? How does the DL, that did not come by post, miraculously appear when you visit the RTO? Long and unruly queues continue, although the amount of paperwork required has decreased marginally while the number of visits required has become fewer. Astonishingly, there is a sea of difference between a DL renewal experience and a passport renewal experience. Today’s passport renewal offices show substantial improvement in their services, although you similarly apply online, get an appointment, make one visit to get all documents verified, biometrics completed and you are ready to receive your new passport in a jiffy. Why doesn’t the MoRTH take a leaf out of the MEA’s Passport Seva’s portal service? (The writer is former Executive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/miles-to-go-before-you-renew-your-drivers-license-1046106.html
31-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||MRG Group subsidiary to invest in Mangaluru IT Park project||A world-class IT infrastructure in Mangaluru no longer seems like a distant dream. Trishul Buildtech and Infrastructures Private Limited (a subsidiary of MRG group) have signed an MoU with the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), to develop the IT Park in the district. The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) said that the park should be a boon to the local IT industries and assist startups, help job creation and innovation in the city. For many years the KCCI was working on all fronts towards establishing an IT ecosystem in Mangaluru, it said. A detailed Project Report (DPR) was submitted to the government on building such infrastructure on the KEONICS land at Blueberry Hills over 20 years ago. Since there was not much progress, the Chamber had proposed an IT Park. Many entities had expressed keen interest in which should take Mangaluru to the next level as an ideal destination for IT and ITES services. As per the MoU signed, the MRG Group will work on building the park in 15 acres of land of Goldfinch City, Mangaluru. Phase 1 of the project will have a built-up area of 2 lakh square feet. Besides local companies, global companies will also set up their operations due to this proposed world-class infrastructure. KCCI president Shashidhar Pai Maroor thanked the MRG Group for coming forward to invest in such a significant project. "The Chamber has been trying for an integrated IT Park with world-class standards for the past eight years. We also worked closely with the government to try and get such infrastructure. There was no progress even though expressions of interest were sought by the KEONICS under the PPP model thrice in the past. "For the past six months, our IT vertical has been talking to many private investors to set up this infrastructure. The IT infrastructure will change Mangaluru economy for good," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mrg-group-subsidiary-to-invest-in-mangaluru-it-park-project-1045861.html
31-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two held for threat calls to business tycoon in Shivamogga||Police brought two accused from Central Jail in Bengaluru to Shivamogga, for interrogation, in connection with death threat to a business tycoon. Saddam Hussein from Bhatkal of Uttara Kannada district and Nagendra of Bhadravathi were brought to the city amidst tight police security. A business tycoon from Shivamogga had received a threat call and a case was registered at Cybercrime, Economic Offences & Narcotics Wing. Initially, the police found it difficult to trace the callers as they were WhatsApp and online calls. The team intensified the probe based on the bank account to which money was transferred. They reached Bhatkal and nabbed the woman as the call was made by her husband who is in the Central Prison in Bengaluru. Police sources stated that Saddam, along with another accused in the Bengaluru blast case Nagendra, was making threat calls to business tycoons in Shivamogga. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-held-for-threat-calls-to-business-tycoon-in-shivamogga-1045886.html
31-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru cops arrest seven people in connection to clash between two groups||The police have arrested seven persons in connection with a clash between two groups at Ballalbagh in Mangaluru on Saturday night. The groups had allegedly damaged one four-wheeler and about six two-wheelers at the spot. The police had taken up a suo motu case and arrested seven persons and an investigation is under way, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. According to the Barke police, the arrested are Dheeraj Shetty, Rakshith K, Rohith Shetty, Harshith, Keerthiraj, Vivek and Rahul. Around 15 to 20 members were engaged in assaulting one another using cricket stumps, pipes and stones. The vehicles were damaged in the melee, said the police. Barke PSI Shobha, who was on night rounds, had visited the spot where clashes broke out between the two groups. In her complaint, she alleged that Dheeraj had manhandled her and prevented her from discharging her duties by damaging her walkie talkie. PSI Haroon Akter and other police personnel rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-cops-arrest-seven-people-in-connection-to-clash-between-two-groups-1045995.html
31-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM Bommai to offer bagina at KRS, Kabini on Nov 2||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be offering bagina at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, and Kabini dam in H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district, on November 2. The dams have reached the maximum level. According to a communication, Chief Minister Bommai will leave Bengaluru in a helicopter and reach Kabini dam. He will offer bagina at Kabini dam and later fly to Srirangapatna and land at the helipad there. He will offer bagina to River Cauvery, at the dam, at 1 pm. Later, he will perform puja of the Goddess Cauvery statue on the premises and will participate in the dais programme. Minister K C Narayan Gowda and MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah and others will participate. He will return to Bengaluru in the same chopper, it is said. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi visited the KRS dam and inspected the premises ahead of the CM's visit. Assistant Commissioner B C Shivanandamurthy was also present. The water level of the dam is 124.8 ft on Sunday as against the maximum level of 124.80 ft. The water level of the Kabini dam is 2,284 ft, the maximum level. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-offer-bagina-at-krs-kabini-on-nov-2-1046017.html
31-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Surfing season flagged off in Mangaluru||Mangalore Surf Club had organised Wave Runners – A Body Boarding Competition to promote surfing at Tannirbavi beach near Fathima Church on Sunday. The competition was aimed at creating awareness among people that Tannirbavi beach has a world class surf break, said Mithun Bhat Kakunje, President of Mangalore Surf Club. As many as 40 athletes from around Mangaluru had participated in the event. The event also was organised to flag off the surfing season in Mangaluru. The competition was organised in four categories: Under 15 girls, under 15 boys, above 15 women and above 15 Men. The Winners are as follows: Under 15 Girls -- Anokhi K (I) Nia Jasani (II), in under 15 boys -- Vardhan Rai (I) and Hardik K (II), in above 15 women - Sinchana Gowda (I) and Sabiya Israt (II) and in above 15 men - Dhanush (I) and Yajnesh Bengre (II).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surfing-season-flagged-off-in-mangaluru-1046053.html
31-10-2021||National||After AUKUS, India, France agree to find new ways to ensure rules-based order in Indo-Pacific region||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron agreed to find “new and innovative ways” to ensure a rule-based order in the Indo-Pacific region, as they had a meeting on the sideline of the G-20 summit in Rome on Saturday. Hours after Macron had a meeting with the United States President Joe Biden to mend fences between Paris and Washington DC over the AUKUS, the Prime Minister had the meeting with his counterpart in the French Government. Modi and Macron reviewed the “wide-ranging India-France Strategic Partnership”, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Prime Minister also welcomed the European Union’s Indo-Pacific Strategy, released in September 2021, and thanked the French President for his leadership role in the same. The two leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to cooperate in the Indo-Pacific and to find “new and innovative ways to contribute towards a free, open and rules-based order in the region”, Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said. The US, last month, joined Australia and the UK to launch a trilateral security coalition – AUKUS – for development of joint military capabilities and sharing of defence technologies to counter the military aggression of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The AUKUS is intended to create a framework for the US and UK to support Australia in acquiring a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines. The latest move to launch the AUKUS fuelled speculation about the fate of the Quad, a coalition which had already been forged by India, Australia, Japan and the US with the similar objective of countering the geo-political influence of China in the Indo-Pacific, albeit with a benign agenda. The launch of the AUKUS triggered sharp reaction from Macron’s Government in Paris, as it scuttled a $37 billion deal inked in 2016 for France to provide Australia 12 conventional submarines. New Delhi, however, insisted that the Quad and the AUKUS were not similar groupings. Modi and Macron discussed the forthcoming United Nations climate summit, COP26, in Glasgow in the UK and the need to focus on issues of climate finance. The Prime Minister also invited the French President to visit India at the earliest opportunity, according to the MEA spokesperson. Modi also held a bilateral meeting with Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong in Rome on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-aukus-india-france-agree-to-find-new-ways-to-ensure-rules-based-order-in-indo-pacific-region-1045887.html
31-10-2021||National||Dengue, chikungunya, malaria made notifiable diseases under Epidemic Diseases Act||Vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya and malaria have been made as notifiable diseases under the Epidemic Diseases Act, according to an official notification. The notification makes it compulsory for all hospitals to provide information to the government about any such case that they receive. On the basis of the data provided by the hospitals, areas where the vector-borne diseases are spreading will be identified and declared as 'infected' or 'threatened'. The notification also said that legal action will be taken against individuals or institutions found not following adequate measures or not informing about the cases to the authorities. The national capital has seen a surge in dengue cases. Delhi has reported over 1,000 cases of dengue this year, with more than 280 cases logged in the last week, according to a civic report released on Monday. Of the total number of dengue cases this season, 665 were recorded in the first 23 days of this month alone. The city recorded its first death due to the vector-borne disease this season on October 18. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dengue-chikungunya-malaria-made-notifiable-diseases-under-epidemic-diseases-act-1045890.html
31-10-2021||National||No respite as fuel rates hiked again: Check prices in major cities||Petrol and diesel prices on Sunday were hiked for the fourth straight day by 35 paise per litre each, pushing pump rates to a new record high across the country with states with high incidence of local taxes such as Madhya Pradesh having the costliest fuel. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 109.34 a litre and Rs 115.15 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel now costs Rs 98.07 a litre in Delhi and Rs 106.23 in Mumbai. This is the fourth consecutive day of the price hike. There was no change in rates between October 25 and 27, prior to which prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each on four straight days. While petrol has already hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over one-and-a-half dozen states. Diesel rates crossed that level in places ranging from Jalandhar in Punjab to Gangtok in Sikkim. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes and cost of transportation. The twin factors led to petrol price crossing Rs 120 a litre mark in places such as Panna, Satna, Rewa, Shahdol, Chhindwara and Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh. The same level has also been crossed in two border towns of Rajasthan -- Ganganagar and Hanumangarh. Ganganagar has the costliest fuel in the country with petrol costing Rs 121.52 a litre and diesel coming for Rs 112.44 per litre. Petrol price has been hiked on 25 occasions since September 28, when a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision ended. In all, prices have gone up by Rs 8.15 a litre. Diesel rates have been increased by Rs 9.45 per litre in 28 hikes since September 24. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. The diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-as-fuel-rates-hiked-again-check-prices-in-major-cities-1045899.html
31-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Pegasus verdict warning to State over surveillance||The Supreme Court’s order in the Pegasus case, delivered on Wednesday, is a judicial landmark. This ranks along with important, recent judgements like the 2013 Lalita Kumari case which made the filing of an FIR mandatory when a cognizable office is reported, the 2018 Navtej Singh case which legalised the rights of the LGBTQ community and the 2017 Puttaswamy case which recognised privacy as a fundamental right of citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pegasus-verdict-warning-to-state-over-surveillance-1045904.html
31-10-2021||National||India reports 12,830 new Covid-19 cases, 446 deaths||With 12,830 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,42,73,300, while the active cases declined to 1,59,272, the lowest in 247 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,58,186 with 446 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 23 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 126 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.46  per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the ministry said. A decline of 2,283 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-12830-new-covid-19-cases-446-deaths-1045910.html
31-10-2021||National||'Iron Lady of India': Cong pays tributes to Indira Gandhi on death anniversary||The Congress on Sunday paid tributes to former prime minister Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi hailing her as a great example of women power. Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to Indira Gandhi at her memorial "Shakti Sthal" here. Indira Gandhi, the then prime minister, was assassinated on this day in 1984 by two of her own security guards. "My grandmother served the country fearlessly till the last moment — her life is a source of inspiration for us," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "A great example of women power, humble tributes to Mrs Indira Gandhi on her martyrdom day," he said. The Congress, in a tweet from its official Twitter handle, also lauded the former prime minister's contribution to the country. She represented strength.She epitomised sacrifice.She personified service. "She represented strength. She epitomised sacrifice. She personified service. A billion salutes to the Iron Lady of India, our very first woman Prime Minister, a true Bharat Ratna, Smt. Indira Gandhi, on her death anniversary," the Congress said in its tweet. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iron-lady-of-india-cong-pays-tributes-to-indira-gandhi-on-death-anniversary-1045925.html
31-10-2021||National||Drugs-on-cruise case: Model Munmun Dhamecha released from jail||Fashion model Munmun Dhamecha was released from the Byculla women's jail here on Sunday, three days after she was granted bail in the cruise drugs case in which she was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3. The Bombay High Court had on Thursday granted bail to her along with co-accused Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, and Arbaaz Merchant. On Friday afternoon, the HC made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha, stipulating their release on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. The release order of Dhamecha was put in the bail box outside the Byculla jail late Saturday evening after the bond process was completed. Dhamecha's advocate Ali Kaashif Khan on Sunday said, "She has been released from the jail after completion of all the legal formalities. We are now going to file an application before the NCB seeking permission to allow her to go Madhya Pradesh, as she hails from there." Her co-accused Arbaaz Merchant, who is lodged at the Arthur Road jail, is yet to be released. Aryan Khan, who was also lodged in the Arthur Road jail following arrest in the case, returned home on Saturday. The HC had in its detailed order asked Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha to appear before the NCB's Mumbai office every Friday between 11.00 am to 2.00 pm to mark their presence. On October 2, the NCB had raided the Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs onboard.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-on-cruise-case-model-munmun-dhamecha-released-from-jail-1045936.html
31-10-2021||National||Bilateral ties at threshold of new era with PM Modi's UK visit: Indian envoy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the UK comes at a time when India-UK bilateral relations are on a positive trajectory and potentially at the threshold of a new era, India’s High Commissioner to the UK Gaitri Issar Kumar has said. Modi will attend the World Leaders’ Summit (WLS) of the UN COP26 climate conference in Glasgow, with bilateral talks planned with his British counterpart Boris Johnson on the sidelines of the summit, scheduled over Monday and Tuesday. India's envoy in Britain noted that in preparation for the bilateral engagement, discussions have progressed on a full range of issues – from consular relations to maritime security and space as well as cooperation at the UN and other multilateral fora. “The India-UK partnership is on a very positive trajectory, potentially at the threshold of a new era,” Kumar told PTI in an interview on the eve of Modi’s UK visit. “It is comprehensive, a strategic partnership, covering an ever-expanding range of areas of human activity; underpinned, as it should be, by an efficient institutional framework. “Our leaders have a shared vision of how best both nations can realise the full potential of our many complementary strengths – bilaterally and on global issues,” she said. The High Commissioner confirmed that the 2030 Roadmap agreed between Prime Minister Modi and his British counterpart Johnson in May remains on track with its aim to more than double bilateral trade by 2030, following a series of trade delegation exchanges between the two countries. “Both governments remain committed to the implementation of the roadmap within prescribed timelines. Accordingly, we are looking to launch negotiations in November 2021 for an Interim Agreement to be signed in March 2022 and eventually a comprehensive agreement, if all goes according to schedule, by November 2022,” she said. The senior diplomat stressed that Prime Minister Modi’s three-day UK visit takes on added significance in the year being celebrated as marking 75 years of India-UK relations. Kumar, who was in India earlier this month for UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss’ visit to New Delhi and Mumbai, referred to the most recent ministerial exchange as “fruitful” in moving the bilateral agenda forward. “The recent visit to India of the UK’s Carrier Strike Group (CSG) is a manifestation of an increased engagement between the two countries in the defence and security sector. There exists a commonality of concern and commitment on regional and global security-related issues,” said the High Commissioner. She said: “With much convergence of our interests in the Indian Ocean region, it is but natural that we have increased our engagement in defence and security. In fact, India’s defence modernisation programme presents an opportunity – we envisage a partnership involving co-development of designs and technology, as well as joint manufacturing. “The UK is an important ally for India in defending the rules-based international order. At a time when the global governance systems face unprecedented challenges, both democracies – committed to upholding the rules-based order – can play a key role in preserving principles that strengthen core institutions.” The envoy noted that joint initiatives on global themes have been made possible as a result of India and the UK taking the lead in bringing solutions, reflecting post-Brexit Britain’s more “independent” approach. “In technology, trade and a transformational approach to new opportunities and challenges, we have seen a fair amount of success already and have set for ourselves further goals with a higher level of ambition. “As a global force for good, India and the UK continue to develop the partnership on vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics through the institutional dialogue process on strategic priorities for collaboration in the health sector,” Kumar said. On the issue of climate action ahead of COP26, the High Commissioner described both countries as “partners” in global climate mitigation initiatives like the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). “We look forward to making a significantly helpful contribution to the success of COP26,” the Indian High Commissioner added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bilateral-ties-at-threshold-of-new-era-with-pm-modis-uk-visit-indian-envoy-1045940.html
31-10-2021||National||Sardar Patel charted India's destiny after Independence: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was not only the architect of free India but also someone who charted its course after the Independence. Adityanath made the comment on the occasion of the 146th birth anniversary of Sardar Patel -- also celebrated as National Unity Day -- and flagged off 75 motorcycles from his official residence here. "Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was not only the architect of free India, but also decided the direction, which free India has to take. “As the first Home Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of India, he unmasked all conspiracies, as at that point of time, there were a number of foreign powers which did not want India to stay united,” Adityanath said on the occasion. He said Patel, with his farsightedness, brought together many provinces of the country and helped turn it into the “biggest democracy of the world”. "Sardar Patel with his wisdom and far-sightedness made all the 563 self-governing states a part of India, and laid the foundation of an integrated India,” Adityanath said. The Chief Minister also administered an oath of unity on the occasion.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sardar-patel-charted-indias-destiny-after-independence-yogi-adityanath-1045941.html
31-10-2021||National||Bypolls to RS seats in Kerala, West Bengal on November 29||Bypoll to one Rajya Sabha seat each from Kerala and West Bengal will be held on November 29, the Election Commission said on Sunday. The bypolls were necessitated following the resignations of Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani and Arpita Ghosh of the Trinamool Congress from the upper house earlier this year. The notification would be issued on November 9 and the poll will be held on November 29, the EC said in a statement. The counting of votes, as per established practice, will be held one hour after the voting concludes on November 29. Mani had resigned in January this year. His term as a Rajya Sabha member was to otherwise end in July 2024. Ghosh had resigned in September this year and her term was to end in April 2026.  During the second wave of Covid-19, the Commission had decided against holding the Kerala RS bypoll till the situation improves.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bypolls-to-rs-seats-in-kerala-west-bengal-on-november-29-1045942.html
31-10-2021||National||PM Modi says India becoming fully capable to meet any challenge, stresses on unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India is becoming fully capable of dealing with all kinds of external and internal challenges, while deriving inspiration from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. In a video message on the occasion of 'Rashtriya Ekta Diwas', the birth anniversary of the country's first deputy prime minister and home minister Sardar Patel, Modi said collective efforts, like those seen during the Covid-19 pandemic crisis, will take the country to new heights. Noting that the nation is paying tribute to Sardar Patel who gave his life for 'Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat', Modi said Patel lives not only in history but also in the hearts of all Indians. "Sardar Patel always wanted India to be strong, inclusive, sensitive and alert, humble and developed. He always put the interest of the country first. Today, deriving inspiration from him, India is becoming fully capable of dealing with all kinds of challenges, external and internal," Modi said. He said the country is today taking inspiration from the spirit of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat' to achieve self-reliance and safeguard its interests. "In the last seven years, the country has got rid of the decades-old unwanted laws, and has taken the ideals that cherish national unity to new heights. Be it Jammu and Kashmir, North East or any village in the Himalayas, today all are progressing on the path of progress," he said. The prime minister said the modern infrastructure development in the country is working to remove the geographical and cultural distances. The country is today witnessing a "great maha yagna of social, economic and constitutional integration", and its capability and determination on every front - water, land, air, space - is unprecedented, he said. "India has started on a new mission of self-reliance to safeguard its interests," Modi said. He said the spirit of everyone's effort should be made the basis of the pace of development and to make a self-reliant India. "Where the lack of unity brings new crisis, the collective effort of everyone takes the country to new heights," he said. He cited the fight against coronavirus as an example of what the country can achieve through collective efforts. "From new Covid-19 hospitals to ventilators, from manufacturing essential medicines to crossing the milestone of 100 crore vaccine doses-- these have been made possible only because of the efforts of every Indian, every government, every industry," he said. Modi said the combined result of several reforms undertaken over the years has made India an attractive investment destination. "We now have to make this spirit of everyone's effort the basis of the pace of development, to make a self-reliant India," he said. He said every action should be taken with "broader national goals" in mind and to see how one is supporting it in a self-reliant India. "Indian industry can also set targets of how much it needs to depend on foreign raw materials or components," he said. He said farmers can also strengthen their participation in self-reliant India by adopting new farming techniques and new crops (cultivation), according to the needs of the country. "Our cooperative institutions should also strengthen small farmers of the country. The more we focus on our small farmers, the more we come forward for their betterment. We will be able to create a new trust even in remote villages and we will have to do this," he said. Modi also said everybody will have to contribute to enrich the spirit of 'One India', and "only when we remain united will we be able to move forward, and only then will the country achieve its goals." The form of today's India, as per Sardar Patel's idea, should be one where women have equal opportunity, where the Dalits, deprived sections, tribals and forest dwellers, every citizen of the country feels equal. He said the country is today working in the direction of achieving the same kind of India, where there is no discrimination in facilities like house, electricity, water, and setting new goals regularly. "If the dynamism of the society is added to the government, it is not difficult to achieve the biggest of resolutions, everything is possible," he said. These things may seem ordinary, but their results will be unprecedented. Over the years, we have seen how people's participation has strengthened the country even in small matters like cleanliness, he said. "As a citizen, when we moved ahead as one India, we also got success and we also contributed to the excellence of India. You always remember- even the smallest work is great if there is a good spirit behind it. The joy that is there in serving the country cannot be described in words," he said. "For the integrity and unity of the country, while fulfilling our civic duties, our every effort is a true tribute to Sardar Patelji. Taking inspiration from our accomplishments, let us move forward, give new heights to the unity and excellence of the country," he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-india-becoming-fully-capable-to-meet-any-challenge-stresses-on-unity-1045943.html
31-10-2021||National||Govt suggests including millets in mid-day meals: Report||Citing “critical” levels of malnutrition and anaemia among children, School Education Secretary Anita Karwal and Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Secretary Sanjay Agarwal in a joint letter wrote that consumption of millets remains low due to lack of awareness and availability. “The Government of India is taking a series of initiatives to ameliorate this. As per National Family Health Survey-IV, 38 per cent of children under five years of age are stunted and 59 per cent of children are anaemic, which is critical. Among one of the series of initiatives, to reduce malnutrition and anaemia, the Government of India is laying emphasis on consumption of millets,” they were quoted as saying in the report. Millets -- such as Jowar, Bajra, and Ragi among others -- have a higher nutritional value compared to wheat and rice-based meals that are currently served. Last year, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant had also suggested introducing millets into the diet of the mid-day meal programme to improve India's low nutrition ranking. The mid-day meal scheme was launched in 1995 with the aim to provide at least one nutritional meal to elementary students. It had later become instrumental in improving enrollments in schools. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-suggests-including-millets-in-mid-day-meals-report-1045952.html
31-10-2021||National||Almost 90% of Indians continue to support ban on Chinese apps||More than 15 months have passed since clashes between Indian and Chinese soldiers clashed in Ladakh with deaths on both sides. An overwhelming majority of Indians nurture strong anti-China sentiments, according to the IANS-CVoter Consumer Tracker. The CVoter Tracker is India's only daily Opinion Tracking exercise mapping more than a hundred thousand randomly selected respondents in a calendar year. The tracker is run in 11 Indian languages and has interviewed more than a million respondents in person and CATI over the last ten years. The sample size was 3000 all India as part of the main tracker. One question asked was if they trust Chinese Foreign Direct Investment in Indian companies. More than 90 per cent of Indians said they did not, while just about 9 per cent expressed trust in Chinese FDI. In contrast, when a similar question was asked about American FDI, just 40 per cent of respondents said no, while close to 57 per cent expressed trust. Similarly, almost 90 per cent of Indians continue to support the ban on Chinese apps and some companies imposed by India in 2020 while just about 9 per cent oppose the ban. To another question on the decision by the Indian government to control FDI from neighbouring countries, primarily targeted at China, 67 per cent of Indians continued to support the move while less than 25 per cent of respondents oppose the policy. The strong anti- China sentiment expressed by Indians right now comes in the back of three recent developments: China continues to militarise the Indian borders across Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh; India's trade deficit with China continues to rise, recording about $ 43 billion in the first few quarters of this year; the Indian media continues to largely focus more on the misadventures and provocations of Pakistan. It seems ordinary Indians seem to be sending a message to both the media and policymakers to concentrate on China as a larger threat to India. One more question related to China is if the "ban" on Chinese FDI would hurt India's interests. Close to 66 per cent said that Indian interests will not be affected while 32 per cent said there could be a diverse impact. This snap poll was conducted by CVoter across India in the third week of October 2021 and covered all demographic, income, education and caste metrics. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/almost-90-of-indians-continue-to-support-ban-on-chinese-apps-1045953.html
31-10-2021||National||PM Modi, other G20 leaders visit Rome's iconic Trevi Fountain||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday visited the famous Trevi Fountain here along with other world leaders on the sidelines of the G20 summit. The fountain is one of the most visited monuments of France and is loved by tourists. The historical fountain has drawn many filmmakers to it who have popularised the Baroque art-styled monument as the epitome of a place of romance. "#G20 Heads of Delegation start the 2nd day of the #G20RomeSummit with a walk to a symbolic place of the city: Trevi Fountain, one of the world's most beautiful fountains and famous for the traditional coin toss. #G20Italy," G20 Italy tweeted on Sunday. Standing 26.3 metres high and 49.15 metres wide, it is the largest Baroque fountain in the city and one of the most famous fountains in the world. The delegation also threw a coin from over their shoulder in the fountain, according to a video released by the G20 Italy. It is believed that if you throw a coin over your shoulder into the water of the fountain, you will be sure to return to Rome. After visiting the famous fountain, Modi will attend a bilateral meeting with the Spanish Prime Minister, Pedro Sanchez. He will also attend a session on Sustainable Development and an event on 'Supply Chain Resilience'. The prime minister is participating in the G20 Summit in Rome from October 30- 31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. Italy has been holding the presidency of the G20 since December last year. The G20 is a leading global forum that brings together the world's major economies. Its members account for more than 80 per cent of the global GDP, 75 per cent of global trade and 60 per cent of the population of the planet. The forum has met every year since 1999 and includes, since 2008, a yearly summit, with the participation of the respective heads of state and government. The Rome summit will be attended by heads of state and government of G20 member countries, the European Union, and other invited countries and several international organisations. The summit will be centred around the theme 'People, Planet, Prosperity, focussing on the areas of recovery from the pandemic and strengthening of global health governance. From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow on Sunday to attend the World Leader's summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-other-g20-leaders-visit-romes-iconic-trevi-fountain-1045954.html
31-10-2021||National||India saw 31 children die by suicide every day in 2020; experts say Covid upped psychological trauma||An average 31 children died by suicide every day in India in 2020, according to government data, with experts underlining that the Covid-19 pandemic may have accentuated the psychological trauma faced by children to a great extent. According to the National Crime Records Bureau data, 11,396 children died by suicide in 2020, an 18 per cent rise from 9,613 such deaths in 2019 and 21 per cent rise from 9,413 in 2018. 'Family Problems' (4,006), 'Love Affairs' (1,337) and 'Illness' (1,327) were the main causes of suicide among children (below 18 years of age). Ideological causes or hero worshipping, unemployment, bankruptcy, impotency or infertility and drug abuse were other reasons behind suicide by some children. Prabhat Kumar, Deputy Director – Child Protection, Save the Children, said Covid-19 and the resultant school closures and social isolation coupled with anxiety among elders have further aggravated the issue of mental health and brought it to the forefront. "While we as a society are cognisant of tangibles such as education and physical health for building national human capital, emotional wellbeing or psycho-social support often takes a back seat. The successively increasing number of suicides among children reflects a systemic failure. It is a collective responsibility of parents, families, neighbourhoods, and government at large to provide a conducive ecosystem where children can look forward to realizing their potential and fulfilling their dreams for a bright future.  Committing suicide, on the contrary, is an antithesis," Kumar told PTI. "Stigma attached to mental health and an abysmally low number of per capita mental health professionals demand urgent attention. Covid-19, and the resultant school closures and social isolation coupled with anxiety among elders has further aggravated the issue and brought it to the forefront. Save the Children calls for a collective action to nurture an encouraging and supportive ecosystem for children and youth," he added. Commenting on the topic, Priti Mahara, Director, Policy Research and Advocacy at CRY-Child Rights and You, said from the very beginning of the pandemic, it was one of the major concerns that it might impact children's mental health and psycho-social well-being, and the recent NCRB data actually underscores the fear that the pandemic may have accentuated the psychological trauma faced by the children to a great extent. "As the NCRB data reveals, a total of 11,396 children (5,392 boys and 6,004 girls) have died by suicide in 2020, which accounts for 31 deaths per day or approximately 1 child committing suicide per hour," she told PTI. "Children have gone through tremendous emotional stress and trauma due to home confinement and lack of interaction with friends, teachers or any other person in the position of trust due to prolonged closure of schools and limited social interactions," she said. Many of them have been through hostile environment at home, many others have seen the demise of their loved ones and have faced the impact of fear of contagion and deepening financial crisis at the family level, she said. Many children have also experienced huge uncertainty related to the completion of curriculum, exams and results. "A huge number of children, especially the ones living under the shadows of multi-dimensional poverty, struggled with attending online classes and were majorly impacted by the digital divide, while many others suffered from over-exposure to internet and the social media and were subjected to online bullying and allied cyber-crimes," she said. "All of these, compounded with an overall anxiety of the uncertainty of the future, must have been too much to bear for their young and tender minds," she added. Akhila Sivadas, Executive Director, Centre For Advocacy and Research, said alternative care and counselling models have to be developed in collaboration with key stakeholders and every effort should be made to take the learnings to a cross-section of society so that everyone takes the responsibility to curb this practice. Mental health expert Prakriti Poddar, Managing Trustee at Poddar Foundation, said parents must understand how fragile their children's mental well-being is and be proactive in assessing it. "Teachers also need to be trained in identifying symptoms and patterns of mental issues. Apart from that, educational institutions must have psychological counselling programmes in place to help students deal with their issues in confidentiality. Every child has a different coping mechanism. Therefore, the counselling programmes must be flexible, to cater to the needs of each child individually. If needed, a student must be referred to a mental healthcare professional for timely intervention," Poddar said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-saw-31-children-die-by-suicide-every-day-in-2020-experts-say-covid-upped-psychological-trauma-1045956.html
31-10-2021||National||Low Covid vaccination coverage: PM Modi to hold review meeting with DMs of over 40 districts on Nov 3||With both doses of vaccination still eluding a large population, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be holding a review meeting on November 3 with district magistrates of over 40 districts with low Covid-19 vaccination coverage in Maharashtra, Jharkhand and North East. The meeting that will include districts with less than 50% coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of Covid vaccine, comes days after PM last week had a long meeting with the nation's top vaccine makers and Health Ministry asked states and UTs to share their strategies to enhance second dose coverage and prioritise districts having low coverage for focused action The Prime Minister will hold this meeting immediately after returning to the country after attending the G20 Summit and COP26. During the video conferencing, which will also be attended by Chief Ministers of Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya and other states, Modi will be directly interacting with District Magistrates of over 40 districts as the districts are nodal centres for vaccination strategy. Earlier, the Health Ministry had asked states and UTs to generate a district-wise list of beneficiaries for the administration of the second dose and advised them to draw district-wise plans involving district magistrates for saturation of beneficiaries. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had last week held a meeting with Health Secretaries and Mission Directors of National Health Mission (NHM) of states and UTs and told them that the detailed line-lists of due beneficiaries can be utilized for preparing a district-wise second dose administration plan involving the District Magistrate for execution in a time-bound manner. More than 10 crore people in the country have not taken the second dose of the vaccine. On October 23, Modi had held a detailed meeting with the country's top vaccine makers and exhorted them to strategise furthering vaccine research. In a separate meeting, the Health Ministry had asked the states to enhance second dose coverage and focus on those beneficiaries who are waiting for their second dose after their interval period has been over. The Union health ministry had also asked the states to explore requirements for mobilisation efforts, addressing local challenges, the need for additional Covid vaccination centres and improving access in rural areas as less than one-third of the total over 100 crore vaccinated people have got the second shot so far. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-covid-vaccination-coverage-pm-modi-to-hold-review-meeting-with-dms-of-over-40-districts-on-nov-3-1045960.html
31-10-2021||National||Indians now have to wait longer for visa appointment: US Embassy||The US Embassy here has said there will be significant appointment wait times for some non-immigrant visa categories as it builds back from Covid-19-related interruptions. From November 8, an estimated three million visa holders from India, with proof of vaccination, will be able to travel to the United States under the new international air travel policy, the embassy said. "Facilitating legitimate travel to support our strong and growing bilateral ties is our top priority. As we build back from Covid-19-related interruptions, we expect significant appointment wait times for some nonimmigrant visa categories at our Embassy and Consulates," it said. The mission thanked people for their patience while "we work to increase our capacity and maintain the safety of our applicants and staff". Describing the vaccination requirements, the US Embassy said that starting November 8, foreign national air travellers to the United States will be required to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and to provide proof of vaccination status prior to boarding an airplane to fly to the US, with only limited exceptions. "The CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) has determined that for the purposes of entry into the United States, vaccines accepted will include those FDA approved or authorized, as well as vaccines with an emergency use listing (EUL) from the World Health Organization (WHO)," it said. The embassy said that Covishield will be accepted for the purposes of entry into the United States since it has an emergency use listing from the WHO. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-now-have-to-wait-longer-for-visa-appointment-us-embassy-1045971.html
31-10-2021||National||Nearly 112 crore Covid vaccines given to states, UTs so far||Nearly 112 crore Covid vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. More than 13 crore balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs for inoculation, it said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid vaccination drive, the Union government procures and supplies free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs for inoculation, the ministry said.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-112-crore-covid-vaccines-given-to-states-uts-so-far-1045978.html
31-10-2021||National||Amid Diwali shopping, socialising, Covid protocol compliance hits new low in India: Survey||As the country gets ready to celebrate Diwali, only 2 per cent of Indians think that masking compliance around them is effective, while only 3 per cent feel that people in their localities and districts are following social distancing norms, according to a survey. The survey conducted by LocalCircles, a digital community-based platform, received more than 39,000 responses from over 20,000 citizens in 366 districts of India on how people are complying with masking and social distancing protocols during the festive season and travel. Forty-seven per cent of respondents were from tier 1 districts, 30 per cent from tier 2 districts and 23 per cent from tier 3, 4 and rural districts. While 65 per cent of respondents were men, 35 per cent were women. On the masking front, the survey found that only 2 per cent of respondents said that "more than 90 per cent" people in their area, district or city are compliant and only 16 per cent respondents said that masking compliance is effective at airports, stations and bus stands, etc. during travel. According to a survey conducted by LocalCircles in September, 13 per cent of citizens felt that masking compliance in their area, district or city was high, while 30 per cent of respondents felt that masking compliance during travel was effective. In the latest survey, just 3 per cent of respondents said that social distancing compliance is effective in their area, district or city and 9 per cent of respondents said that social distancing compliance during travel is non-existent now. According to the September survey, 6 per cent of respondents had said that social distancing compliance in their area, district or city was high. The survey had not measured effective social distancing compliance during travel. A LocalCircles survey from June, which was shared by the Union health ministry in its July 6 briefing, had found that 29 per cent of people felt that masking compliance around them was effective, while 11 per cent felt that social distancing compliance around them was effective. "The drop in masking compliance ratings from 29 per cent to 2 per cent and in social distancing compliance ratings from 11 per cent to 3 per cent indicates that the vast majority of Indians believe that masking and social distancing compliance are practically non-existent in most of the country," said Sachin Taparia, founder of LocalCircles. Similarly, on the travel front, social distancing compliance is extremely poor with many citizens raising complaints on LocalCircles about the poor enforcement of social distancing norms at security check, boarding and in buses at airports like Delhi and Mumbai, he said. According to the LocalCircles' report, with Diwali markets, fairs and private parties being held in cities, stepping out and socialising are back with fervour. The report also stated that authorities should not bring large numbers of people together for Diwali fairs, as has been reported in a few states. Authorities like Airport Authority of India, Ministry of Civil Aviation and Ministry of Railways must ensure compliance of social distancing norms at airports and stations. Special focus must also be on creating awareness and ensuring compliance of masking and social distancing protocols in tier 3 and 4 towns and rural districts where it is at near-zero levels, it said. The last thing India wants at this stage is a third wave of Covid-19 sparked by the irresponsible behaviour of the public at large and encouraged by the lax approach of authorities, the report said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-diwali-shopping-socialising-covid-protocol-compliance-hits-new-low-in-india-survey-1045982.html
31-10-2021||National||PM Modi's plane flew over Pakistan airspace en route to Italy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's special VVIP flight, en route to Italy for the G20 Summit, flew over the Pakistani airspace on Friday and the aircraft will use it again on its return journey after getting formal permission from Islamabad, according to a media report here on Sunday. Prime Minister Modi's plane Boeing 777, 300ER, K7066 entered the Pakistani airspace from Bahawalpur, passed through Turbat and Panjgur and via Iran and Turkey reached Italy, The Express Tribune reported. According to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) sources, Indian authorities had requested Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs for permission to use the airspace for Modi's special flight. Pakistan accepted the request, allowing the Indian prime minister to fly through its airspace. The relations between India and Pakistan deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August, 2019. India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. Prime Minister Modi arrived in Italy on Friday to participate in the G20 Summit where he is joined by other world leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from Covid-19, sustainable development and climate change. The report quoted the CAA spokesperson saying that on its way back to India after the Climate Summit in Glasgow, Prime Minister Modi’s plane will use Pakistan's airspace again. Earlier, an Indian commercial aircraft also used Pakistani airspace after obtaining necessary permission, according to the newspaper. Last month, Prime Minister Modi's plane en route to the United States flew over the Pakistan airspace after Islamabad gave permission for the aircraft. In October 2019, Pakistan had denied India's request to use its airspace for Modi's flight to Saudi Arabia. The same year in September also, Pakistan had denied overflight clearance for the prime minister's aircraft. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-plane-flew-over-pakistan-airspace-en-route-to-italy-1045984.html
31-10-2021||National||260 ITBP personnel awarded special operation medal for service during eastern Ladakh standoff||As many as 260 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel were awarded the Union Home Minister's Special Operation Medal on Sunday for rendering exceptional service during the ongoing military standoff with the Chinese PLA in eastern Ladakh. The home ministry issued a notification naming a total of 397 personnel from various state police and central forces for the award. An ITBP spokesperson said the award was given to its troops in recognition of the "indomitable courage and devotion to duty" shown by them in eastern Ladakh between May 2020 and February this year. At 260, it is the highest number of the award given to a police force in one go. "The ITBP personnel safeguarded the borders in Ladakh in extreme conditions through its operation 'snow leopard' on the icy heights. The force carried out a high-level of strategic planning and efficient execution of ground operations with complete synergy and collaboration between all sister organisations," the spokesperson said in a statement. Former commander of the ITBP north-west frontier based in Leh, Inspector General (IG) Deepam Seth, is among the awardees. Seth, now posted at the headquarters of the border force here, was also a member of the Indian delegation for the 10 rounds of senior highest military commander (SHMC) level talks with the Chinese border commanders. Informing about the award, the spokesperson said the "special operations of ITBP were spread over a year and involved a high degree of execution of strategic planning and efficient ground operation." "Besides this, it also included timely and adequate supplies of logistics to the forward location for troops," he said. The government last year had accorded the police medal for gallantry (PMG) to 20 ITBP officers and personnel for displaying bravery during the military standoff and violent clashes with the Chinese PLA personnel. The about 90,000 personnel strong ITBP was raised in 1962 in the aftermath of the Chinese aggression and it is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488-km India-China Line of Actual Control (LAC). Some of its posts at the LAC are located as high as 18,800 feet. The Union Home Minister's Special Operation Medal was instituted in 2018 and is given for special operations in areas such as counter-terrorism, border action, arms control, prevention of narcotics smuggling and rescue operations.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/260-itbp-personnel-awarded-special-operation-medal-for-service-during-eastern-ladakh-standoff-1045986.html
31-10-2021||National||Smaller stocks continue to give higher returns to investors so far this fiscal||Smaller stocks have continued to give higher returns to equity investors so far this fiscal, significantly outperforming bigger peers on indices. The BSE smallcap index has zoomed 7,333.47 points or 35.51 per cent, while midcap index has jumped 5,096.41 points or 25.25 per cent so far this fiscal. In comparison, the 30-share BSE benchmark Sensex has gained 9,797.78 points or 19.78 per cent. "We are in a structural bull market where midcap and smallcap stocks tend to outperform and we are seeing the same phenomenon is playing out. The other reason for the outperformance of the broader market is strong participation by retail investors and thanks to technology that is helping the penetration of the stock market in India," said Parth Nyati, Founder, Tradingo. "If we look at the first half of FY'22 then we are seeing continuous selling by FIIs that is another reason for the underperformance of large-cap stocks, however the overall performance of Indian equity markets is much better than global peers," he noted. The BSE midcap index reached its record high of 27,246.34 on October 19 and the smallcap hit its all-time peak of 30,416.82 the same day. The BSE Sensex rallied to its all-time high of 62,245.43 on October 19. Nyati said a massive outperformance by the Indian market in FY22 is being seen so far on the back of a strong recovery in the economy and demand, supportive government policies, and most importantly strong retail inflows through both direct equity and mutual funds. "We are in a strong bull run and the Indian market will continue to outperform, however market had moved ahead of expectations in the last few months," he said. Domestic equity markets had a record-breaking rally recently where it reached many new lifetime highs. Analysts said the rally in the equity market were driven by many factors including global liquidity, containment of Covid-19 cases and significant pickup in vaccination. The BSE benchmark index had a terrific journey so far this fiscal, where it rallied from 53,000-mark to over 62,000 level during this time. On the recent correction in the equity market, Nyati added that we are seeing a first meaningful correction after a long time and the sell-off can be attributed to relentless selling by FIIs. On the outlook for smallcap and midcap he added that we are seeing the first meaningful correction and that may see a further extension to 10-15 per cent while that will be a good buying opportunity. "It will be interesting to see the behaviour of new investors who debuted the equity market in the last one and a half years because they haven't seen any meaningful correction yet. We could see more volatility in midcap and smallcap index in the next 1-2 months that may take out weak hands while this correction will be a good buying opportunity to enter into quality names because we are going to see a strong bounce-back again where Sensex may move above 65,000 mark by the end of FY22," he added. Last fiscal, the BSE smallcap index zoomed 11,040.41 points or 114.89 per cent, while the midcap jumped 9,611.38 points or 90.93 per cent. In comparison, the BSE benchmark clocked 20,040.66 points or 68 per cent gain last fiscal. According to market analysts, smaller stocks are generally bought by local investors while overseas investors focus on bluechips or large firms. The midcap index tracks companies with a market value that is, on an average, one-fifth of bluechips or large firms. Smallcap firms are almost a tenth of that.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smaller-stocks-continue-to-give-higher-returns-to-investors-so-far-this-fiscal-1045988.html
31-10-2021||National||Nawab Malik stands by his claim, asserts Sameer Wankhede is Muslim by birth||The controversy over whether NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Dawood/Dnyandev Wankhede is a Hindu or a Muslim seemed to be taking a new turn with a host of political parties joining the issue.  The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has found that his caste certificate of Wankhede, an officer of 2008 IRS-batch, is original. NSCS vice-chairman Arun Haldar had a discussion with Wankhede on the issue after the latter called on him during his Mumbai visit.  “He showed me his certificates and said that he belongs to the Scheduled Castes. We will get to know after seven days what report the Maharashtra government submits to us. We will then make a decision on this issue,” Haldar said.  Reacting to the development, NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik reiterated that Wankhede is a Muslim.  “Sameer Wankhede did not convert because he is a Muslim by birth, his father had converted. I stand by my point that he got his job by forging an SC certificate, he has snatched the rights of a deserving SC candidate by grabbing the job,” he said, adding that his father Dnyandev Wankhede has converted and become Dawood Wankhede. The senior Wankhede had married a Muslim woman Zaheeda after converting and they had two children - Yasmeen alias Jasmeen Wankhede, who is a lawyer by profession and an activist and Sameer Wankhede.  Meanwhile, Malik’s party colleague and state social justice minister Dhananjay Munde said, ”If anyone objects to the caste proof of Sameer Wankhede, our department is going to take action against his complaint.” In a related development, Wankhede’s wife and Marathi actress Kranti Redkar and father Dnyandev Wankhede called on RPI (Athawale) president Ramdas Athawale, who is the minister of state for social justice in the Narendra Modi government, and present their case.  “Injustice is being done to him. So, I needed to take a stand and support them. Sameer Wankhede is a Dalit,” said Athawale. “Athawale is supporting us because we have shown him all the documents. All claims made by Malik have been proven false,” said Redkar. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nawab-malik-stands-by-his-claim-asserts-sameer-wankhede-is-muslim-by-birth-1045996.html
31-10-2021||National||After Dabur, MP minister targets Sabyasachi over 'objectionable' mangalsutra ad; gives 24-hour ultimatum||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday issued a 24-hour ultimatum to fashion and jewellery designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw the advertisement with "objectionable and obscene" portrayal of mangalsutra or else face statutory action. Last week, Dabur India Private Limited had withdrawn its Fem cream bleach advertisement, which showed same-sex couple celebrating Karva Chauth and watching each other through a sieve, after minister Mishra termed the ad as objectionable and warned that legal steps would be taken against it. The mangalsutra advertisement by Sabyasachi's brand portrayed a woman wearing a low-neckline dress and posing solo and in intimate position with a man. After the designer shared these pictures, it created a controversy as a section of social media users termed it against Hindu culture and obscene. Talking to reporters at Datia in the state, Mishra said, "I have warned earlier about such advertisements. I am personally warning designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee, giving him a 24-hour ultimatum. If this objectionable and obscene advertisement is not withdrawn, then a case will be registered against him and legal action will be taken. The police force will be sent for the action." Mishra said that he saw Sabyasachi Mukherjee's mangalsutra advertisement. फैशन डिजाइनर सब्यसाची मुखर्जी के मंगलसूत्र का विज्ञापन बेहद आपत्तिजनक और मन को आहत करने वाला है। "It is very objectionable. Mangalsutra is a jewellery of paramount importance. We believe that the yellow part of the mangalsutra signifies Goddess Parvati and the black part Lord Shiva, which protects the woman and her husband. Marital life becomes happy by the grace of Goddess Parvati," he said. Mangalsutra is a necklace worn by married Hindu women. Replying to a question about the requirement of law to check such incidents, the minister said, "The law is already in place. But why do such painful incidents take place only with Hindu symbols? If Mukherjee has courage, he should do it with some other religion, then we will understand that he is a real brave man." While sharing the promotional photos of the advertisement, Sabyasachi's official Instagram page wrote, "Introducing the Royal Bengal Mangalsutra 1.2 and the Bengal Tiger Icon collection of necklaces, earrings, bracelets and signet rings in 18k gold with VVS diamonds, black onyx, opals and black enamel." The designer has not given any statement on the minister's warning so far.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-dabur-mp-minister-targets-sabyasachi-over-objectionable-mangalsutra-ad-gives-24-hour-ultimatum-1046022.html
31-10-2021||National||TMC has more hoardings in Goa than members: Congress state unit chief||Taking a dig at the TMC, Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar on Sunday said there are more hoardings of the party in the state than members and alleged that the BJP think tank had launched "another team" in the form of the Mamata Banerjee-led party to break the Congress vote. Hitting out at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Chodankar also asserted that "Goa will be governed from Goa, not West Bengal or Delhi". "Right now their (TMC) hoardings show only Mamata Banerjee. I don't know what Mamata Banerjee will do in Goa? AAP only shows (Arvind) Kejriwal, what does he have to do in Goa? Goa cannot be run by people from Bengal or Delhi, Goa has to be run from Goa," the Goa Congress chief told PTI in an interview. Asked about the entry of the TMC into Goa ahead of the assembly elections next year, Chodankar said they had made attempts earlier also but "went back". "We do not know their (TMC's) intention in coming to Goa. If their intention is to give a win to the BJP they will not succeed. Without serving that state, people will not support anybody," he said. The TMC has come three months before the polls and the people will not believe it, Chodankar said. Alleging that the TMC had no support base and was functioning on the strength of poll strategist Prashant Kishor's Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) firm, Chodankar said party workers cannot be replaced by "paid workers". Asked if he was hinting at a BJP-TMC collusion, he said Kishor had "confirmed it" by saying that the BJP is here to stay. Even during Mamata Banerjee's visit, Goans realised that I-PAC has more members, around 350, than the TMC members which are around 130-140, he said. I-PAC is politically more powerful than the TMC in Goa, Chodankar claimed. He said the best people to answer why the TMC had come to Goa were "Amit Shah and the Enforcement Directorate". On TMC's and AAP's electoral challenge, Chodankar alleged that "when the BJP's think tank realised that the AAP is not doing well and they will not succeed in breaking Congress votes, they decided to launch another team in the form of TMC". His remarks come a day after TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee trained her guns on the Congress, saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will become more powerful as the grand old party is not serious about politics, and alleged that the country is suffering because that party does not take decisions. Slamming the TMC for criticising the Congress, Chodankar asked rhetorically who allowed the BJP to gain in West Bengal and expand its base. He expressed confidence that Goans with not fall for the new entrants and the TMC and the AAP will not gain any traction in the upcoming polls. Asked about the high-profile induction of Tennis legend Leander Paes and actress Nafisa Ali in the TMC during Banerjee's visit to Goa, Chodankar quipped, "In Goa, TMC has more hoardings than actual members...even after their joining." In politics you need people connected to the ground, not glamour, he said in a swipe at the induction of Paes and Ali. The TMC had taken former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro in its ranks but after realizing that he has no political value, they "dumped him", Chodankar said, adding that the party was neither using his name nor photo. He asserted that the Congress cadre has been fighting on every issue of Goans and the recent visit of Rahul Gandhi had energised the cadres and made them battle ready for the polls. "Goa is Congress and Congress is Goa. Goa suits Congress and Congress suits Goa. BJP does not suit Goa's ideology," he claimed. "So, people of Goa are with us and the BJP cannot defeat us. It is trying various tricks to divide our vote as they cannot get our votes," Chodankar said. He expressed confidence that the Congress will get an absolute majority this time. Chodankar said the Congress was in talks with parties for alliances and studying various proposals but refused to divulge any details. The Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in the 2017 Goa assembly elections, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But the saffron party moved to ally with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. The Congress had accused the BJP of "stealing" the mandate, a charge the saffron party rejected. Over the years, the Congress' strength in the Legislative Assembly dwindled to four after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP. The ruling BJP, opposition Congress, Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP, TMC, Shiv Sena and regional parties like the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party are all in the poll fray with not much clarity yet on forging of alliances. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-has-more-hoardings-in-goa-than-members-congress-state-unit-chief-1046049.html
31-10-2021||National||Sameer Wankhede a Hindu dalit, Nawab Malik must stop defaming him and kin: Athawale||Union minister and RPI (A) president Ramdas Athawale on Sunday extended his support to Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who he said is a Hindu dalit and a follower of B R Ambedkar. Athawale also asked NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik to refrain from "conspiring" to defame the NCB officer and his family members. Wankhede is facing the vigilance probe by NCB after an independent witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, in which Aryan Khan is one of the accused, claimed of overhearing a discussion of a Rs 25 crore pay-off, including Rs 8 crore for Sameer Wankhede. Malik, who has launched a sustained diatribe against Wankhede, had accused the latter of forging his caste certificate and other documents to secure a job from the SC quota after clearing the UPSC examination as an IRS officer. Malik has been claiming that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth. Athawale's remarks came after Wankhede's wife Kranti Redkar and her father-in-law Dnyandev Wankhede called on him on Sunday. "I have gone through the documents. Sameer Wankhede is a Hindu dalit. He is a follower of Babasaheb Ambedkar. He is not Muslim," the Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment told reporters. He said Nawab Malik should stop "conspiring" to defame the NCB officer and his family members. "If he (Malik) says that Sameer is a Muslim, then why he, who is also a Muslim, is levelling these allegations? My party stands with Sameer's family. Sameer won't be harmed," Athawale said. After meeting Athawale, Kranti Redkar iterated that Malik's allegations against her family are "baseless" and asked what the NCP leader has got to do with someone's husband being a Hindu, Muslim or Christian. When reporters asked questions about her husband's caste, Redkar lost her cool and said her family was fed up with the "harassment". "What has Nawab Malik got to do if someone's husband is a Hindu, Muslim or Christian?" asked Redkar. Malik had claimed that Wankhede got married to his first wife Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006 as per Muslim rituals. Redkar, who married Wankhede in 2017 after he had divorced Qureshi, claimed that Malik was "fooling" media persons. "My family is fed up with all these things. What you all people have got to do with the private life of Sameer Wankhede?" asked Redkar, an actress. "Why is such a big politician harassing an officer, just because that officer is not corrupt? We have shown all documents of Sameer Wankhede to Athawale which proves that he was born as a Hindu. He had married a Muslim woman (Qureshi) by following rituals of that community for the sake of his mother's happiness," she said. Redkar also said whatever allegations Malik was making against Wankhede's family members, including their alleged visit to the Maldives and Dubai, are "fake and baseless". "Why you people are not asking how much drugs were recovered from Sameer Khan (the son-in-law of Malik)? The case is in court and I have nothing nothing to say on it or Aryan Khan," Redkar said to queries from reporters. Malik's son-in-law was arrested by the NCB in January this year in an alleged drugs case. He was granted bail last month. On the occasion, Dnyandev Wankhede reiterated that his son was born as a Hindu and he never converted his religion. "We have shown all his educational certificates as well as birth-related documents to Athawale, and we are here to take help from him,” he said. Sameer Wankhede had already denied the allegations raised by Malik. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sameer-wankhede-a-hindu-dalit-nawab-malik-must-stop-defaming-him-and-kin-athawale-1046052.html
31-10-2021||National||Aim to commission IAC Vikrant by August 2022, says Sonowal||Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday reviewed the progress of the sea trials of Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant and said the aim was to commission it by August 2022. The ship had sailed out for the second sea trials on October 24. Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Admiral Karambir Singh accompanied the minister during his onboard visit, along with other Naval officials. Sonowal and the Navy chief addressed a gathering of the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) staff, Naval personnel and other officials on board Vikrant which has been undertaking sea trials off Kochi coast. "This is the second trial. Our aim is to commission the ship by August next year. I am extremely happy to embark the first IAC Vikrant built in collaboration between the Cochin Shipyard Limited and the Navy," Sonowal said. The maiden sea sortie of the ship was successfully undertaken on August 21 this year. Sonowal impressed upon CSL to ensure timely delivery of the ship in April 2022 to realise the commissioning by August the same year to commemorate ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. The IAC designed by Indian Navy's Directorate of Naval Design (DND) is being built at CSL, a Public Sector Shipyard under the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways (MoPS&W). During this second sea trial, detailed trials and testing of propulsion machinery, electrical and electronics suites, deck machinery, lifesaving appliances and ship systems are being progressed. With the delivery of IAC, India would join a select group of nations with the capability to indigenously design and build an Aircraft Carrier.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aim-to-commission-iac-vikrant-by-august-2022-says-sonowal-1046054.html
31-10-2021||National||Cooperative sector can turn India into $5-trillion economy, make agriculture 'atmanirbhar': Shah||Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the cooperative sector has a potential to turn India into a $5 trillion economy and will also prove crucial in making the agriculture sector self-reliant. He also stressed the need to implement the cooperative model, which is behind the success of milk giant Amul, to uplift agriculture and its allied sectors. "As we can see today, Lal Bahadur Shastri's dream of white revolution is getting realised. But time has come to see beyond this (milk processing). We need to implement this cooperative model to uplift sectors like agriculture and animal husbandry," Shah said. "The cooperative model will prove crucial in making agriculture 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant)," he said. Shah was speaking at an event here organised to mark the completion of 75 years of Amul, which was started in 1946 as a cooperative movement in Anand with the guidance of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and cooperative leader Tribhuvandas Patel, the founder of Kheda District Co-operative Milk Producers' Union, popularly knowns as Amul Dairy. At present, Amul Dairy, along with 17 other district cooperative unions are part of the umbrella body the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, which sells its dairy products under the brand name 'Amul'. There are around 36 lakh farmer families in Gujarat who are associated with Amul. "Do not limit yourself to 36 lakh. Today, many farmers have turned to organic farming, but they do not have any platform to sell those organic farm produce in India and the world. Can cooperative organisations like Amul help them in doing it? Time has come to think on those lines. This will also increase the farmers' income," Shah said. "Timely research was not carried out in seeds. Can the cooperative sector take it up? The sector should also take up the task of developing new vegetable varieties. This will ensure that profits reach the farmers, not the private companies. It will also contribute to doubling the farmers' income," he added. Expressing confidence that the cooperative movement will play an important role in making India a USD 5 trillion economy, Shah said, "Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi firmly believes that the cooperative sector will be crucial in making India 'atmanirbhar'." Shah also appreciated Amul's role in empowering women. He told the audience that Amul's turnover has reached Rs 53,000 crore in 2020-21. "Amul started its journey with the collection of 200 litres of milk in 1946. Today, 3 crore litres of milk is processed daily with the help of around 18,000 cooperative societies across Gujarat. Eighteen district-level dairies and 87 milk processing plants are associated with Amul," Shah added. He also said that the Ministry of Cooperation, which was created in July this year with the motto of "Sahkar Se Samriddhi", was in the process of preparing a charter of the ministry. Remembering the cooperative movement started by Sardar Patel and Tribhuvandas Patel, which led to the creation of Amul, Shah, without giving any specific context, said, "The purpose of a movement is to find a solution to a problem, not to aggravate it." On the occasion, Shah launched a scheme "Dairy Sahakar", with an outlay of Rs 5,000 crore, wherein the dairy sector would get loans through National Cooperative Development Corporation. To commemorate the 75th anniversary of Amul, Shah released a postal stamp, launched the Amul brand of organic fertilisers and awarded progressive farmers. The minister also inaugurated an Ethnoveterinary Supplement Plant and cheese storage facility in Gujarat. Following his address, Shah visited the Amul Dairy premises and then held a meeting with senior officials of the GCMMF, the state government and the leaders of the cooperative sector leaders there. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cooperative-sector-can-turn-india-into-5-trillion-economy-make-agriculture-atmanirbhar-shah-1046056.html
31-10-2021||National||Ex-PM Manmohan Singh discharged from AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh who was undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here was discharged on Sunday, hospital sources said. Singh was admitted to the hospital on October 13 after feeling weak following a fever. The 89-year-old Congress leader was admitted in a private ward at the Cardio-Neuro Centre and was treated by a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik. Earlier this month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited the hospital to meet him. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-pm-manmohan-singh-discharged-from-aiims-1046059.html
31-10-2021||National||India gets G20 support for seeking faster approval of Covid vaccines||India on Sunday managed to get support from the other G20 nations in seeking faster approval of Covid-19 vaccines by the World Health Organization (WHO). Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is quietly nudging the WHO to expeditiously grant the much-awaited approval to the Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech, New Delhi could get all the G20 nations to agree on the need to speed up the process for clearing vaccines for emergency use. “It has been agreed that everybody will help to optimise the processes and procedures of the WHO for vaccine approval and emergency use authorisation and to strengthen the WHO to recognise vaccines faster,” Piyush Goyal, Commerce and Industry Minister, said in Rome. He was briefing journalists shortly after the G20 summit concluded with the adoption of the “Rome Declaration”. Goyal, New Delhi’s ‘Sherpa’ for the G20 summit, said that the leaders agreed that the Covid-19 immunisation was “a global public good” and the recognition of the Covid-19 vaccines, deemed to be safe and efficacious by the WHO, would be mutually accepted by all the members of the bloc, subject to the national laws. Modi, himself, subtly conveyed to the leaders of the other G20 nations on Saturday that New Delhi’s ability to help end vaccine inequity around the world would depend much on the pace at which the WHO would grant approval to the Covaxin and other Covid-19 jabs developed and manufactured in India. India has been driving home the point that the global recognition of the Covaxin would not only make it easier for its citizens who were administered with the jab to travel abroad, but would also allow it to help support inoculation programmes in other developing nations. The WHO’s Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL) of vaccines is likely to meet again next week to review the additional clarifications provided to it by the Bharat Biotech. “India has always taken its obligations to the world seriously. Today, on this G20 platform, I want to tell you all that India is preparing to produce more than five billion vaccine doses for the world next year,” Modi said participating in the first session of the G20 summit. “This commitment of India will go a long way in containing the pandemic around the world. Therefore, it is necessary that the WHO grants its approval to the vaccines made in India.” The Prime Minister also had an interaction with the WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus at the venue of the summit in Rome on Saturday. Bharat Biotech on April 19 last submitted to the WHO its Expression of Interest for inclusion of Covaxin in its Emergency Use List. But the United Nations health agency has not yet approved the vaccine for emergency use to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The WHO’s TAG-EUL had on October 26 asked Bharat Biotech for some additional clarifications, which it would review on November 3. The Covishield developed by the AstraZeneca PLC and the Oxford University and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), however, was put on the WHO’s EUL as early as February 15. The Modi government has been worried over the unusual delay in obtaining the WHO approval for Covaxin. The senior officials of the Ministry of External Affairs have been in touch with Bharat Biotech executives. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla earlier this week said that the government was “carefully” keeping a tab on the process of putting Covaxin in the list of the vaccines cleared by the WHO for emergency use to contain the pandemic. India is considered a world leader in the production of vaccines and, before Covid-19 swept the world, its companies manufactured over 50% of the jabs required for immunisation programmes against several diseases around the world. The Modi government sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 22 this year, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses contributed to the COVAX, an initiative launched by the WHO for equitable distribution of the antidote against the SARS-CoV-2 infection. New Delhi paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore during the brutal second Covid-19 wave in India and slowed down the inoculation programme in the country itself. It, however, restarted sending out vaccines to other countries early this month. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gets-g20-support-for-seeking-faster-approval-of-covid-vaccines-1046074.html
31-10-2021||National||CBI makes first arrest in bribery case involving Anil Deshmukh||The CBI Sunday made its first arrest in the bribery case involving former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh as it took an alleged middleman into custody, officials said. The agency arrested Santosh Jagtap from Thane Sunday morning, they said, adding he has been evading the probe even after the issuance of non-bailable warrants against him last month. The CBI had raided the premises of Jagtap, an alleged middleman, in August and also recovered Rs 9 lakh, they said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-makes-first-arrest-in-bribery-case-involving-anil-deshmukh-1046075.html
31-10-2021||National||PM Modi invites more Spanish investments in India during talks with Sanchez in Italy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday invited more investments from Spain in India's infrastructure projects as he met his Spanish counterpart Pedro Sanchez on the sidelines of the G20 summit here and exchanged views on regional and global issues of mutual interest, including the situation in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific.  Modi, who is here at the invitation of his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi to attend the G20 summit, was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar during his meeting with Sanchez. The two leaders welcomed the growing bilateral trade and investment linkages including the recent signing of the contract to procure 56 C295 aircraft from Airbus Spain, 40 of which will be ‘Made in India’ in collaboration with Tata Advanced Systems, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a press release.  The two leaders agreed to further expand bilateral cooperation in new areas like e-mobility, clean tech, advanced materials and deep sea exploration. Prime Minister Modi invited Spain to invest in various sectors including Green Hydrogen, infrastructure and defence manufacturing and further take advantage of India’s National Infrastructure Pipeline, Asset Monetisation Plan and the Gati Shakti Plan, the release said. The two leaders discussed India-European Union relations as well as cooperation on climate action and priorities at upcoming COP26 summit in Glasgow. They also exchanged views on regional and global issues of mutual interest including Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific, it said.  India has voiced concern over the situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban seized power in Kabul in August. India has underlined the need for Afghanistan's territory not to be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist attacks.  India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the resource-rich region. Modi also said he looks forward to welcoming Prime Minister Sanchez in India next year.  Earlier, the Prime Minister's Office tweeted that both leaders had fruitful talks on ways to deepen ties between India and Spain. "The two nations are cooperating extensively in areas such as trade, energy, innovation and more,” it said. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that Prime Minister Modi invited Spain to invest in various sectors in India including green hydrogen, infrastructure and defence manufacturing.  On the sidelines of the G20 summit, Prime Minister Modi interacted with several world leaders, including US President Joe Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, French President Emmanuel Macron, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and South Korean President Moon Jae-in among others. Italy has been holding the presidency of the G20 since December last year.          Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-invites-more-spanish-investments-in-india-during-talks-with-sanchez-in-italy-1046083.html
31-10-2021||National||Cement, steel industries should use green hydrogen for energy: Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said it is now time that cement and steel industries start using green hydrogen as energy instead of coal for production. He was speaking at the inauguration of various facilities of Manganese Ore India Limited (MOIL) based in Nagpur. "It is now time for using green hydrogen as energy in the cement and steel industry in place of coal. We should work on value addition by running metal industries, where mining products are using green hydrogen as energy. We will have to protect the environment and increase our production at the same time," he said. Gadkari, who is a member of the cabinet committee on divestment, emphasized carrying out divestment on a large scale as envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said it is not the job of the government to run a business. "Big financial discipline is taking place through divestment. Those (PSUs) who are in profit and doing well should perform better and stressed on important performance audit which he said is more important than a financial audit," he said. Gadkari appreciated MOIL for the announcements it made for its employees in terms of wage revisions and other demands. He asked MOIL to increase its annual production and reduce the import of ore and make India 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant). Mukund Chaudhary, CMD of MOIL, said that MOIL is consistently earning profits and paying handsome dividends to the shareholder's major shareholders being the Government of India. Chaudhary informing about its plan to increase production capacity said it is targeting 2.5 million tonnes 2025-26 and 3 million tonnes by 2030. Talking about the expansion plan, Chaudhary said that MOIL has signed an MOU for manganese ore production with Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation in Gujarat, wherein exploration has been started and 9.5 million tonnes of ores has been approved. Similarly, MOIL will be signing MOUs with Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha governments for manganese ore production. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cement-steel-industries-should-use-green-hydrogen-for-energy-gadkari-1046091.html
31-10-2021||National||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav: Culture ministry to hold nationwide competitions; entries open||The Union Ministry of Culture will hold nationwide competitions for Deshbhakti Geet writing, rangoli making, and lullaby writing, entries for which opened from Sunday as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. The initiative was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme on October 24. "The Ministry of Culture will be holding nationwide competitions as #UnityInCreativity for all the above three activities starting from tehshil/taluka level to national level. The detailed guidelines for participation are available at ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ (AKAM) website amritmahotsav.nic.in. This initiative aims to encourage participation so as to ensure substantive ‘Jan bhagidaari’," the ministry said in a statement. The competitions were digitally introduced to public by eminent personalities like Bharat Ratna recipient Lata Mangeshkar, who tweeted about the Deshbhakti Geet competition. Oscar winner A R Rahman tweeted about the Lori or lullaby writing competition and Padma Shri Sudarsan Pattnaik for the rangoli making competition. The competitions will go on for a couple of months. Union Culture Minister G Kishan Reddy said the prime minister has expressed that the country’s 75th year of independence should become a people’s movement through Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. "The Ministry of Culture is working with various ministries to identity such programmes and with communities at grassroots level to make it a celebration befitting the occasion," the statement added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-culture-ministry-to-hold-nationwide-competitions-entries-open-1046092.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||Sangh and Hindutva: The expanding footprint||The Hindutva discourse has come to dominate social media, much of news television and the editorial pages of significant sections of Hindi language newspapers. It has inspired the founding of several think tanks since 2014 and successfully shaped a seminar circuit all its own in the last seven years, while its leading lights invariably make it to the speakers' lists of sundry literary festivals. Add to this the vibrant outreach the Sangh Parivar has to the Indian Diaspora, both under the umbrella of its overseas offshoot, the Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh, which is organising October as the 'Hindu Heritage Month' in the US, but also outside it. For example, on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met representatives of the Italian Hindu Union Sanatana Dharma Samgha and ISKCON in Rome. According to a Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) press release, the PM "lauded the role played by them in propagating Indian culture in Italy". Modi also interacted with several Indologists and Sanskrit experts from Italian universities and "noted their interest in Indian culture, literature, the practice of yoga and Ayurveda," the MEA said. The last seven years have helped the Sangh Parivar bring out dozens of books sympathetic to its worldview. Prestigious publishing houses have queued up to publish eulogies of the RSS, and hundreds of edit page articles in leading newspapers have followed. The Hindutva civilisational project under the Sangh Parivar, it would seem, has flourished. R Balashankar, a former editor of RSS mouthpiece Organiser, believes there is now wider acceptability of the BJP's worldview. "The discourse is now BJP ideology-centric, and the stubborn resistance in certain quarters has come down, who now have a better understanding and exhibit better accommodation (of the Sangh Parivar's point of view)," he said. Balashankar, the author of 'Narendra Modi, Creative Disruptor: The Maker of New India', attributes it to the non-discriminatory governance, particularly the social welfare schemes, that Modi has run. Still, the votaries of Hindutva come across as peeved at not being taken seriously in the academic circles, and their failure to acquire cultural capital continues to trouble them. Earlier this month, at the launch of his colleague Ram Madhav's book, 'The Hindutva Paradigm: Integral Humanism and the Quest for a Non-Western Worldview', RSS leader Dattatreya Hosabale was at pains to claim that "Hindutva, it is neither Left nor Right." He agreed with former diplomat Pavan K Varma that there was a need for "shaastraarth" or discussion today. Such offers from the RSS are not new. Madhukar Dattatreya 'Balasaheb' Deoras, the third sarsanghchalak, reinvented the RSS from an organisation steeped in quasi militaristic discipline to involving itself in social service projects and engaging with other political parties. For Deoras, as author Dinesh Narayan has written in his book 'The RSS and the Making of the Deep Nation', there was nothing so sacrosanct that it could not be broken. The only guiding principle was that "Hindustan is a Hindu Rashtra", everything else could change. Mohan Bhagwat, the current RSS chief, idolises Deoras. If Deoras used the RSS numerical strength to support the anti-Emergency movement, the organisation supported India Against Corruption movement, conceived at New Delhi-based think tank, Vivekananda International Foundation (VIF). The VIF eventually supplied several key bureaucrats once the Narendra Modi government took up the reins of power in May 2014. Interestingly, according to a University of Pennsylvania survey released in January 2021, India has the world's third-highest number of think tanks, and only the US and China have more. India witnessed a spurt of new think tanks since 2014 when it had 192 and currently has 612. The report noted the prominence of such nationalist think tanks of recent vintage as VIF, India Foundation and Syama Prasad Mookerjee Research Foundation. The RSS was first invited to the Jaipur Literary Festival in 2017, with some of the established authors threatening to boycott. However, none did. Namita Gokhale, the event's curator, defended the decision by stating that they have invited representatives of other political ideologies in the past. "However, none boycotted, which was evidence that they had reconciled to the arrival of the Sangh Parivar on the literary scene," recalls political commentator Radhika Ramaseshan. Ramaseshan points out that the Sangh Parivar representatives pioneered engagement in the blogosphere and social media to win legitimacy among the bhadralok, or intelligentsia, which persuaded others across the political spectrum to follow suit. "One of their prongs in Bengal was to reach out to the Bengali bhadralok outside Kolkata, and they put the likes of Swapan Dasgupta, Anirban Ganguly and Ashok Lahiri on the job. It is a strategy they have earlier deployed in Uttar Pradesh and other high growth states," Ramaseshan says. The RSS is known to change its stripes. The plethora of think tanks and affiliates help firefight and disseminate government policies. On September 28, 2018, the Supreme Court allowed the entry of women of all ages into Kerala's Sabarimala temple. The RSS compromised its stated position on the issue of gender equality when it opposed the entry of women for strategic reasons — to defeat its ideological opponents, the communists in Kerala. A little over a week before the SC verdict, at a three-day lecture (September 17 to 19, 2018) at New Delhi's Vigyan Bhavan, Bhagwat said the Sangh had removed offensive references to Muslims and Christians as internal threats in M S Golwalkar's book, 'We or Our Nationhood Defined'. It has been rephrased as "Islamic fundamentalism" and "evangelism". The lecture aimed to convince detractors that the RSS was a moderate, flexible organisation, willing to review some of its positions in a changing world. In mid-2020, the Sangh Parivar needed another of its affiliates to step up. The RSS helped set up GIA, or the Group of Intellectuals and Academicians, in 2015. It comprises women lawyers, authors and journalists. In March 2020, as reportage over the Delhi riots singed the Sangh Parivar, the GIA came up with its version of the events. Bloomsbury published 'Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story'. It was a shoddy exercise, which lacked rigour, and the publisher soon withdrew it. Soon, another publishing house, Garuda, stepped in. It had earlier published such tomes as 'Urban Naxals' by Vivek Agnihotri. The Sangh Parivar understood the importance of think thanks early. In 1968, veteran Jana Sangh leader Nanaji Deshmukh established the Deendayal Research Institute. After the 2002 riots in Gujarat, the BJP leadership founded the India First Foundation and the Image India Foundation. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, the BJP's Rajya Sabha member, has headed the Public Policy Research Centre (PPRC), which brings out reports on government schemes, like the crop insurance scheme. Mumbai-based Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini trains elected representatives. One example of firefighting was in the aftermath of Parliament scrapping Article 370 on August 5, 2019. Two little known think tanks arranged the visit of over 24 members of the European Parliament to Kashmir. These were the International Institute for Non-Aligned Studies and the Women's Economic and Social Think Tank. However, the Sangh Parivar isn't merely restricting itself by expanding its ideological footprint but also messaging those it believes support its ideological enemies. Recently, Panchjanya, the RSS mouthpiece, attacked Bengaluru-based IT major Infosys for trying to destabilise the Indian economy and accused it of helping "Naxals, Leftists and the tukde-tukde gang". Clarifications ensued, but the message was unambiguous. But many within the Sangh Parivar fear that the electoral victories of its political arm, the BJP, and the expansion of its ideological footprint has failed to include the young educated youth. The obscurantism pervading its rank and file and its leadership hinders it from resolving its ideological incoherence over issues such as caste, gender equality and the status of Muslims in a Hindu Rashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sangh-and-hindutva-the-expanding-footprint-1045865.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | BJP, Congress creating Dalit vote banks of their own||When the Congress picked Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit, as the chief minister of Punjab, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati congratulated him but also sought to remind Dalits not to be “misled” by the “propaganda” of national parties such as the Congress. Congratulating Channi but criticising the party that appointed him can be seen as usual politics, except that in Mayawati’s case there is more to it than meets the eye. The BSP chief is under huge pressure amid her party’s back-to-back poor poll performances in UP and the aggressive wooing of Dalits by the Congress and the BJP. Her appeal to Dalits is a sign of desperation as she tries to prevent a division of Dalit votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-bjp-congress-creating-dalit-vote-banks-of-their-own-1045909.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||Mamata 'begum' cannot be allowed in Shivaji Maharaj's land: Tejasvi Surya on TMC's Goa ambitions||Referring to West Bengal Chief Minister as Mamata 'Begum', BJP MP and its youth wing president Tejasvi Surya on Saturday said that the Trinamool Congress founder should not be allowed to step foot in the land of sage Parshuram and Shivaji Maharaj. "We need a full majority government in Goa, 2022 will herald a new age of politics in Goa, a full majority government. We need to do this because a lot is at stake. We need to do this because the country wants to trust youth leadership," Surya told a party meeting here. "We need to do this because we cannot let Mamata Begum come inside the land of Parshuram and the land of Shivaji Maharaj," he also said. Surya's comments came at a time when the TMC has been aggressively campaigning for the 2022 state assembly polls in the coastal state. Surya also lashed out at Aam Aadmi Party and its founder and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, saying the AAP too cannot be allowed to win in the state. "We cannot let copycat IIT engineers in the land of the original IIT chief minister for the nation," he said, comparing Kejriwal, an IIT-Kharagpur alumnus to former Goa Chief Minister late Manohar Parrikar, an IIT-Bombay alumnus. "We cannot allow governments which can be remote controlled from Kolkata, we cannot be putting a government which will be remote controlled from Delhi. We need a government which will be led by a Goan, for Goans from Panaji from Goa. This is our resolve," Surya also said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-begum-cannot-be-allowed-in-shivaji-maharajs-land-tejasvi-surya-on-tmcs-goa-ambitions-1045917.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||BJP leader Rajib Banerjee likely to join TMC today in Tripura||TMC turncoat Rajib Banerjee, who had unsuccessfully contested the April-May assembly poll on a BJP ticket, is likely to join TMC on October 31 during general secretary Abhishek Banerjee's public meeting in Tripura, news agency ANI reported. Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-rajib-banerjee-likely-to-join-tmc-today-in-tripura-1045933.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||AAP's foray into Goa politics: Arvind Kejriwal to visit state on November 1||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal will be on a day-long visit to Goa on Monday. In a tweet in Konkani on Sunday, Kejriwal said. "May the importance of our religious places and pilgrimages be in the lives of all of us, may our God bless us when we visit the these places, may we find a new energy and new direction to our life. I am coming to Goa to have a dialogue with my Goan brothers and sisters.” आमच्या सगळ्यांच्या जीणेंत आमच्या धार्मीक स्थळांचें आनी तीर्थस्थानांचें व्हड म्हत्व आसा, आपल्या देवाच्या आशिर्वादान आनी दर्शनानूच आमकां नवी ऊर्जा मेळटा, जीणेक एक नवी दिका मेळटा۔ गोंयच्या सगळ्या भावा-भयणींकडेन उलोवपाक हांव फाल्यां गोंयांत येतां۔ The party has announced it would be fighting the 2022 Goa Assembly polls over issues like unemployment.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aaps-foray-into-goa-politics-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-state-on-november-1-1045975.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||Turncoats won't help any party, Mayawati says after BSP rebels join SP||A day after its six suspended leaders joined the Samajwadi Party, BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday told her party members to keep away from such "opportunistic" people. "With UP assembly elections approaching, people have begun switching sides. This will, however, not increase the vote base of any political party but will only lead to losses. The BSP should keep such 'rain frogs' away," she tweeted using the proverbial Hindi phrase, "barsaati mendak". In another tweet, Mayawati said people were smart enough to understand such gimmicks and the turncoats would have no effect on them. "Change is constant," she wrote. Seven legislators — one from the BJP and six suspended from the BSP — joined the SP in the presence of its chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday. These Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) rebels were suspended by Mayawati after they had opposed the nomination of the party's official candidate Ramji Gautam for Rajya Sabha in October 2020. They had reportedly met Yadav earlier this year and hinted about switching sides. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/turncoats-wont-help-any-party-mayawati-says-after-bsp-rebels-join-sp-1045990.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi invokes Indira Gandhi, Guru Gorakhnath in UP CM Yogi Adityanath's bastion||In a strategic electoral move, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday invoked Guru Gorakhnath, whose temple in Gorakhpur is headed by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, to attack the BJP government in the state and said that Gorakhnath's teachings were not being followed by his own disciples. Addressing a public meeting at Gorakhpur, the home town of Adityanath, Priyanka also invoked former prime minister Indira Gandhi and said that like her, she (Priyanka) would never "break the trust" of the people. The Congress leader, who began her speech by greeting the crowd in chaste Bhojpuri, once again cornered prime minister Narendra Modi over rising prices and sale of national assets, including Air India. She also attacked union home minister Amit Shah for sharing the dais with his junior colleague Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish Mishra was accused of mowing down four farmers with his SUV at Lakhimpur Kheri. "The BJP says that no development took place in 70 years.....I say that seventy years of hard work was destroyed by the BJP government in just seven years," Priyanka said. "What we are witnessing in UP is completely against the teachings of Guru Gorakhnath," she said and promised to set up a university after Guru Matsyendra Nath, the guru of Gorakhnath, at Gorakhpur in the event of Congress forming the next government in the state. Priyanka also announced to provide government jobs to ten lakh people, hike the wages of Anganwadi and Asha workers, free ride for girls in government buses and three free gas cylinders in a year. "We were taught about sacrifice by our grandmother Indira Gandhi....on the day she was assassinated she had told my brother (Rahul Gandhi) not to cry if something happens to her," she said. "Indiraji never betrayed the people...we too will never do that," she added. Earlier this month Priyanka had addressed a public meeting at Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Modi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-invokes-indira-gandhi-guru-gorakhnath-in-up-cm-yogi-adityanaths-bastion-1046011.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||Congress, BJP engage in slugfest on Sardar Patel's birth anniversary||A political slugfest ensued between Congress and BJP on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel with Rahul Gandhi reminding "pillars of our democracy are being weakened". Addressing a gathering at the world's tallest 'Statue of Unity' at Kevadia in Gujarat, Home Minister Amit Shah said, "it is unfortunate that efforts were made to forget Sardar Saheb. After independence, his contributions were never given proper respect and place. He was neither conferred the Bharat Ratna nor proper respect. But it is said, 'how long can clouds keep the sun hidden?'". Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "we have to keep in mind that as every person sitting in a boat has to care about it, we too can move forward only when we are united. Only then the country will be able to attain its goals." He said deriving inspiration from him, the country is becoming fully capable of meeting any external and internal challenges and asserted that his government has given priority to the ideals that preserve national unity. While the government celebrated the event as "Rashtriya Ekta Diwas" or "National Unity Day", Congress said,"in this fight to keep India united; In this fight to ensure love triumphs over hate; In this fight to protect our farmers, our people, our nation; we remember Bharat Ratna Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, today & everyday." "Today, when all the pillars of our democracy are being weakened, we have to remember the contribution of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. He was also an important voice among the Congress leaders who built these pillars...Protecting democracy is the real tribute to Sardar Patel," Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said Patel's struggle "inspires us to stand like a rock in the fight for justice against the oppression of the farmers" and recalled how the "Iron Man" Patel raised the voice of farmers' rights and self-respect in the Bardoli Satyagraha. The reference was not lost as Congress has made the issue of the ongoing farmer agitation against three contentious farm laws of the central government a key poll issue in the run up to the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. The slugfest comes in the backdrop of repeated allegations of Congress that the BJP is trying to appropriate freedom fighter icons belonging to the Congress. The ruling BJP has repeatedly drawn the Patel-Nehru binary to hail the commitment of Patel in unifying India vis-a-vis alleged 'mishandling' of Kashmir issue by India's first Prime Minister. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-bjp-engage-in-slugfest-on-sardar-patels-birth-anniversary-1046044.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||Mamata now criticising Congress that always supported her: Adhir||Senior Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury has lashed out at Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee for her comments against the Congress in Goa and said she was doing so to a party now that had always come out in her support and wondered if she was working as an “agent of BJP”. Continuing his diatribe, Chowdhury who is the WBPCC president, at a press meet on Saturday demanded to know why Banerjee, who is trying to cobble up opposition unity, had entered into an alliance with the BJP in the past and was a minister in an NDA government. Incidentally, Banerjee’s criticism of the Congress came on the day its leader Rahul Gandhi was also in Goa to kickstart the party's campaign in the state. Chowdhury made the comments after the Trinamool TMC supremo on Saturday trained her guns on the Congress during her Goa visit, saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will become more powerful as the grand old party is not serious about politics and alleged that the country is suffering because that party does not take decisions. Reacting sharply to Banerjee's comments, the Baharampur MP said "I wonder if you are not working as the agent of BJP now. Please recall who had entered into an alliance with BJP in past and was part of the NDA cabinet. And you are now criticising Congress that has always come to your support. "If Congress cannot satisfy you after all the support with our resources, will the people of Bengal be able to do so? Will you behave in the same way with those who have elected TMC for three consecutive times as you have done with Congress?" Chowdhury asked. Speaking about the grand old party, Banerjee had said on Saturday, "I cannot say everything right now because they didn't take politics seriously. Modiji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress...If one cannot make a decision, why the country should suffer for that? “They (Congress) got opportunity (in the past). Instead of fighting against BJP, they contested against me in my state....." Her party has announced that it will contest all 40 seats in Goa, where Assembly polls are due early next year. When asked about what decisions she thinks Congress should be taking, she said, "I am not going to discuss the Congress because it is not my party. I have set up my regional party and without any support from anybody, we formed a three times government. "Let them decide. That is my system also, I don't interfere with any other political party's business, I can say about my political party and our fight will continue. We are not going to bow down our head to BJP," she added. Chowdhury, a vociferous critic of the West Bengal chief minister, has been more vocal against her for the past one month ever since the TMC has projected Banerjee as the spearhead of the anti-BJP campaign and said only the Trinamool Congress can take the mantle as the main adversary capable to oust Narendra Modi. Banerjee had claimed in an article titled ‘Dillir Dak’ (Call of Delhi) in the puja edition of the party mouthpiece ‘Jago Bangla’ that as the Congress has miserably failed to put up a fight against the BJP, the people of India have put the onus on the Trinamool Congress to create a new India by ousting the “fascist” saffron party. “But the fact is, in the recent past, Congress has failed to put up a fight against the BJP. In the last two Lok Sabha polls, it was proved. If you can’t provide a fight at the Centre, it breaks the confidence of the masses, and the BJP gains a few more votes in states. We cannot allow this to happen this time,” she said in the article. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-now-criticising-congress-that-always-supported-her-adhir-1046047.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||RLD promises 1 crore jobs for youth ahead of UP polls||Announcing its "22 resolves" for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary on Sunday promised to provide jobs to one crore youth and also cancel the three farm laws if voted to power in the state. Chaudhary launched the election campaign of his party with the release of a manifesto for the UP polls early next year on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Taking a swipe at the BJP government in the state, he said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had promised to give 70 lakh jobs after taking oath in 2017 but "now as the term is ending, he is putting out hoardings that they have given four lakh jobs." "Our government will provide 1 crore jobs to prevent youth struggling to get employment," he said. Though there is no public announcement so far, the RLD is said to be in talks with the Samajwadi Party for a pre-poll alliance for the 2022 polls. Chaudhary is leading RLD after the death of his father and former union minister Ajit Singh. Chaudhary, whose party enjoys sizeable support in the farmers' belt of western UP, said his government would increase the purchasing price of potatoes by 1.5 times and also promised to pay 1.5 times of the input cost to sugarcane farmers within 14 days of coming to power. He promised to double the Rs 6,000 paid to farmers in three instalments every year under the Centre's PM Kisan Samman scheme. The RLD chief vowed to provide 50 per cent reservation to women in government jobs. He also announced to do away with pending electricity dues and also halve the future power bills. The RLD promised Rs 1 crore compensation to families of fallen soldiers and Rs 4 lakh for the kin of those who died to Covid-19 in UP. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rld-promises-1-crore-jobs-for-youth-ahead-of-up-polls-1046057.html
31-10-2021||National Politics||People of UP have made up their minds to elect SP govt in 2022 UP Assembly polls, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday claimed that all sections of people in Uttar Pradesh have made up their minds to bring his party to power in the state after the 2022 assembly elections. Addressing a public meeting in Hardoi, he said that Uttar Pradesh will get back on the path to prosperity after the SP returns to power. Taking a dig at the ruling BJP, Yadav said that the party has only one thing to do -- renaming works carried out by the previous SP government. "The BJP is inaugurating all works done by the Samajwadi Party. 'Baba mukhyamantri' is an amazing chief minister who has not inaugurated any work done by his government," he said, referring to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. All sections of people have made up their minds to elect an SP government in the assembly elections, following which Uttar Pradesh will get back on the path to growth and prosperity, he added. "The BJP is remembering the Iron Man of India, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, today. But if it walks on the path shown by Sardar Patel, then the three farm laws, which it has enacted, should be withdrawn. This will be a true tribute to Patel," the SP chief said. Yadav said Patel fought for farmers and hence, is known as 'Sardar' and 'Iron Man'. "The BJP claims that it is walking on the path shown by Sardar Patel, but today the farmers are the saddest," he said. Farmers' income has dipped, there is price rise and the way this government is functioning, every section of society is feeling insulted, he alleged. People across the country paid tributes to Patel on his 146th birth anniversary on Sunday. He was born on October 31, 1875 at Nadiad in Gujarat.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-of-up-have-made-up-their-minds-to-elect-sp-govt-in-2022-up-assembly-polls-says-akhilesh-1046095.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Channi speaks to Rajewal over farm laws issue||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday spoke to farmers' leader Balbir Singh Rajewal and discussed the Centre's farm laws issue with him. Extending his government's full support to the protesting farmers, he told Rajewal about the special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha scheduled to be convened on November 8. In the Punjab Assembly session, the Centre's three farm laws will be rejected, besides opposing the Union government's recent notification extending the jurisdiction of BSF from 15 km to 50 km along the international border. "Today, I spoke with Kisan Union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal Ji and discussed about the Three Farm Laws imposed by GoI on us,” said Channi in a tweet. He spoke to Rajewal on phone, the video of which was uploaded on his Twitter handle. Channi said, “we have called a special session in which we will reject the farm laws.” Meanwhile, former chief minister Amarinder Singh asked Channi not to “mislead” farmers. “'My govt did all this @CHARANJITCHANNI. We spoke to farmer leaders on #FarmLaws & passed our own amendment laws in Assembly too. But Governor is sitting over them & he'll sit over any new laws. Pls don't mislead the farmers with false promises,” Amarinder's media advisor quoted him as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-channi-speaks-to-rajewal-over-farm-laws-issue-1045893.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Channi dons goalkeeper's gloves on hockey turf||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday was spotted at a stadium in Mohali trying his hands at hockey as he put on the goalkeeper's kit and stopped fast-paced balls coming his way. “Channi sahab stopped the balls with ease,” former Indian hockey goal-keeper Baljit Singh Dadhwal said and added that though the chief minister is 58 years old, his reflexes are still very good. Channi, who made a surprise visit to the international hockey stadium in Mohali, spent about an hour on the field and also met players. “At the university-level, I was a handball player. Felt great while playing with these young players at the hockey stadium today. These youngsters are the future of hockey and I am fascinated by their love for the game,” Channi said in a tweet. He also posted some pictures on his Twitter handle, showing him in a goalkeeper's gear and standing with hockey players. Dadhwal said it was a surprise visit of the chief minister to the stadium. “He met players there and looking at their enthusiasm, he told them that he will also try his hands at the game,” he told PTI. The goalkeeper's kit was arranged and Channi stood at the goal post and asked young players to shoot the ball, he said. Former Indian hockey player Prabhjot Singh, hit the balls towards the goal post, Dadhwal said. “Channi Sahab stopped balls with ease,” he said. “His visit was a motivation to the young players as the chief minister met them and also practised the game with them,” Dadhwal said, adding that it was an unforgettable experience for them. The chief minister spent about an hour at the practice session, he said. Channi became Punjab chief minister last month after Amarinder Singh resigned amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-channi-dons-goalkeepers-gloves-on-hockey-turf-1045914.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||13 dead, 2 injured in Uttarakhand road accident||At least 13 people have died and two others were seriously injured after a pick-up truck travelling in a remote and mountainous region in northern India plunged into a deep gorge on Sunday, officials said. The pick-up was taking 15 people from Bayla village to Vikasnagar city in Uttarakhand when it went off the road around 10:00 am, Dehradun district's Rural Superintendent of Police, Swatantra Kumar Singh, told AFP. Singh said 13 bodies were recovered from the 400-foot (122-metre) deep gorge in a rural part of Chakrata town. A five-year-old child and another villager, whose age was not disclosed, were taken to hospital in a serious condition. India's vast network of roads is poorly maintained and notoriously dangerous. About 1,50,000 people are killed each year in traffic accidents in India, according to the government. Among the main factors contributing to the high number of fatalities are excessive speeding and people not using seatbelts or wearing crash helmets. Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-dead-2-injured-in-uttarakhand-road-accident-1045922.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Search for terrorists in J&K's forest belt enters 21st day||The search operation to track down a group of heavily armed militants hiding in a dense forest area of Jammu and Kashmir’s twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered its 21st day on Sunday. A total of 11 Army soldiers, including two junior commissioned officers, have been killed in one of the longest and biggest search operations in J&K in the past three weeks. The anti-militancy operation started during the intervening night of October 10 and 11. The area where the operation is going on is close to the Line of Control (LoC) and the army has already deployed a specially-trained unit of para-commandos for the combing operation while drones and modern weapons are being used to track down militants. “The topography of the area is giving a tough challenge to security forces in neutralising the terrorists, who are heavily armed and have come fully prepared,” sources told DH. “The mountainous terrain, with steep slopes covered by thick forests, ravines and gorges, all provided a safe haven for the terrorists and it was difficult for the army to pin-point the militants in the forest area,” they added. A senior police officer told DH the militants, who are engaged in a gunfight with security forces in the Nar Khas forest area are battle-hardened and highly motivated Pakistani ultras. “There is every possibility that they are getting back-up support from the Pakistan army as the area is near to the LoC,” he said. “It will take more time to flush out the terrorists from the area as any area that is not accessible to security forces is a disadvantage to them. The terrorists are also using natural caves in the area to their advantage and besides, it seems, they have stored enough ration and ammunition,” he added. On October 18, Army Chief General M M Naravane visited the forward areas along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch to review the situation. In recent months, the twin border districts in Jammu have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts. Nine militants have been killed in separate encounters since June in the area which has a mixed population of Hindus and Muslims. In 2003, scores of Pakistani militants had reportedly infiltrated across the LoC in Poonch and dug in for the long haul at Hilkaka, a Bakerwal village in Surankote tehsil, about 10-12 km inside the LoC. According to reports, thousands of troops with the help of the local population successfully cleared the village from militants in the operation that lasted about two weeks. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/search-for-terrorists-in-jks-forest-belt-enters-21st-day-1045937.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||CBI files FIR on corruption charges against NTPC doctor||Air tickets to Singapore and Malaysia bought for a former Chief Medical Officer of an NTPC hospital and his wife by a tent house owner have landed the doctor in trouble after the investigators in the CBI unearthed evidence of alleged corruption. The CBI has now registered a case against Dr Narendra Mohan Singh, a former CMO of the NTPC hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Unchahar, with the investigations throwing up evidence for other corrupt practices allegedly adopted by him. According to the CBI, the case was registered following a preliminary enquiry (PE) conducted after a reference received from the Chief Vigilance Officer of the NTPC to probe the allegation of Dr Singh demanding and accepting bribes. The CBI FIR claimed that one Anoop Kumar Sonkar, the owner of Lucky Tent House, had paid for tickets for Dr Singh and his wife for Malaysia and Singapore. "Preliminary enquiry conducted relating to the allegation of funding of air tickets by one Anoop Kumar through MakeMyTrip in June 2019, for foreign visit of Dr Narendra Mohan Singh....and his wife...on the assurance of getting labour contract in NTPC, it revealed that there was an annual rate contract for hiring tent House for a period from 13 August, 2018 to 12 August, 2020 and the bills...," it said. The bills raised by Sonkar's firm were pending in NTPC with Dr Singh for approval during the period. "Enquiry further revealed that Anoop Kumar Sonkar made an online payment of Rs 1,49,621.70 from bank a/c...maintained in the name of Lucky Tent House with SBI, NTPC, UNchahar in favour of MakeMyTrip on 20 June, 2019. for the foreign tour of suspect officer Dr Singh and his wife to Malaysia and Singapore from 29 June, 2019 to 6 July, 2019," the FIR claimed. During the investigation, the CBI claimed, it also came to light that a medical representative Shamsher Singh allegedly paid Rs 10 lakh to Dr Singh for getting the order of supply of medicines in return. It was also alleged that Singh in a criminal conspiracy with others demanded and accepted bribes in the process of selection of para-medical staff on contractual basis for the NTPC hospital. The NTPC had earlier dismissed Dr Singh from service prior to his normal retirement on 28 July, 2021 following a vigilance enquiry, the CBI said in its FIR. He is presently residing in East Delhi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-files-fir-on-corruption-charges-against-ntpc-doctor-1045955.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||J&K terrorism conspiracy case: NIA arrests two more accused||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested two more accused in Jammu and Kashmir terrorism conspiracy cases. The probe agency arrested Ishfaq Wani and Umar Bhat on Saturday during raids at some specific locations in Jammu and Kashmir. In a statement, a spokesperson of the NIA said the case relates to conspiracy for undertaking violent terrorist acts in J&K and other major cities by cadres of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr and their affiliates such as the Resistance Front (TRF), People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF) etc. The NIA had registered the case as RC 29/2021/NIA/DLI) on October 10 and initiated the investigation. Till now 25 accused persons have been arrested in this case. “The preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused are terror associates/overground workers (OGWs) of various proscribed terrorist organisations and have been providing logistical and material support to terrorists,” he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-terrorism-conspiracy-case-nia-arrests-two-more-accused-1045966.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||E-vehicles, more women drivers: Delhi government to transform public transport system||Keeping pace with the changing times, the Delhi Transport Department is working on ways to transform the national capital's public transport system. Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot in an interview with IANS talked about electric vehicles, the participation of more women in public transportation, and other initiatives by the Delhi government to "revolutionise the system". Excerpts from the interview: What is the status of electric DTC buses? The e-buses are on schedule. There were some delays due to pandemic-induced lockdown, but now things are up and running. Delhi will have its first fleet of 300 buses by January 2022. As far as the CNG buses are concerned, Delhi government will order 800 Compressed Natural Gas buses in two batches -- 450 in the first and 350 in the second. Post that, we will procure only electric buses for public transport in the future. The Delhi government has also floated tenders for the 100 charging stations. 100 more will follow in the second lot. These are apart from the existing 100-plus charging stations in various locations of Delhi. Other than that DTC is planning to set up such stations at Dwarka sector-8, Dwarka sector 2 depot, Mehrauli terminal, Nehru Place Terminal, Okhla CW-II, Sukhdev Vihar depot and Kalkaji depot. In the next one year, Delhi will have charging stations within every three km. Incentives for electric vehicles will be provided under which segments? There are direct cash incentives of Rs 30,000 for e-autos, up to Rs 1,50,000 lakh for a maximum incentive of Rs 30,000 on two-wheelers. Other than that the registration fee is waived, parking is free. These are the big components of any subsidy. After e-auto, what are the Delhi government's next steps to introduce more women in the public transport system? So far we have received a total 11,522 applications for e-auto, out of which 326 are women. The Delhi government has launched online registration of electric auto permits with 33 per cent reservation for women and we are planning to extend the application process till this quota is filled. The upcoming e-buses too will have women drivers. Women already have heavy driving licences. The only parameter left to meet is that of the required height of 5 ft. The large number of vehicles plying on Delhi's roads are said to be one of the main contributors to pollution in the city and if it continues like this the capital will choke. How much of this is true? I think every city has this problem. Even cities like London and New York. Also, the number of vehicles out on the road are always 20-30 per cent fewer than the registered figure. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/e-vehicles-more-women-drivers-delhi-government-to-transform-public-transport-system-1045968.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi pays tributes to Indira Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary.  Gandhi, the then prime minister, was assassinated in 1984 by two of her security guards linked to Khalistani extremists.  Modi tweeted, "On her death anniversary, paying tributes to India's former Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi Ji. On her death anniversary, paying tributes to India’s former Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi Ji.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-indira-gandhi-1045970.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Pens, books should replace guns and stones: J&K police chief||Stating that nobody in Kashmir wants violence, Jammu and Kashmir police chief, Dilbag Singh on Sunday said that guns and stones should be dropped and replaced with pens and books. “Violence has created an atmosphere of fear and anxiety among people of the valley. Now there is a time when pens and books should replace guns and stones,” he told reporters on the sidelines of J&K police marathon event, here. The police chief said the situation in Kashmir is quite “under control and the people only want peace as they are against all forms of violence.” “People have condemned all the recent violent incidents and have always cooperated with the security forces. Many children today participated in this event which is a positive step towards peace and development,” Singh said. He advised the youth to focus on their future "so that development takes place in the Valley". The police chief said that the security forces and the police always try to organize events for people, especially children and youth, to boost their confidence. “Earlier, Jashn-e-Dal and a cycle race was organized. These events are organized to create a sense of confidence among the youth to make them competent in every sphere," he said.  Singh said that today’s program was organized to promote peace and unity as on 31st October is celebrated as National Unity Day. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pens-books-should-replace-guns-and-stones-jk-police-chief-1045977.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Cruise drugs case: PIL in SC seeks CBI probe, direction to Centre to frame witness protection scheme||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a CBI probe into the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case, alleging that there has been interference in the ongoing probe of the Narcotics Control Bureau in the matter. Lawyer M L Sharma, in the PIL filed in his personal capacity, referred to the controversies raised by Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede and others in the case to make his appeal. The case involves Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others as accused and has triggered a series of controversies and put the bureau and its officials under the spotlight. The public interest litigation (PIL) has also sought a direction to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to frame the national witness protection scheme as recommended in various reports of the Law Commission. Aryan Khan, along with co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha, was granted bail on Thursday by the Bombay High Court, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Besides seeking CBI probe, the plea also sought a direction for providing "protection to all the witnesses" to the instant case. The PIL also raised the legality of a complaint lodged with the Mumbai Police by a local lawyer using the alleged disclosure of a bribe saga by one of the witnesses, Prabhakar Sail, in the case. Raising a legal question for adjudication by the apex court, the PIL asked whether a minister may continue to hold his constitutional office even after "interfering" with the investigation and "maligning" the investigation officer. "No one is allowed to interfere in the criminal justice systems. The State and state minister are duty bound to protect the Constitution and not to interfere in the investigation and criminal process," it said. "Witnesses are liable to be protected and not to be arrested and tortured to give favourable statements favouring the accused persons...," the PIL said. The NCB had busted an alleged drugs party on the Goa-bound Cordelia Cruise ship at mid-sea on October 2 and 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, were arrested in the case. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cruise-drugs-case-pil-in-sc-seeks-cbi-probe-direction-to-centre-to-frame-witness-protection-scheme-1045981.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Haryana government imposes ban on firecrackers in 14 NCR districts||The Haryana government on Sunday imposed a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in its 14 districts that come under the National Capital Region with immediate effect. "There will be a total ban on sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonipat," a government order on the regulation of sale and use of fire crackers in the state, read.      The directive will also apply to all cities and towns in the state where the average ambient air quality for November (as per last year's data) comes under "poor" and above categories. Only green crackers shall be sold in cities and towns where the air quality is in the "moderate" or below category, the order said, adding that the bursting of crackers during Diwali and other festivals such as Gurupurab will be allowed only from 8 pm to 10 pm. For Chatt festival, the same will be allowed from 6 am to 8 am, it said.         Fireworks will be permitted from 11.55 pm on December 24 to 12.30 am on December 25 and from 11.55 pm on December 31 to 12.30 am on January 1, for Christmas and New Year, it pointed out. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board will separately issue a list of these cities and towns and make it available on its website. Bursting of firecrackers in communities will be promoted in areas where there is no ban, it said, adding that designated areas will be pre-identified by the authorities concerned. Only green crackers shall be allowed even for marriages and other occasions, the noted. The sale of crackers shall only be through licensed traders and e-commerce portals, including Flipkart and Amazon, will not be permitted to sell crackers, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-imposes-ban-on-firecrackers-in-14-ncr-districts-1045993.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Situation in Kashmir is much better now after spate of violence: JK Police chief||After a recent spike in violence, the situation in Kashmir is much better now and people want to move towards peace and development, Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh said on Sunday. Singh also appealed to local militants to give up arms and exhorted the youth to pick up pens and books and work towards Jammu and Kashmir's prosperity and progress. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a 'run for peace and unity' organised on the occasion of National Unity Day. About 700 children, youths and adults participated in the run. "The situation is much better now. The atmosphere right now is that people want peace and they are against violence. There were a few violent incidents, but people on a large scale condemned those incidents. Now, the situation is better. You saw the participation here which is an indication that people want to move towards peace and development and they condemn the violence," Singh said. Eleven civilians have been killed by militants in Kashmir Valley in October. Appealing to local militants to give up arms, the DGP said not only do they lose their own lives, they are also working against their parents, society and people, and everyone is affected by the violence. He reiterated the appeal by Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his recent visit to Jammu and Kashmir that the youth of Kashmir Valley should carry books in their hands instead of guns and stones, and build their future and work towards the union territory's prosperity and progress. "I have the same message that your and the society's betterment will not happen by picking weapons, but pens, books and working along with your parents and society," the DGP said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/situation-in-kashmir-is-much-better-now-after-spate-of-violence-jk-police-chief-1045999.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Grandma sensed she would be killed: Rahul remembers Indira Gandhi||Recounting Indira Gandhi's assassination and funeral, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said just hours before her death she told him not to cry if something happened to her. In a video released on YouTube on former prime minister Indira Gandhi's 37th death anniversary, Gandhi described the day of her grandmother's funeral as the "second most difficult day of my life". Indira Gandhi, the then prime minister, was assassinated in 1984 by two of her security guards linked to Khalistani extremists. "(In) the morning before she died she told me that don't cry if something happens to me. I did not understand what she meant and two-three hours later she was dead," Rahul Gandhi said, recounting the setback he and his family suffered that day. "She (Indira Gandhi) sort of sensed that she would be killed and I think everyone in the house also knew it. She once said to us on the dining table that the biggest curse would be to die of a disease," the former Congress chief said in the video titled 'With love, in memory of my beloved Grandmother, Indira ji', which has been released on his YouTube account. From her perspective it was probably the best way to die for her country, defending the idea that she loved, Gandhi said. He said he essentially had two mothers -- "a super mother who was my grandmother, who basically would defend me when my father got angry, and my mother". For me it was like losing my mother, Gandhi added. Images from Indira Gandhi's funeral and last rites were also part of the video which showed a young Rahul mourning his grandmother's demise. Earlier on Sunday, Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to Indira Gandhi at her memorial "Shakti Sthal" here. "My grandmother served the country fearlessly till the last moment -- her life is a source of inspiration for us," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "A great example of women power, humble tributes to Mrs. Indira Gandhi on her martyrdom day," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/grandma-sensed-she-would-be-killed-rahul-remembers-indira-gandhi-1046007.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||3,000 fire fighters to be on Diwali duty in Delhi||On Diwali, around 3,000 fire fighters will be on duty for two days, and Delhi Fire Service teams will be deployed in over 30 specific locations across the capital to tackle any incident, officials said on Sunday. The DFS control room responds to maximum calls on Diwali, and fire-fighters need to be on their toes to deal with any emergencies, they said. This year, a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers has been put in place in the national capital till January 1, 2022. However, despite a complete ban on the usage of all kinds of firecrackers last year, the fire department responded to 205 fire-related calls till Diwali midnight, recalled officials. The fire department said a meeting was chaired by its director Atul Garg on October 12 to discuss the preparations for Diwali which falls on November 4. The DFS said according to plan, this year on Diwali, the fire units will be deployed at over 20 locations across the city for two days -- on November 3 and November 4, from 5 pm to midnight. According to the fire department, fire tenders will be placed at 22 locations across the national capital some of whom include Bara Tooti Chowk, Tilak Nagar, Lajpat Nagar (Central Market), Lal Kuan Chowk, Lahori Gate, Nangloi, South Extension, Sonia Vihar, Mehrauli, Ghitorni metro station, among others. Motorcycle fitted with fire-fighting equipments will also be deployed in the streets and narrow lanes at six other locations, including Ambedkar Nagar, Kapashera, Chandni Chowk, Sabji Mandi Ghanta Ghar, Paharganj Shiela Cinema, Shadipur depot, a senior fire official said. Another set of fire-fighting vehicles will also be deployed in the lanes of another six locations, including Connaught Circus, Hari Nagar, Geeta Colony, J Road, Paschim Vihar and M.Road, he said. DFS director Atul Garg said all the divisional officers will be responsible for ensuring the availability of vehicles with essential equipments at designated locations. "We are completely prepared to deal with any fire-related emergencies during Diwali. In order to ensure availability of fire fighting staff and to keep all units in ready to deployment positions, we have cancelled the leaves of all our staff. "No leave shall be granted to them on November 3, 4, and 5, including those deployed at the fire control room, which is the first responder to fire-calls," he said. Every year, the fire department identifies Diwali hot-spots after analysing last year's call records and data from where the maximum numbers of calls were received on Diwali. Accordingly, fire tenders are deployed at the specific locations, the fire officials said. The senior official said all assistant divisional officers have already inspected the fire stations under their jurisdiction and they have ensured cleanliness inside the premises. "All the equipments kept at the stations have also been inspected and kept in ready to use condition," Garg said. Garg has also directed officials to keep maximum number of fire vehicles in-commission and get them repaired if any defects have been found, officials said. "All our assistant divisional officers have checked all the units and got the necessary repair work done. They have also been directed to keep all the essential kits, tools, ladder etc in the vehicles and ensure that all the units at station are in-commission," Garg added. According to fire officials, directions have also been given to ensure the availability of wireless sets in maximum number for fire units and at all stations, and officials have been asked to get defective sets, if any, repaired. In order to achieve a high degree of personal safety, the staff shall be instructed to wear proper full body protective suit along with helmet and gum boots, the officials added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3000-fire-fighters-to-be-on-diwali-duty-in-delhi-1046012.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Criminal law should not be set in motion without proper probe: SC||Criminal law should not be set into motion without adequate investigation of facts on mere suspicion, the Supreme Court has said while quashing a criminal case against the director of a company. A bench of Justices R S Reddy and Sanjiv Khanna said vicarious liability is attracted when the offence is committed with the consent, connivance, or is attributable to the neglect on the part of a director, manager, secretary, or other officer of the company. In law, vicarious liability is the responsibility assigned to an employer, resulting from the actions of an employee. "Criminal law should not be set into motion as a matter of course or without adequate and necessary investigation of facts on mere suspicion, or when the violation of law is doubtful." "It is the duty and responsibility of the public officer to proceed responsibly and ascertain the true and correct facts. Execution of law without appropriate acquaintance with legal provisions and comprehensive sense of their application may result in an innocent being prosecuted," the apex court said. On the issue of summoning, the bench said it is the court's duty not to issue summons in a mechanical and routine manner.  "It is the duty of the magistrate to apply his mind to see whether on the basis of the allegations made and the evidence, a prima facie case for taking cognizance and summoning the accused is made out or not," the bench said in its October 29 judgement said. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by Dayle de Souza challenging an order of Madhya Pradesh, which dismissed his plea seeking quashing of the case against him. Resultantly, and for the reasons stated above, we would allow the present appeal and quash the summoning order and the proceedings against the present appellant. The petitioner, director of Writer Safeguard Pvt. Ltd had entered into an agreement, titled "Agreement for Servicing and Replenishment of Automated Teller Machines", with NCR Corporation India Private Ltd. The NCR corporation having earlier entered into an agreement with the State Bank of India for maintenance and upkeep of the State Bank of India's ATMs.  On February 19, 2014, the Labour Enforcement Officer (Central) inspected the SBI's ATM and later issued a notice alleging non-compliance with the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, and Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950 at the ATM.  After more than four months, the Labour Enforcement Officer (Central), informed the petitioner and Vinod Singh (director of MP unit) that they were required to appear in the court on August 14, 2014.  On August 14, 2014, the Labour Enforcement Officer (Central) filed a criminal complaint before the court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sagar, Madhya Pradesh, under Section 22A of the Act who took cognisance of the offence and issued a bailable warrant against the appellant and Vinod Singh. The petitioner later moved the high court for quashing the complaint, which dismissed his petition. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/criminal-law-should-not-be-set-in-motion-without-proper-probe-sc-1046027.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||SC sets aside Karnataka HC order describing deceased as weakling||The Supreme Court has set aside a Karnataka High Court order which quashed an abetment to suicide case against a special land acquisition officer by describing the deceased, his driver, as "weakling".  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said behavioural scientists have initiated the discourse on the heterogeneity of every individual and have challenged the traditional notion of ‘all humans behave alike’.  The court also said the observations by a single judge bench of the High Court in the judgement of May 29, 2020 describing the manner in which a depressed person ought to have behaved deeply diminished the gravity of mental health issues.  It said the alleged suicide is of a person who was working as a driver of a Special Land Acquisition Officer, a public servant, and against whom serious and grave allegations of amassing wealth disproportionate to the known sources of income were made by the deceased.  "The suicide note contains a detailed account of the role of the accused in the events which led to the deceased committing suicide. These are matters of investigation and possibly trial," the bench said. The court allowed an appeal filed by Mahendra K C, brother of Ramesh K C, who ended his life on December 6, 2019 at Mandya leaving behind a suicide note alleging KAS officer L Bheema Naik threatened and harassed him. The deceased, who uploaded his suicide note on Facebook, had also alleged that the accused officer amassed wealth in excess of Rs 100 crores, converting black money into white and transferring funds from the bank account of the deceased through his mobile to the accounts of the relatives. The top court said the HC's single judge, other than deciding on the merits of the case while exercising the power under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, has also made observations diminishing the importance of mental health. "The mental health of a person cannot be compressed into a one size fits all approach," it said. The court said the High Court has travelled far beyond the limits of its inherent power under Section 482 CrPC since instead of determining whether on a perusal of the complaint, a prima facie case was made out, it had analysed the sufficiency of the evidence with reference to the suicide note and has commented upon and made strong observations on the suicide note itself.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-sets-aside-karnataka-hc-order-describing-deceased-as-weakling-1046033.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Drunk headmaster forces girl students to dance with him in govt school; suspended||The headmaster of a government school in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district was suspended after he allegedly forced some girl students to dance with him in an inebriated condition and shot a video of the act, an official said on Sunday. The alleged incident occurred in the Government Middle School located at Madhiyado village, about 80 km from the Damoh district headquarter, on Friday, the official said. “Family members of girls had complained that headmaster Rajesh Munda in a drunken state forced them to dance with him after bolting a room in the school from inside on Friday. He also shot a video of the dance,” District Education Officer (DEO) SK Mishra told PTI on Sunday. The girls narrated the incident to their parents after reaching their homes, he said. Subsequently, an inquiry was ordered by district collector S Krishna Chaitanya. The inquiry report was submitted by the Block Education Officer. Following the submission of the report on Saturday, the district collector suspended the headmaster with immediate effect, Mishra said, adding that Munda is now attached to the Patera Block Office after his suspension. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-drunk-headmaster-forces-girl-students-to-dance-with-him-in-govt-school-suspended-1046037.html
31-10-2021||North and Central||Niira Radia questioned for four hours in Rs 300 crore loan embezzlement case||The Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police questioned Nayati Healthcare chairperson Niira Radia for nearly four hours in connection with an alleged Rs 300-crore loan embezzlement case, officials said on Sunday. A senior police officer said Radia joined the investigation on October 27 at the office of the Economic Offences Wing. "She was asked about 50 questions related to the alleged bank loan. Although she answered all the questions, her response was not found to be satisfactory. So, she will be asked to join the probe in the near future again as the investigation proceeds further,” he said. "After the registration of the case last year in connection with the alleged bank loan, the two parties had decided to settle the matter amicably, but later, when it did not happen, we had to investigate the matter thoroughly from all angles. Notices were also served to parties concerned to join the probe," the officer explained. All bank accounts and related documents used for transactions by all the parties involved will be examined, police said. The Economic Offences Wing had earlier this month served notice to Radia and other promoters and directors of Nayati Healthcare and Research NCR Private Ltd to join the investigation in connection with the case. The development came with the recent arrest of Yateesh Wahaal, Satish Kumar Narula and Rahul Singh Yadav for misappropriation of crores of rupees in connection with the case. According to police, a complaint was filed by orthopaedic surgeon Rajeev Kumar Sharma against Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd, holding company of Nayati Healthcare and Research NCR Pvt Ltd and its promotors and directors Radia; her sister Karuna Menon, Narula, Wahaal and others. Sharma has accused Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd, Niira Radia, Karuna Menon, Satish Narula and Yateesh Wahaal of "cheating, criminal breach of trust, falsification of accounts, fraud, forgery, embezzlement of funds and other charges”. In his complaint, Sharma alleged that Naarayani had borrowed more than Rs 600 crore from various sources, including DHFL, and invested Rs 311 crore for acquiring a majority stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR. After taking over the management of the new entity, Naarayani and the four individuals got a loan of Rs 300 crore from Yes Bank for the development of a Gurgaon hospital, but instead, they siphoned off and embezzled the loan amount using fictitious transactions, Sharma alleged. He further alleged that the accused also borrowed Rs 60 crore from Yes Bank for another hospital project, but embezzled that fund as well. Sharma also claimed that the five accused wrongfully brought down his stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR from 49 per cent to 6.3 per cent in less than a year and increased their own stake to 93.7 per cent. Earlier, Nayati Healthcare had rejected the allegations terming it as “baseless” and had said that it had duly reported to the police certain issues of "misappropriation and maliciousness" detected in a forensic audit of activities of the previous management under Sharma. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/niira-radia-questioned-for-four-hours-in-rs-300-crore-loan-embezzlement-case-1046085.html
31-10-2021||Oasis||Cultivating strength amid misfortune||Our history is full of stories of endurance amidst troubled times. There have been people who have survived through the worst of situations. The same boiling water that softens the potato, hardens the egg. It is always what you are made of, and not the circumstances, that matter. As Gandhiji said, “Strength does not imply physical capacity but an indomitable will” to go on against all odds. The quality of resilience too can go a long way amidst situations like the pandemic or any personal misfortune. A resilient person is one who has the belief in his capacity to overcome the adversity that has befallen him. A stretched rubber band let free, contracts to its original size. A person with resilience realises that the past cannot be undone and the only recourse is to move forward stoically. The word “stoically” especially applies to a parent losing a child or a person losing his/her beloved. Death seems cruel and harsh reality when the person you love is no longer physically present. But the Lord says in the Gita that the soul is immortal and the body is but akin to a garment, prone to the results of usage. So why be sad when that which is temporary in the first instance is gone or worn out? The lucky few take the earlier bus while a few are made to wait for their turn. It is believed that the soul in the eternal realm seeks to guard and bless its loved ones in the material world. One should gain strength with this assurance in one’s heart.  Each one’s karma is separate and to be worked out individually to reach the ultimate goal of ridding oneself of the baggage of ‘prarabdha’ karma, which is to be shed in the current birth. Bruce Lee, the martial art legend who died early said, “Do not pray for an easy life, pray for the strength to endure a difficult one.” It is said that the more a person endures hardships with equanimity the more he becomes dearer to God. However illogical it may seem, in a way, the hardships help the soul shed a part of its baggage. These should be borne with fortitude and the belief that God has plans for one’s wellness, just as a parent plans for the good of his or her child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/cultivating-strength-amid-misfortune-1046105.html
31-10-2021||Opinion||Britain begins to think the unthinkable: Life after the Queen||By Martin Ivens The world’s leaders are gathered in Glasgow this weekend for COP26, but Queen Elizabeth II — most likely the dignitary they were keenest to glimpse — will not be there to greet them. She will address delegates in a recorded video instead. The conference will lack the magic dust that the physical presence of Europe’s last anointed and longest reigning monarch scatters over such occasions. This is but the latest of several intimations of royal mortality. The Queen, 95 years old this year, long ago handed over arduous foreign tours to her son and heir to the throne, Prince Charles. Just as the Palace begins to transfer more duties around the royal “firm,” the UK must begin to think the unthinkable: of life without her. Britain’s constitutional head of state cancelled a planned two-day visit to Northern Ireland last week following an overnight stay in a London hospital, news of which Palace officials ill-advisedly withheld from the world’s media. The intention was to play down fears for her health and spare her privacy from intrusion. Instead, it set alarm bells ringing and accusations of a cover-up. To avoid a recurrence, aides will have to be more open with the press and public about the monarch’s health in old age. The Queen is now resting at her home in Windsor Castle, although on Tuesday evening she made an appearance at a reception for the government’s investment summit, welcoming Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Bill Gates amongst other guests. But the shadow cast by her years lengthens. The Queen was recently photographed with a cane and now conducts her weekly audiences with Johnson by telephone instead of face-to-face, avoiding London’s Buckingham Palace if she can. She has also given up riding, her favorite leisure pursuit. All quite normal for someone her age. However, one day — later rather than sooner, we hope — bulletins from the Palace will declare something akin to what they said for her grandfather George V (“The King’s life is moving peacefully toward its close”). A telephone call will then be made on a secure line to the prime minister’s office bearing the message “London Bridge is down,” code for her passing. The Foreign Office’s Global Response Centre will share the news with 15 governments outside the UK where the Queen is still head of state and to the 36 other nations of the Commonwealth. Alerted within minutes by a Press Association newsflash, the vast majority of her people will learn of the death of the only monarch they have ever known. Everything will change — from the head on bank notes to the sense of certainty and continuity Elizabeth II has so calmly embodied. I would be surprised if the Queen doesn’t preside over the Remembrance Sunday memorial ceremony, an event she considers the most significant in her calendar. Elizabeth II takes her coronation oath and royal duties with religious seriousness. Unlike some other modern monarchs and even one recent Pope, she has refused to consider a formal retirement — the job she signed up to at the Coronation is for her, a job for life. The last long-reigning queen, Victoria, cloistered herself away for several years after her husband Albert's death in 1861 and became unpopular for it. That is not her descendant’s way. Elizabeth’s intention is to remain in public view as long as she can. “Long live the Queen” was the proclamation made following her accession to the throne, but ever since her husband’s death her subjects are beginning to grasp that her life has a terminus. Even the minority of her subjects who are staunch republicans and hate all the flummery associated with royalty will be moved by her departure. In opinion polls, an overwhelming majority think she is doing a great job. Through her dignity and emotional restraint, she has largely avoided the personal controversies that have dogged her children. Above all, she symbolizes continuity in Britain’s history. For the Queen is the last link to the age of empire, the second world war and Winston Churchill’s finest hour. Critics used to say she was wrong not to give way to her oldest son, the Prince of Wales, once a decent period had elapsed after the death of his first wife, Lady Diana, and his remarriage to Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall. But perhaps by staying on, the Queen has performed one last great national service. Britain has just come through an agonizing period of political turbulence. The Brexit referendum in 2016 was a bitter affair that divided friends, families, classes and the four nations of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland that make up the UK The aftermath was worse. Years of wrangling in the House of Commons led to a near constitutional breakdown and left the country in political stalemate. In the eyes of the world and many of its own people, the UK was having a collective nervous breakdown. The one voice of calm in this febrile atmosphere was the Queen. Had she left the scene at that point, the country would have convulsed. Now that the worst is over and political tempers have cooled, perhaps the country she reigned over can find more internal peace — if not agreement — and live with Charles, an heir who is dutiful and dedicated, but a more outspoken and divisive figure. But first we must come to terms with the idea that the Queen’s reign is steadily drawing to a close and prepare accordingly — even if royals have a way of wrong-footing expectations. After all, the Queen Mother, who died in 2002, lived to be 101. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/britain-begins-to-think-the-unthinkable-life-after-the-queen-1046038.html
31-10-2021||Panorama||TINA is as TINA does||Ambition is a tricky thing, as any Scottish nobleman named Macbeth will tell you. It can fuel creative problem-solving, as any freedom fighter named Mahatma Gandhi will tell you; it can also be driven by a narcissistic lust for power that turns everything to ashes, as nobody in India is allowed to tell you. Insufficient ambition is also a tricky thing. Much to the anger and frustration of supporters and would-be supporters, that’s the vibe that the Congress party has been giving off for almost eight long years. Yes, it has won elections. Yes, it has formed a few governments. Yes, it regularly challenges the Modi government in Parliament. Yes, it has some passionate, articulate members who regularly make the case for secularism, pluralism, governance, democracy, and the Constitution. Then why are so many Indians who subscribe to the same constitutional values, or who are disillusioned and horrified by the BJP, so reluctant to back the Congress? Some of it is because so many people have absorbed the BJP’s relentless propaganda about dynasty—which is, of course, gross—being a worse evil than its own hate-filled apartheid state vision. I personally don’t think anything could be worse than the Modi government, except maybe a Yogi government, but many people genuinely find it hard to place faith in a party that doesn’t seem to have faith in itself, that is haemorrhaging people, and cannot own its own successes. Having fire in the belly is pointless if the Congress cannot communicate that energy to voters. Every team needs a captain, or set of captains working together, and almost eight years into its 2014 defeat, the Congress has still not convincingly sorted out something as basic as its leadership. You can’t have one president stomp off, then tolerate a leadership vacuum for months, before finally dragging an ex-president out of retirement, and lose or almost lose governments, and then, incredibly, put off party elections for another year until 2022 as the CWC just did, without looking chronically rudderless. To persuade people that you can do the job, you have to appear to be able to do the job. You shouldn’t need to lie and intimidate your way there, as the BJP does, but you do need to have a leader and a clearly articulated vision that is not purely reactive. You have to work harder than the BJP—and the BJP never stops—to win people, without the BJP’s financial power and media capture. I will never forgive Prashant Kishor for helping to bring Narendra Modi to power, but I agree with him that the Congress cannot simply wait out the man’s appeal, because even if it loses a general election, the BJP will remain an entrenched and powerful opponent. The Congress cannot hope for a free pass, and the longer it waits, the worse it looks. Rahul Gandhi calling power “a poisoned chalice” is the political equivalent of first world problems. For all the Congress’ past crimes and misdemeanours, it is the leading opposition party, and represents a better India than the BJP’s. But whoever leads the party needs to grip that chalice and drink from it with conviction if they’re going to fight the most dangerous government this country has ever seen—and they need to do it day before yesterday. Too many Congress supporters respond to this criticism with snappish defensiveness and the counter-accusation that it’s easy to kick someone when they’re down; they’re doing their best; nobody on the outside can understand the trials of running such a huge organisation. But that’s exactly the point—India’s voters are on the outside, and they don’t care about your trials. From the outside, the Congress looks like a side with potential but without drive. Voter expectations are higher than the party thinks. It needs to ratchet up its expectations of itself to look like a viable alternative. And instead of getting defensive, listen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tina-is-as-tina-does-1045846.html
31-10-2021||Panorama||COP 26: The future of the world is at stake||Since World War II, a global acceleration in economic and industrial growth has led to multiple rips and tears in the delicate balance with nature. About 11,500 years ago, the earth – our only planetary home – entered a long period of stable climate called the Holocene. Climatic conditions were perfect for humanity to flourish across the globe, being not too hot and not too cold – enabling humanity to develop agriculture, domesticate animals, slowly and steadily cut down the forests and drain the swamps to build homes, first as huts built of plant material, then with concrete and metal, now moving to a world filled with high rises. Human wellbeing has increased, but so has inequality. The impact of uncontrolled material progress is all around us – the pollution of the air, water and soil, the widespread devastation of ecological habitats and the ruination of human health. But at a global scale, less visible to us, other critical processes are going out of whack. Global warming of the planet due to the uncontrolled emission of greenhouse gases, which trap the heat in the atmosphere, has led to the melting of icecaps and glaciers, and the compression of weeks and months of rainfall into days and hours, followed by prolonged periods of drought. India and its adjacent countries will be hard hit by climate change. Countries like the Maldives will be completely submerged in a few decades, along with large parts of countries like Bangladesh. The Indian coastline -- with prosperous, thriving megacities like Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai -- will be severely impacted by floods. Bengaluru will not be spared either. As oceans heat up, the change in temperature destabilises air and water currents, derailing expected weather patterns. Not just typhoons, hurricanes and tornadoes, the monsoon itself will become erratic, landing and withdrawing at unexpected times. Of course, this will lead to losses in agriculture, increasing the price of food, and worsening already widespread hunger. Climate scientists unanimously believe that the impacts we are already seeing are just the tip of the iceberg – much worse lies in store for us ahead, unless we can very quickly act to arrest climate change. In 1994, a number of countries signed up to the United Nations Framework on Climate Change (UNFCC) to combat climate change. Twenty-seven years later, emissions of greenhouse gases have spectacularly increased, instead of stabilising or decreasing. Every year, at an annual Conference of Parties (CoP) meeting, the countries that have signed onto the UNFCC review progress, and agree on new goals and timelines. The CoP meetings scheduled for November 2020 could not take place because of the pandemic, and were postponed to 2021. The 26th CoP meetings will take place in Glasgow starting today, and extending until November 12. The world has placed a lot of its hope on the deliberations at this meeting. Yet, past experience does not offer us much hope. Fossil fuel companies continue to be a powerful force lobbying for governments to continue burning carbon, and despite growing public opinion, many of the powerful western countries that have played a leading role in contributing to climate change have not come on board, or at least, not enough to make a difference. While the countries responsible continue to fiddle, like Nero, as we accelerate towards the cliff, what can the rest of the world do? Cities like Bengaluru, responsible for a large and growing proportion of greenhouse gas emissions, must take the leadership to drive the change. There is much that can be done to make Bengaluru more climate-friendly, from better solid waste management to greater focus on tree plantation and wetland restoration, and an increased push towards renewable energy use. But the time is now. And the future of the world is at stake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/cop-26-the-future-of-the-world-is-at-stake-1045847.html
31-10-2021||Panorama||Social media, e-com: The new opiates of the masses||For starters, I wish to quote verbatim the comments made by a perceptive reader on the current state of IT in the world. “Perhaps the deals being made by the social media giants are a bit reminiscent of the one-sided deals the British forced on China in the 1800s and in effect encouraged their addiction to opium and a “pillaging” of the country which inevitably led to a loss of sovereignty and the collapse of the Qing Dynasty. It seems, today’s opium is social media and internet commerce. The Americans can’t easily push around China these days, but there are plenty of other countries that can be.” Touche. Bilateral and multilateral trade treaties currently being crafted will revolve around four important provisions -- National Treatment, Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status, Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) system, and Digital Trade. While National Treatment, MFN and ISDS have been incorporated into many existing treaties, the one on digital trade is quite new. All four may prove extremely problematic in the years to come since they lead to one-sided deals, especially if the US is one of the parties in any trade deal. National Treatment, a principle in international law, requires that a State that grants special rights, benefits or privileges to its own citizens must also grant those advantages to the citizens of other States while they are in that country. Since a company is considered a person, companies with huge market power, such as Amazon, Google, IBM, or Netflix, will be treated as if they were local companies and allowed to bid on local government contracts, among other things. The MFN provision in a treaty ensures that if a nation accords another nation MFN status with respect to a product, the same privilege must be granted to all other nations which are party to the treaty. ISDS, a mechanism to resolve trade disputes between sovereign nations and foreign companies that do business within their borders, has been used to punish nations for imposing taxes, cancelling contracts, or passing restrictive laws that can adversely affect a company’s profits. Companies can sue countries, but not vice versa. That ISDS confers greater legal rights on foreign companies than those available to domestic ones should be viewed as MFN and extra-territorial provisions just for companies. If you are not convinced, here is an extra-territorial provision as applied to natural persons. Article 16 in the 1883 Treaty of Hue between Vietnam and France reads thus: “The Residents shall dispense justice in all civil, criminal and commercial disputes involving Europeans of any nationality and natives, and between Europeans and Asians of foreign nationality who wish to benefit from the advantages of French protection. Appeals against the decisions of the Residents must be made at Saigon.” In ISDS, a tribunal of three arbitrators, usually corporate lawyers and technical experts, decides who wins an investor-State dispute, and there is no appeal process. Countries are obligated to obey ISDS verdicts and the fines the tribunal imposes can be arbitrarily large, especially when ‘future profits’ are taken into account. This has happened in Indonesia, Peru, Egypt and elsewhere. Examples of restrictive laws include minimum wage requirements, anti-smoking legislation, and minimum domestic content requirement on goods. ISDS will now include digital goods such as video, audio, digitised versions of print media, and all broadcast network services (radio, TV, cable, satellite, and cable). As for digital trade, I quote from the fact sheet of the US Trade Representative website pertaining to the 2020 US-Mexico-Canada trade deal: “Limit the civil liability of Internet platforms for third-party content that such platforms host or process, outside of the realm of intellectual property enforcement, thereby enhancing the economic viability of these engines of growth that depend on user interaction and user content.” In practical terms, what the quoted remarks essentially mean is that no restrictions can be placed on any internet platform or internet service provider whatsoever with regard to cross-border data traffic, the nature of data or where the data is stored. Facebook is absolved of any responsibility if it disseminates fake information, and Amazon is free to promote its own brands. Whether it is coal-mining or data-mining, the net effect is the same – devastation of the countryside and of the human psyche. Sovereign countries in the global south are having asymmetric trade deals shoved down their throats because the party with the upper hand has already gotten them addicted to their “opium”. Years ago, China refused to deploy Microsoft software in the country since they could sense the danger right away. India on the other hand… Need I say more?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/social-media-e-com-the-new-opiates-of-the-masses-1045849.html
31-10-2021||Panorama||This bliss will last forever…||After what seems like eons, I finally traveled internationally. Part of the experience this time was a visit to the Van Gogh immersive exhibit in San Francisco. Beamed by 40 projectors and 11 servers, the 500,000 cubic feet of immersion into Van Gogh’s paintings can be considered a beginning to a new age of experiences. The Van Gogh immersive experience put movement, scale, and music to his art. The art was displayed in a chronology mapped to Van Gogh’s tragic life. The details were captured in the pre-show audio, which we listened to, driving up to the show. The show itself had beautiful music synchronised to the visuals, but no voiceover – so that you could enter and leave anytime in the marvelous loop. Without the pre-show information a lot of the nuances in the spectacular display would have been lost on us. There were a couple of original Van Goghs on display as we exited the show, bringing in a flavour of reality. Of course, in true American spirit, we could not exit the show without passing by the store which sold Van Gogh prints on everything from paper to fabric to coasters. The 1957 movie Mayabazar showed Sasirekha, Balarama’s daughter, singing songs to her childhood sweetheart, Abhimanyu, through a magical jewellery box. When opened, the magic box immediately had an instant, remote two-way video chat enabled between Sasirekha and Abhimanyu! I cannot but marvel at the creativity of the artists who made this wonderful movie. The magic box idea has turned into reality with the social media era. Just imagine a 500,000 cubic feet version of the magic box. That was how I felt being in the Van Gogh immersive exhibition. Only, it was one-way, and limited to viewing his art and experiencing his pathos through his works. If only he would talk to us through time! The Van Gogh experience was primarily digital reality – visual and aural. The future of such experiences will be mixed reality, including the digital but also combining real physical sensory experiences. Mixed reality will bring alive history, explain science, peek into the future, or immortalise mythology in an immersive experience. In mixed reality, some of the experiences are illusionary, some of the characters are physical, and some of the sensations are touch and feel. As we chase bliss as the goal, rather than wealth, humans are looking to accumulate experiences. Experiences include travelling to distant lands, understanding remote cultures, climbing the tallest of mountains, and scuba diving in the deepest of oceans. All experiences cannot be accessed by everyone as readily as in an immersive re-creation. Also, time travel is still not possible, unless through an immersive experience. From a technology standpoint, the advances will be at the intersection of digital, materials, and an understanding of the human sensory system. Artificial Intelligence will animate characters from single photographs or portraits, create super resolutions of art and film, and evolve a storyline dynamically as it interacts with its audience aurally and watches reactions visually. Fabric materials will provide movement to water, depth to the skies, and be dynamically shaped to enable a touch sensation to the world around. As we understand the human mind and its ability to sense the world better, we will trick it into smelling flowers and feeling the wind – all in a magic box. The possibilities are many and it is a new age for storytellers! “The sadness will last forever,” is attributed to Van Gogh as his last words after he shot himself in the chest. Little would he have imagined the recognition he achieved after his death or that his paintings would find themselves launching a new age of experiences. He should have had the good fortune to live on, saying, “This bliss will last forever.” Alas, he did not!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/this-bliss-will-last-forever-1045850.html
31-10-2021||Panorama||Off the Record: November 1, 2021||When bail causes concern to CPM Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri got bail in the Enforcement Directorate’s case related to Bengaluru drug trafficking. While it is generally considered as a relief to the CPM in Kerala especially since the party’s national meet is scheduled to be held in Kerala in April, a section in the party is feeling otherwise. Over the years, Bineesh has been involved in a series of rows for his alleged nexus with those with shady backgrounds. Hence there are concerns among a section in the party that Bineesh outside the prison poses a higher risk of inviting embarrassment to the party, rather than being inside the prison. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram Nawab Malik’s double entendre As the family of NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede chose to target Maharashtra minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik taking out his community name ‘bhangarwala’, the veteran politician chose to answer in his own style. “Yes... I am a bhangarwala... I was a bhangarwala before becoming a politician. My family is in bhangar business and I am proud of it,” he said. He went on to add: “...they perhaps do not know what a bhangarwala does... they remove the scrap. I will also do that, I will take out each and every nut and bolt, melt it in the foundry and clean the mess,” said Malik, a close aide of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar.  Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Electricity and internet While frequent power cuts during harsh winter is a norm in Kashmir, netizens in parts of Srinagar and southern Pulwama districts complain about spells of internet shutdowns for the last three weeks. The shutdowns started in the aftermath of a series of attacks targeting members of the minority community and migrant workers in the region are unannounced and unaccounted for. But like power cuts in winter, people in the Valley have got accustomed to internet shutdowns. For both electricity and the internet, they are waiting for the worst. When the mercury plummets, electric supply and internet services can also be snapped fully. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar The number game The fight between the RJD and the JD(U) is not restricted to the state of Bihar. It intensified after JD(U) broke ranks with the Grand Alliance to return to the BJP-led NDA. In Bihar, RJD has emerged stronger in the last Assembly elections but a diminished JD(U) has managed to hold on to power owing to a pre-poll alliance with the BJP. The JD(U) is not losing any opportunity to embarrass or push its rival to the corner. The fight has now stretched to Goa now where the “entire” RJD state unit is claimed to have merged with the JD(U). The Nitish Kumar-led party now believes that this will be a “new beginning” for JD(U) in the upcoming Assembly election in Goa. But the social media has raised an important question: How many members RJD had and JD(U) has now? Shemin Joy, New Delhi ‘If SRK joins BJP drugs would be sugar’ Known for his sense of humour, Maharashtra’s food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal of the NCP took a dig at the BJP vis-a-vis the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan in a drugs case by the NCB. “The drugs would become sugar powder if Shah Rukh Khan joined the BJP,” said Bhujbal, the founder of All India Samata Parishad. It may be recalled that Bhujbal, his son and former MLA Pankaj Bhujbal and his nephew and former MP Sameer Bhujbal were booked in the Maharashtra Sadan scam when the BJP-led government was in power, but were discharged by a special ACB court. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-november-1-2021-1046101.html
31-10-2021||Panorama||MUDRA: More hype than actual impact||MUDRA, short for Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency, raised the hopes of the poor, particularly youth in the country, in 2015, its birth year, with promises of hassle-free credit to prop up their livelihood activities – their existing micro-enterprises starved for credit or their startup ventures.  The government is still in the same excitement as it believes and maintains that PMMY (Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana) has been a tremendous success. The official macro data, prima facie, supports the assertion. It shows that the scheme helped 310 million persons (the number close to the US population or eight times that of Canada) and financed Rs 15.86 trillion (the amount more than that of the individual GDP of some 160 countries); all this, in a little over six years – between April 2015 and September 10, 2021.  MUDRA promised both rural and urban poor a collateral-free cheap credit up to Rs 10 lakh under PMMY for a wide range of self-employment activities. These loans comprise three categories: Shishu (for the loan up to Rs 50,000), Kishor (Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh) and Tarun (Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh).  What and why of MUDRA: But, do the realities on the ground match with these claims and promises? First, a little about the genesis and the need, before knowing the truth in the claims. The government established MUDRA in March 2015 as a company under the Companies Act, 2013. It was set up as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI); it was registered, on April 7, 2015, also as a Non-Banking Finance Institution (NBFI) with the RBI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched PM MUDRA Yojana (PMMY) the next day, April 8. MUDRA’s present authorised capital is Rs 10 billion and paid-up capital of Rs 7.5 billion.  Since MUDRA is a refinance agency, it does not directly lend but facilitates lending through banks. To be clearer, banks finance micro-enterprises and MUDRA refinances banks and supplies funds to the extent they have lent under PMMY. Public and private sector banks, small finance banks, non-banking finance companies etc, give loans under MUDRA. Micro-enterprises’ crucial role: Then, why of MUDRA. Since micro enterprise’s development is crucial for the Indian economy, a MUDRA-like facilitator was felt necessary to ensure adequate credit to the sector. The micro-enterprise is the second most important segment, after agriculture. While the MSME as a whole employs 111 million persons (NSS 73rd round - 2015-16) and supports the lives of 550 million people, its micro part alone provides 107.6 million jobs (about 97% of the sector). The majority of 63.38 million micro-units in the country are owned by the persons belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward Classes; 54% of micro-units are located in the rural areas and rest in urban areas. They are engaged in manufacturing, processing, trading and services like shopkeepers etc. They also include fruits and vegetable vendors, truck and taxi operators, food-service units, food processors, repair shops, machine operators, small industries, artisans, street vendors and a host of those involved in other similar activities. MSME adds about 33% to the GVA (Gross Value Added) of the country. MSME-related products significantly contribute to the country’s exports; the sector’s share in total exports in 2018-19, for instance, was 48.10%. Despite its crucial importance, this sector does not get adequate institutional finance. RBIs Expert Committee (U K Sinha Committee, 2019) says, “in India, the total addressable demand for external credit is estimated to be Rs 37 trillion while the overall supply of finance from formal sources is estimated to be Rs 14.5 trillion. Therefore, the overall credit gap in the MSME sector is estimated to be Rs 20–25 trillion.” The 2013 survey of National Sample Survey Office found that the bulk of MSME units are unregistered enterprises and they do not maintain the books of accounts. This could be a reason for the bankers’ reluctance to lend. So, MUDRA has been taken up to help increase the institutional credit to micro-enterprise. The Illusion: But these lofty goals and impressive data projections are of no satisfaction to the poor; the proof of the pudding for them is in its eating. They neither get adequate cheap credit nor without any collateral as has been publicised.  The deciphering of the macro data doesn’t conflict with the common experience. For instance, the Rs 15.86 trillion (to be exact Rs 15,86,081.69 crore) worth of loan amount disbursed to more than 310 million (exact number 3,10,282,823) persons works out on an average to about Rs 51,000 (Rs 51,117 exactly). That means most of the loans were under the Shishu category and Rs 10 lakh loan has been a distant dream to many. Secondly, the banks had been giving loans to the micro-enterprises, though not adequately, even before MUDRA’s advent which they continue to give after MUDRA. They now brand all non-farm, non-corporate, production loans up to Rs 10 lakh with MUDRA’s ‘mudra’(seal). Thirdly, there are complaints of banks insisting on security for MUDRA loans making the collateral-free loan dream unreal. Also, no specific interest rate is prescribed as the interest rates are under the deregulated regime. So, the banks are simply advised to charge ‘reasonable’ interest rates. This means cheap credit claim is not highly credible. In effect, no significant additional credit flow – cheap and collateral-free - is observed.  MUDRA has thus created more hype than the actual impact. It is high time the scheme is reviewed, actual challenges of the micro sector diagnosed and corrective action taken to ensure adequate credit flow to MSME in general and microenterprise in particular. Without that, the refinance arrangement through newer institutions like MUDRA may not do any better than what the pre-existing arrangement did. (The writer is a development economist and commentator on economic and social affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mudra-more-hype-than-actual-impact-1046109.html
31-10-2021||Right in the Middle||An aspiring writer's dream break||I got hooked on seeing my name in print when I was asked to contribute to the school magazine that was being launched. I wrote a poem that was published with my name and class in bold. Thereafter there was no stopping me. From school through college, my passion for writing continued unabated. Unlike school, in college, I had all the time for extracurricular activities. Once, way back in 1977, when our college went on sympathy strike to support another city college that had gone on strike, I became restless.  One day I walked into the office of Cho S Ramaswamy, editor of the Tamil magazine Thuglak, who had just launched an English magazine Pickwick. I had met him on a couple of occasions and his forthright approach impressed me. Without beating about the bush, I expressed my desire to write for his English periodical. He just looked at me. I showed him the school and college magazines and the poems I had written. He glanced through them and said, “Sorry, this is a political magazine, we don’t accept poems.” He then wanted to know what I was doing there instead of attending college. On being told about the strike, he asked me to meet the principals of three city colleges, elicit their views, write and submit it. I promptly left the place excited about the assignment. I identified three prominent colleges — including mine — that were near my house and on the suburban train route. My joy was short-lived. The bursar of the first college asked me for my identity card or the letter from the editor, to establish my credentials. I did not have any. The principal of the next college, who recognised me, having interacted with me during the admission process and offering me a seat under the sports quota, politely excused himself from answering my questions, the credibility issue again coming into play. The principal of my college agreed to answer my questions more on compassionate grounds. At the end of the day, crestfallen, I aborted my effort to submit the given assignment and met Cho again to express my inability to complete the given task. He listened to me patiently and then asked for my stand on the whole issue. I opened up without any inhibitions. When I paused, he smiled and asked me to put down in writing what I had just said. I did so and he carried my article under the headline ‘Student Unrest’ in the ensuing issue of Pickwick, gave a cheque for the effort and my dream break as a freelancer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-aspiring-writers-dream-break-1046104.html
31-10-2021||Second Edit||Quality key to ration scheme||The Karnataka government’s decision to set up fair price shops in remote areas and in settlements with only 100 beneficiaries will go a long way in ensuring that the deprived sections of society, particularly those living below the poverty line, are not denied their monthly quota of rations. Another recent order makes setting up of fair price shops in all tandas (hamlets) and SC/ST colonies mandatory. These decisions will benefit at least 3,400 settlements. But such measures will have little meaning unless the quality of food grains supplied is improved. At present, the government sanctions fair price shops for a minimum of about 400 card holders due to which those living in remote hamlets or colonies have to travel to bigger towns or villages to obtain their supplies, especially after mobile ration shops were discontinued. This meant that they had to forego a day’s wages. Covid-related lockdowns and travel restrictions only added to their woes. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has also announced that rations, including rice, wheat flour and sugar will be delivered at the doorsteps of beneficiaries from November 1 in Bengaluru and from January 26, 2022, in all 28 Assembly constituencies of the state under the Jana Sevak Scheme. This will ensure that people do not have to wait in long queues at fair price shops. The public distribution system (PDS) which was introduced during World War II was strengthened during the Bengal famine and several studies have indicated that historically, food insecurity in the country was not due to scarcity of food grains but because of inefficiency in distribution of available stocks at affordable prices. As such, the decisions taken by the Karnataka government will further strengthen the food security of the needy. However, many other loose ends need to be tied to make the system more effective. A study by K Elayaraja and T R Manjunath of Kuvempu University published in the International Journal of Advanced Research has flagged many anomalies, including black-marketing of supplies meant for the poor, bad storage facilities, adulteration, inferior quality of food grains, bogus ration cards, corruption and lack of administrative oversight at all levels. Often, the food grains are not even fit for human consumption. India’s PDS, which is the largest in the world, has emerged as one of the most important poverty-alleviation programmes and it is thus imperative that the state government plugs all loopholes to ensure that the poorest of the poor not only have easy access to basic essentials, but are also assured that there is no compromise either on quantity or quality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/quality-key-to-ration-scheme-1046107.html
31-10-2021||South||Organic and sustainable farming: Tamil Nadu ecologist shows the way||Sixteen years ago not many were enthused when M Revathi, an ecologist, bought 12.5 acres of land in a village in the fertile Cauvery Delta near Nagapattinam in Tamil Nadu to venture into organic farming.  Today, Revathi is an inspiration to several young farmers. The farm she has developed over the years now grows almost every crop including those that were dismissed as “unfit” for the clay soil nature of the Delta region.  The farm has been designed in a way that it stores the amount of water it needs – five ponds scattered across three acres of land have been dug up by Revathi and her team. “We save every bit of rainwater. Being a natural farm, the permeability of the soil allows maximum storage of water and this in turn recharges groundwater. The farm itself is a reservoir as we get water through the year,” Revathi told DH.  Not just an organic farmer, Revathi is also an activist whose organisation, INSPIRE, has helped thousands of farmers get enough water for farming. They help by digging ponds in agricultural land. Gene pool  Today, her land has become a 'mini forest' and is home to several species of birds, reptiles and other organisms, besides boasting of 6,400 trees of different varieties. From the traditional varieties of paddy that consume less water compared to their hybrid counterparts, to vegetables to pulses to timber – the farm also has 1,400 crops, making it a gene pool.  “Once you give necessary treatment to the soil and condition it, you can grow any kind of crops. The conditioning will take just a few months’ time. If you take one step, nature will take ten steps. We have developed a farm that is self-sustainable in every aspect, including the availability of water. Farmers should move towards self-sustainable farms,” Revathi said.  If farmers must continue farming without the fear of water, Revathi said, they should have rainwater harvesting structures in their farms. “These ponds will not just store water but also recharge the groundwater. Once that happens, the farmer does not have to worry about water. Water is much more important than we think. Nature does not give water all the time. But we should conserve when it pours,” she said.  Citing her success in organic farming, Revathi said the transition from the current method to organic will take a few years and all that farmers need is an open heart to embrace new ideas. “Crop change is not as difficult as one thinks. Besides traditional varieties of paddy, farmers have plenty of options as far as crops are concerned. Once you embrace organic farming, there is no looking back. Farmers should hold on to multi-crop patterns as it helps them generate revenue through the year,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/organic-and-sustainable-farming-tamil-nadu-ecologist-shows-the-way-1045880.html
31-10-2021||South||As schools reopen on Nov 1, over 2,000 Kerala teachers yet to receive Covid-19 vaccine: Report||Several teachers are reportedly citing their religious faith as among the reasons for not getting vaccinated. “A section of them have cited health reasons such as allergy, while others are keeping away from Covid-19 vaccine in the name of faith. The government wants all teachers to take vaccine shots considering the future of students. But we are not going to issue any order. It is better such teachers keep away from the school premises and they can take online classes,” Sivankutty was quoted as saying. DH couldn't independently verify the reports. The existing online classes are to continue and attendance at offline classes has not been made mandatory in the state as a large chunk of parents are unlikely to send their children to school from Monday. Schools have been advised to strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines and allow only vaccinated teachers inside the premises. State Health Minister Veena George informed on Saturday that 94.7 per cent (2,52,96,660) of the targeted population in the state received the first dose of vaccine, while 50.9 per cent (1,36,05,863) of the targeted population received both doses. With PTI and DHNS inputs. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-schools-reopen-on-nov-1-over-2000-kerala-teachers-yet-to-receive-covid-19-vaccine-report-1045927.html
31-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin visits Rajinikanth in hospital||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday visited actor Rajinikanth, who is in a hospital here after undergoing a surgery recently. The superstar had on Friday undergone a procedure to restore blood supply to brain after being admitted to Kauvery hospital on October 28. The chief minister, who had earlier wished a speedy recovery for Rajinikanth, paid a visit to the hospital on Sunday and enquired about his health. The actor who underwent "Carotid Artery Revascularization" (CAR), was likely to be discharged after few days, the hospital had said on Friday. The top Tamil star was admitted on October 28 following an episode of giddiness. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-visits-rajinikanth-in-hospital-1045957.html
31-10-2021||South||OPS slams govt decision to celebrate Tamil Nadu day on July 18; calls it peak of political vendetta||The opposition AIADMK on Sunday slammed Chief Minister M K Stalin's announcement on changing the Tamil Nadu Day from November 1 to July 18, saying it smacked of 'political vendetta' and dubbed it as an 'unsuitable move'. Reversing the previous AIADMK government's decision, Stalin had on Saturday said the state's Formation Day will henceforth be celebrated on July 18, in lines with the rechristening of its name to the present one on that day and not on November 1. A government order will be issued soon for this purpose, he had said. Following the Linguistic Reorganisation of states, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala came into existence from the then Madras state on November 1, 1956. AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam said a child's birthday falls on the day it is born and not when it is given a name, referring to the ruling DMK's decision to alter the state's formation day in lines with it getting the present name, i.e. Tamil Nadu. Incidentally, though late chief minister CN Annadurai piloted an Assembly resolution on July 18, 1967 to rename Tamil Nadu from Madras State, it became a reality two years later, after the proposal went through the Parliament and the then central government issued a notification on the name change in 1968, saying it would come into effect from January 14, 1969. "Going by the chief minister's reasoning, only 14-01-1969 should be celebrated as Tamil Nadu day. A child's birthday should be celebrated on the day it is born ....," the former CM said in a party statement. Panneerselvam further said the birthday of a child, even if its name is officially changed 10 years after being born, is celebrated on the day of its birth and not the one in which the name change happened. A building is also assumed to have been established on the day it is inaugurated and not when it was cleared at a proposal level, he added. "Similarly, the birthday of the child called Madras state which was born on November 1, 1956 with the present landscape, which was decided to be renamed as Tamil Nadu in 1967 and one which happened in 1969, is still Novmber 1, 1956." "So the announcement on celebrating Tamil Nadu on July 18 will not be suitable by any means. It amounts to saying the state was born 11 years later than it did and is an attempt at rewriting history.... is the peak of political vendetta," he added. Panneerselvam cited the other states carved out of then Madras state celebrating their respective fomration days on November 1 and urged Stalin to withdraw his government's decision to observe Tamil Nadu day on July 18. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ops-slams-govt-decision-to-celebrate-tamil-nadu-day-on-july-18-calls-it-peak-of-political-vendetta-1046048.html
31-10-2021||South||Puducherry to celebrate 68th de facto merger day on November 1||Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy would unfurl the tri-colour here on November 1 to mark the celebration of the 68th de facto merger day of Puducherry. Puducherry and its outlying regions of Karaikal, Mahe, and Yanam merged with the Indian Union as a result of the referendum held at the border village of Kizhoor on October 18, 1954.  A Treaty of Cession was signed in the wake of the referendum between the then French and Indian governments and the de facto merger was effected with the transfer of power from the French to the Indian government. The de jure transfer of power took place on August 16, 1962, and Puducherry together with the other regions was made a Union Territory in the wake of the de jure transfer of power. There has, however, been a demand by most of the governments that Puducherry is granted statehood. Resolutions were adopted in the Assembly on several occasions and sent to the Centre for grant of statehood. But nothing happened so far. Special arrangements are being made to celebrate the day. Territorial Home Minister A Namassivayam was among those who greeted the people of Union Territory on the eve of the celebration of de facto merger day. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-to-celebrate-68th-de-facto-merger-day-on-november-1-1046060.html
31-10-2021||South||Schools in Kerala to reopen from November 1 in staggered manner, with bio-bubble||After a hiatus of more than one-and-a-half year due to coronavirus outbreak, schools in Kerala are set to reopen in a staggered manner from November 1 starting with classes 1 to 7, 10 and 12 and with Covid protocols, like bio-bubbles in place, the state government said on Sunday. With 95 per cent of the population who are over 18 years of age being vaccinated with at least the first dose and a reduction in the number of new cases and people undergoing Covid-19 treatment, the state has been able to relax social restrictions, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. In this backdrop, the state government has decided to open schools with utmost vigilance and in a staggered manner, the CM said in a Facebook post. To keep schools functioning in a safe manner, guidelines prepared by the Health and Education departments need to be strictly followed by the schools, he said. He further said the schools need to implement the measures to control congestion, maintain social distancing and ensure cleanliness in classrooms and the surroundings. Earlier this month, the state government had given details of the preparations made by it to safeguard children from getting infected, once schools reopen. The preparations included cleaning and disinfecting places where children throng and strictly implementing the bio-bubble system. School authorities have been directed to prepare mid-day meal for children and distribute them adhering to Covid protocol besides ensuring them the service of a doctor, the Education department had said. Along with soap and sanitiser, thermal scanner to examine the body temperature of children, teachers and non-teaching staff would also be arranged in each school. In view of the Covid spread, the state government has been imparting online education to the children in the government and aided schools for the last two academic years including the ongoing one. The CM, on Sunday, said although studies were progressing well via the online method, children were missing out on studying and playing with their friends and therefore, the situation would be changing from November 1. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-kerala-to-reopen-from-november-1-in-staggered-manner-with-bio-bubble-1046073.html
31-10-2021||South||No cause for concern even if 7,000 cubic feet water released from Mullaperiyar: Kerala Water Minister||Kerala Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine on Sunday said even if 7,000 cubic feet of water is released by Tamil Nadu from Mullaperiyar dam, there is no cause for concern as arrangements have been made to keep the areas in its downstream safe. Speaking to reporters here, the Minister said 2,974 cubic feet of water is currently flowing through the spillway and 2,360 cubic feet of water is being carried to Tamil Nadu and as a result, the water level has dropped to 138.85 feet. Agriculture Minister P Prasad, who also visited the dam site, told reporters that according to the Central Water Commission-approved Rule Curve, the water level has to be maintained at 138 feet, but it has not been done. This would be brought to the attention of the Supreme Court on the next date of hearing of the Mullaperiyar issue on November 11, both ministers said. They also said that while the government was not opposed to providing water to Tamil Nadu for its agricultural needs, the safety interests of Kerala too have to be kept in mind. They also said that Tamil Nadu's Public Works' Chief Engineer will arrive in Thekkady on Sunday to discuss further action. Shutters of the dam in Kerala were raised further by Tamil Nadu on Saturday morning after the water level in the reservoir rose to 138.90 feet. The three spillway shutters were raised to a height of 70 cm each and 1,675 cusecs of water were released downstream. Shutters of the dam were raised on Friday as the water level in the reservoir crossed 138 feet. Tamil Nadu government officials had raised the spillway shutters 3 and 4 of the 126-year old dam by 0.3 metres around 7.30 am on Friday. Later at 9 pm on the same day, one more shutter of the dam was raised as the water level in the 126-year old dam continued to rise. Mullaperiyar dam, built-in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala, is operated by the Tamil Nadu government for its irrigation and power generation needs. Kerala is insisting on building a new dam, citing safety concerns, but Tamil Nadu is against it, saying the present structure is strong. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-cause-for-concern-even-if-7000-cubic-feet-water-released-from-mullaperiyar-kerala-water-minister-1046100.html
31-10-2021||State||Bommai to offer bagina to KRS, Kabini dam on November 2||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be offering bagina to the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Mandya district's Srirangapatna taluk and Kabini dam in Mysuru's H D Kote taluk on November 2. The dams have reached the maximum level. According to communication, CM Bommai will leave Bengaluru in a helicopter and reach Kabini dam. He will offer 'bagina' at Kabini dam and later fly to Srirangapatna for the same at River Cauvery at 1 pm. Later, he will perform a puja to the Goddess Cauvery statue on the premises and will participate in the dais programme. Ministers K C Narayan Gowda, Ravindra Srikantaiah and others will participate. He will return to Bengaluru in the same chopper, it is said. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi visited the KRS dam on Saturday and inspected the premises in the wake of the CM's visit. Assistant Commissioner B C Shivanandamurthy was also present. The water level of the dam is 124.8 ft on Sunday as against the maximum level of 124.80 ft. The water level of the Kabini dam is 2,284 ft, the maximum level. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-to-offer-bagina-to-krs-kabini-dam-on-november-2-1046018.html
31-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bypolls: Approximately 69% voter turnout in Sindgi, 84% in Hangal||An approximate 69 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypoll to Sindgi assembly constituency in Karnataka, while it was 84 per cent in Hangal segment, election officials said on Saturday. Polling began at 7 am and went on till 7 pm. According to poll officials, elections were held by strictly adhering to Covid-19 guidelines, and no incidents have been reported. A total of 19 candidates were in the fray in the two constituencies, including six from Sindgi and 13 from Hangal. Two candidates from Sindgi were women. Counting of votes will take place on November 2. A total of 4,39,148 voters, including 230 service voters, were eligible to cast their votes from both constituencies, at 560 polling stations. The by-election was necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindgi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP's C M Udasi from Hangal. While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindgi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal constituency. The Congress has named M C Managuli's son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindgi, while former MLC Srinivas Mane is its candidate from Hangal. The JD(S), which was the first to announce its candidates, has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindgi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. This is the first electoral challenge for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after taking charge. Retaining Hangal is even more important for him as it is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment. The Congress, by ensuring a win, wants to give momentum for its preparations in the run up to 2023 assembly polls in the state, while the JD(S) is looking to retain Sindgi seat and thereby prove that it still commands a support base in the northern districts.  Check out DH's latets videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-approximately-69-voter-turnout-in-sindgi-84-in-hangal-1045892.html
31-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Family, fans bid Puneeth Rajkumar tearful farewell||Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar was laid to rest after final rites were conducted at Kanteerava Studio in the presence of his family members, friends and ruling and opposition leaders of all political parties in Bengaluru. The final rites were conducted as per the traditions of the Ediga community of the Hindu religion. His mortal remains were brought in a procession from Kanteerava Stadium, which began around 5 am and reached Kanteerava studio. Fans gathered on either side of roads on the way bid him tearful adieu. As many as 10 lakh people paid their last homage to the superstar. Puneeth Rajkumar, the Kannada cinema superstar, son of Kannada film legend Dr Rajkumar, passed away on Friday (October 29) due to cardiac arrest. Before the burial, the government of Karnataka accorded him honours according to protocol. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai handed over the Tricolour flag, which draped the mortal remains of the actor to his wife Ashwini and two daughters. Opposition leaders DK Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah and all cabinet ministers, all bigwigs of the Kannada film industry attended the function held early in the morning on Sunday. Family members performed worship of Puneeth's mortal remains, which was placed in the decorated palanquin before the burial. Public 'darshan' was allowed throughout the night for the fans to facilitate the final viewing as huge crowds continued to turn out since Friday late in the noon. Bigwigs of the Telugu film industry, Chiranjeevi, Nandamuri Balakrishna, Junior NTR, Venkatesh, Srikanth came down to Bengaluru to pay their last homage to Puneeth Rajkumar. Prabhudeva and Sharath Kumar from the Tamil film industry came to pay their last respects. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted their condolence messages over the untimely death of Puneeth. Prime Minister Modi had put up a picture of Puneeth's family with him in his message. Kannada film actor Puneeth Rajkumar's mortal remains were laid to rest beside the grave of his father, legendary actor of Kannada cinema Dr Rajkumar. Puneeth Rajkumar's mother Parvathamma is also laid to rest in the same premises. The decision was taken as per the wishes of his family. Puneeth had pledged his eyes for donation. Dr Bhujanga Shetty, Director Narayana Nethralaya, who collected the eyes of Puneeth remembered the commitment of the family as he promptly received a call from Puneet's elder brother Raghavendra Rajkumar to collect eyes for donation.   Puneeth Rajkumar had donated Rs 50 lakh to the government of Karnataka during the Covid crisis. Puneeth was supporting 16 old age homes and 19 goshalas. Thousands of girl students were supported through the 'Shakthidhama' organisation. But, he never spoke about his philanthropic activities. Puneeth was one of the earliest persons to get the Covid jab, when vaccination hesitancy was still there among people. Puneeth completed his cine journey as an artist for 45 years as he entered the film industry as a toddler. He has acted in 13 films as a child artiste. As a child artiste, he won the National award for his acting in 'Bettada Hoovu' movie in 1985. He won the best child artist award for his acting in 'Chalisuva Modagalu' and 'Eradu Kanasu' movies. He made his debut as a full-fledged hero with 'Appu' movie in 2002. Since then, he had acted in 29 movies. His latest release was 'Yuvaratnaa' which hit the theatres in April earlier this year. His last movie is 'James'. His documentary made by film-maker Amoghavarsha of 'Wild Karnataka' fame shot underwater was all set to release on November 1. He won two state awards for best actor and five Film Fare awards. He started production House Puneeth Rajkumar Films in 2019 and produced movies of Danish Sait and others. He was a successful television presenter for the Kannada version of 'Kaun Banega Crorepati'. Puneeth, fondly called 'Appu' was christened as 'Power star' by fans. Puneeth made it a point to spend one whole month with his family. He used to sing and dance on special occasions with his family. The film industry which bounced back after the Covid lockdown has suddenly come under a pall of gloom with his demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/family-fans-bid-puneeth-rajkumar-tearful-farewell-1045918.html
31-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Puneeth reunited with parents: The link between Rajkumar family and Kanteerava Studios||Kannada and Sandalwood 'Power Star' Puneeth Rajkumar was laid to rest earlier on Sunday with full state honours. The actor of Milana and Appu fame was buried at a site that holds utmost significance among the Kannada film fraternity and its fans alike. Sree Kanteerava Studios, located in northwest Bengaluru, is where 'Appu' has been laid to rest alongside his parents and 'Rebel Star' Ambareesh. Set up in 1966, the then-publicly owned facility had witnessed the making of some of the most iconic Kannada films and remains an important location to this day. It is here that the Government of Karnataka set up a memorial where Puneeth's father, thespian Dr Rajkumar, was given his funeral back in 2006, followed by his mother Parvathamma in 2017 and Ambareesh in 2018. The Dr Rajkumar Samadhi, as the memorial is known, though generally open to the public, might be closed for the next few days. The 46-year-old's funeral on Sunday was attended by members of the film fraternity and political leaders, including Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai, Siddaramaiah, B S Yediyurappa and D K Shivakumar. The procession to the memorial site had begun at around 5 am. Puneeth Rajkumar died on Friday afternoon due to a heart attack hours after he was admitted to Vikram Hospital after complaints of chest pain while exercising earlier that morning. His sudden death left thousands in Karnataka and elsewhere in a state of extreme grief. According to the hospital, the actor was brought to the hospital with a family doctor diagnosing that he had had a heart attack. "At the time of arrival to the emergency, the patient was non-responsive and was in cardiac asystole. Hence, immediate advanced cardiac life support measures were initiated for resuscitation..." His last film, 'Yuvarathnaa' was released earlier this year. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/puneeth-reunited-with-parents-the-link-between-rajkumar-family-and-kanteerava-studios-1045932.html
31-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rohan Bopanna, actor Devaraj among 66 achievers to be conferred with Rajyotasava award||The Karnataka government on Sunday announced a list of 66 achievers from various fields for the 2021 edition of the Rajyotsava award. Key among the winners include tennis player Rohan Bopanna, cinema actor Devaraj, water resources expert Capt Raja Rao and theatre personality Prakash Belawadi. Another prize - Amrut Mahotsav state award - distributed to commemorate 75 years of Indian independence will be conferred to 10 organisations from the state. Rajyotsava award is conferred in 24 categories, and each winner secures a gold medal and a purse of Rs one lakh. The list of winners are as follows. Literature category - Mahadeva Shankanapura (Chamarajanagar), Prof DT Rangaswamy (Chitradurga), Jayalakshmi Mangalamurthy (Raichur), Ajjampura Manjunath (Chikkamagaluru), Krishna Kulkarni (Vijayapur) and Siddappa Bidari (Bagalkot). Theatre category - Fakeerappa Ramappa Kodai (Haveri), Prakash Belawadi (Chikkamagaluru), Ramesh Gowda Patil (Bellary), Malleshaiah N (Ramnagar) and Saavithir Goudar (Gadag). Folk art category - RB Nayak (Vijayapur), Gowramma Hucchappa Master (Shivamogga), Durgappa Chennadasara (Bellary), Bannanje Babu Ameen (Udupi), Mallikarjun Rachappa Mudakavi (Bagalkot), Venkappa Govindappa Bhajantri (Dharwad) and Maharudrappa Veerappa Itagi (Haveri). Music - Thyagaraju C (Kolar) and Herald Cyril D'Souza (Dakshina Kannada). Sculpture - Dr G Jnananda (Chikkaballapur) and Venkanna Chitragara (Koppal). Social service - Sollagitthi Yamunavva (Bagalkot), Madali Madaiah (Mysuru), Muniyappa Domlur (Bengaluru Urban), BL Patil (Belagavi) and Dr JN Ramakrishnegowda (Mandya). Medicine - Dr Sultan B Jagalutu (Davanagere), Dr Vyasa Deshpande (Dharwad), Dr AR Pradeep (Bengaluru Urban), Dr Duresh Rao (Dakshina Kannada), Dr Sudarshan (Bengaluru) and Dr Shivanagouda Rudragouda Ramanagoudar (Dharwad). Sports - Rohan Bopanna (Kodgu), specially abled athlete K Gopinath (Bengaluru Urban), Rohit Kumar Kateel (Udupi) and A Nagaraj (Bengaluru Urban). Cinema - Devaraj (Bengaluru Urban).  Education - Swami Lingappa (Mysuru), Sridhar Chakravarthy (Dharwad) and Prof PV Krishna Bhat. Miscellaneous - Dr B Ambanna (Vijayanagar), Captain Rajarao (Bellary) and Ganagavathy Pranesh (Koppal). Science and Technology - Dr HS Savithri (Bengaluru Urban) and GU Kulkarni (Bengaluru) Agriculture - Dr C Nagaraj (Bengaluru Rural), Gurulingappa Meldoddi (Bidar) and Shankarappa Ammanaghatta (Tumkur) Environment - Mahadeva Velipa (Uttara Kannada) and Baikampady Ramachandra (Dakshina Kannada). Journalism - Pattam Anantha Padmanabha (Mysuru) and UB Rajalakshmi (Udupi). Judiciary - CV Keshava Murthy (Mysuru). Administration - HR Kasturirangan. Armed forces - Naveen Nagappa. Yakshagana - Gopalacharya (Shivamogga) Horanadu Kannadiga - Dr Sunita Shetty (Mumbai), Chandrashekar Palthadi (Mumbai, Praveen Shetty (Dubai) and Siddarameshwara Kantikar. Pourakarmika - Ratnamma Shivappa Babalad (Yadgir) Hyderabad-Karnataka unification fighters - Mahadevalla Kadechooru (Kalaburagi) Yoga - Bha Ma Srikanta (Shivamogga) and Raghavendra Shenoy (Bengaluru) Entrepreneurship - Shyamaraju (Bengaluru) The 10 NGOs and organisations that won the Amrut Mahotsav State Prize, distributed on account of 75 years of Indian Independence are: Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rohan-bopanna-actor-devaraj-among-66-achievers-to-be-conferred-with-rajyotasava-award-1046015.html
31-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Puneeth Rajkumar's fan dies after starving for two days||Upset over the sudden demise of actor Puneeth Rajkumar, an ardent fan of matinee idol Rajkumar’s family, took ill and died on Saturday night at Keragodu village in Mandya district. K M Raju (50) is the deceased. He leaves behind his wife, son and a daughter. Raju was running a hotel in the name of Dr Rajkumar. After learning about Puneeth’s death on Friday, he stopped consuming food. He erected a flexboard to pay respects to the departed actor and was inconsolable. On Saturday, he had told his family members that he is selling his mobile phone to go to Bengaluru to pay last respects to the actor, and left to Mandya. He had collapsed near the Silver Jubilee Park in Mandya. A few from Keragodu village took care of him and brought him home. He was provided treatment, but succumbed on Saturday night. It may be mentioned that Raju had slit his hands with a blade, when the matinee idol had passed away. He had also tatooed the name of Rajkumar on his hand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/puneeth-rajkumars-fan-dies-after-starving-for-two-days-1046121.html
31-10-2021||West||Indian Navy receives first P15B guided-missile destroyer||The first P15B stealth guided-missile destroyer was delivered to the Indian Navy by the Mumbai-based Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDL) on October 28.  The construction and delivery of this ship -- named "Visakhapatnam" -- is a significant development that is the testimony of India’s warship construction programmes, an official statement said on Saturday. A total of four vessels -- Visakhapatnam, Mormugao, Imphal and Porbandar -- are to be made by the MDL.  The ship is constructed using Indigenous Steel DMR 249A and is amongst the largest destroyers constructed in India, with an overall length of 164 meters and a displacement of over 7500 tonnes.  According to the statement, it is a potent platform capable of undertaking a variety of tasks and missions, spanning the full spectrum of maritime warfare.  It is armed with supersonic Surface-to-Surface ‘Brahmos’ missiles and ‘Barak-8’ Long Range Surface to Air Missiles. Towards undersea warfare capability, ship is fitted with indigenously developed anti-submarine weapons and sensors, prominently the Hull mounted Sonar Humsa NG, Heavy weight Torpedo Tube Launchers and Rocket Launchers. Significantly more versatile than the previous destroyer and frigates in Naval inventory, the Visakhapatnam’s all-round capability against enemy submarines, surface warships, anti-ship missiles and fighter aircraft will enable it to operate without a bevvy of supporting vessels, and also function as the flagship of a Naval task force. The ship can accommodate a crew of 312 persons, has an endurance of 4,000 nautical miles and can carry out a typical 42 days mission with extended mission time in out of area operation.  The ship is equipped with two helicopters onboard to further extend its reach. The ship is propelled by a powerful Combined Gas and Gas Propulsion Plant (COGAG), consisting of four reversible Gas Turbines, which enables her to achieve a speed of over 30 knots (approx 55 Kmph). The Ship Boasts of a very high level of automation with sophisticated digital networks such as Gigabyte Ethernet based Ship Data Network (GESDN), Combat Management System (CMS), Automatic Power Management System (APMS) and Integrated Platform Management System (IPMS). The indigenous content in P15B Class destroyers is 72% which is a notch above their predecessors P15A (59%) and P15 (42%) Class Destroyers, reaffirming the Government focus in Make in India programme. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-receives-first-p15b-guided-missile-destroyer-1045948.html
31-10-2021||West||CAI estimates cotton production at 360.13 lakh bales for 2021-22 crop year||The Mumbai-based Cotton Association of India (CAI) on Saturday estimated cotton output at 360.13 lakh bales for the crop year (October-September) 2021-22, due to the expectation of better yield. The CAI released its first estimate of the cotton crop for the new season 2021-22 beginning from October 1, 2021, after a meeting of the Crop Committee presided over by CAI president Atul S Ganatra. It has estimated cotton crop for the 2021-22 crop year at 360.13 lakh bales of 170 kg each, which is equivalent to 382.64 lakh running bales of 160 kg each. This is a preliminary estimate and the Crop Committee of the CAI will re-assess the crop as the season progresses. The crop estimated for the 2021-22 season is more by 7.13 lakh bales of 170 kg each (equivalent to 7.58 lakh running bales of 160 kg each) than the previous year’s crop of 353.00 lakh bales of 170 kg each (equivalent to 375.06 lakh running bales of 160 kg each). The yearly consumption estimated by the CAI for the current crop year 2021-22 is 335 lakh bales of 170 kg each (equivalent to 355.94 lakh running bales of 160 kg each), which is the same as in the last year. The CAI has estimated cotton imports for the 2021-22 season at the same level of 10 lakh bales of 170 kg each (equivalent to 10.63 lakh running bales of 160 kg each) as estimated by it for the last year. The cotton exports for the 2021-22 season have been estimated by the CAI at 48.00 lakh bales of 170 kg each (equivalent to 51 lakh running bales of 160 kg each based on the input received from exporter-members. This export estimate for the 2021-22 season is lower by 30 lakh bales compared to 78 lakh bales of 170 kg each (equivalent to 82.88 lakh running bales of 160 kg each). The closing stock as of September 30, 2022, estimated by the Crop Committee is 62.13 lakh bales of 170 kg each (equivalent to 66.01 lakh running bales of 160 kg each).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cai-estimates-cotton-production-at-36013-lakh-bales-for-2021-22-crop-year-1045973.html
31-10-2021||West||'Statue of Unity' message that nobody can break India's integrity: Shah on Sardar Patel's birth anniversary||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel will continue to inspire generations to come, and the 'Statue of Unity', dedicated to Patel, is a message to the world that India's future is bright and nobody can break the country's unity and integrity. Addressing a gathering at the world's tallest 'Statue of Unity' at Kevadia in Gujarat's Narmada district on the occasion of Sardar Patel's birth anniversary, Shah also targeted the opposition, saying efforts were made to forget the 'Iron Man of India'. Recalling Sardar Patel's contribution to unite India after independence, Shah said it was because of the former's effort that Lakshadweep could become an integral part of India. "It is unfortunate that efforts were made to forget Sardar Saheb. After independence, his contributions were never given proper respect and place. He was neither conferred the Bharat Ratna (the country's highest civilian honour), nor proper respect. But it is said, how long can clouds keep the sun hidden," the senior BJP leader said. As the situation changed in the country, Sardar Patel received the Bharat Ratna, and the world's tallest statue, dedicated to Sardar Saheb, was also constructed to pay homage to him, he said. "The 'Statue of Unity' is a message to the entire world that nobody can break India's unity and integrity and nobody can tamper with India's universality," he said. "It was Sardar Saheb's inspiration that has kept the country united, and it is his inspiration that will keep us united and take the country forward," Shah said. Recalling Patel's contribution to unite India by bringing together some of the princely states, Shah said nobody has paid attention to his contribution to make Lakshadweep a part of India. "When India became independent on August 15, Sardar Sahib sent the Indian Naval Ship Tir to Lakshadweep. A few hours after the Indian Navy unfurled the tricolour, Pakistani ships reached there. But, by that time, the tricolour was unfurled. It is because of this that Lakshadweep is a part of India, and a large part of India's coastline is secured from there," Shah said. He further said that Kevadia, where the 182-metre tall 'Statue of Unity' is located, has become "a pilgrimage of India's unity, nationality, and patriotism". The statue is a true homage to Sardar Patel by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had visualised the world's tallest structure, Shah said. A leader like Sardar Patel is born once in centuries and inspires people for centuries, he added. "At one time, Acharya Chanakya united India. Centuries later, Sardar Saheb united India. It is the result of it that the country is today proudly strengthening its place in the world," the Union minister said. He also asked citizens to remember the achievements, struggles and sacrifices the country made from the date of independence till today, and to take a pledge to carry the nation forward. As the country celebrates the 'Azadi Ka Amrit Maohtsav', "we have to pay our homage to all the martyrs, remember them and take inspiration from them all to inspire our children and youth," he said. Shah said the government's decision to celebrate October 31 as the 'Rashtriya Ekta Diwas' (National Unity Day)' was taken so that Sardar Patel's struggles for India's independence and his efforts to unite the country continue to inspire people for centuries. "PM Modi has taken the pledge for a bright, developed, prosperous, secured, cultured and educated India. To achieve this, we should celebrate the Amrit Mahotsav as the year of pledge," he said. Prime Minister Modi has brought about changes in several areas in the last seven years, whether it is about India's security, economic reforms, or the 'Make in India' initiative, he said. "A hope for a different India has been born among 130 crore Indians, the one which was imagined by Sardar Saheb," he said. Due to Modi's efforts to bring the country's 60 crore poor into the mainstream, they have become connected to the country's development process, Shah said. "Modi ji has set a target of a five trillion dollar economy, secure India, educated India as per the new education policy, and a target for the pride of our languages. Today, on the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, we should take a pledge to make the country strong and as per the dreams of Sardar Patel, by walking on the path shown by him," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/statue-of-unity-message-that-nobody-can-break-indias-integrity-shah-on-sardar-patels-birth-anniversary-1045974.html
31-10-2021||West||Maharahsta govt allows daily train tickets for vaccinated people||The Maharashtra government on Sunday permitted travel on daily single-use tickets in the suburban local trains. The Maharashtra government’s State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) has ordered necessary instructions to the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR). Last week, the CR and WR scaled the train services to the 100 per cent level as it used to be in March 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. After two waves, the cent-per cent services have been restored and those with two doses of vaccines were allowed to travel by way of monthly pass. From now on, daily tickets would be available for those who have completed two rounds of vaccination. On Saturday night, the SDMA wrote to Divisional Railway Managers of CR and WR on daily tickets. “As one time ticketing was allowed on long distance passenger trains before too, this relaxation means that all fully vaccinated residents may travel in local and passenger trains on all routes and through all kinds of tickets that may be issued by railways including daily ticketing. Being fully vaccinated will be the only mandatory condition for issuance of any kind of tickets for travel in trains,” Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation, said in the communication to the DRMs of CR-WR. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharahsta-govt-allows-daily-train-tickets-for-vaccinated-people-1045997.html
31-10-2021||West||Nawab Malik claims Wankhede warned him of 'dire consequences'||In a shocking revelation, Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Sunday alleged that Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede had threatened him with "dire consequences" several months ago. The incident happened, Malik said, when he learnt of the NCB Zonal Director's allegedly fake caste certificate and some Mumbai reporters conveyed the message that "Wankhede is very upset with you... there could be dire consequences of all this." "It was after this incident that he arrested my son-in-law in a fake drugs case and kept him inside the jail for over eight months. The intention was that even if I raised the matter of his forged caste papers, nobody would take it seriously and label it as a vendetta," Malik told media persons. However, the Nationalist Congress Party leader said he made it clear to Wankhede's messengers that he would make an all-out expose on all his wrongs and place it before the people. "During the recent action and arrest of Aryan Khan, his father Shah Rukh Khan was told that because I (Malik) am pursuing the matter, his (Aryan's) release was getting delayed. Officials and acquaintances tried to build indirect pressures vide the superstar," Malik alleged. Moreover, attempts were made to brainwash and pressurise him even through his own family members, including a lawyer-son, who pleaded with him to drop the Wankhede matter. "Many officials and other known persons cautioned me that the narcotic business is very big with huge stakes, and I could even be killed for it. I said I will die when I have to, but will not be deterred from unravelling the truth," Malik said. He added that Wankhede had met Union MoS for Social Justice Ramdas Athawale and other Dalit party leaders in the past as he was "so unnerved" by the fake caste certificate matter. On Sunday, Wankhede's father Dnyandev and wife Kranti called on Athawale and dismissed Malik's allegations of conversion as an outcome of vendetta, while the Minister threw his weight behind the Wankhede family. "Malik says we deprived a Dalit of his rights... We are also Dalits. If you have anything to say, go to court. My son or I have never converted," said Dnyandev Wankhede. Malik had alleged that the process began in 2015 and Dawood became Dnyandev, Yasmeen became Jasmine and she divorced her Muslim husband who is not settled in Europe, plus Sameer Wankhede and his sister Jasmine did not convert because they were born Muslim as their father had converted. "I have repeatedly stated that this is not about caste-religion but about a fake Scheduled Caste certificate on the basis of which Sameer Wankhede has snatched the job of a deserving Dalit boy or girl. I will fight till the end," he declared. He hit out at the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Vice Chairman Arun Halder, who had said that Sameer Wankhede had not converted. "Halder may be a BJP leader but he is appointed to a Constitutional post and he must uphold its dignity. He must first conduct a probe into the matter, and submit his report to Parliament, instead of giving comments to the media," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nawab-malik-claims-wankhede-warned-him-of-dire-consequences-1046043.html
31-10-2021||West||Will take up vaccine shortage during interaction with PM: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday expressed concern over what said was a slow pace of coronavirus vaccination in the state, adding he will take up the issue during an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi next week. Thackeray also said vaccine hesitancy was also an issue besides the unavailability of vaccines and asked more and more people to shed their inhibitions and get vaccinated. In an informal interaction with senior journalists at his official residence Varsha in the posh Malabar Hill area in south Mumbai, Thackeray, flanked by wife Rashmi, did not entertain any queries on politics. Asked about the long-term strategy of his government to tackle the pandemic, Thackeray quipped, “Let us first focus on the task at hand, that is to get more and more people vaccinated and boost the health infrastructure in the state”. “People are talking about booster doses. Let us first ensure that all people get both the doses,” he said. There are people who have not got even the first dose, he added. The impact of the pandemic’s third wave could be greatly reduced if people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, Thackeray said. Even those fully vaccinated should continue wearing face masks, he added. The CM spoke of taking “calculated risks” in allowing certain activities during the pandemic without causing economic hardships. The pandemic has affected not just the state or the country but the entire global economy, he added. Modi is scheduled to hold a review meeting via video conferencing on November 3 with district magistrates of over 40 districts having low coronavirus vaccination coverage. The meeting will include districts with less than 50 per cent coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of the vaccine, a CMO official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-take-up-vaccine-shortage-during-interaction-with-pm-uddhav-thackeray-1046058.html
31-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: Arbaaz Merchant released from jail||Arbaaz Merchant, who was arrested by the NCB in the cruise drugs case on October 3, was released from the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai on Sunday, three days after he was granted bail by the Bombay High Court. The high court had on Thursday allowed the bail plea of Merchant along with that of Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha, who were also arrested in the same case by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). While Aryan Khan was released from the Arthur Road jail on Saturday, Dhamecha walked out of the Byculla women's jail here around 11 am on Sunday. Merchant was released from the jail later in the day after completion of all the legal formalities. Talking to reporters outside the jail, his father Aslam Merchant said, "Strict conditions have been set by the high court while granting bail to him. But being an advocate, I will ensure that these conditions are complied with. We like to follow the rules and regulations...He will not do anything that may go against him." On Friday afternoon, the high court had made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha, stipulating their release on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. In the five-page order, the high court said the trio will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. They will also have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence. A special court in Mumbai had on Saturday granted bail to alleged drug peddler Aachit Kumar and eight others, who were arrested by the NCB following the raid on the cruise ship. Of the 20 persons arrested by the NCB after the raid, as many as 14 have got bail so far.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-arbaaz-merchant-released-from-jail-1046068.html
31-10-2021||West||Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor takes charge as NDA Commandant||Ace IAF pilot with a range of instructional assignments Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor took over charge as Commandant, National Defence Academy (NDA) on Sunday from Lt Gen Asit Mistry who retired after serving in the Indian Army for 39 years. Air Marshal Kapoor was commissioned in the flying branch of the IAF in December 1985. He has over 7800 hours of accident/Incident free-flying on various trainer, transport and strategic aircraft.  He is an alumnus of NDA (67th Course D Squadron), Defence Services Staff College, Flying Instructor School, College of Defence Management and National Defence College. His educational qualifications include M. Sc (Defence Studies), Master of Management Studies and M. Phil. He is presently pursuing his Ph D from Osmania University. The Air Officer has participated in numerous flying exercises and operations in India and abroad. As Flying Instructor, he has done instructional tenures at Air Force Academy and Fixed wing Training Flight, Yelahanka.  His vast experience in High Altitude, VVIP, Air-to-Air Refuelling and Combat Operations led him to head the operational assignments at the highest levels. He is one of the pioneers in Aerial Refuelling Operations in the Indian Air Force who was trained abroad with OEM. His Command appointments include the command of Air to Air Refuelling Squadron and a large Operational Base with Strategic assets. His Staff appointments include Director and Principal Director (Operations) at Air HQ, Head of the Faculty and Senior Air Force Instructor at College of Defence Management, Secunderabad, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff Operations (Transport & Helicopters) and Assistant Chief of the Staff (Personnel Airmen and Civilian) at Air Headquarter (Vayu Bhawan) and Commandant, Air Force Academy. He has been awarded Vayu Sena Medal and Ati Vishist Seva Medal for his devotion to duty. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/air-marshal-sanjeev-kapoor-takes-charge-as-nda-commandant-1046072.html
31-10-2021||West||4.3 magnitude earthquake hits Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||An earthquake of 4.3 magnitudes was recorded in Sironcha taluka of Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district on Sunday, officials said. No damage to property or loss of life was reported due to it, a district official said. "The earthquake measured 4.3 on the Richter scale. It was recorded at 6.48 pm," he said. A statement from the Gadchiroli district collectorate quoting the National Centre for Seismology said the earthquake occurred at the depth of 77 kms. It was recorded at Jafrabad Chak village near the Pranhita river close to the Telangana border.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/43-magnitude-earthquake-hits-maharashtras-gadchiroli-1046076.html
31-10-2021||West||Goa Congress chief terms BJP MP's Thailand jibe at Rahul as 'gutter level thinking'||A day after BJP MP Tejasvi Surya claimed Rahul Gandhi was visiting Goa as Thailand was not taking in tourists due to the Covid-19 pandemic, state Congress chief Girish Chodankar on Sunday called Surya's thinking as “gutter level.” “In an attempt to make @DrPramodPSawant feel CM of Thailand, @BJP4India MP @Tejasvi_Surya with his gutter level thinking has compared Goa to #Thailand thereby insulting the women and people who have kept respect of the state high. We strongly condemn this character assassination of #Goa,” Chodankar tweeted. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Surya had said Gandhi was vacationing here as part of "political tourism" because Thailand was closed to tourists for the past one-and-half years due to the pandemic. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-chief-terms-bjp-mps-thailand-jibe-at-rahul-as-gutter-level-thinking-1046087.html
