01-09-2021||First Edit||Speaking truth to power||Justice D Y Chandrachud’s speech on “Speaking truth to power,’’ made last week, was a seminal assertion of the power of truth to drive and sustain societies and of the need for citizens to wield it as a shield and weapon to keep their societies free and democratic. The judge’s speech was at once moralistic, academic, philosophical and political but had a jurisprudential underpinning as he was exploring the need for the citizen to assert his right to speak to power. It was also a comment on contemporary society when he proposed that the citizen had not just the right but the duty to question power in the interest of truth, because governments increasingly monopolise power and try to support it with falsehood. Truth is the weapon to counteract power and obviate the predisposition to tyranny because “democracy and truth go hand in hand, and democracy needs truth to survive.’’  The judge’s assertions may seem to be abstractions, but they become relevant in the present global and national scenarios where freedoms are shrinking, rights are eroding and truth is suppressed. He has cautioned that truth, as determined by the State, may not always be free of falsehood, and that “one cannot only rely on the State to determine the ‘truth’.” He has made some practical propositions to recover truth from the post-truth world, in which “there is a contest between 'our truth' vs 'your truth', and a tendency to ignore a 'truth' not in alignment with one's perception.” This can only be done by strengthening public institutions, ensuring that the media is free, creating an educational system that instils in children the temperament to pose questions to power, and by acknowledging and celebrating the plurality of opinions. It is also the citizens’ duty to protect the integrity of elections, which are the bedrock of democracy. Intellectuals also have the responsibility to expose the “lies of the State’’ and it is important to hold governments in check and guard against falsehoods, false narratives and fake news.  Since the world is increasingly divided along social, economic and religious lines and we live in “echo chambers or bubbles where people are only exposed to the viewpoint they agree with and never coming into contact with an opposing one,” it is necessary to listen to and accommodate other views and sentiments. This will also make it incumbent on people to be kinder and more sensitive to those around them. A State which has “Satyameva Jayate’' as its motto makes it obligatory for its citizens to ensure that truth prevails over falsehood. The judge’s assertion that the best armour for the State and the citizens is truth should not go unheeded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/speaking-truth-to-power-1025623.html
01-09-2021||In Perspective||Mysuru gang-rape: Chamundi’s silence||One more gang-rape of a young woman. I am not surprised. But this time, it happened in Mysuru, my hometown. Not that I believed that rapes do not happen in Mysuru. Though I don’t live there anymore, I always think of Mysuru as different from any other city. I believed it has the capacity to nurture people, give them a soul and a moral anchor, not just house them. But a girl was brutalised on the foothills of Chamundi Hills. Goddess Chamundi is the patron deity of the city, extending her protection to its people. Why wasn’t the young woman secure at Chamundi’s own abode? This incident, and Chamundi’s silence, has hurt me, left me exhausted.   In the days since the incident, everyone, including the Home Minister of Karnataka, have asked: Why did the girl go to such an isolated place so late in the evening? This is even more tiring. How long are we going to ask this question? Are women, young and old, spared from physical violence if they were to stay at home all the time? Haven’t we read enough about domestic violence which, especially during the pandemic, has become another epidemic, prompting UN Women to characterise it as a ‘shadow pandemic’?  Will girls be safe if they have men around to protect them? Who among the men will own that responsibility? More importantly, what will they protect -- a woman’s physical safety, chastity, emotions and aspirations or autonomy? What means will they adopt to protect women they are responsible for? Will they use arms, rhetoric to do so or will they create a separate safe world for women at home?   Research has conclusively shown that close relatives and trusted friends are more often the perpetrators of physical violence on women than strangers one encounters in desolate places. While such research has centred around questions of physical safety of women at home and out in the world, our conversations cannot be limited to that. We also need to find ways of recognising how intellectual aspirations, emotional needs and friendships are stymied by male family members. This is perhaps as much or a greater threat to women’s self-realisation.   If men wish to take on the role of protecting women, then their role in society and goal in life is crystal clear: everyday they will keep an eye on their fellow men, who might be the perpetrators of violence against women. So far, men have failed in preventing other men from being the source of violence against women -- physical, psychological or emotional. Some men might sincerely and firmly believe in creating a safe world for women. They might even collaborate with women protesters. They may have stormed the roads, streamed into social media, invaded the virtual space, and petitioned in courts. But what has been the impact so far of these sustained campaigns? Not much. Violence continues unabated. Men, led by the Home Minister of the state, continue to defend their fellow men by saying women should not go out after dark. The Vice Chancellor of Mysore University decides to ban the movement of women students within the campus after 6.30 pm.   I wonder if men feel straight-jacketed or objectified when defined as violent rapists. Do they feel ashamed of themselves or their gender? Or do they feel vindicated, emboldened by the defensive rhetoric offered by politicians and other men? Do men even want to offer a different collective narrative in public that differs from that which is defined by the actions of a few men?   Note that Karnataka’s Home Minister didn’t lack support for what he said in the social media space. His supporters continue to liken his statements to a father’s advice to his daughter. Does that mean the father has abandoned his son and has nothing to say to him? That he isn’t responsible for the morality of his son? Does the son, the one who takes the family name forward, not have to hear anything from his father about his attitude towards women?   Very often, men appear to make an effort to win over women by stating that they are different from other misogynists. That they are modern, cosmopolitan and believe in gender equality. This is, for the most part, convenient rhetoric to create a make-believe safe world for women.   As I ponder over all this, I begin to understand Chamundi’s silence. Just like me, perhaps, even she does not know from whom and from what she should protect women. The Month of Ashada has just passed, a month during which all of Mysuru visits the temple on Fridays. Navaratri is approaching. Chamundi is unlikely to appear in our world like the ‘Devi’ she is imagined to be. Should women and girls stop going to Chamundi Hills then?     (The writer teaches in Christ (Deemed to be) University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/mysuru-gang-rape-chamundi-s-silence-1025624.html
01-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||II PU physical classes commence in Dakshina Kannada||Physical classes for II PU students commenced in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday. As the district administration gave permission to hold classes with 50 per cent strength, the colleges are conducting classes in batches both in the morning and at noon.The district administration had directed the college principals to adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) issued by the authorities strictly. All the students from Kerala who are staying in hostels have to be be quarantined for seven days after their arrival. After seven days, they should undergo the RT-PCR test and only those with negative certificates can attend offline classes. The quarantined students can attend the online classes from their quarantine centre in college, said the guidelines from the district administration.To ensure social distance, two students were allowed to sit per bench in classrooms. Wearing a mask and use of sanitizers have been made mandatory. “The attendance on the first day was good. We are holding classes for 50 per cent of the students in batches. Not all the hostel inmates have returned,” St Agnes PU College Principal Sr Norine D’Souza told DH. There are a total of 201 PU Colleges including 53 Government PU Colleges in Dakshina Kannada. As the covid positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada is above 2 per cent, the classes for II PU students commenced late in the district. “All these days we were attending online classes. Now, the on campus classes have commenced. We are happy to come back to college,” said students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ii-pu-physical-classes-commence-in-dakshina-kannada-1025792.html
01-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Amit Shah to inaugurate GM central library in Shivamogga on Thursday||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugurate GM Central library constructed on 1.5 acres of land at a cost of Rs 10 crore on GMIT campus in the city on September 2 at 4:30pm. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will also be present on the occasion. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, GMIT Principal Y Vijaykumar said, the newly constructed central library has four floors comprising separate section for books, journals, e-library, research works and audio & visual room. The library has around 29,000 books on various subjects. Students of educational institutes run by GMIT and other institutes and research scholars of the district and neighbouring districts too can avail the facilities in library. There is no membership library at all. He said the institute would help students, graduates or research scholars teachers to get any book for reference from anywhere in the world. He claimed that such central library is not functioning in Central Karnataka. He appealed to people to utilise the library as much as possible. As of now, it will function from 8:00am to 8:00pm. If the response is good, it would be extended. The total built up area of central library is 75,000 sq feet. Furnishing details about English laboratory, he said those who like to improve their English communication skills can use the laboratory and there would be an instructor in the laboratory. There would be three levels of learning-elementary, medium and advanced. They can check their efficiency in English and improve it based on it.  GM Central Library Librarian Shashikumar, MBA Department Director Bakkappa and Placement & Training Officer Tejasvi Kattimani R were present in press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-gm-central-library-in-shivamogga-on-thursday-1025795.html
01-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||No order for 'no jab no ration', Chamarajanagar DC clarifies||After the ‘No vaccination; no ration; no pension’ proposal drew flak from various quarters, Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi issued clarifications on Wednesday, saying no such order was issued. The DC, in a press release on Wednesday, said that he had not given any official order in this regard. Hence, there’s no question of denying ration to the cardholders and benefits to the pensioners. Coming down heavily on the Chamarajanagar DC’s ‘order’, Congress termed ‘no ration and pension for those not vaccinated’ as illegal and unconstitutional. KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayana also said that the ‘plan’ was unscientific and against the law. The district administration should ensure sufficient vaccines for the people, and create awareness, he said. No such order The DC had told a section of the media that the district administration was planning to implement ‘No vaccination; no ration; no pension’, programme in the district from September 1, to create awareness on the importance of vaccination, in the wake of third wave. There are 2.90 lakh BPL and Antyodaya cardholders in the district and 2.20 lakh people drawing pension under various schemes. The banks and the ration shops have been directed not to issue ration or pension if they do not furnish vaccination certificate, he had said. However, no such order or media release was issued by the district administration. Food and Civil Supplies Deputy Director Yogananda said, no such order was issued. But, efforts are on to inform the beneficiaries that it’s mandatory to get vaccinated. Address vaccine hesitancy: CM When asked about several district administrations’ orders ‘no vaccination, no ration, pension’, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters in Haveri that such orders are not right. “Instead they should address the concern of vaccine hesitancy and convince people to get vaccinated. There are enough doses of vaccine available with the state. People should come forward to get jabbed to protect themselves and prevent the spread of the virus,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-order-for-no-jab-no-ration-chamarajanagar-dc-clarifies-1025883.html
01-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Draft rules out for telecom towers, cables in Karnataka suburbs, villages||Karnataka is finalising a set of rules to regulate the laying of telecom cables in rural areas, which will be a crucial step in providing internet and other connectivity services in the suburbs and villages. No established procedure exists as of now on laying of cables or erecting towers. Karnataka has notified the draft Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Gram Panchayat) (Telecommunication Infrastructure Tower and Overground Cable or Underground Cable Infrastructure) Bye-laws, 2021. The bye-laws are out for public objections till September 9.  Authorities hope that the new bye-laws will clear bottlenecks, especially with right-of-way issues. “There were issues with right-of-way, uniform rentals, payment of taxes and also complaints by service-providers that they faced harassment,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) principal secretary L K Atheeq said.  “The new bye-laws also aim to harmonize the process in urban and rural areas. Plus, we had to streamline this for the ease of doing business,” he added.  “No telecommunication infrastructure tower shall be allowed in the bed of water bodies like river or nala and in the full tank level (FTL) of any lake, pond, kunta lands,” the draft bye-laws state.  Under the new bye-laws, the government will create a single-window online platform to consider applications for erecting towers and layingcables.  The bye-laws propose a ‘deemed approval’ regime in which applicants seeking permission to erect telecommunication towers or cables will get the nod if the appropriate authority does not accord permission within 45 days.  As per the bye-laws, a survey will be taken up covering all cables laid and towers erected in rural areas as there was no regulation governing this.  The implementation of the bye-laws is expected to smoothen the process of developing digital communications infrastructure in Karnataka, where over 37 lakh, or 40% of schoolchildren, have no internet access, according to government data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/draft-rules-out-for-telecom-towers-cables-in-karnataka-suburbs-villages-1025959.html
01-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||DK Shivakumar wants Chamarajanagar DC to be suspended||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Wednesday demanded the suspension of Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner MR Ravi for reportedly linking Covid-19 vaccination with the supply of ration and payment of pensions. Expressing outrage over Ravi’s ‘no vaccine, no ration, no pension’ plan, Shivakumar said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai should suspend the officer and file a case against him. “Is he a Chakravarthy (emperor)? The first thing the CM should do is to suspend that DC. He should face a case,” Shivakumar told reporters. The Congress leader also urged the BJP government to keep Ravi in their party’s office if needed. “They’re promoting that DC as if he has done exceptional work,” Shivakumar said, recalling the recent deaths of more than two dozen patients due to oxygen shortage in Chamarajanagar. “36 people died in Chamarajanagar without oxygen, but Parliament was told that no one died. The High Court formed a committee and the same DC along with other officials admitted the lapse. While the government gave Rs 2 lakh each to the families of 24 patients, I gave Rs 1 lakh to 29 people and the rest were covered by our MLAs. To date, no action has been taken against officials for the tragedy,” Shivakumar said. The KPCC chief also demanded the sacking of University of Mysore vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar for the now-withdrawn circular barring girls from stepping out after 6.30 pm on campus. “The Governor should withdraw that VC. Even the registrar who issued the circular should face action. What were they thinking? We’re in India,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dk-shivakumar-wants-chamarajanagar-dc-to-be-suspended-1025846.html
01-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||PM Modi deserves Oscar for skill in telling lies: Salim Ahmed||Taunting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, KPCC Working President Salim Ahmed stated that he deserves an Oscar for his skill in telling lies effectively. Speaking to media persons on Wednesday, he said Modi has been telling lies for the past seven years. He has failed to deliver promises made during the Lok Sabha polls including employment generation. Undoubtedly he is the best in telling lies, Ahmed ridiculed.  Referring to PM's Radio programme Mann Ki Baat, he said except 'I am Modi speaking', "All other remarks/words uttered by him in the programme are false. Modi is not ready to face media at all and he has not conducted press conferences even once in the last seven years." He also alleged that the Modi-led government at the Centre is all set to privatise many public enterprises or institutes in the country. It is planning to change Chatrapati Shivaji Stadium in Maharashtra to Ambani and Mangalore International Airport to Adani airport. Prime Minister Modi and Union Home Minister Shah are becoming sellers and Ambani and Adani are buyers. This is the state of India under Modi-rule, he rued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pm-modi-deserves-oscar-for-skill-in-telling-lies-salim-ahmed-1026012.html
01-09-2021||Main Article||National Monetisation Pipeline: Pipe dream or bold reform?||India is struggling with a large fiscal deficit. This was expected due to two reasons: falling tax revenue and large spending commitments due to Covid. Last year, the finance minister had budgeted the deficit to be 3.5% of GDP for fiscal 2020-21. The actual deficit turned out to be 9.3%. In rupee terms, the slippage of actual over budgeted was Rs 10 lakh crore. This shortfall has to be made up by fresh borrowing. For 2021-22, the budgeted deficit is 6.8% of GDP or Rs 15 lakh crore. This, too, will be made up mostly by fresh borrowing. The plan is to borrow Rs 12 lakh crore, which makes up more than three-fourths of all the financial savings of households in India. The fresh borrowing keeps adding to the debt mountain of the central government, which is now at 60% of GDP. This is the highest it has been in 14 years. The N K Singh-led expert committee on fiscal responsibility had recommended a debt-to-GDP ratio of 40%. So, the current indebtedness levels are dangerous and could be unsustainable. Also, it is worth a reminder that today’s borrowing is nothing but a tax on future generations. The more reckless the spending today, the less is the fiscal space available tomorrow. Unless, of course, growth picks up very strongly. It is in this context that the government has to seriously think about other avenues of raising revenue or reducing spending, without sacrificing its core responsibility of governance, social and national security. It is true that seen purely in terms of fund flows, the deficit situation is worrisome. But seen from a balance sheet perspective, it is much better. The government may have a lot of unfunded spending obligations, but it also has assets on its balance sheet that can be “monetised.” Of course, we are not talking about selling off the Taj Mahal or the Gateway of India. But there is a philosophical case to be made to divest assets in areas where a private party might function more efficiently and generate more value from the same asset than the government. The revolution in telecom or cable TV has shown to what heights privatisation can take a sector which languished under a State monopoly for decades. The same is true for private courier services, or airlines and hotels. But successive governments have found it difficult even to mention “privatisation”. That ‘Lakshman Rekha’ was crossed in this year’s budget speech. Will that ambition be translated into reality? The record is not inspiring. For the last seven years, privatisation (or disinvestment) targets have been consistently missed by a wide margin. For instance, last year, the target was Rs 2.1 lakh crore, and not even 10% was realised. Even in years when the target was achieved, it was because one PSU was asked to buy the shares of another PSU, which is like the left pocket paying the right pocket. Remember that this is a ruling party that has promised minimum government and maximum governance. Seen in the light of an acute fiscal crunch, the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) is an ambitious idea. It aims to transfer (not sell) operating assets to private parties and encash the value upfront as a lump-sum payment from an auction. The finance minister had announced this idea in her budget speech; the details were unveiled on August 23. The proposals are ambitious, and go beyond sectors like power, roads and railway assets as mentioned in the budget speech, to a total of 14 sectors, including telecom towers, gas pipelines, warehouses, solar projects and even stadiums. Many of these assets don’t belong to the government per se, but rather different corporate entities, such as the National Highway Authority of India, or Power Grid Corporation. The resources raised will not wholly go to plug only the fiscal deficit, but to those respective corporate bodies. In the next four years, the government estimates it can raise Rs 6 lakh crore from the NMP, of which Rs 88,000 crore is to be realised this year itself. Given its record on privatisation, these numbers are unrealistic. Also, the risk perception varies from sector to sector. The cleanest case is of toll highways, which anyway the NHAI has been monetising. The private party that wins the bid signs a “concession” agreement to collect toll revenues for the next 15 or 20 years. The value of the bid is obviously the discounted present value of all the tolls that would be collected in the future. Note that the toll cannot be fixed by the toll operator. It is to be notified by the government. What if there is political agitation to make the road toll-free? This indeed has happened in the case of the Noida toll bridge, which went toll-free in 2016. Or the Mumbai-Pune expressway, which saw a battle fought to make it toll-free. Indeed, that expressway is the oldest (since 2004) and most successful example of a monetised asset, but it has not been without its own controversies. What if traffic drops to zero due to a pandemic-induced lockdown? Who will bear that risk? There are also other risks of abrupt cancellations of long-term contracts. The power purchase agreements (PPA) in Andhra Pradesh, where the present government cancelled PPAs by the previous one led by the Telugu Desam Party, is a case in point. These are the kinds of contingencies that the NMP agreements have to specify. In essence, the private operator gets the monopoly right to collect the toll for a long period in exchange for the upfront value. How is the quality of service to be ensured? Will there be a regulator? Not all private entrepreneurs would be willing to take on such risks of political upheavals. Such a political minefield is not easy to navigate. So, does that mean that only “cronies” will bid, as they are better at “managing risks”, or due to an implied quid pro quo? These are the uncertainties plaguing the NMP. Due to such factors, detractors will surely accuse the government of selling assets (“family silver”) cheaply or only to cronies. Another important question is, how is the money going to be raised by the private parties? If the bulk of the Rs 6 lakh crore to be earned from bidders is to be borrowed from banks, are the banks willing to take this risk? And who bears the risk of bad loans? Will it fall on taxpayers? The NMP is a fresh approach to Public-Private Partnership. Its success will depend on the devil in the detail. And the risks of capture of public assets by potential private monopolies are real and need to be addressed. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/national-monetisation-pipeline-pipe-dream-or-bold-reform-1025625.html
01-09-2021||Mysuru||Kumaraswamy criticises Arun Singh for comments on JD(S)||JD(S) H D Kumaraswamy criticised BJP Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh for commenting against JD(S). Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy said that Singh must know the facts before making any comments. Kumaraswamy asked BJP state leaders to explain his remarks.  Singh had said that JD(S) is a sinking ship but it is not JD(S), it's BJP that is sinking, Kumaraswamy rebutted. "What does he (Arun Singh) know about the state? Who knocked the doors of JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh during Mysuru Mayor election?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/kumaraswamy-criticises-arun-singh-for-comments-on-jds-1025812.html
01-09-2021||National||JNU may soon offer course on ‘jihadi terrorism’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Executive Council will discuss granting approval to a course on counter-terrorism at its meeting on September 2. A section of JNU teachers and students has objected to the introduction of the course, alleging it states that 'jihadi terrorism' is the only form of 'fundamentalist-religious terrorism'. The course, titled 'Counter Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers', also asserts that Communist regimes in the Soviet Union and China were the state-sponsors of terrorism that influenced radical Islamic states, according to them. The course was approved by the Academic Council of the university earlier this month. The course, proposed to be offered to dual-degree engineering students, will be optional. JNU Teachers' Association secretary Moushumi Basu said, "There is an EC meeting on September 2 and this will come up for approval. A few years back, they (the university administration) had tried to do the same and the Delhi Minorities Commission had objected to it and it was withdrawn... Such a course should not be taught and should be withdrawn. It's problematic." She said the course gave "a simplistic view" on the topic. According to her, some members objected to the course in the Academic Council meeting but they were not allowed to articulate their views. JNU Students' Union general secretary Satish Chandra Yadav said, "Students want to return to the campus and the university should work on bringing students back. Many students are dropping out. The university should first think about more pressing issues rather than focus on bringing such courses."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jnu-may-soon-offer-course-on-jihadi-terrorism-1025661.html
01-09-2021||National||Indian economy, slammed by Covid-19, needs its lost growth||The coronavirus continues to batter India’s damaged economy, putting growing pressure on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to nurture a nascent recovery and get the country back to work. The coronavirus, which has struck in two waves, has killed hundreds of thousands of people and at times has brought cities to a halt. Infections and deaths have eased, and the country is returning to work. Economists predict that growth could surge in the second half of the year on paper. Still, the damage could take years to undo. Economic output was 9.2% lower for the April-through-June period this year than what it was for the same period in 2019, according to India Ratings, a credit ratings agency. The coronavirus has essentially robbed India of much of the momentum it needed to provide jobs for its young and fast-growing workforce. It has also exacerbated longer-term problems that were already dragging down growth, such as high debt, a lack of competitiveness with other countries and policy missteps. Economists are particularly concerned about the slow rate of vaccinations and the possibility of a third wave of the coronavirus, which could prove to be disastrous for any economic recovery. “Vaccination progress remains slow,” with just 11% of the population fully inoculated so far, Priyanka Kishore, the head of India and Southeast Asia at Oxford Economics, said in a research briefing last week. The firm lowered its growth rate for 2021 to 8.8%, from 9.1%. Even growth of 8.8% would be a strong number in better times. Compared with the previous year, India’s economy grew 20.1% April through June, according to estimates released by the Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation. But those comparisons benefit from comparison with India’s dismal performance last year. The economy shrank 7.3% last year, when the government shut down the economy to stop a first wave of the coronavirus. That led to big job losses, now among the biggest hurdles holding back growth, experts say. Real household incomes have fallen further this year, said Mahesh Vyas, chief executive of the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy. “Till this is not repaired,” he said, “the Indian economy can’t bounce back.” At least 3.2 million Indians lost stable, well-paying salaried jobs in July alone, Vyas estimated. Small traders and daily wage labourers had bigger job losses during the lockdowns than others, though they were able to go back to work once the restrictions were lifted, Vyas said in a report in August. “Salaried jobs are not similarly elastic,” he said. “It is difficult to retrieve a lost salaried job.” About 10 million people have lost such jobs since the beginning of the pandemic, Vyas said. In August, Modi’s government moved to rekindle the economy by selling stakes worth close to $81 billion in state-owned assets like airports, railway stations and stadiums. But economists largely see the policy as a move to generate cash in the short term. It remains to be seen if it will lead to more investment, they say. “The whole idea is that the government will borrow this money from the domestic market,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at India Ratings. “But what happens if this project goes to a domestic player and he is having to borrow in the domestic market? Your credit demand domestically won’t change.” Pant added that questions remained about how willing private players would be to maintain those assets long term and how the monetization policy would ultimately affect consumer prices. “In India, things will decay for the worse rather than improve,” he said, adding that the costs to users of highways and other infrastructure could go up. During the second wave in May, Modi resisted calls by many public health researchers, including Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, to reinstitute a nationwide lockdown. The lockdowns in 2021 were nowhere near as severe as the nationwide curbs last year, which pushed millions of people out of cities and into rural areas, often on foot because rail and other transportation had been suspended. Throughout the second wave, core infrastructure projects across the country, which employ millions of domestic migrant workers, were exempted from restrictions. More than 15,000 miles of Indian highway projects, along with rail and city metro improvements, continued. On Tuesday, Pant said that India’s growth estimates of 20.1% for the April through June period were nothing but an “illusion.” Growth contracted so sharply around the same period last year, by a record 24%, that even double-digit gains this year would leave the economy behind where it was two years ago. Economists say that India needs to spend, even splurge, to unlock the full potential of its huge low-skilled workforce. “There is a need for very simple primary health facilities, primary services to deliver nutrition to children,” Vyas said. “All these are highly labour intensive jobs and these are government services largely.” One of the reasons Indian governments typically have not spent in those areas, Vyas said, is that it has been considered “not a sexy thing to do.” Another is the government's “dogmatic fixation” with keeping fiscal deficits in control, he said. The government simply can’t rely on the private sector alone for creating jobs, Vyas said. The “only solution,” he said, is for the government to spend and spur private investment. “You have a de-motivated private sector because there isn’t enough demand. That’s what’s holding India back.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-slammed-by-covid-19-needs-its-lost-growth-1025662.html
01-09-2021||National||Sidhu questions Punjab govt's 'inaction' on drug smugglers||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday questioned the "inaction" of his own government and the previous Akali dispensation against those involved in drug smuggling in the state. In a statement, he also said that people of the state were eagerly waiting for the Special Task Force's report on drugs. Sidhu said that despite the high court's directions, both these governments had done nothing to extradite 13 drug smugglers back to India who peddled drugs in Punjab and smuggled drugs to some other countries. He said the people especially those who have lost their innocent children to the drug menace have high hopes that stern action would be taken. The state Congress chief said that even a common man can sense why these drug smugglers have not been extradited for the last five years. "Because had they been brought to book, they would have spilt the beans and would have exposed the unholy nexus of drug peddlers and politicians," Sidhu added. In 2018, the Punjab police STF had filed a status report on drug racket in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidhu-questions-punjab-govts-inaction-on-drug-smugglers-1025671.html
01-09-2021||National||AAP to contest on all 403 seats in UP Assembly polls||The AAP will contest on all the 403 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year on its own strength, party’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said on Tuesday. Singh, who is also the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Uttar Pradesh in-charge, said the names of the candidates will be declared in the next 15 days. As of now, the list of 120 candidates is ready, he said. Singh also said that his party will expose the “fake nationalism” of the BJP, and showcase “real nationalism” of the AAP. The AAP leader said that his party will also take out “Tiranga Yatras” in all the 403 assembly constituencies of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-to-contest-on-all-403-seats-in-up-assembly-polls-1025682.html
01-09-2021||National||‘Dismantling Global Hindutva’ conference anti-Hindu: US State Senator||A prominent American State Senator has strongly condemned hosting of the “Dismantling Global Hindutva” conference and described it as an anti-Hindu gathering as several universities asked the organisers to remove their logos from the site of the event which has generated outrage among Hindu Americans. “This conference represents a disgusting attack on Hindus across the United States, and we must all condemn this as nothing more than racism and bigotry against Hindus. I will always stand strong against Hinduphobia,” Ohio State Senator Niraj Antani said in a statement. “I am condemning in the strongest possible terms the ‘Dismantling Global Hindutva’ Conference,'' he said. Antani is the youngest Hindu elected official in the history of the United States and is the first Indian American state senator in Ohio history. Being held on the weekend of September 10-12, organisers of the “Dismantling Global Hindutva” have said they want to remain anonymous. However, they have made public names of several eminent speakers and academicians who will participate in the event. Coalition of Hindus of North America (CoHNA) has written more than 3,50,000 emails against the conference to the universities, academicians and various stake holders. In an email to CoHNA, Rutgers University president Jonathan Holloway said that it was unaware that the university logo was being used by the organisers of the conference. “This conference paints Hindus disproportionately and falsely as purveyors of extremism, actively denies the genocide of Hindu people, and most troublingly, labels those who disagree as “Hindutva” which the conference organisers define as Hindu extremism,” CoHNA said in a statement. “The conference’s features the “Hindutva Harassment Field Manual” as an official resource that categorically states that Hindus have never “faced systematic oppression throughout history and in present times”. This resource also denies that anti-Hindu bias has ever led to “casualties on … horrific scales,” it said. In an email, Rutgers university said that it “is not a sponsor of the symposium”. However, it noted that individual faculty from Rutgers may well be participating in the conference consistent with the tradition of academic freedom and fundamental American free speech rights. Dalhousie University has urged the organisers to remove its logo from their promotional material. “We were previously unaware that UMass Boston was listed as a co-sponsor and we have not formally received any request, not have we approved any request, for UMass to be listed as such,” Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, chancellor of the university, said in an email. CoHNA said its emails to several universities have been receiving similar response, reflecting that there was a “concerted and organized” effort against the Hindus. Meanwhile, a group of scholars and members of academic communities, in a joint statement, came out in support of the event. “The purpose of the Dismantling Global Hindutva conference is to bring together leading scholars in South Asian studies and public commentators on Indian society and politics from around the world in order to discuss the global phenomenon of Hindutva,” they said. In a previous statement to PTI, organisers of the conference said the goals of the conference are to scrutinise what Hindutva says and does with regard to a wide range of topics, from caste, to political economy, to gender and sexuality, and more. The conversation will feature academics, public intellectuals, activists and artists who will speak “carefully and powerfully” to educate the wider public about these issues, they said. “This conference is held during a time when a Hindu supremacist regime is in power in India, and so this conference will also throw light on what Hindutva does when it has captured state power by closely scrutinising both its official policies, and its unofficial policies like creating impunity for Hindutva violence and setting up a massive propaganda machinery,” said the organisers, who have said that they do not want to be identified. “We categorically reject the idea that critiquing Hindutva is in any way harmful to Hindu students. Indeed, we consider Hindutva to be the most significant threat to Hinduism's pluralist ethos, as well as to efforts to fight ills in Indian society like casteism. That certain groups can't distinguish between a critique of Hindutva and attacks on Hinduism says more about their confusion, affiliation, and desire to defend Hindutva using any rhetoric necessary, than it says about this conference,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dismantling-global-hindutva-conference-anti-hindu-us-state-senator-1025688.html
01-09-2021||National||41,965 new Covid-19 cases in India; over 30K infections from Kerala alone||India on Wednesday reported 41,965 new Covid-19 cases, 33,964 recoveries and 460 deaths in the last 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data showed. Of these, Kerala accounted for 30,203 new coronavirus infections and 115 fatalities. India's total tally of cases rose to 3,28,10,845, while active cases have increased to 3,78,181, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,39,020 with 460 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The number of active cases has increased to 3,78,181 and comprise 1.15  per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.51 per cent, ministry said. It said that active cases increased by 7,541 in a span of 24 hours. On Tuesday, 16,06,785 tests were conducted, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 52,31,84,293. The daily positivity rate has been recorded 2.61 per cent, the ministry said.   The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 68 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,19,93,644, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. With 1.33 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses being administered on Tuesday, the highest ever in a single day, the cumulative doses given in the country under the vaccination drive has reached 65.41 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year.  India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/41965-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-over-30k-infections-from-kerala-alone-1025707.html
01-09-2021||National||Schools in Delhi reopen amid strict Covid-19 safety guidelines||Wearing masks and carrying umbrellas as heavy rains lashed Delhi, students of classes 9-12 returned to schools after they reopened on Wednesday following a long hiatus due to Covid-19. Some institutions, however, chose to adopt a wait-and-watch approach and have decided to call children for physical classroom studies only after a few weeks. Following a marked improvement in the Covid situation in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday had announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1. It had clarified that no student would be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents would be mandatory. "I am excited on meeting my friends," a Delhi government school student from east Delhi said, adding that with Covid-19 still around, everybody has to take precautions. "This is the new normal and we will have to adjust," the student said. Though it has allowed institutions to open, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has notified several safety guidelines. Allowing only 50 per cent students per classroom, mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangement and avoiding routine guest visits are among the guidelines announced by the DDMA for reopening of schools. The DDMA has said students, teachers and non-teaching staff living in Covid containment zones will not be allowed to come to schools and colleges. "Physical classes are better than online classes. There is of course a fear of the virus but I hope that we can follow the appropriate norms and keep the virus at bay," a government school student from Dwarka said. Mount Carmel School in Dwarka does not plan to reopen for at least a month as its entire staff is not completely vaccinated, and has decided to continue with online learning. "We are not prepared to open our school right now. They haven't started vaccinating children and all my staff is not vaccinated. We are still in the middle of a pandemic. We are not going to take a chance," Dean, Mount Carmel School, Michael Williams, said. "It is being said that Zydus-Cadila has launched its vaccine for 12 to 18 year olds. I think it is much smarter to wait for another two months. We have waited for long and we can wait some more," he added. Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh, reopened on Wednesday, but it is not providing buses for students as a precaution against Covid-19. While the government has noted that vaccination centres and activities like ration distribution which were going on in different schools will continue, the DDMA said the area being used for these activities should be separated from the area which will be used for academic activities||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/schools-in-delhi-reopen-amid-strict-covid-19-safety-guidelines-1025717.html
01-09-2021||National||India’s month-long UNSC presidency ends with 'substantive' outcomes on key global issues||India's month-long Presidency of the powerful UN Security Council has ended with “substantive” outcomes on key global issues including a strong resolution on the situation in Afghanistan that reflected India's views and concerns, and demanded that the Afghan territory not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists. India, currently serving a two-year term as a non-permanent member of the 15-nation Security Council, assumed the rotating Presidency of the UN body for the month of August. The Presidency ended with the first resolution being adopted by the Council on the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban on the penultimate day of India's Presidency of the Security Council for the month of August. “As we wind down our Presidency of UN #SecurityCouncil, we thank all colleagues in #UNSC for their tremendous support to make our Presidency a success with many substantive outcomes," India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted on Tuesday. "I & @IndiaUNNewYork wish incoming Presidency @irishmissionun & Amb Geraldine Nason all success,” he said. US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield congratulated India for a successful presidency of the UN Security Council for the month of August. "Your leadership and resilience saw us through many challenging issues -- especially the situation in Afghanistan,” she said. "Thanks to @IndiaUNNewYork for a successful presidency during August. Highlights included: meeting on maritime security chaired by PM @narendramodi; and focus on peacekeeping & technology, and on counter-terrorism. Which can only mean 1 thing… we’re up next!” Ireland’s mission to the UN said. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla chaired the UNSC meeting on Afghanistan in which the resolution was adopted. “I was in particular very happy to preside over the adoption of today's important resolution on Afghanistan, which has unequivocally conveyed that Afghanistan's territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter, train terrorists or plan or finance terrorist acts. "It underlines terrorist individuals and entities designated by UN Security Council (resolution) 1267. This is of direct importance to India," Shringla said on Monday. Under India's Presidency, the Council held three sessions on Afghanistan and issued three press statements on August 3, 16 and 27, the last one strongly condemning the "deplorable attacks" near the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul on August 26. On the penultimate day of India's Presidency, the Council issued the strong resolution on Afghanistan "demands that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterates the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and notes the Taliban’s relevant commitments.” India began its Presidency with a high-level signature event on maritime security presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with Tirumurti describing it as “path-breaking” in many ways since this was the first time the Prime Minister of India chaired the Security Council. The event was the first time when there was a comprehensive debate on the holistic concept of maritime security. There was also a Presidential Statement on maritime security which incidentally was also the first Presidential Statement on the concept. “The Presidential Statement deals with important issues relating to Maritime Security, including the place of UNCLOS (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea) in Maritime Security, freedom of navigation, terrorism, especially at sea like Mumbai attacks, trafficking in arms, drugs and humans, the place of regional and sub-regional organisations in this context, piracy,” Tirumurti had said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar chaired the two other signature events – on Peacekeeping and Technology on August 18 and the briefing on ISIL/Da’esh on August 19. Tirumurti had underlined that the event on peacekeeping showcased India’s strong commitment to peacekeeping, besides reflecting “our age-old tradition” in this field. India exchanged an MoU with the UN in support of the 'Partnership for Technology in Peacekeeping' initiative and to UN C4ISR Academy. Highlighting the several “historic firsts” that India achieved through this event as well, he had said for the first time, India drafted a resolution on peacekeeping focused on ensuring accountability for crimes against peacekeepers. The resolution was sponsored by 80 member states, including all 15 members of the Security Council, “which is not often seen in the Security Council," Tirumurti had said. "Also for the first time, the Security Council held an Open Debate focused exclusively on how technology can aid in peacekeeping and for the first time, the Security Council adopted a Presidential Statement on the topic of technology and peacekeeping,” he had said. Following the August 19 ministerial-level briefing on ISIL/Da’esh, the Council unanimously issued a press statement that reiterated that they condemn in the strongest terms all instances of terrorism and noted with concern that ISIL (Da’esh) could regain the ability to launch or orchestrate international terrorist attacks. Under India’s presidency, the Council successfully steered the discussions on various peace and security issues that are on its agenda, including Afghanistan, Myanmar, Syria, Yemen, and the Middle East Peace Process. Several UN member states tweeted to express gratitude to India for its leadership of the Council during the month. “Brazil extends its warm congratulations to the whole team of @IndiaUNNewYork – our partner in BRICS and IBSA– for presiding over the @UN Security Council in a specially critical month. As an incoming Council member, we look forward to working together next year,” Brazil’s Mission to the UN said. Permanent Representative of Qatar to the UN Ambassador Alya Ahmed Saif Al Thani and UAE Mission to the UN congratulated India for the successful presidency of the UNSC during August. Switzerland Mission at the UN thanked “@ambtstirumurti for today’s wrap up of a successful #UNSC presidency. This month underscored the need to Respect #HumanRights & #IHL in Afghanistan, Improve measures to protect #peacekeepers, Strengthen int'l response to humanitarian crises.” "Thank you India for your dedicated leadership & spirit of transparency as President of the #SecurityCouncil in August. In addition to an interesting agenda & many adoptions, #NorwayUNSC will certainly miss the tasty social part of your programme," Norway Mission to the UN said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-month-long-unsc-presidency-ends-with-substantive-outcomes-on-key-global-issues-1025744.html
01-09-2021||National||Country likely to receive above normal rainfall in September: IMD||The 2021 southwest monsoon season may end up on the “lower side of the normal” due to a sharp rainfall deficiency seen in August, India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday, admitting its failure to predict the shortfall in Gujarat, Odisha and along the west coast. The rainfall averaged over the country as a whole in September is most likely to be “above normal”, which means more than 110% of the average September rainfall of 170 mm. The bountiful September will partially make up for the 9% shortfall in August. But attaining the past forecast of 101% of average rainfall for the entire season is out of the question. The IMD expects a subdued monsoon season where the rainfall might be around 96% of the average. The downgrading is due to a deficient August that witnessed a shortage of more than 39% in central India, 31% in northwest India and 10% in the southern peninsula. As a result, the August deficiency for the country stood at 24% resulting in a cumulative (June to August) shortfall of 9% for the country despite decent rainfall in June and July. "We could not pick up the magnitude of deficiency in August particularly in states like Odisha (29% shortfall now) and Gujarat (47%). The forecast was alright till the second week of August, after which it started deviating,” M Mahapatra, IMD director general said at a press conference here. At one point, Odisha had a 55% shortage, but the situation improved. The southwest monsoon is the lifeblood of India's trillion-dollar economy on the basis of which the country hopes to record good farm productivity to alleviate some of the economic pain caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mahapatra, however, did not rule out the possibility of crop damage in September due to heavy rain but conceded that the IMD could not identify the area where such damage would happen. The IMD chief cited a number of local and global weather phenomena such as Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD), Madden Julian Oscillation and a lesser number of typhoons in the western Pacific that had a role in lowering the precipitation in India. The list doesn’t include the dreaded El Nino – the unusal rise of temperature in the Pacific that plays havoc with the weather system around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-likely-to-receive-above-normal-rainfall-in-september-imd-1025749.html
01-09-2021||National||25% of trains in India could run on direct supply from solar panels: Report||Direct supply of solar energy to Indian Railway lines - without the need to connect via the grid - would save almost 7 millions tons of carbon a year besides powering at least one in four trains on the national network, according to a new study by Indian NGO Climate Trends and UK-based green tech start-up Riding Sunbeams. According to the Indian Railways 2019-2020 annual reportm there was passenger traffic of over 8 billion passengers in that period, which would mean that 2 billion passengers could be travelling on trains directly powered by solar energy. It may be mentioned that Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently announced that the electrification of railways in India is progressing fast, and that the target is for Indian Railways to be a net-zero carbon emitter by 2030. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has issued a directive to Indian Railways to earmark huge areas of unproductive land for solar development as part of the company’s Net Zero commitment. Plans are already underway to deliver 20GW of solar generation to match growing demand for energy to move trains. The new analysis highlights that around a quarter of this new solar capacity - up to 5,272 MW - could be fed directly into the railway’s overhead lines instead of being procured over the electricity networks, reducing energy losses and saving money for the rail operator. The researchers found that substituting energy supplied from the coal-dominated grid for private-wire supply from solar could also rapidly cut emissions by as much as 6.8 million tons CO2 each year - just over the entire annual emissions of Kanpur. Riding Sunbeams founder and director of innovation Leo Murray and Director at Climate Trends Aarti Khosla have co-authored the report. “Right now India is leading the world on two vital climate frontiers - rail electrification and solar power deployment. Our analysis shows that connecting these two keystone low-carbon technologies together in Indian Railways can drive both India’s economic recovery from the Covid pandemic and its efforts to transition off fossil fuels to tackle the climate crisis,” said Murray.  “There has been analysis that converting all diesel locomotives to electric will indeed increase the emissions in the short term, however, this report shows the tremendous opportunity of doing it right the first time, by creating a direct connection of the locomotive system to solar PV installations, meeting more than a quarter of the total demand,” added Khosla. Dr Ajay Mathur, Director General, International Solar Alliance, said: "India's energy and transport sectors contributed more than 65% of India's overall emissions in 2014, and the country's ambitious renewable energy targets have put the power sector on a decarbonisation pathway. Indian Railways' goal of net zero emissions by 2030 could see over 8 billion passengers travelling emissions free every year after that.” Arunabha Ghosh, Chief Executive Officer, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said: “Building on the ambitious goal for 100% electrification of the Railways, it would be logical to embrace and scale up solar and wind for our railways to reach net-zero emissions by 2030. In the immediate run, the Railways could focus on greening their electrification system and substations. Installing rooftop systems on station buildings and workshops could also result in significant cost savings. In the long term, green hydrogen is another promising option to power the trains."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-of-trains-in-india-could-run-on-direct-supply-from-solar-panels-report-1025754.html
01-09-2021||National||HC notice to Centre on plea against Asthana’s appointment as Delhi police commissioner||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea challenging the appointment of senior Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Commissioner of Delhi Police, just days before his retirement as BSF chief. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh sought a response from the Union government on an application filed by NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation, in a pending PIL already filed before the court. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing the applicant, alleged that the petitioner before the High Court has directly copy pasted from his plea filed at the top court. He submitted that this was violation of the Delhi High Court Rules. He cited the petition filed in the Delhi High Court by Sadre Alam, challenging Asthana's appointment, which raised similar grounds. The counsel for the petitioner, however, denied any cut-copy paste job. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, contended that it seemed too much of a coincidence, even typographical errors are the same. He said professional PIL petitioners often moved the court challenging such appointments. “The petitioner seems to be following Bhushan's path, which is a dangerous one…..They have no business to challenge this appointment…..What are the sources of this inspiration to challenge appointments," he asked. The court agreed to consider Bhushan’s application, issued notice and fixed it for further hearing on September 8.  On August 25, the top court had asked the Delhi High Court to decide within two weeks the plea against the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner. It had asked Bhushan to approach the High Court in the pending matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-asthana-s-appointment-as-delhi-police-commissioner-1025761.html
01-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Surge in Kerala continues; students return to school in new normal setting||Kerala Health Minister Veena George, however, said that the ongoing surge of Covid-19 in Kerala is not that high as projected by experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-surge-in-kerala-continues-students-return-to-school-in-new-normal-setting-1025771.html
01-09-2021||National||Google Search, Maps and Assistant to offer detailed info on vaccine availability||Google on Wednesday said users will be able to get more information about vaccine availability and appointments for over 13,000 locations in the country across its three products - Search, Maps and Assistant - starting this week. The information is powered by real-time data from the Co-WIN APIs, and includes details like availability of appointment slots at each centre, vaccines and doses offered (Dose 1 or Dose 2), pricing (paid or free), and link to Co-WIN website for booking, a statement said. The information will automatically show up when users search for vaccine centres near them, or in any specific area – across Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant, it added. In addition to English, users can also search in eight Indian languages including Hindi, Bengali, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Gujarati, and Marathi. Google said it will continue to partner closely with the Co-WIN team to extend this functionality to all vaccination centres across India. In March this year, Google started showing information on Covid-19 vaccination centres, in partnership with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. "As people continue to seek information related to the pandemic to manage their lives around it, we remain committed to finding and sharing authoritative and timely information across our platforms,” said Hema Budaraju, Director of Google Search, said. With 1.33 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses being administered on Tuesday, the highest ever in a single day, the cumulative doses given in the country under the vaccination drive has exceeded 65.41 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-search-maps-and-assistant-to-offer-detailed-info-on-vaccine-availability-1025797.html
01-09-2021||National||J B Mohapatra appointed as chairman of CBDT||Senior bureaucrat J B Mohapatra has been appointed the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the Personnel Ministry said in an order Wednesday. Mohapatra, a 1985-batch Indian Revenue Service (Income Tax) officer, is currently a member of the board that frames the policy for the Income Tax department. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved the appointment of J B Mohapatra, as chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes, the order said. He has been holding the additional charge of CBDT chairman since May 31, after the extended tenure of incumbent P C Mody had ended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/j-b-mohapatra-appointed-as-chairman-of-cbdt-1025802.html
01-09-2021||National||Coal pilferage scam: Rujira Banerjee expresses inability to appear before ED citing Covid situation||Senior TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira on Wednesday expressed her inability to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in New Delhi in connection with the coal pilferage scam citing the prevailing Covid situation, and requested the agency sleuths to visit her Kolkata residence instead. The ED had summoned Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP, and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. Rujira Banerjee was asked to the appear before the ED on September 1, and the TMC leader, who is the nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on September 3. "This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021 asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk. "It would be convenient to me if you consider asking me to appear in Kolkata at my residence since your organisation has its office in Kolkata and I reside in Kolkata too," she said in her letter addressed to Sumat Prakash Jain, Assistant Director of ED. "Besides, as per my understanding, the alleged cause of action of the subject matter of your inquiry too arises out of West Bengal. You may communicate your decision. I assure you every cooperation from my side," she said. A CBI team had questioned Rujira Banerjee at her residence in February in connection with the coal pilferage case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-pilferage-scam-rujira-banerjee-expresses-inability-to-appear-before-ed-citing-covid-situation-1025804.html
01-09-2021||National||Congress slams Centre over rise in cooking gas prices||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the government over rise in prices of essential commodities including domestic cooking gas, with Rahul Gandhi saying the country is uniting against this injustice. The price of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders across all categories including subsidised gas on Wednesday were hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder, the third straight increase in rates in less than two months. The former Congress chief hit out at the government over the rise in prices of domestic cooking gas and shared a chart of the hike in LPG rates in the four metros since January while using the hashtag "#IndiaAgainstBJPLoot". The Congress party launched the campaign on social media using the hashtag and shared videos of common people from across the country narrating their woes regarding price rise. The Congress has been attacking the government over the rise in petrol, diesel and LPG prices and has been demanding reduction in them by removing some of the taxes imposed by the central government. "The one who is forcing the public to sleep empty stomach is himself sleeping under the shadow of friends....but the country is uniting against the injustice," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the prices of domestic cooking gas had doubled in the last seven years, and said "achche din" have come for the BJP to "loot" the country. "March 1, 2014 - Gas cylinder cost Rs 410. September 1, 2021 - Gas cylinder cost Rs 884. In seven years, the cost has more than doubled. This is Modi ji's promise of 'Achche din'. BJP's 'achche din' of looting people's budgets," Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag. 1 मार्च, 2014 = गैस सिलेंडर की क़ीमत ₹410 ! 1 सितंबर, 2021= गैस सिलेंडर की क़ीमत ₹884! 7 साल में क़ीमत दोगुनी से ज़्यादा,यही है मोदीजी का अच्छे दिनों का वादा। In a tweet in Hindi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also said, "Prime Minister ji, There are only two types of 'development' taking place under your rule: On one hand the income of your billionaire friends is increasing, while on the other, the prices of essential commodities are increasing for the common people". प्रधानमंत्री जी, आपके राज में दो ही तरह का "विकास" हो रहा है: एक तरफ आपके खरबपति मित्रों की आय बढ़ती जा रही है। दूसरी तरफ आमजनों के लिए आवश्यक वस्तुओं के दाम बढ़ते जा रहे हैं। "If this is 'development', then the time has come to send this 'development' on leave," Vadra also said. Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said the party has received video messages from hundreds of common people across the country on the price rise and the problems faced by them and the party has shared them on its handles. He said the Congress' hashtag "#IndiaAgainstBJPLoot" is trending in the country and has thousands of shares. "We have received hundreds of videos from around the country of common Indians whose lives have been completely devastated by the ever increasing prices of basic commodities," he said. Gupta said for the third month in a row the Modi government has increased the price of LPG cylinders. Fuel prices have been increased over 67 times in the last eight months and the price of cooking oil has increased by over 50 per cent in a year. "The cost of living is exorbitant and the poor and middle class simply cannot afford it. The people of India have had enough, they are speaking out against the Modi government. We must amplify their voices," he said. Subsidised as well as non-subsidised LPG now costs Rs 884.50 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi, according to a price notification of oil companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-centre-over-rise-in-cooking-gas-prices-1025805.html
01-09-2021||National||Centre urged to not let Afghanistan situation be used for communal polarisation in India||Former Union Ministers, ex-bureaucrats and writers on Wednesday urged the Narendra Modi government not to allow any political party to use the developments in Afghanistan to communally polarise Indian society for electoral gains even as they asked it not to discriminate Afghans on grounds of religion in providing shelter. In their appeal under the banner 'Indian Friends of Afghanistan', they also wanted the government to continue its engagement with the Taliban, as it welcomed the government’s first official acknowledgement of its engagement with the Taliban in Doha and the positive assurances given by the latter. The appeal was signed by 11 people, including former Union Ministers K Natwar Singh, Yashwant Sinha and Mani Shankar Aiyar, former civil servants Julio Rebeiro and Najeeb Jung, journalists Vedpratap Vaidik, Saeed Naqvi and Sudheendhra Kulkarni, diplomat K C Singh, activist Sandeep Pandey and lawyer Majeed Memon. They also asked the government to permit temporary stay to Afghan journalists, artists and civil society leaders who are feeling threatened by the conditions in their country.  Welcoming the "complete withdrawal" of the US troops from Afghanistan, they, however, said, the "unplanned manner of its execution created conditions of avoidable chaos" and "chaotic circumstances" emboldened terrorist groups to kill innocent Afghans and foreigners. The group said they care for the security, wellbeing and national aspirations of Afghan people because the millennia-old cultural relations between India and Afghanistan are "deep and unbreakable". In their appeal to the Taliban and other political forces, they said Afghanistan needs an inclusive government that facilitates national reconciliation after four long decades of wars and violence and start an intra-Afghan peace process leading to a democratic governing establishment that ensures that no terrorist organisation has a sanctuary in Afghanistan and that its territory is not used for terrorist and extremist activities targeting any country in the world, near or far. They also said such a set up should guarantee the safety and security of every Afghan citizen regardless of their ethnicity, ideology or past political background, ensure safety, dignity and rights of women and protect Hindus, Sikhs and other non-Muslim minorities. It should also ensure dignified return of those who were forced to leave their country besides safeguarding and continuation of the developmental projects undertaken by India in Afghanistan. In their appeal to the international community, they aid no country in the region should be excluded from, nor isolate itself from, collaborative efforts to bring peace in Afghanistan and promote national reconciliation and national reconstruction. "This requires India, Pakistan, China, Russia, Iran and other countries to evolve and implement a common strategy, in cooperation with the United Nations, USA, EU and other members of the international community," it said. The international community should immediately provide humanitarian aid and assistance to Afghanistan. All countries should together shoulder the responsibility of rebuilding Afghanistan’s war-damaged economy and creating livelihoods for its people, they said. "Multilateral regional forums such as SCO (in which both India and Pakistan are members) and SAARC (of which Afghanistan is also a member) should actively work for peace in Afghanistan and stability in South Asia and Central Asia," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-urged-to-not-let-afghanistan-situation-be-used-for-communal-polarisation-in-india-1025813.html
01-09-2021||National||Breakthrough Covid-19 infections in India within expected numbers: INSACOG||The reported breakthrough Covid-19 infections in India are well within the expected numbers taking into account the total infections and other factors, genome sequencing government consortium INSACOG has said in its recent bulletin while stressing that inoculation protects from severe illness. The INSACOG said Delta continues to be the dominant lineage in India and globally. When a person gets an infection even after being vaccinated against it, it is called a breakthrough case. “The number of reported vaccination breakthroughs in India are well within the numbers expected from the total number of infections, the fraction of population that is vaccinated and the known reduction in the effectiveness of Covishield/Covaxin against infections by Delta. “Vaccines continue to protect against severe disease and remain a cornerstone of public health strategy,” the bulletin dated August 30 said. It said based on high stringency reclassification by INSACOG, the total number of Delta sub-lineages - Delta Plus AY.1 to AY.12 - in India are only 856 out of all samples analysed, which is much less than what is reported on some global websites. It said AY.12 that was first noted in Israel and currently driving infection in the country, which has inoculated 60 per cent of its population, is not yet seen in India. Similar sequences that are also being classified as AY.12 at low stringency do not have the same epidemiological significance, the INSACOG said. However, there was no word on the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, that has been detected in South Africa and many other countries globally which could be more transmissible and evade protection provided by vaccines. Scientists from National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) and the KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform (KRISP) in South Africa said the potential variant of interest, C.1.2, was first detected in the country in May this year. C.1.2 has since been found in China, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mauritius, England, New Zealand, Portugal and Switzerland as of August 13, they said. The INSACOG said there are no new VOC (Variant of Concern) or VUIs (Variant Under Investigation) added globally. Updated biological data suggest that Delta plus K417N (AY.1, AY.2) is antigenically similar to Delta with cross-neutralisation. There is thus no significantly increased risk of immune escape by Delta+K417N in people with immunity to Delta, as per the updated biological data. “Vaccination breakthroughs with Delta continue to be highly frequent and the same is likely to be true for Delta sub-lineages,” it said with regards to infections globally. The INSACOG said AY.4 variant is a major evolutionary branch of Delta, as would be expected with time and spread, and presently has no other known clinical significance. Since the new lineage-defining mutations are not presently of clinical significance, these should not be considered Delta plus which is, in any case, an inexact terminology best restricted to AY.1 and AY.2 variants at this time, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/breakthrough-covid-19-infections-in-india-within-expected-numbers-insacog-1025816.html
01-09-2021||National||Dharmendra Pradhan reviews status of reopening of schools in country||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan held a meeting with senior ministry officials on Wednesday on the status of the reopening of schools across the country and the roadmap for vaccinating their staff. Schools were closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. The Centre had allowed the reopening of schools as per the Covid-19 situation in respective states in October last year. While several states began partial reopening of schools, there was a complete closure again in April this year when an aggressive second wave of Covid-19 hit the country. With the improvement in the Covid-19 situation, several states have begun reopening schools now even as concerns have been expressed over the staff and teachers not being completely vaccinated. "Shiksha Mantri Shri @dpradhanbjp reviewed the status of schools reopening across the country with senior officials of Deptt. of School Education & Literacy. He also took stock of the roadmap for vaccinating all teaching & non-teaching staff in schools by the month of September," the Ministry of Education said in a tweet. The ministry added that the Centre is prioritising vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff in schools across the country to "ensure a safe environment for reopening of schools".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharmendra-pradhan-reviews-status-of-reopening-of-schools-in-country-1025817.html
01-09-2021||National||New book revisiting Mahatma Gandhi's assassination to launch on October 1||A new book based on previously unseen intelligence reports and police records of Mahatma Gandhi's assassination will release on October 1, publisher HarperCollins India announced on Wednesday. Written by investigative journalist Appu Esthose Suresh and Gates Cambridge scholar Priyanka Kotamraju, "The Murderer, the Monarch and the Fakir" recreates the circumstances of Gandhi's murder, the events leading up to it and the investigation afterwards. Relying on investigative journalism and new evidence set in an academic framework, the book examines the potential role of "princely states, hypermasculinity and a militant right-wing in the context of a nation that had just won her independence". Talking about the book, the author duo said that it presents new evidence that goes against popular narrative. "Arguably modern India’s biggest political development, the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi finds a desultory mention in our history textbooks...This holds relevance today as in recent years, we have become preoccupied with either vigorously opposing or enthusiastically supporting the rehabilitation of central figures of the conspiracy, whereas our real aim should be the rehabilitation, critically and empathetically, of Gandhian thought," they said. They added that the book is an attempt to understand the political assassination in the context of new evidence to unpack its significance for our present and future. “Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination was a cataclysmic event for a newly independent nation, the resonances of which remain till today. At a time when India is celebrating her seventy-fifth year of independence, it is imperative that we try and uncover more of the truth behind the murder of one of the country’s foremost founding fathers," Swati Chopra, executive editor, HarperCollins India, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-book-revisiting-mahatma-gandhis-assassination-to-launch-on-october-1-1025818.html
01-09-2021||National||Actor Payal Rohatgi booked for creating defamatory video on Nehru-Gandhi family||The cyber police in Maharashtra's Pune city have registered a case against Bollywood actor Payal Rohatgi for allegedly creating a defamatory video on the Nehru-Gandhi family and circulating it on social media, an official said on Wednesday. Based on a complaint lodged by a local Congress leader, the cyber police on Tuesday registered a case under sections 153 (promoting enmity between two groups), 500 (punishment for defamation), 505 (2) (statements conducting public mischief) of the IPC, the official said. As per the complaint, the actor along with an unidentified person allegedly created a defamatory video about Mahatma Gandhi, former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and other members of the Gandhi family and circulated it on social media. Taking note of the video, Congress leader Sangita Tiwari and office-bearers of the party’s Pune city unit approached the police demanding that an offence be registered against Rohatgi, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-payal-rohatgi-booked-for-creating-defamatory-video-on-nehru-gandhi-family-1025820.html
01-09-2021||National||EC moves SC for fixing timeline for filing election pleas, release of EVMs||Election Commission on Wednesday asked the Supreme Court to consider urgently its plea for a direction to release EVMs, lying unused after Assembly polls in five states and Puducherry following an order, extending limitation period for filing petitions in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The poll body sought fixing a timeline for filing election petitions in connection with polls held in Assam, Kerala, Delhi, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, as polls in other states are scheduled next year. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the EC, said, "We have to maintain these EVMs and VVPAT machines and hearing is necessary as elections in states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab are coming up”. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna agreed to fix the matter for hearing next week. The top court on April 27, taking into account the onset of second Covid wave, had relaxed the statutory period for filing petitions, including the election petitions, under the Representation of the People Act, 1951. “As a result of the statutory provisions/rules, the relevant instructions issued by the Election Commission of India and the order passed by this court, the Election Commission is unable to use a substantial number of EVMs," the EC said in its plea. This is a cause for concern for it as it is scheduled to conduct Assembly elections in a few states -- Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh -- next year, it further pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-moves-sc-for-fixing-timeline-for-filing-election-pleas-release-of-evms-1025821.html
01-09-2021||National||Afghan protestors outside UNHCR could act as super spreader of COVID-19, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Wednesday expressed concern over a large gathering of Afghan nationals protesting outside UNHCR office and seeking refugee status, saying it could act as a super spreader of coronavirus as there is lack of adherence to Covid-19 appropriate norms. The high court said the situation cannot be permitted to continue as the protestors could be seen sitting and standing next to each other without even wearing masks and asked the authorities to act on it. Justice Rekha Palli asked the Centre, Delhi government and police to coordinate on how the issue can be resolved and to see the gathering does not act as a super spreader of Covid-19. The high court issued notices to the ministries of Home Affairs and External Affairs, Delhi government, Delhi Police, South Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Jal Board on a petition by Vasant Vihar Welfare Association which stated that the foreign nationals (refugees/ asylum seekers) have gathered outside the office of the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) at B Block in South Delhi’s Vasant Vihar since August 15, including lanes and parks adjoining it and residents are facing difficulties due to this. The point is that the general public is suffering because of this, the court said and asked the Delhi government to inform what it has done in pursuance to the Supreme Court’s direction to frame guidelines on the issue of the right to protest so as to ensure a balance between fundamental rights and the maintenance of law and order. The petition said the number of such foreign nationals from Afghanistan has increased manifold in the past week owing to the takeover of Afghanistan by Taliban forces, forcing many to seek asylum in different countries including India. Advocate Hrishikesh Baruah, appearing for the association, said the residents are facing difficulties in commuting and going to markets for purchasing essential goods and the manner in which the foreign nationals are protesting sitting next to each other is likely to be a super spreader of Covid-19 and sought to remove the protestors from there and clear the passage. He said people are staying there, littering, defacating in open and encroaching upon the area and they are probably not even vaccinated for Covid-19. The petition, filed through advocates Shahrukh Ejaz and Nilotpal Bansal, also sought direction to the Ministry of External Affairs to frame appropriate policy for ensuring that such nuisance to the local residents does not occur on the account of foreign missions/ diplomacies being in the vicinity of residential localities. Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul submitted that it was not a normal situation and the residents should have some humanitarian approach and these are international issues which cannot decided overnight as they have huge international consequences. Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam said there are around 500 protestors at the side and sufficient force has been deployed there in day and night and Centre shall be asked to resolve the issue of foreign nationals at the earliest. The high court asked the authorities to take instructions on how the issue can be resolved and listed the matter for further hearing on September 3. “We are also dealing with Covid-19. Look at the pictures. What if this could be super spreader of Covid-19. What is this, there are no masks. You should ensure some protocol is there. Why are they not wearing mask. You are challenging people daily for not wearing masks in cars,” the court said. The judge further said, “It is not the inconvenience only with which I am concerned. I am more concerned that it should not act as a super spreader of Covid-19 again. The city has barely coped with the second wave. You have to ensure that the protestors follow Covid protocol. Let them wear mask and then protest.” The petition said the area has turned into a protest site where people from all age group including children are congregating and added that putting children in a situation especially where third wave of Covid-19 is imminent and is predicted to affect children more severally is extremely disastrous. In absence of any arrangement by the authorities to settle these foreign nationals, they are dwelling on the lanes and park of petitioner’s vicinity while congregating in large number, thus, posing high health risk to the residents, it said. It further said the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has also pushed the Afghan refugees already living in India to desperation as they are left without any financial backing from their families and friends there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-protestors-outside-unhcr-could-act-as-super-spreader-of-covid-19-says-delhi-hc-1025823.html
01-09-2021||National||Maharashtra doctors' conclave to discuss third Covid wave||With the total active cases still averaging over 50,000 and the threat of Covid-19 pandemic’s third wave looming large, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would preside over a state-wide doctors’ conclave on Sunday. “Various issues related to the pandemic, precautions and the third wave would be discussed in the meeting, officials said. Even people can attend the meeting on the online mode and ask questions at the ‘Majha Doctor’ initiative. State public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope and medical education minister Amit Deshmukh too would be present in the meeting besides chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas, Covid-19 Task Force chairman Dr Sanjay Oak, its members Dr Rahul Pandit, Dr Shashank Joshi and Dr Ajit Desai, and Covid-19 Task Force for Pediatrics chairman Dr Suhas Prabhu. From the United States, Dr Mehul Mehta would join the online conclave and participate in deliberations. The state now has 51,834 active patients of whom 16,818 are admitted to hospital while the rest 26,423 are asymptomatic or mild-symptomatic. Around 8,593 patients are serious and are in ICU, on oxygen support or ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-doctors-conclave-to-discuss-third-covid-wave-1025834.html
01-09-2021||National||NGT directs DM to remove encroachment on green belt area in Ghaziabad||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Ghaziabad District Magistrate to remove encroachment on a green belt area on which a private building named 'Udyog Bhawan' has been constructed. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said there is nothing to rebut the report of the District Magistrate that the construction in question is illegal encroachment of green belt in violation of the Master Plan, without requisite permission of the Nagar Nigam. "We direct District Magistrate, Ghaziabad with the assistance of SSP, Ghaziabad to forthwith take remedial action of removing the encroachment and restoring the green belt," the NGT said while taking note of the submission of the counsel for the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority. "Any failure in this regard may leave no option except to take coercive measures against the District Magistrate, Ghaziabad and SSP, Ghaziabad personally," the tribunal warned in a recent order. It also directed the District Magistrate to assess and recover compensation for wrongful encroachment of public land in the green belt. Pending assessment of final compensation, a token amount of Rs 10 lakh be deposited as interim compensation for the violations within one month, failing which coercive measures for recovery may be taken, the NGT said. The encroacher the Industrial Area Manufactures Association submitted that construction on the green belt is not commercial building but a public building used by the public at large. It said the association has 212 Members representing industrial units in the industrial sectors and the building is used for the meeting of the industrial owners. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by journalist Sunil Kumar Sharma alleging encroachment on the green belt, in violation of the Master Plan, by way of a private building named 'Udyog Bhawan' at Ghaziabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-dm-to-remove-encroachment-on-green-belt-area-in-ghaziabad-1025838.html
01-09-2021||National||No cases of new Covid variant C.1.2 detected in India: Health Ministry||Amid the threat of new Covid variant C.1.2, which has been detected in South Africa and many other countries globally, the Union health ministry on Wednesday clarified that no case of this variant has been detected in India so far. A new study has revealed that the new Covid-19 variant C.1.2 could be more transmissible and evade protection provided by vaccines. The scientists from National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) and the KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform (KRISP) in South Africa said the potential variant of interest was first detected in the country in May this year. The government has clarified that 'no case of new Covid variant C.1.2 has been detected in India so far'. The Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology has been put on alert in this regard for detection'. Meanwhile, the WHO has said that to date there are 100 sequences of C.1.2. reported globally from the earliest report in May from South Africa and currently it does not appear to be 'increasing in circulation'. The scientists in the study said that this Covid variant has been found in China, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mauritius, the UK, New Zealand, Portugal and Switzerland as of August 13. The scientists found a consistent increase in the number of C.1.2 genomes in South Africa each month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-cases-of-new-covid-variant-c12-detected-in-india-health-ministry-1025845.html
01-09-2021||National||HC reserves order on Kangana's plea seeking quashing of defamation proceedings||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday reserved its order on a plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut seeking quashing of criminal defamation proceedings initiated against her by a metropolitan magistrate's court in the city on a complaint filed by Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar. Ranaut, through her counsel Rizwan Siddiquee, had challenged the defamation proceedings initiated earlier this year, saying the magistrate's court in suburban Andheri had failed to apply its mind to the case. Ranaut said in her plea the lower court did not independently examine the complainant or witnesses named in the complaint against her, but it instead relied merely upon the discretion of the Juhu police and initiated the case against her. On Wednesday, Siddiquee told a single bench presided over by Justice Revati Mohite-Dere that the police inquiry into Akhtar's complaint was "one-sided." "My witnesses were never examined. The magistrate should have ensured that no party is harassed," Siddiquee told the HC. Akhtar's counsel Jay Bharadwaj, however, told the bench that the magistrate had ordered the police inquiry after going through Akhtar's complaint and excerpts of the interview in which Ranaut had made the alleged defamatory comments. He further said the police had summoned witnesses and concerned persons, including Ranaut, to ensure its inquiry was impartial, but the actor never responded to the summons. Akhtar filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut in November last year before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in a television interview given to journalist Arnab Goswami. In December 2020, the court directed the Juhu police to conduct an inquiry into Akhtar's complaint. The police subsequently informed the court that an offence of defamation, as alleged by Akhtar against the actor, was prima facie made out, and further probe into the same was required. The court accordingly, initiated criminal proceedings against Ranaut and issued summons to her in February this year. As per section 202 of the CrPC, a magistrate, on receipt of a complaint of an offence of which he or she is authorised to take cognisance of, can inquire, or direct the police to see if an actual case is made out, before issuing summons to an accused person. The high court is likely to pass an order on Ranaut's plea on September 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-reserves-order-on-kanganas-plea-seeking-quashing-of-defamation-proceedings-1025847.html
01-09-2021||National||BBC's first Hindi news reader Rajni Kaul dies at 93||Rajni Kaul, a distinguished broadcaster who became the first woman to read a news bulletin in Hindi on BBC nearly 60 years ago, passed away in Faridabad on Tuesday. She was 93. She was cremated on Wednesday, family sources said. Born in Peshawar, now in Pakistan, Kaul worked with All India Radio (AIR) in New Delhi before joining the Voice of America (VOA) in Washington and then BBC in London. She was the first woman to join BBC Hindi as a staffer and became the first woman to read a news bulletin in Hindi on the network in 1961. She was married to eminent broadcast journalist late Mahendra Kaul who also worked with the VOA and the BBC. They had settled down in London.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bbcs-first-hindi-news-reader-rajni-kaul-dies-at-93-1025853.html
01-09-2021||National||Coal scam: Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira expresses inability to appear before ED in Delhi||Senior TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira on Wednesday expressed her inability to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in New Delhi in connection with the coal pilferage scam citing the prevailing Covid situation and requested the agency sleuths to visit her Kolkata residence instead. The ED had summoned Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP, and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. Rujira Banerjee was asked to appear before the ED on September 1, and the TMC leader, who is the nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on September 6. "This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021, asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk. "It would be convenient to me if you consider asking me to appear in Kolkata at my residence since your organisation has its office in Kolkata and I reside in Kolkata too," she said in her letter addressed to Sumat Prakash Jain, Assistant Director of ED. "Besides, as per my understanding, the alleged cause of action of the subject matter of your inquiry too arises out of West Bengal. You may communicate your decision. I assure you every cooperation from my side," she said. A CBI team had questioned Rujira Banerjee at her residence in February in connection with the coal pilferage case. Mamata Banerjee had last week accused the BJP-led central government of letting loose its agencies on her nephew Abhishek in the coal scam case to avenge the "humiliating defeat of the BJP in the Bengal assembly polls". Dubbing the allegation as baseless, the BJP had said it has nothing to do with the ED probe but the people of the state want the investigation to be over within a time frame and unravelling of the truth. The case, registered under criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, was filed by the ED after studying a November 2020 FIR of the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields' mines at Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED has made at least two arrests in the money laundering case. One of them is Vikas Mishra, the brother of TMC youth wing leader Vinay Mishra. Vinay Mishra is stated to have left the country sometime back and probably has also renounced his Indian citizenship. The second person arrested by the ED early this year is the former inspector in charge of Bankura police station Ashok Kumar Mishra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-scam-abhishek-banerjees-wife-rujira-expresses-inability-to-appear-before-ed-in-delhi-1025865.html
01-09-2021||National||Jaishankar speaks to British counterpart Raab on situation in Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to his British counterpart Dominic Raab on Wednesday on the situation in Afghanistan, their second such conversation in a week. India has been in constant touch with all major countries on the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan, particularly after the Taliban took control of the country on August 15. "Nice speaking again to UK Foreign Secretary @DominicRaab. Conversation focused on Afghanistan related developments," Jaishankar tweeted. Conversation focused on Afghanistan related developments. The Jaishankar-Raab conversation came a day after the US completed the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan, ending its two-decade war in the country. The external affairs minister spoke to Raab on August 25 as well on the Afghan crisis. On Wednesday, Jaishankar also spoke to Omani Foreign Minister Sayyid Badr Al Busaidi. "Good to talk to Omani Foreign Minister @badralbusaidi. Discussed Afghanistan and Covid. Thank Oman for supporting our repatriation flights," Jaishankar tweeted. India has been closely monitoring the unfolding developments in Afghanistan. Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai in Doha on Tuesday, in the first formal and pubicly acknowledged contact between the two sides. The meeting took place at the Indian embassy in Doha at the request of the Taliban side and came two weeks after the outfit seized control of Kabul. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has invested nearly $3 billion in carrying out nearly 500 projects across Afghanistan. The UN Security Council, under India's presidency, on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that the territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists. There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of rise in activities of various terror groups, including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-speaks-to-british-counterpart-raab-on-situation-in-afghanistan-1025875.html
01-09-2021||National||Anurag Thakur inaugurates first-ever BRICS film technology symposium||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday inaugurated the first BRICS Film Technology Symposium. In a virtual address, Thakur said the symposium is a part of special events planned in the run-up to the BRICS summit to be held in India this year. “India takes pride in organising the first-ever BRICS film technology symposium as a part of the special events planned in the run-up to the BRICS summit to be held in India. "India is preparing to host the 13th BRICS summit this year. Under the chairmanship of India, we aim to promote institution building to further deepen, sustain and institutionalise BRICS cooperation," the minister said. He said that as a member of the BRICS consortium, India will play a crucial role to strengthen the ties between the member countries, and organising this symposium is a step in that direction. "India is a pivotal power in Asia today. As a member of the BRICS consortium, we would like to play a crucial role to strengthen the ties between the member countries. Organising BRICS symposium is a step in the direction to bring the people from all the member states together," Thakur said. The minister also said that through the medium of films, art and culture, avenues for cooperation can be opened up which can help in supporting development and growth in the film business. "The focus of BRICS symposium is to acknowledge the service sector and technicians working for the film industry and by the end of two days, I am sure this symposium will create opportunities for working professionals in the field of film technology of all BRICS nations to explore the world of cinema with a new perspective and vision," he said. The two-day film technology symposium, in cooperation with the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), will have 25 speakers from BRICS countries who will touch upon different segments of film technology. A virtual exhibition by the film technology companies will also take place on the sidelines of the event. Opening the event, Information and Broadcasting Secretary Apurva Chandra said that the symposium intends to form partnerships and build a platform for technology companies and organisations promoting films and film technologies among the member countries. "India is proud to be associated with this symposium. Cinema transcends national boundaries touching millions of lives globally. This BRICS symposium An ideal platform to celebrate the multi cultural diversity of people across the globe," he said. He said that BRICS countries are significant players in the world in the field of VFX, animation, computer-generated imagery and media outsourcing. “The symposium will be discussing strategies and understanding the global animation sector in this context,” Chandra said. He said that the symposium is being held against the backdrop of the BRICS film festival to be organised along with the 52nd International Film Festival of India in Goa in November this year which will be an opportunity to interact and share the best of cinema. “In the post-pandemic world, films and technology have brought the world together in unique ways through streaming platforms. This has ushered us into a world without barriers. “The new-age cinema from BRICS nations speaks to a wider audience with its socially relevant themes and is not afraid of speaking in the manner it wants to. We hope to see you at the BRICS film Festival to be held in Goa this year,” Chandra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-thakur-inaugurates-first-ever-brics-film-technology-symposium-1025884.html
01-09-2021||National||Jallianwala Bagh complex restored with utmost respect: Culture Ministry||Amid allegations the government was "glamourising" the Jallianwala Bagh complex, the Culture Ministry Wednesday said it has been "restored" by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the agency that has restored World Heritage sites in the country, to conserve it for posterity. It also said a "poignant" soundtrack has been chosen as part of the sound and light show describing the event on the day of the massacre. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently inaugurated four new galleries and opened the renovated memorial virtually, a year-and-a-half after it was closed for the revamp. The well into which the people jumped when forces led by Reginald Dyer opened fire on them has been covered with a transparent barrier. The narrow entrance has been adorned with sculptures. A daily sound and light show explaining the events has been started. Ministry of Culture Secretary Raghvendra Singh argued the complex was in dire need of conservation. "It has been restored by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) which is the agency that restored World Heritage sites in the country. Instead of letting a derelict structure to fall, we have restored it to conserve it for posterity," he told PTI, but refused to comment on the political storm brewing over the restoration. On the criticism over the light and sound show, Singh said that the show existed but it became defunct over time. "The soundtrack is so poignant. It has been very sensitively done and is informative as well. Anyone coming to this place will leave better informed. The galleries too have been improved, technology has been improved to bring out the poignancy of the killings of innocents and how the incident influenced other bravehearts," said Singh. He said the work has been done with "utmost respect". Slamming the revamp, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said only a person who does not know the "meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult on the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh". "I am the son of a martyr — I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost…We are against this indecent cruelty," he had earlier this week. Some historians have also criticised the work terming it an "insult towards the martyrs". "This is corporatisation of monuments, where they end up as modern structures, losing the heritage value. Look after them without meddling with the flavours of the period these memorials represent," tweeted historian S Irfan Habib. Officials, however, say that these allegations are "untrue". They said the accusation that the bullet marks have even "hidden" was false. The bullet marks have been conserved, they said. They said the earlier structure was "filthy" with defunct fountains which have now been restored, cleaned and a lily pond installed. The entire area has been landscaped, officials said, making the place visually appealing. Officials involved in the process said the well was covered with rubbish, now it has been restored and even lit from inside. In terms of tourist footfall too, the restoration will bring rich dividends for the city, officials said. Near to the Golden Temple, the renovated complex is expected to draw in tourists with its moesha halls, laser show and galleries, the ministry hopes. The Golden Temple received a footfall of around one lakh per day during the week and 1.5 lakh during weekends and special day before the coronavirus crisis forced its closure. Over 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919 when British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands who had assembled in Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act which had extended wartime repressive measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jallianwala-bagh-complex-restored-with-utmost-respect-culture-ministry-1025897.html
01-09-2021||National||Post-poll violence: West Bengal govt moves SC against CBI probe||The West Bengal government has approached the Supreme Court against the Calcutta High Court's order directing a CBI probe into murders and other offences committed during the post-poll violence. In its plea, the Mamata Banerjee-led government contended that it could not expect a fair probe as CBI acted at the behest of the Centre and was busy foisting cases upon Trinamool Congress functionaries. Among other grounds, it also claimed discrepancies in the NHRC report relied upon by the High Court to direct probe into the matter. The Calcutta High Court had on August 19 ordered a CBI probe into "heinous crimes of murder and rape" in the state after the Assembly elections results on May 2. The High Court directed the West Bengal government to hand over all records of cases to the CBI for "court-monitored investigation", saying that any obstruction during the course of the probe by anyone shall be "viewed seriously". It had also ordered a separate SIT, with senior officers from the West Bengal cadre, to probe other allegations. The top court was already seized of several petitions for CBI or SIT probe into the killings of BJP workers in the post-poll violence witnessed after the ruling TMC secured third consecutive term in Assembly elections. It had in May issued notice to the Union and state governments in the matter.  A 60-year-old woman and a 17-year-old girl from West Bengal had also filed an application, alleging horrific gang-rape by TMC workers because of their families' support to the BJP in Assembly elections. They sought SIT probe into all incidents of post-poll violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-poll-violence-west-bengal-govt-moves-sc-against-cbi-probe-1025900.html
01-09-2021||National||SC asks states, UTs to consider vaccinating inmates in mental healthcare homes||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked all the states and Union Territories to consider fixing a timeline for vaccinating the inmates lodged in mental healthcare homes against Covid-19 and sought a status report by October 15.  A three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud favoured laying down the schedule for vaccination of those lodged in mental care homes along with health care workers in such institutions. Hearing a plea by lawyer Gaurav Kumar Bansal, the top court gave six months to states and UTs for taking steps to establish halfway homes for rehabilitation of those cured of mental illness. It also said the authorities must ensure the inmates were not relocated to old age or beggar homes and they should designate proper facilities in the meantime. The court accepted a suggestion by Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan and directed all the  states and UTs to set up an online dashboard within four weeks with information on mental health patients and details of those cured of the illness, halfway homes, rehabilitation etc. It asked the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to provide a format of the dashboard to the states for updating the data in a real-time and seamless manner. During the hearing, the court expressed its shock that the Uttar Pradesh government has relocated just 51 such patients out of 320 cured ones. Maharashtra government counsel informed the court that it had identified seven NGOs for shifting 186 mentally cured patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-states-uts-to-consider-vaccinating-inmates-in-mental-healthcare-homes-1025902.html
01-09-2021||National||BJP ally JD(U) asks Centre to roll back LPG price hike||The BJP ally Janata Dal (United) demanded on Wednesday that the government roll back the hike in cooking gas cylinder prices and step in to check the rising fuel prices as these have affected common households. JD(U) spokesperson K C Tyagi said the repeated hike in the LPG price has affected people's budget adversely. "The government should roll back the hike," he said. He also spoke against leaving petrol and diesel prices to market mechanism, and said the government must step in to curb their cost for people's benefit. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's party has of late taken positions on certain issues that have raised eyebrows. Kumar had backed the opposition's demand for a probe into the alleged snooping involving Pegasus spyware. He has also led the chorus for a caste census, a politically fraught issue over which the BJP has so far maintained silence. The prices of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cooking gas cylinders across all categories including subsidised gas were hiked on Wednesday by Rs 25 per cylinder -- the third straight increase in rates in less than two months. Subsidised as well as non-subsidised LPG now costs Rs 884.50 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi, according to a price notification of oil companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-ally-jdu-asks-centre-to-roll-back-lpg-price-hike-1025926.html
01-09-2021||National||Centre planning to shift public transport system to 100% EV: Nitin Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has said that the Centre is planning to shift public transport and logistics to 100% electric vehicles. However, the Minister did not give a timeline for the proposed plan.  While addressing an online event on electric mobility, the Minister said that the government intends to have electric vehicle sales penetration of 30% for private cars, 70% for commercial vehicles, 40% for buses and 80% for two and three-wheelers by 2030. The Centre is aggressively pushing for electric vehicles as it introduced the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India Phase II (FAME-II) scheme under which the government gives subsidies to states to purchase electric buses and other modes of public transport vehicles. Power Minister R K Singh has recently urged all Union ministers and chief ministers to switch over to electric vehicles for all official purposes. Gadkari also recently announced his ministry's plan to have charging stations along national highways including at fuel pump stations.  The government recently said that  70% of components to manufacture electric vehicles are imported from countries including China and Taiwan. The EV market in India makes up only 1% of the total sales of the auto industry. Several departments including the road transport ministry, the department for the promotion of industry and internal trade and NITI Aayog have supported US electric vehicle maker Tesla's proposal for a reduction in import duty to enter India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-planning-to-shift-public-transport-system-to-100-ev-nitin-gadkari-1025931.html
01-09-2021||National||Girl missing from UP: SC unhappy over probe, says investigation report be shared with Delhi Police||The Supreme Court Wednesday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh Police for its probe into a case of a 13-year-old missing girl and directed it to forthwith share the investigation report with Delhi Police so that the minor could be traced. The apex court also warned the Uttar Pradesh Police that the case may be handed over to the CBI if it failed to trace the minor, who has been missing since July 8. The top court, which termed the case as "a very sensitive matter," also said that “the time factor is equally important" and every minute is “precious”. It was hearing a plea filed by the mother of the girl seeking directions to the Uttar Pradesh Police and the Delhi Police to trace her minor daughter. The mother, who works as a domestic help in Delhi, has claimed in her petition that her daughter is believed to have been kidnapped from Gorakhpur by a man when her family members had gone there to attend a marriage ceremony. An FIR was registered in the case at Gorakhpur. "You (Uttar Pradesh Police) share the entire information with Delhi Police. We will ask them to do the needful. You share your investigation report with Delhi Police by tomorrow. We are directing you,” a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar told the counsel appearing for state of Uttar Pradesh. “We direct the police officers of the Gorakhpur Police Station to forthwith share the entire investigation record to the in-charge of the Malviya Nagar Police Station, New Delhi, by tomorrow, i.e. September 2, 2021,” the bench, also comprising justices Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar, said in its order. The top court made clear that its direction is "not absolving" the police officers of Uttar Pradesh from continuing with the investigation in the matter in coordination with Delhi Police and extend full cooperation, as and when required. During the hearing, the counsel representing Uttar Pradesh told the bench that police is trying to trace the girl and they also have the call detail records. The counsel said the police be given two more weeks as the case involves investigation in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and they have also received information that the girl might be in West Bengal. “The time factor is equally important. We may transfer it to the CBI if you are unable to do it. The incident is of July. We have entered in September. If you have the details, why you will take time,” the bench asked during the hearing. The top court said the police will have to investigate the matter and find out the details. “In this case, every hour, every minute is precious. You are not showing the anxiety that is expected in a matter like this. It is a very sensitive matter,” the bench observed. “Where is the question of two weeks,” it said, adding, “You have the call details and yet you have not moved into action. We are surprised.” The top court directed the Uttar Pradesh Police to share the entire investigation report with the Delhi Police by Thursday. “We also direct the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to ensure that prompt further investigation, as may be necessary, is directed in tracing out the missing girl and report compliance at the earliest,” said the bench and posting the matter for hearing on Friday. It said copy of its order be forthwith forwarded to the Commissioner of Delhi Police and Superintendent of Police of Gorakhpur district through e-mail for information and necessary action. The top court had on August 27 issued notice on the petition and posted it for hearing today. In her petition filed through advocate Pai Amit, the girl’s mother has sought directions for carrying out investigation into the disappearance and kidnapping of her daughter and take appropriate action against those who may be found involved in this. The habeas corpus petition, which has sought to produce the girl before the court, has alleged that despite an FIR being lodged at Gorakhpur and an attempt being made to make a complaint with the Delhi Police, no action has been taken to trace the minor. It said the man, who is suspected to have kidnapped the girl, was constantly luring and coaxing her to accompany him. She claimed after an FIR was registered in Gorakhpur, she returned to Delhi and approached a police station where she had complained regarding the man on a previous occasion but the police refused to register or take steps towards recording her complaint with respect to kidnapping of her daughter on the grounds that a prior FIR has already been lodged in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/girl-missing-from-up-sc-unhappy-over-probe-says-investigation-report-be-shared-with-delhi-police-1025949.html
01-09-2021||National||Opposition leaders claim JNU course seeks to 'demonise' a community, VC dismisses 'needless controversy'||A political row broke out over a course on counter-terrorism introduced by the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) with opposition leaders claiming that it seeks to “demonise” a community. The optional course – Counter-Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers – will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students specialising in international relations at JNU’s School of Engineering. This course and two others – India's World View in the 21st Century, and Significance of Science and Technology in International relations – were approved by the JNU Academic Council on August 17. “A new course in JNU brazenly distorts history & demonises an entire community to communalism polity & yield electoral dividends for BJP & further divisive agenda of RSS,” BSP leader Kunwar Danish Ali said. Ali said the move will have grave implications for India's unity and integrity and wanted the government to scrap it forthwith. CPI leader Binoy Viswam had written to Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan claiming that the course tries to “distort history” and an attempt to “communalise and politicise geopolitical issues”. JNU Vice-Chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar dismissed the row as a “needless controversy” raked up “without going into the academic merits of the course”. “The objective of the course, ‘Counter Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers’, is mainly to have an in-depth understanding of the challenges emanating from terrorism to India’s national security and how India can get equipped with adequate responses in case of any eventuality,” he said. He said the course had the potential to build a strong narrative for India. “An in-depth understanding of various global and regional terrorist networks is a part of the curriculum of this course. How India has witnessed the rise of religious fundamentalism and radicalisation through perverse ideologies in its neighbourhood is an area where a lot of knowledge is needed to deal with emerging situations,” Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-leaders-claim-jnu-course-seeks-to-demonise-a-community-vc-dismisses-needless-controversy-1025950.html
01-09-2021||National||RBI imposes penalty on Axis Bank||The RBI on Wednesday said it has imposed a penalty of Rs 25 lakh on Axis Bank Limited for contravention of certain provisions of Know Your Customer (KYC) norms. The RBI said a scrutiny was carried out during February and March 2020 in a customer account maintained with Axis Bank, and it was observed that the bank had "failed to comply" with directions contained in the Reserve Bank of India – KYC Direction, 2016. "...the bank failed to monitor/carry out ongoing due diligence in the said account to ensure that the transactions were consistent with its knowledge about the customer, customer's business and risk profile," it said in a statement. A notice was issued to the bank, advising it to show cause why the penalty should not be imposed on it for contravention of the directions. After considering the reply to the notice and oral submissions made during the personal hearing, the RBI said it "came to the conclusion that the charge of contravention of/non-compliance with the aforesaid RBI directions was substantiated" and warranted imposition of monetary penalty. The RBI, however, added that the penalty is based on deficiencies in regulatory compliance and is not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any transaction or agreement entered into by the bank with its customers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-imposes-penalty-on-axis-bank-1025954.html
01-09-2021||National||Indian Army to participate in multi-nation military exercise in Russia||The Indian Army will participate in a two-week multi-nation military exercise at Nizhny in Russia beginning Friday that is aimed at boosting anti-terror cooperation. Over a dozen countries will take part in the 'Zapad' exercise which will primarily focus on anti-terror operations, officials said. China and Pakistan are also expected to take part in the exercise as observers. The defence ministry said a contingent of 200 personnel of the Indian Army will participate in an exercise that is taking place from September 3-16.         "Zapad is one of the theatre level exercises of Russian armed forces and will focus primarily on operations against terrorists," it said. "The Naga Battalion group participating in the exercise will feature an all Arms combined task force. The exercise aims to enhance military and strategic ties amongst the participating nations," the ministry said.       "The Indian contingent has been put through a strenuous training schedule which encompasses all facets of conventional operations including mechanised, airborne and heliborne, counter-terrorism, combat conditioning and firing," it said. Separately, the Indian and Kazakh armies began a 13-day military exercise on Wednesday. "The India-Kazakhstan joint military exercise “KAZIND-21” commenced today at training Node Aisha Bibi, Kazakhstan," said an official. It is the fifth edition of the annual bilateral exercise by both armies. The fourth edition of the exercise was held at Pithoragarh in September 2019. A total of 90 personnel from the Bihar Regiment of the Indian Army are participating in the exercise. The scope of the exercise includes professional exchange, planning and execution of operations in a counter-terrorism environment and sharing of expertise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-to-participate-in-multi-nation-military-exercise-in-russia-1025955.html
01-09-2021||National||Cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in India cross 66 crore: Health ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 66 crore on Wednesday, the Union health ministry said. More than 69 lakh (69,42,335) vaccine  doses have been administered on Wednesday as per the 7 pm provisional report. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 25,89,65,198 individuals in the age group of 18-44 years across states and Union Territories have received their first dose and 2,97,99,597 have received their second dose since the start of phase-three of the vaccination drive, according to the health ministry data. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-cross-66-crore-health-ministry-1025989.html
01-09-2021||National||UGC asks all university VCs to prepare database of international students||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked vice-chancellors of all varsities to prepare a database of international students studying in their institutions. The details have been sought by September 15. "Ministry of Education, government of India has directed that a database of the information with regard to all international students studying in higher educational institutions (HEls) in India including the details of alumni needs to be created urgently," the letter written on August 31 read. "Hence, all the universities are requested to provide the data of students from the graduate level onwards in the attached format via e-mail to ugcic2@gmail.com positively by September 15, 2021," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-asks-all-university-vcs-to-prepare-database-of-international-students-1025990.html
01-09-2021||National||Anurag Thakur, Dharmendra Pradhan launch nation-wide quiz on sports and fitness||Sports Minister Anurag Thakur and Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday launched a quiz on fitness and sports, "the Fit India Quiz", here. The nation-wide quiz is aimed at creating awareness about fitness and sports among school-going children, while giving them a chance to compete on a national platform and an opportunity to win a total cash prize of more than Rs 3 crore for their schools. "Mental fitness is equally important to physical fitness. The Fit India Quiz will inculcate mental alertness at a very early age and the quiz is a perfect way to simultaneously enhance sports knowledge," Thakur said. The launch was also virtually attended by Tokyo Olympics medallists javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and shuttler P V Sindhu, who were delighted by the initiative. To participate, schools have will have to register on the link provided on the Fit India website between September 1 to 30 and nominate their students who will take part in the preliminary round at the end of October. The winners of the preliminary round will then take part in the state round in December and the winners will then go on to participate at the national level in January-February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-thakur-dharmendra-pradhan-launch-nation-wide-quiz-on-sports-and-fitness-1025998.html
01-09-2021||National||PM Modi releases commemorative coin on Prabhupada's 125th birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday released a special commemorative coin on the occasion of the 125th Birth Anniversary of Srila Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. Addressing the gathering through video-conferencing, the Prime Minister also lauded the efforts of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) founded by Prabhupada for their service to humanity during earthquake in Kutch, Uttarakhand tragedy, cyclones in Odisha and Bengal and during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister said Srila Prabhupada connected Bhakti Vedanta with the consciousness of the world. Modi hailed the role Prabhupada had in the freedom struggle and recalled that the spiritual leader had refused to accept his diploma from Scottish College in support of the non-cooperation movement. The Prime Minister said that in the times of slavery, the Bhakti movement kept the spirit of India alive. He said scholars assess that if there was no social revolution of the Bhakti period, it would have been difficult to imagine the status and form of India. Bhakti connected the living beings with God by removing the discrimination of faith, social hierarchies and privileges, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-releases-commemorative-coin-on-prabhupadas-125th-birth-anniversary-1026025.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||Rajasthan Congress claims infighting in state BJP||The Rajasthan Congress on Tuesday claimed that the opposition BJP is getting weakened in the state due to infighting, triggering a sharp reaction from the saffron party. “The BJP leaders are fighting among themselves and the people are watching this,” the Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said. “Instead of pointing out any shortcomings in the government schemes and programmes, they are fighting among themselves. I do not think that the BJP will be able to stand on its feet in future,” he added. Dotasra said be it the BJP state president Satish Poonia or Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore or even Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Bhupendra Yadav, they all claim themselves to be “big”. “And Vasundhara Raje is already bigger than them as she has been the chief minister twice but she is not being heard,” he said. On the controversy over the absence of a picture of former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in the posters of the 'Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav' released by the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), Dotasra said the BJP is thinking narrowly. “No matter how hard the RSS and BJP may try, they cannot erase the Nehru and Gandhi family and their contribution from the history of the country,” he said. The PCC chief also accused the central government of misusing agencies like the CBI, ED and Income Tax Department. Reacting sharply to Dotasra’s remarks, BJP state president Satish Poonia said the state Congress president should take care of his party first. “The Congress government is struggling with infighting, due to which the development work in the state has come to a complete halt. To divert attention from the failures of the Congress government, Dotasra has to give such statements,” Poonia said in a statement. He said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is scared that the day the Cabinet expansion will take place, there will be a big explosion in the Congress party. “Therefore, Ashok Gehlot is magically postponing the Cabinet expansion. The lack of expansion of the Congress organisation shows that the organization and power in the state are in the hands of one person,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-congress-claims-infighting-in-state-bjp-1025651.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||Harish Rawat apologises for 'Panj Pyare' remark, says will sweep gurdwara floor as atonement||As a political controversy kicked up in poll-bound Punjab over the casual "panj pyare'' remarks of AICC general secretary Harish Rawat, the senior Congress leader went into damage control, tendering an immediate apology and announcing to sweep a Gurdwara floor to atone for his mistake. Rawat, who had to earlier eat his words on Captain Amarinder Singh leading the 2022 Punjab polls and clarifying that Gandhis will be the face for the state polls, was rushed to Chandigarh on August 31 to douse the fire between the warring leaders--Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. After meeting Sidhu and his team, which had a few days back demanded the exit of the Chief Minister, the AICC general secretary in-charge for the state on Tuesday said he met the PCC chief and his team.  "They are Panj Pyare," he casually remarked while pitching for dividing the responsibilities among the state leaders. He was referring to the Punjab Congress chief and four working presidents after a meeting at the Punjab Congress Bhawan. The casual remarks kicked up an uproar and gave a tool to the Opposition Akali Dal to rake a political row against Congress as in the Sikh tradition, 'Panj Pyare' is a very honourable term used for five beloved of the Guru. Guru Gobind Singh, the last of the ten Gurus had initiated five men into the order of 'Khalsa' (pure). Shiromani Akali Dal leader Daljeet S Cheema asked the Congress government in the state to lodge a case against its own leader Harish Rawat for "hurting Sikh sentiments" by referring to PCC chief and his team as "Panj Pyare". "He should know that Panj Pyare holds significance in Sikhism, should apologise for his remarks, it's not funny," Cheema said. Sensing the trouble ahead of polls, Rawat quickly went into damage control. Rawat wrote on his Facebook page, "sometimes by expressing respect, you use such words which are objectionable. I too have made a mistake of using the word 'Panj Pyare' for my honourable president and four working presidents”. Saying that he was a student of the country's history, Rawat acknowledged that the leading position of 'Panj Pyare' could not be compared with any other. “I have committed a mistake. I apologise for hurting the sentiments of people,” he said adding that he will clean a gurdwara in his state with a broom as atonement. Rawat, who is Congress CM face for another poll-bound state Uttarakhand said that he always had a sense of dedication and respect to Sikh religion and its great traditions. Rawat had gone to Chandigarh to resolve the crisis in the party that had started after four ministers, belonging to Sidhu camp with nearly two dozen MLAS had sought removal of the Chief Minister, alleging unfulfilled poll promises by him. The rebel leaders later had a meeting with Rawat in Dehradun on August 25.  With just a few months left for Punjab assembly polls, the internal squabbling within the party's state unit was far from over even after Sidhu was appointed the Punjab Pradesh Congress president. Rawat on Saturday had met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and briefed him about the situation in the state. Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal Daljit Singh Cheema took exception to Rawat’s alleged 'Panj Pyaras' remarks and demanded an apology from him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/harish-rawat-apologises-for-panj-pyare-remark-says-will-sweep-gurdwara-floor-as-atonement-1025762.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||Possible axis of China, Pakistan and Taliban-controlled Afghanistan cause for worry: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said it is too premature to congratulate ourselves over the UN Security Council adopting a resolution on Afghanistan, and cautioned that the possible axis of China, Pakistan and Taliban-controlled Afghanistan is a cause for worry. His remarks came after the UN Security Council, under India's Presidency, adopted a strong resolution demanding that the territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists and that it expects the Taliban will adhere to commitments made by it on regarding the safe and orderly departure from the country of Afghans and all foreign nationals. Reacting to the development, Chidambaram said the government is congratulating itself for the UNSC resolution adopted on Afghanistan. "'Resolution' has two meanings. The first is that the issue has been 'resolved' or settled to India's satisfaction. That is not what happened at the UNSC. The second meaning is that we have put our wishes on paper and got some others to sign that paper! That is what happened at UNSC yesterday," the former Union minister said on Twitter. It is too premature to congratulate ourselves, Chidambaram said. The possible axis of China, Pakistan and Taliban-controlled Afghanistan is a cause for worry, he cautioned. The Security Council on Monday adopted the resolution sponsored by France, UK and the US with 13 members voting in favour, none against and permanent, veto-wielding members Russia and China abstaining. This was the first resolution adopted by the powerful 15-nation Council on the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban and came on the penultimate day of India's Presidency of the Security Council for the month of August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/possible-axis-of-china-pakistan-and-taliban-controlled-afghanistan-cause-for-worry-chidambaram-1025848.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||UP govt failed to provide health services to people: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday attacked the BJP’s Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that people are suffering due to poor health services amid the rapidly spreading vector-borne diseases. “People are suffering due to poor health services in Uttar Pradesh. Due to rains and waterlogging, vector-borne diseases are spreading rapidly. The number of patients infected with such diseases is increasing continuously,” Yadav said in a statement here. “No effort is being made by the government to check the spread of these diseases. Neither fogging was done timely, nor proper arrangements for treatment has been made available," he added. "Even after 56 deaths due to dengue and viral fever in Firozabad, the administration is sleeping. Uttar Pradesh’s capital Lucknow and adjoining districts are in the grip of typhoid. About 100 people have been affected by typhoid in Lucknow so far," he claimed. Accusing the BJP government of being busy in poll campaigning, Yadav said it should wake up from its slumber and ensure quality medical facilities for children and elders who are affected by these diseases. Health services are not the priority of the BJP government of UP, he said, adding it broke the trust of the people during the Covid pandemic. The BJP government could not supply proper vaccines for the people despite its tall claims, he added. The farewell of the BJP, which put people’s lives in danger, is certain after 2022 polls, is certain he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-govt-failed-to-provide-health-services-to-people-akhilesh-yadav-1025855.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||'Rising GDP means rise in prices of gas, diesel and petrol': Rahul Gandhi slams Modi government||On a day the prices of cooking gas cylinders across all categories were hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday once again targeted the Centre, claiming that a new concept of GDP in the country wherein its increase actually means an increase in Gas, Diesel and Petrol prices. Rahul said Prime Minister Narendra Modi lacks a "new vision" to take the country out of the mess created by his government as the economic strategy adopted between 1991 and 2012 is "no more working". Addressing a press conference here, he said the collapse of the GDP was a symptom of the "catastrophic failure" of the country's economy and warned that the situation could go out of control if the crude oil prices increases to $90 or 100 per barrel.  Rahul said Prime Minister Narendra Modi lacks a "new vision" to take the country out of the mess created by his government as the economic strategy adopted between 1991 and 2012 is "no more working". Addressing a press conference here, he said the collapse of the GDP was a symptom of the "catastrophic failure" of the country's economy and warned that the situation could go out of control if the crude oil prices increases to $90 or 100 per barrel. "Modi-ji is saying the GDP has risen. The Finance Minister (Nirmala Sitharaman) says it's above the projections. The government has a new concept of GDP. An increase in GDP actually means an increase in gas, diesel and petrol (GDP) prices," Rahul said. Rahul's attack came on a day the prices of cooking gas cylinders across all categories were hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder, which was the third straight increase in rates in less than two months. Congress also used a hashtag "#IndiaAgainstBJPLoot" on social media. The former Congress president said crude oil prices have decreased from $105 in 2014 to $71 and international gas prices from $880 per metric tonne to $653 but petrol prices have risen from Rs 71.51 to Rs 101.34 and diesel from Rs 57.28 to Rs 88.87. Cooking gas cylinder price has risen from Rs 410 to Rs 885. "The Prime Minister, the Finance Minister are panicking. Modi is afraid that he will not be able to fulfill the promises he had made. The government is feeding off fuel price hikes. The day international crude prices go up, things will get out of control for this government," Rahul said. Pointing out that the rise in price is happening when the international crude and gas prices are decreasing, he said the Centre has amassed Rs 23 lakh crore. "The question is where did it go? It is not going into the pockets of the common man. We will have to ask. The Finance Minister is talking about monetisation of assets. The country's assets are given away at throw away prices to the Prime Minister's industrialist friends," he said. Asked why people have not still hit the streets in large numbers though Opposition parties have organised protests, he said anger is growing and there will be a "massive reaction" to the growing price rise. "There is anger. We also don't want lakhs of people on the streets during the Covid-19 pandemic," he added. To a question on whether Congress-ruled states would bring down VAT on fuel, he said the issue is about Rs 23 lakh crore being amassed by the Centre. "The issue is what the Centre is doing when the international prices are going down and not what Chhattisgarh or Punjab government would do. Why people are being made to pay. The Centre is taking Rs 23 lakh crore and not the states," he said. Rahul warned that the country could see a repeat of 1991, when India's economy faced serious troubles, and said the current problems are not cyclical problems but structural in nature. "The present problem is that the system which ran between 1991 and 2021 has become non-functional. We need a new approach, a new vision," he said. He said the stock market is rising but it is benefitting only around 50 companies. There are other 400-500 companies in the market but they are facing existential problems but they are not in the radar of the Modi government, he claimed. "These 400-500 companies are actually the backbone of the Indian economy which provides jobs and not the 50. These 50 companies have their space but they can't give you jobs. There is no space for these 400-500 companies, which are small and medium companies, in Modi-ji's mind," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rising-gdp-means-rise-in-prices-of-gas-diesel-and-petrol-rahul-gandhi-slams-modi-government-1025862.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||Defection of MLAs to TMC leaves Bengal BJP divided||The recent defection of BJP MLAs to the TMC in West Bengal has left the state unit of the saffron party divided. While a section of state BJP leaders belonging to the old guard of the party are saying that it was bound to happen as these MLAs joined the party from the TMC ahead of the Assembly elections for personal gains, others blamed the state BJP leadership of keeping these MLAs isolated which resulted in their exit. Two BJP MLAs, Tanmay Ghosh from Bishnupur, and Biswajit Das from Bagda, joined TMC in the last two days. A state BJP leader belonging to the old guard of the party said that the exit of these MLAs may have an adverse impact on the organisation as many grassroots level cadres are also deserting the party. “There are already several organisational weaknesses in the party. Now of the cadres start to jump ships the situation will become alarming,” he said. He also said that these MLAs were inducted in the party from the TMC by the central leadership, who did not consult the state leaders. “These leaders joined the BJP for power and personal gain. Now that we lost in the Assembly elections they no longer want to remain with us. We alerted the central leadership prior to their induction in the party, but they did not bother to listen to us,” the BJP leader said. However, another section of BJP leaders accused the state BJP leadership for the exit of the MLAs. They said that these MLAs, along with the leaders who joined the BJP from the TMC were always kept isolated in the party by the state leadership, which has resulted into their defection to the TMC. They said those TMC leaders who joined the saffron party along with Mukul Roy were always kept cornered in the party. “Now that Roy has returned to the TMC, these leaders are following his footsteps,” they said. However, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that these MLAs joined the TMC due to intimidation from the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/defection-of-mlas-to-tmc-leaves-bengal-bjp-divided-1025877.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||Party leadership will decide on who will play what role in Rajasthan: Sachin Pilot||Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister and Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said the party leadership will take a decision on who-will-play-what-role in the future, amid speculation about Cabinet expansion in that state and possible induction of him and his loyalists into the Ministry. He said he is in touch with the Congress high command over party issues raised by him and hoped that required steps will be taken by the top leadership. Pilot and 18 other MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot last year. After a month-long crisis, the Congress high command had formed a committee to look into the issues raised by them. "It's been a year since a committee was formed.....I think the party and the government need to work together to make sure that in 2023 when elections come again we fulfill all our promises made in the manifesto to make sure we come back with a bigger majority," he said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters here, he said he doesn't want to speculate on reports about him being made Congress in-charge for Gujarat or the next Chief Minister of Rajasthan. "Who becomes what, who takes over what position, who is Minister, who is party president or the Chief Minister, that decision is taken by the party leadership in Delhi," he added. Pilot had recently raked up the issue of non-resolution of commitments made to him, and leaders close to him had said they were losing patience over the long wait for getting their due. They had also claimed they were being "pressured" by Chief Minister Gehlot to leave their leader's side. To a question on whether issues raised by him have been resolved, Pilot said there was a committee formed last year for this, but unfortunately, senior leader Ahmed Patel, who was part of it, died, but the other two members and AICC are in constant touch with him. Stating that Rajasthan is a "strong Congress state" and there are some views he needed to share, he said the Congress president took cognisance of those views and formed a committee, and "we are working towards achieving things". "I think it is important to share views and thoughts on how we can have a better functioning government where every party worker feels he is a stakeholder in the setup....so those issues (raised by him) are being worked out," he added. To a question on cabinet expansion in Rajasthan, and about it being postponed repeatedly, Pilot said as far as he knows, AICC and the Chief Minister are discussing it. "As and when we have news on whatever will happen, it will be known." On reports that the Congress high command has given the go-ahead for cabinet expansion, he said he is not aware of it and that the party general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken has held many rounds of consultations with MLAs and leaders. Asked about factionalism in his party in various states, the former Union Minister said "It is only the Congress party that can challenge and overtake the BJP in general elections. In our party, unlike some other parties, there is room for discussions; of course, sometimes discussions are not as pleasant as one would like it to be, but ultimately the voice of the party worker, voice of the state leader, national leader is heard and we come out with a unanimous decision," he said. Responding to a question on the difference of opinion between Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and party's Chief Minister in Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh on revamped Jallianwala Bagh, Pilot said "just because some statements have come, you can't put those two in context, everyone you speak to have an opinion, but ultimately what the AICC says and does is the view of the party."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/party-leadership-will-decide-on-who-will-play-what-role-in-rajasthan-sachin-pilot-1025921.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||Congress, Rajasthan govt need to work together: Sachin Pilot||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said the party and the Rajasthan government need to “work together” to ensure a victory in the 2023 assembly polls. Pilot, who raised a flag of rebellion against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot last year, was in Bengaluru to address a news conference. He said he was in touch with a committee the party has formed to decide on his demands. “It’s been a year since the committee was formed...I think the party and the government need to work together to see that in 2023 when elections come, we work harder to come back with a bigger majority,” Pilot said. Asked about the fulfilment of his demands, Pilot said: “There was a committee formed last year for this, but unfortunately senior leader Ahmed Patel, a member, has left us. The other two members and the AICC are in constant touch with me.” Pilot, a former Union minister and deputy chief minister of Rajasthan, said he had raised some issues keeping the party’s interest in mind. “There were some views that I needed to share. The Congress president took cognizance of them, formed a committee and we’re working on them,” he said. “It’s important to share views and thoughts on how we can have a better functioning government where every party worker feels he is a stakeholder in the setup. So, those issues [I raised] are being worked out,” he added. He did not comment on speculation surrounding the Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle. “As far as I know, the AICC and the CM are discussing it.” On factionalism plaguing his party, Pilot said Congress was the only one with “bandwidth, presence, strength, determination and resilience” to take on the BJP. “In our party, unlike others, there’s room for discussion.” Commenting on the Taliban taking over Afghanistan, Pilot said India must formulate a “nuanced” stand. “It’s our extended neighbourhood. Does it give an upper hand to Pakistan? So far we haven’t known what the clear thinking of the government is. We shouldn’t do anything that jeopardises our interests,” he said. Coming down hard on the Modi administration on the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), Pilot said the Congress would “go to any extent to make sure the government doesn’t go ahead with this”. He said the NMP would create monopolies, burden taxpayers and might compromise “national, even strategic, assets”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-rajasthan-govt-need-to-work-together-sachin-pilot-1025938.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||Fuel price issue: BJP fuels row by accusing Rahul Gandhi of 'lying'||The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of spreading "falsities" and speaking "lies", soon after the Congress leader attacked the Modi government over the issue of fuel price rise. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said an LPG cylinder price was Rs 1,241 on January 1, 2014, and Rs 1,080 on March 1 in the same year, when the Congress-led UPA government was in power, against Rs 834 it costs now. He noted that Gandhi quoted the subsidised price during the UPA government while referred to the non-subsidised cost of the cylinder during the BJP government. "Rahul Gandhi has yet again done what he is best at. He has spread falsities and he has lied," Patra told PTI, accusing the Congress leader of giving misleading information on the proposed monetisation scheme as well. Noting Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's statement, he said the government has also had to deal with the legacy fallout of the oil bonds worth Rs 1.4 lakh crore issued by the UPA dispensation. After Gandhi took a jibe at the government by referring to the GDP rise as gas, diesel and petrol price increase, the BJP leader hit back saying, "Those who ran a government of CNP -- corruption, nepotism and policy paralysis -- are trying to spread falsity about India's GDP." The "historic" rise of 20.1 per cent in the GDP in the first quarter this fiscal following an over 24 per cent contraction during the corresponding period in the last fiscal underscores Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decisive leadership, he said. Patra accused Gandhi of lying that the government was selling off its assets through monetisation, asserting that it has made clear that they will be leased out for a specific period and money will be used for the public good. The ownership will remain with the government, he noted. Patra said Gandhi could not give a "straight" answer to a question on whether the Congress-ruled states will slash VAT on oil prices to reduce their prices. "It shows the Congress is all about talk but doing nothing," he said. Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the government over the rising price of domestic cooking gas, diesel and petrol, and alleged that an amount of Rs 23 lakh crore has been earned by increasing prices of these commodities in the last seven years. He also alleged that while sections such as farmers, salaried class and labourers were being "demonetised", a few "industrialist friends of Modi" were being monetised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fuel-price-issue-bjp-fuels-row-by-accusing-rahul-gandhi-of-lying-1025941.html
01-09-2021||National Politics||All is not well in J&K: Farooq Abdullah on violence against elected representatives||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday debunked the BJP's claim about "all is well in Jammu and Kashmir", saying if that is actually the case, why are its activists being killed in militancy violence. Addressing a day-long interactive session with National Conference functionaries of Jammu Province at the Sher-e-Kashmir Bhavan, Abdullah dwelt upon the overall scenario and also discussed party affairs with senior colleagues. He made a reference to the acts of violence against elected representatives and called for adequate security to those elected to panchayat raj institutions. "Their security should not be jeopardised," Abdullah cautioned. The NC president said the people, especially the youth, are faced with numerous problems as the promises made to them have proved to be hoax. Unemployment is on the rise, and the educated unemployed are undergoing a phase of despair. The is a need to arrest this trend, he added. Abdullah, however, expressed optimism about things changing for the better in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the National Conference has to play a vital role in this regard. He called for further rejuvenating the party at the grassroots level and enhancing public outreach. He said the National Conference cadre has to get further activated to meet the challenges. "We are passing through the most difficult times, and there is a crucial need of maintaining guard against polarising forces by upholding our unity," Abdullah said, adding that division of the society is inimical to our glorious ethos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-is-not-well-in-jk-farooq-abdullah-on-violence-against-elected-representatives-1026010.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Banwarilal Purohit takes oath as Punjab governor||Banwarilal Purohit was on Tuesday sworn in as the Governor of Punjab and Administrator Chandigarh, an official statement said. Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice Ravi Shanker Jha administered the oath of office to Purohit at Punjab Raj Bhavan here, it said. Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar were present on the stage. Purohit took the oath in English. Earlier, the governor-designate arrived at the special pandal of Punjab Raj Bhavan in a ceremonial procession. He was accompanied by the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. On his arrival at Punjab Raj Bhavan, Purohit was given guard of honour by the contingent of Punjab Armed Police. He was received by Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh and cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra and Manpreet Singh Badal. Dharam Pal, Adviser to the Administrator, along with senior officers of Chandigarh administration were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/banwarilal-purohit-takes-oath-as-punjab-governor-1025648.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||MP man, missing for 23 years, returns to India from Pakistan||A 57-year-old man from Madhya Pradesh, who went missing from his native place in Sagar district 23 years ago and was later jailed in Pakistan after inadvertently crossing into the neighbouring country, has returned to India, a police official said on Tuesday. Prahlad Singh Rajput, a resident of Sagar's Ghoshi Patti village, was handed over to the Border Security Force (BSF) by Pakistani authorities at the Wagah border in Punjab around 4 pm on Monday, Sagar Superintendent of Police Atul Singh told PTI. "He was later handed over to a Sagar police team and his brother went there to bring him back. Rajput and the police team are likely to return to Sagar by Tuesday evening," the official said. According to Rajput's family members and other residents of the village, located about 46 km from the district headquarters, he went missing in 1998, the official said, adding that how and when he crossed over to Pakistan could not be known. Rajput was initially jailed in the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and then shifted to a jail in Rawalpindi, the SP said as per information available so far. "The duration that he spent in Pakistani jails is not known," he said. The official said Pakistani authorities in 2015 informed the Indian government about 17 "mentally weak" people lodged in their jails, saying they were not able to inform about their residential addresses. "Prahlad Singh's name was also mentioned in this list, but his identity could not be ascertained at that time. Last year, his brother gave an application at the Sagar SP's office in this regard. On the basis of the application, the facts were corroborated and his identity was ascertained,” the official said. The information and documents were sent to the Foreign Ministry and his release could be subsequently ensured, he said. Two constables from Gourjhamar police station in Sagar and Rajput's brother Vir Singh, who went to the Wagah border to bring him back, were on their way to Sagar, police officials said. Earlier, a 40-year-old mentally unstable man, who had inadvertently crossed into Pakistan in 2019, returned to his village in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district in June this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-missing-for-23-years-returns-to-india-from-pakistan-1025660.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||17-year-old Afghan boy detained by police in Kathua||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Tuesday detained a 17-year-old Afghan boy in Kathua district, officials said. They said Abdul Rehman, son of Abdul Rashid Ahmed, was apprehended near a Covid testing centre at Lakhanpur, the entry point to J&K. "A police party apprehended an Afghan national at Lakhanpur between 6.30 am and 7 am today (Tuesday)," Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kathua, R C Kotwal told reporters. He said a preliminary investigation has been conducted, and it has surfaced that he came to Delhi with his brother who is undergoing treatment there. "He says his brother is under treatment at the RR hospital in New Delhi. His brother is in the Afghan army," Kotwal said. Police are verifying how he landed in Lakhanpur, he said. As of now, no incriminating document has been found in his possession. He only had some Indian and Afghan currencies with him, besides a mobile phone, the SSP added. He also has a passport and visa, and has been taken to the Lakhanpur police station for questioning, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-afghan-boy-detained-by-police-in-kathua-1025680.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi University approves implementation of NEP, 4-year undergraduate course from 2022-23 session||The Delhi University on Tuesday approved the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) and four-year undergraduate programme at its executive council (EC) meeting. Registrar Vikas Gupta said that the NEP will be implemented from the 2022-23 academic session. He said three members dissented against its implementation. The implementation of the NEP and four-year undergraduate programme were approved by the Standing Committee on Academic Matters and the Academic Council last week. The multiple entry/exit scheme (MEES), where students will be able to enter and exit the programme at various stages, and Academic Bank of Credit (ABC) were also approved in the meetings held last week. The EC, which is the highest decision-making body of the university, approved the MEES and ABC. In a dissent note against the implementation of the policy, the members stated that it will lead to privatisation and commercialisation of education, and its implementation would lead to "destruction of the largest public funded university in India". They also said that its implementation will dilute the learning and quality of education at the university. The Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) held an online protest on Tuesday against the implementation of the NEP. At the meeting, the de-affiliation of College of Art from Delhi University and its affiliation with the city-government run Ambedkar University was also discussed. The Delhi Cabinet in March took the decision to merge the College of Art, currently affiliated to Delhi University (DU), with Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD). "A committee has been formed to look into the matter. The entire EC was not happy with the conduct of the Delhi government and it was decided to form a committee," Gupta said. The university had earlier said it will establish facilitation centres in Roshanpura in Najafgarh and Bhati Kalan in Fatehpur Beri on the land given by the Delhi government. The centres will save students residing in far-flung areas from a long commute to the university campus and will extend help in relation to examination and admission-related procedures. The university also has plans to set up a college in Fatehpur Beri for which the names of first woman chief minister of Delhi Sushma Swaraj, Swami Vivekananda, Veer Savarkar and Sardar Patel were proposed. In its meeting held on Tuesday last week, the academic council put forth five more names, including DU alumnus Arun Jaitley and former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. "The council resolved that the name of these colleges/centres may be given after the names of Sushma Swaraj, Swami Vivekananda, Veer Savarkar, Sardar Patel. The council also suggested the names of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Savitri Bai Phule, Arun Jaitley, Choudhary Brahm Prakash and CD Deshmukh. After general discussion/suggestions, the council resolved that the vice-chancellor be authorised to finalise the name," read the agenda of the meeting. The discussion on the names was held and the EC proposed two more names -- Mahatma Gandhi and Amartya Sen. The VC will take a final call on the names, Gupta said. The EC also approved the signing of the tripartite agreement between the education ministry, DU and UGC. Two members expressed their dissent against it. The tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) requires universities to continuously increase the internal (self-generated) financial resource through fee hike, shift to revenue earning commercial courses, engagement with other commercial activities and manage greater part of their research activities through extramural funding, according to university officials. "We have been consistently opposing the tri-patrite MoU as an instrument to impose privatisation and contractualisation on DU. The original MoU signed was not shared in public and we have to follow the template sent by MoE every year," the note read. "The draft MoU seems to be a PR document to appease the ministry and facts have not been presented. There is nothing in this document to show that how serious are the challenges on the front of funding and staffing. There is lack of clarity on how teacher and students ratio has been reached," it said. "Secondly, it should be made specific that the new hostels will be started with the UGC and the government funding only. Higher Education Financing Agency (a joint venture company of a bank and the education ministry which provides financial assistance to educational institutions funding will make the things costly for students, especially SC, ST, OBC, EWS ones," according to the note. They also claimed that there is a possibility of a fee hike which will have far-reaching consequences "in the public funded universities like DU, in which 60 per cent students come from SC, ST, OBC, EWS". The EC also approved the proposal to appoint foreign scholars as adjunct facilities in departments. EC member Seema Das dissented against the matter saying it will lead to reduction of workload of those working as ad-hoc faculty members and who are waiting to be regularised. She also pointed out that the university has shortage of funds and the appointment of foreign faculty members would lead to increased burden. A sexual harassment complaint by an ad-hoc teacher made against the then chemistry department head Professor Ramesh Chandra in 2017 was also discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-approves-implementation-of-nep-4-year-undergraduate-course-from-2022-23-session-1025686.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Noida restaurant owner shot dead over delay in order; 3 arrested||The owner of a restaurant in Greater Noida near Delhi was shot dead over a delay in delivery of an order on Tuesday night. The police arrested three accused men on Wednesday after an encounter.  On Tuesday night, a scuffle broke between a Swiggy agent and the restaurant staff over delay in an order of chicken biriyani and 'poori subzi'. Eventually, the owner of the restaurant came to mediate between the delivery agent and the staff.  The three accused men, who were on a bike, stopped and approached the delivery agents standing nearby to inquire about the food, the police said in a statement. On seeing the fight between the Swiggy delivery agent and the owner, the three men, who were drunk, jumped into the fight and allegedly shot the owner in the head, the police added. Initial reports suggested the Swiggy had shot the owner, however, the police later clarified that three accused confessed to the crime.  Swiggy said in a statement, "We are saddened by the demise of our restaurant partner and our deepest condolences are with his family members. Basis information received from the police as of this evening, the three accused who have been apprehended for the crime are not related to Swiggy in any way. This matter is still under investigation and we are extending our full cooperation to the police." The delivery platform added that all delivery partners on Swiggy go through thorough background verification including a background check for court records. Clarification: Initial reports suggested that the Swiggy delivery agent had shot the owner. The copy has been updated with police's statement issued later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-restaurant-owner-shot-dead-over-delay-in-order-3-arrested-1025750.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Scindia seeks VAT reduction on aviation turbine fuel in Madhya Pradesh||Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday demanded a reduction in VAT on the aviation turbine fuel in Madhya Pradesh to attract more flights and improve air connectivity in the state. He was addressing a function virtually from New Delhi for the launch of IndiGo's Gwalior-Indore flight and re-starting of the Indore-Dubai flight. "I have written a letter to all chief ministers in the country to reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) on ATF (aviation turbine fuel). There are eight-nine states where it is in the range of one to four per cent, and that has resulted in 15 per cent increase in flights from those states," the minister said. He said there are different slabs of VAT applicable on ATF in Madhya Pradesh, ranging from four per cent to 25 per cent. "I request the MP government to bring it down to one to four per cent uniformly for the entire state,” Scindia said. The BJP leader further said that in Madhya Pradesh, the VAT is four per cent at Khajuraho, Jabalpur and Gwalior airports while it is 25 per cent at other airports in the state. “I request the state government to reduce it in the range of one to four per cent and make it uniform for the entire state for enhancing flight connectivity and introduction of more flights,” he said. “If this happens in Madhya Pradesh and the VAT is uniformly applicable, then I will pursue with the aviation companies, whose representatives are present here (during the function), to start more flights from MP,” the minister said. Scindia also requested MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to speed up the allotment of over 2,000 acre land for the expansion of the Indore airport, as demanded by some locals leaders in the state's industrial hub. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and MP Chief Minister Chouhan also addressed the function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scindia-seeks-vat-reduction-on-aviation-turbine-fuel-in-madhya-pradesh-1025774.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Ramacharyulu named Rajya Sabha's Secretary General||Parasaram Pattabhi Kesava Ramacharyulu has been appointed as Rajya Sabha's Secretary General from Wednesday. He is the first officer from the Upper House's Secretariat to rise to the position in the past 70 years. Ramacharyulu, who joined the Rajya Sabha Secretariat in 1983 after spending a year in Lok Sabha Secretariat, has been Secretary in the Upper House's Secretariat since 2018. The 64-year-old officer is the "first insider" to have risen from the ranks of the Secretariat as its head since the Rajya Sabha came into being in 1952. Nine such insiders have become the Secretary General of Lok Sabha so far. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu appointed Ramacharyulu, who holds a PhD from the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for his work on 'Committee Systems of Indian Parliament and the US Congress: A Comparative Study' in 2005, after Desh Dipak Verma demitted office as Secretary General after serving for four years. Ramacharyulu has around 40 years of experience of handling various aspects of the functioning of the Parliament. He has also served as Special Secretary of Andhra Pradesh Legislature in 2017. A Master of Arts in Political Science, he has attended various domestic and foreign training programmes, including Change Management and Human Resources in London, Legislative Drafting at International Legislative Drafting Institute, Washington and Parliamentary Exchange Programmes in the European Parliament, Brussels. He has also visited the US, the UK, Canada, Belgium, South Africa, Bangladesh, Qatar and Bangladesh on official assignments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ramacharyulu-named-rajya-sabhas-secretary-general-1025775.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Rain inundates Delhi, highest in September in 12 years||Delhi saw the highest single-day rainfall in September in at least 12 years, with weather stations in the city recording 112.1 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Wednesday. The heavy burst of rain submerged low-lying areas in knee-deep water and affected traffic movement in parts of the city. On an average, the capital gauges 125.1 mm precipitation in September every year, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).  This means that Delhi recorded 90 percent of the monthly quota of rain on the first day of the month.   Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said the monsoon pattern is changing due to climate change.  "The number of rainy days has reduced over the last four to five years, and there has been an increase in extreme weather events," he said. "We have been recording short and intense bouts of rains, sometimes around 100 mm rainfall in just 24 hours. In the past, this much precipitation would occur over a period of 10 to 15 days," he said.           Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, gauged 112.1 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Wednesday, the highest on a day in September in at least 12 years. The weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ridge, Palam and Ayanagar recorded 120.2 mm, 81.6 mm, 71.1 mm and 68.2 mm rainfall, respectively, in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am.  On Tuesday, Delhi gauged 84 mm rainfall in just six hours -- between 8:30 am and 2:30 pm -- that flooded roads and led to massive traffic snarls on key stretches such as ITO, Ring Road near IP Estate flyover, Dhaula Kuan, and Rohtak road. It recorded 28 mm rainfall between 5:30 am and 8:30 am on Wednesday, officials said. "Patchy rains are likely till late afternoon. Thereafter, the intensity will reduce. Another spell of rain is likely from September 7," an IMD official said. The Delhi Traffic Police issued an advisory against traffic obstruction at the Azad Market Subway going towards Pratap Nagar due to the heavy waterlogging at the road. The Zakhira underpass is also closed due to waterlogging. Weather experts said such spells of rain do not help recharge groundwater and lead to flooding in low-lying areas. The water percolates in the ground if it rains slowly over four to five days. In case of heavy falls, the rainwater runs off quickly,  Palawat said. "The rain washes away pollutants, but since the number of rainy days has reduced, the average annual air quality is also getting affected," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rain-inundates-delhi-highest-in-september-in-12-years-1025793.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Ballia rape: NHRC seeks report on deaths of victim, friend due to self-immolation||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought reports from police forces in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh over a woman, who faced sexual assault and police apathy, and a man self-immolating in front of the Supreme Court, observing that it was "shocking" that a rape victim was feeling victimised by the system. The 24-year-old woman alleged that BSP MP Atul Rai sexually assaulted her and that UP Police was harassing her after that. The woman and her friend Satyam Rai then set themselves on fire in front of the apex court on August 16. They died in the hospital later. An NHRC statement said the Commission has issued notices to the Director-General of Police of Uttar Pradesh and the Delhi Police Commissioner asking them to submit a detailed report within four weeks in the matter, along with the action initiated against the errant public servants. The DGP of Uttar Pradesh has also been directed to ensure safety and security of the family members of the victims. Issuing the notices, NHRC observed that it is "shocking how an alleged victim of sexual assault was feeling victimised by the system". Before immolating themselves, the NHRC said, they recorded a Facebook Live video, in which the woman said that in June 2019, she had lodged a rape case against the MP but the police were supporting the offender. Instead of taking action against the accused, the NHRC said quoting reports, the police registered a false case against her and issued a non-bailable warrant against her. UP Police had late last month registered a case against MP Rai and former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur on charges of abetting the suicide of the woman and her friend. While Thakur was arrested following the registration of the case, Rai, a Lok Sabha MP from Ghosi, is already lodged in Prayagraj’s Naini Jail in connection with the rape case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ballia-rape-nhrc-seeks-report-on-deaths-of-victim-friend-due-to-self-immolation-1025794.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||UP CM orders security review after suicide bid in state building||Taking note of the suicide bid by a senior bureaucrat's private secretary at the Bapu Bhawan here, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed senior officers to review security in all government buildings. The Bapu Bhawan is a high-security building connected to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly. Vishwambhar Dayal shot himself on Monday using a licensed revolver in his room on the eighth floor of the building. He is the private secretary of Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development, Rajnish Dubey. According to a senior official, the chief minister during a meeting directed that "the security of the Secretariat and other sensitive government offices should be strengthened". "Additional chief secretary for Home, ADG for Law and Order and Secretariat administration should deeply review the security arrangements and present their report," Adityanath said. "No one should be allowed entry with weapons," the chief minister said. He also directed officials to ensure cleanliness of offices and to strictly enforce a ban on use of pan-masala, gutkha and tobacco. Vishwambhar Dayal is in still critical condition and undergoing treatment. Bapu Bhawan houses several ministerial and bureaucrat offices. It is connected to the state assembly building and is just a stone's throw away from the state Secretariat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-orders-security-review-after-suicide-bid-in-state-building-1025799.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Schools in Rajasthan reopen for classes 9-12 following Covid-19 protocols||Government and private schools were reopened for classes 9 to 12 in Rajasthan on Wednesday, after being shut for over four months following a spike in cases in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The turnout, however, was not high on the first day as online classes are also being held simultaneously. According to guidelines issued by the education department, classes with only 50 per cent strength are allowed at a time with a strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Many students came to schools accompanied by their parents, some of whom were seen enquiring about the arrangements for safety of their children. “The number of students who came on the first day was almost half of the permissible number, but those who came were cheerful and excited. We have asked them to not be overexcited and follow all protocols in view of their own safety,” Sumita Minhas, Principal of Podar World School, Jaipur, told PTI. She said parents were apprised of protocols on sanitisation, seating arrangements, and other guidelines in advance, and their written consent was taken. Hemraj Sharma, a government school sanskrit teacher in Thikariya, Ajmer Road, said that all preparations were made before the school was opened. “We have already received written consent from parents of more than half of the students of class 9 and 10. All classrooms have been sanitised and seating arrangements done according to government guidelines,” he said. Another teacher of the school, Sheetal Kumari, said online classes will continue even though schools are opened. Yoga activities for a few minutes have been planned in classrooms for students, she added. According to the standard operating procedure issued last week, the department has kept separate timings for arrival and departure of students of different classes so that there is no large gathering at one time. School syllabus has also been cut by 30 per cent. "Due to the Covid-19 infection in the last three months, classes in schools could not start due to which studies of the students have been disrupted. Also, there is a need to reduce the curriculum by 30 per cent in all the schools of the state. The decision has been made," School Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-in-rajasthan-reopen-for-classes-9-12-following-covid-19-protocols-1025806.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||60 Kashmiri youth having gone missing is fake news: J&K Police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Wednesday rebutted some media reports which stated that more than 60 youths have gone missing from different parts of the valley after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan on August 15. “Some social media platforms are running that 60 youth have gone missing from different parts of the Kashmir valley amid the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan," the Kashmir police tweeted on Wednesday, quoting the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar. “This is totally fake news.” Media reports in recent days not only claimed that local boys have gone missing amid Taliban takeover of Kabul, but also that several militant groups have infiltrated the valley from Pakistan, raising the level of violence on the ground. The reports, however, refused to elaborate much on the disappearances. On Monday, NDTV, while quoting a senior police officer, reported that around 60 youth had gone missing from their homes in Kashmir in the last couple of months. The report also said that around 300 militants had occupied the camps across the LoC after being emboldened by the recent Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/60-kashmiri-youth-having-gone-missing-is-fake-news-jk-police-1025807.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Schools for primary classes reopen with little attendance in Uttar Pradesh||Schools for primary classes reopened with little attendance in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, for the first time since March 20 last year when the government imposed a lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. Classes from 9 to 12 and 6 to 8 had started from August 16 and 24, respectively. "Best wishes for the students. The schools are reopening from today. All teachers are requested to take care of students and follow the Covid protocol," Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said in a tweet in Hindi. Though students of primary classes returned to schools, the attendance was very less. "Only those students were allowed to come whose parents filled a consent form. In some classes of over 50 students, only one or two parents have given consent. Online classes are continuing as per the schedule as parents are apprehensive for the safety of their children due to Covid," a teacher of St Francis College here said. The classes started in two shifts of two hours--from 8 am and 11.30 am. To welcome students, some schools decorated entry gates with balloons and they were given entry after sanitising their hands. "It's good that school is reopening. I will meet my friends after a long gap," Harsh, a Class 3 student of a private school said. The student’s mother, Megha, however, appeared apprehensive and said she will immediately stop sending her son to the school if she sees cases of Covid rising again. La Martiniere Girls' College has not reopened, its principal Aashrita Dass said. A Moras, Principal of St Francis' College in Lucknow, when asked as to whether the school has reopened, said, "No. We will observe for a few more days." Donald De Souza, chancellor and spokesperson of the Catholic Diocese of Lucknow said that Cathedral Senior Secondary School here has reopened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-for-primary-classes-reopen-with-little-attendance-in-uttar-pradesh-1025835.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh government permits schools to reopen for Classes 6 and up with 50% attendance||In light of the decline in Covid-19 cases, the Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday issued an order permitting private and government schools to reopen for Classes 6, 7, 9 and 11 with 50 per cent attendance from Thursday, an official said on Wednesday. Schools have already resumed for Classes 1 to 5, 8, 10 and 12 from August 1, and a fresh order permitting resumption of physical school for Classes 6, 7, 9 and 11 was issued by the school education department, the official from the public relations department said. As per the order, schools in rural areas will have to get recommendations from gram panchayats and parents' committees, while recommendations will be mandatory from ward corporators and parents' committees for institutions situated in urban areas. Schools will be started only in districts where the coronavirus positivity rate has been below one per cent for seven days, he said. Students will have to attend classes on alternate days, which means only half of the total strength will be allowed to attend school in a day, the official said, adding that children suffering from cough, cold and fever will not be allowed to attend. The order further states that online classes will continue as before and there will be no compulsion for students to attend offline classes. Schools will have to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Centre and state government are strictly adhered to, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-government-permits-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-6-and-up-with-50-attendance-1025866.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Farmers plan massive 'mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), which has been spearheading the ongoing agitation by the farmers against the new farm laws, plans to hold a massive 'mahapanchayat' of the farmers at Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, much to the discomfort of the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. BKU president Naresh Tikait on Wednesday claimed that lakhs of farmers from across the country would be taking part in the mahapanchayat, which would be held at the sprawling government inter college grounds in the town. BKU leaders from different 'khaps' (caste panchayats) have been visiting the villages and towns in different parts of the state to make the 'mahapanchayat' a success. "We have been on a dharna for the past nine months.....many farmers have lost their lives during the agitation....prime minister Narendra Modi has not even uttered a word on their deaths...we will continue to fight for the rights of the farmers," Tikait said. He said that it would be the biggest gathering of the farmers in the country.  Though the 'mahapanchayat' has been supported by different opposition parties, the farmer leaders have not yet decided if the leaders of the opposition parties will be allowed on the stage. Sources said that a section of the farmer leaders were against inviting the opposition leaders lest it should send a wrong message to the people.  "Our agitation must remain apolitical," remarked a BKU leader in Muzaffarnagar. Apparently wary of the 'mahapanchayat', the BJP leaders sought to make light of the meeting saying that the central and the state governments had taken several initiatives for the benefit of the farmers. The saffron party has decided to undertake a statewide' Kisan Sampark Yatra' and hold 'kisan chaupals' in different parts of the state, especially in the western UP region, where the farmers' protest is more intense. "We are hopeful that the farmers will see reason and call off their agitation....we are always open for talks," said a senior state BJP leader here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-plan-massive-mahapanchayat-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-1025882.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Is Taliban a terror group? Omar Abdullah asks Centre to clarify||A day after India officially talked to the Taliban, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Wednesday asked the Union government to clarify whether or not it considered the outfit a terror organisation. "Either Taliban is a terror organisation or it is not. Please clarify to us how you (GoI) see the Taliban," the National Conference vice president told reporters after an Indian representative in Doha met a Taliban leader on Tuesday. This was the first officially acknowledged meeting when Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai and conveyed India's concerns that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism. "Is the Taliban a terrorist organisation and if it is not, will you move to the United Nations to delist it as a terror organisation. Right now, you (India) are presiding over the UN Security Council," Abdullah, who has been a Minister of State for External Affairs during Vajpayee's tenure, said. Citing media reports, he questioned that if the Taliban is a terror outfit then why is the government engaging with it in Qatar. "They are engaging Taliban. It is in today's news that you are talking to each other in Qatar. If you are talking to them, why are you asking this question to me," he said. He was replying to a question whether India should engage with the Taliban and give it a chance. "Either the Taliban is a terror organisation or it is not. Please clarify how you (GoI) see the Taliban," the NC vice-president asked the Union government. He further asked how does one distinguish the Taliban from other terrorist outfits. "If it is not a terrorist organisation, please move in the UN to remove it from the list of terror organisations. Let its bank accounts start functioning, let us not treat them differently," Abdullah said.  The former chief minister said there should not be different yardsticks for different terror organisations. "If they are a terror organisation, why are you (GoI) talking to them? If they are not a terror organisation, why are you banning their bank accounts. Why are you not recognizing their government? Make up your mind," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/is-taliban-a-terror-group-omar-abdullah-asks-centre-to-clarify-1025909.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||10-year-old girl raped in UP's Amethi||A minor girl was raped by a 17-year-old youth in a village here, police said on Wednesday. In a complaint, the 10-year-old girl’s family members said that she was playing on August 30 when the youth took her to the fields and raped her. The family members also said that she was bleeding for three days and narrated her plight to the doctor. Circle Officer Ajay Kumar Singh said a case has been registered in this regard and the matter is being probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-year-old-girl-raped-in-ups-amethi-1025919.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Supertech twin towers case: UP CM orders inquiry, action against guilty officials||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday ordered an inquiry and strict action against the guilty officials in the Noida Supertech twin towers case. The directives came after the Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered demolition of the 40-storey twin towers that had come up in violation of building byelaws in Supertech's Emerald Court housing project in Noida’s Sector 93. The top court ordered that the towers be razed within three months for the violation of building norms in "collusion" with district officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law. The chief minister also directed officials to register criminal cases against the guilty persons, if need be, as he reviewed the matter in Lucknow, an official spokesperson said. "In the case of Noida's Supertech Emerald court case, the orders of the Supreme Court should be ensured in letter and spirit. Irregularities in this case have been going on continuously since 2004," the CM said, according to the spokesperson. "A special inquiry committee should be constituted at the government level and a thorough investigation be done," Adityanath said. The chief minister's directives came during the meeting with his special 'Team-9' that includes ministers, bureaucrats and the police chief of the state, according to officials. In the wake of the Supreme Court order, Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari had on Tuesday said that the top court's directives will be fully complied with, even as the society residents rejoiced at the top court verdict that came after a decade-long legal battle. The realty firm had constructed two 40-storey towers illegally in its Emerald Court housing project premises with over 900 flats and 21 shops. Residents of the housing project claimed their consent was not taken for the twin towers, which were being built in violation of norms and moved the court. The Allahabad High Court had in 2014 ordered the demolition of the twin towers with the Supreme Court upholding the verdict in 2021. However, buyers who have invested their money in these towers hoped their interest would be protected, even as the Supertech Group said it would be filing a review petition in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supertech-twin-towers-case-up-cm-orders-inquiry-action-against-guilty-officials-1025922.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress crisis: Harish Rawat conveys party leaders’ 'resentment' to Amarinder Singh||AICC general secretary Harish Rawat Wednesday conveyed the "resentment" of party's dissenting leaders to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and said it is his "duty" to address them. Rawat, who is the party's Punjab affairs in-charge, met Singh at his residence at Siswan in Mohali and held a discussion on various issues including an 18-point programme given by the party high command. The meeting came a day after Rawat called on Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu who was learnt to have conveyed his "displeasure" on unfulfilled promises. Rawat arrived in Chandigarh Tuesday amid the ongoing tussle between the camps of Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu. Addressing the media after meeting the Punjab CM, Rawat expressed confidence that all the party leaders would work unitedly. Asked if he will apprise Congress president Sonia Gandhi about discussion with the CM, he said, "I am her face here and will report to her." To a question on how resentment among leaders including four ministers will be addressed, Rawat said, "I have apprised the CM of the aspects of resentment and it is the CM's duty to address the same." His visit comes days after the party's state unit plunged into another crisis after four ministers, belonging to the Sidhu camp, and a dozen party leaders raised a banner of revolt against the chief minister over the issue of unfulfilled poll promises including a delay in justice in desecration of a religious text in 2015, arrest of "big fish" involved in drug rackets and scrapping power purchase agreements. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi and three party legislators, who wanted Amarinder Singh to be replaced, had gone to Dehradun to meet Rawat on August 25. Early in the day, several MLAs met Rawat. Talking to the media, MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra, who was among leaders who met Rawat in Dehradun, said he told the former CM of Uttarakhand that the prevailing situation was “damaging” the party and sought the intervention of Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi. He said they wanted issues connected with the sentiments of people such as power, sacrilege and poll promises addressed. He said they should move ahead by ending infighting in the state unit to win the 2022 assembly polls. Former IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa, who had been appointed principal strategic advisor to the Punjab Congress chief, also met Rawat and said he gave suggestions for resolving the issues within the state unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-crisis-harish-rawat-conveys-party-leaders-resentment-to-amarinder-singh-1026011.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC reserves its order in Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi mosque case||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on pleas against a Varanasi court order for an "archaeological survey" of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi mosque complex to ascertain if any temple ever existed in place of the mosque. A Varanasi fast-track court of senior division civil judge had on April 8 this year ordered the Archaeological Survey of India to conduct a “comprehensive physical survey” of the complex of the two shrines to determine if any temple was demolished to build the mosque adjacent to the Kashi Vishvanath temple. The Varanasi court’s order had been challenged by Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board and Varanasi’s Anjuman Intazamia Masjid. Justice Prakash Padia of the high court reserved his order after hearing counsel for the petitioners, the central government and the state government. The petitioners’ counsel had earlier contended that the Varanasi court’s order was “not legally tenable” because the very suit on which the lower court gave its order was non-maintainable. The counsel contended that section 4 of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, bars the filing of any suit or instituting any legal proceeding in any court seeking any change in the religious character of any place of worship as it existed on August 15, 1947. As per the 1991 Act, no relief could have been sought or given on any plea seeking any change in the status of any religious place as it existed on August 15, 1947, the petitioners’ counsel contended. They also argued that when the high court had already reserved its judgment on the issue of maintainability of the suit pending before the Varanasi civil judge, the subordinate court could not have decided the issue. The Varanasi senior division civil court had given its order on a plea filed by advocate Vijay Shankar Rastogi in 2019. Rastogi had moved the Varanasi civil court as the ‘next friend’ of “the self-existing Lord Vishweshvar Kashi Vishwanath", in the deity’s status as a ‘legal person’ under a doctrine of "legal fiction". According to this doctrine, non-living entities including banks, corporations and even deities, but not mosques, are presumed to be living persons for adjudication of any matter involving them and such entities are represented in the court by what is known as their “next friend”. The Varanasi civil court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to get examined the disputed premises of the twin shrine by a five-member ASI team. The subordinate court had also stipulated that at least two members of the five-member ASI team of eminent archaeologists should be from the minority community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-reserves-its-order-in-kashi-vishwanath-temple-gyanvapi-mosque-case-1026014.html
01-09-2021||North and Central||Pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani passes away||Hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, who was ailing for some time, passed away in Srinagar on Wednesday evening. Family members of nonagenarian Geelani confirmed that the senior-most Kashmiri separatist leader passed away at his Hyderpora residence in Srinagar at around 10:30 pm. Placed mostly under house arrest since 2013, Geelani, a crowd-puller, was not keeping good health for the last three years. No one outside the family was allowed to see him for many years now. In the past few years, several times rumours about Geelani’s death had spread panic in Kashmir. Regional PDP president and former chief minister of J&K, Mehbooba Mufti while expressing grief over his demise tweeted: “Saddened by the news of Geelani sahab’s passing away. We may not have agreed on most things but I respect him for his steadfastness & standing by his beliefs. May Allah Ta’aala grant him jannat & condolences to his family & well wishers (sic).” Saddened by the news of Geelani sahab’s passing away. We may not have agreed on most things but I respect him for his steadfastness & standing by his beliefs. May Allah Ta’aala grant him jannat & condolences to his family & well wishers. Geelani, who was born on September 29, 1929, received his preliminary education at Sopore in north Kashmir and finished his studies at the Oriental College, Lahore (Pakistan).   He contested elections several times and made it to the legislative assembly three times. Geelani contested controversial elections in 1972 when National Conference founder late Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah had called for an election boycott. Justifying his joining the election ray, he once said: “The Plebiscite Front had deviated from the basic stand way back in 1969 when it decided to contest municipal elections. Some Plebiscite Front leaders also informed the people of Sheikh Abdullah’s wavering stand but people did not take note. The Plebiscite Front, therefore, had no valid reason to call for an election boycott.   Further, the decision to contest the elections was taken by Jamaat-e-Islami not Geelani.” Geelani was an important member of the Hurriyat Conference and succeeded Mirwaiz Umer Farooq as its chairman in 1997. However, he parted ways in 2003 to form his own faction of the separatist amalgam. He severely criticised Pakistan military dictator, General (R) Parvez Musharraf for his ‘Four Point Formula’ on Kashmir.   His stand against what he called 'sell out' won him widespread appreciation and support among extremist circles in Pakistan and Kashmir. Geelani believed in the merger of Kashmir with Pakistan. However, he did not shy away from criticising Islamabad’s policies at times. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pro-pakistan-separatist-leader-syed-ali-geelani-passes-away-1026015.html
01-09-2021||Oasis||Value what you have now||There are hardly some people who take time to enjoy the beauty of the moment, make time for a moment of gratitude or try to discover the blessing that already exists in their lives. Amidst hectic hustle and bustle of living, so much is overlooked and so many of our actions are automatic, as a result of which we neglect the beautiful gift of blessings in our lives. All of us get up in the morning after a good night’s sleep, but only a few of us can open our eyes and look out at the beautiful sunrise. Some can hear the birds sweetly singing, some of us can say good morning to the world with a cheerful voice and some can get out of bed healthy and strong. There are also many for whom mornings are too hectic because the children have to be off to school and they have to be off to a job. For others, the hustle and bustle is on the mind with thoughts of how to earn more money and where next to look for a lucrative job. For those in hospitals and other institutions thoughts of returning home and rehabilitation crowd the mind... the list goes endless. However, amidst all this chaos, we must remind ourselves that no situation stays the same. The situation we find ourselves in today can change in the twinkle of an eye and the freedoms we took for granted can disappear in a second. In such a scenario, we should keep calm and count our blessings, enjoy the simple pleasures of life, and acknowledge everything that we have received. In simple words, it means learning to live your life as if everything were a miracle, and being aware on a continuous basis of how much you’ve been given. Every now and then, during the day, just stop for a moment and see the value of whatever you have, regardless of how little it may seem to you, because to someone less fortunate your little is quite a lot. So why not value what you have now? Who knows how long you will have it. So, start appreciating all the things you have in life because you never know when that time will end. Remember! Happiness will never come to those who fail to appreciate what they already have.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/value-what-you-have-now-1025627.html
01-09-2021||Opinion||Joe Biden’s critics lost Afghanistan||By Ross Douthat A month ago I thought I was a cynic about our 20-year war in Afghanistan. Today, after watching our stumbling withdrawal and the swift collapse of practically everything we fought for, my main feeling is that I wasn’t cynical enough. My cynicism consisted of the belief that the American effort to forge a decent Afghan political settlement failed definitively during Barack Obama’s first term in office, when a surge of US forces blunted but did not reverse the Taliban’s recovery. This failure was then buried under a Vietnam-esque blizzard of official deceptions and bureaucratic lies, which covered over a shift in American priorities from the pursuit of victory to the management of stalemate, with the American presence insulated from casualties in the hopes that it could be sustained indefinitely. Under this strategic vision — to use the word “strategic” generously — there would be no prospect of victory, no end to corruption among our allies and collateral damage from our airstrikes, no clear reason to be in Afghanistan, as opposed to any other failing state or potential terror haven, except for the sunk cost that we were there already. But if American casualty rates stayed low enough, the public would accept it, the Pentagon budget would pay for it, and nobody would have to preside over anything so humiliating as defeat. In one way, my cynicism went too far. I guessed that the military and the national-security bureaucracy would be able to frustrate the desire of every incoming US president to declare an endless-seeming conflict over, and I was wrong. Something like that happened with Obama and Donald Trump in their first years in office, but it didn’t happen with Joe Biden. He promised withdrawal, and — however shambolically — we have now actually withdrawn. But in every other way the withdrawal has made the case for an even deeper cynicism — about America’s capacities as a superpower, our mission in Afghanistan and the class of generals, officials, experts and politicos who sustained its generational extension. First the withdrawal’s shambolic quality, culminating in yesterday’s acknowledgment that between 100 and 200 Americans had not made the final flights from Kabul, displayed an incompetence in departing a country that matched our impotence at pacifying it. There were aspects of the chaos that were probably inevitable, but the Biden White House was clearly caught flat-footed by the speed of the Taliban advance, with key personnel disappearing on vacation just before the Kabul government dissolved. And the president himself has appeared exhausted, aged, overmatched — making basic promises about getting every American safely home and then seeing them overtaken by events. At the same time, the circumstances under which the Biden withdrawal had to happen doubled as a devastating indictment of the policies pursued by his three predecessors, which together cost roughly $2,000,000,000,000 (it’s worth writing out all those zeros) and managed to build nothing in the political or military spheres that could survive for even a season without further American cash and military supervision. Only recently the view that without US troops, the American-backed government in Kabul would be doomed to the same fate as the Soviet-backed government some 30 years ago seemed like hardheaded realism. Now such “realism” has been proven to be wildly over-optimistic. Without Soviet troops, the Moscow-backed government actually held out for several years before the mujahedeen reached Kabul. Whereas our $2,000,000,000,000 built a regime that fell to the Taliban before US troops could even finish their retreat. Before this summer, in other words, it was possible to read all the grim inspector general reports and document dumps on Afghanistan, count yourself a cynic about the war effort and still imagine that America got something for all that spending, no matter how much was spent on Potemkin installations or siphoned off by pederast warlords or recirculated to Northern Virginia contractors. Now, though, we know that in terms of actual staying power, all our nation-building efforts couldn’t even match what the Soviet Union managed in its dotage. Yet that knowledge has not prevented a revival of the spirit that led us to this sorry pass. I don’t mean the straightforward criticisms of the Biden administration’s handling of the withdrawal. I mean the way that in both the media coverage and the political reaction, reasonable tactical critiques have often been woven together with anti-withdrawal arguments that are self-deceiving, dubious or risible. The argument, for instance, that the situation in Afghanistan was reasonably stable and the war’s death toll negligible before the Trump administration started moving toward withdrawal: In fact, only US casualties were low, while Afghan military and civilian casualties were nearing 15,000 annually, and the Taliban were clearly gaining ground — suggesting that we would have needed periodic surges of US forces, and periodic spikes in US deaths, to prevent a slow-motion version of what’s happened quickly as we’ve left. Or the argument that an indefinite occupation was morally necessary to nurture the shoots of Afghan liberalism: If after 20 years of effort and $2,000,000,000,000, the theocratic alternative to liberalism actually takes over a country faster than in its initial conquest, that’s a sign that our moral achievements were outweighed by the moral costs of corruption, incompetence and drone campaigns. Or the argument that a permanent mission in Afghanistan could come to resemble in some way our long-term presence in Germany or South Korea — a delusional historical analogy before the collapse of the Kabul government and a completely ludicrous one now. All these arguments are connected to a set of moods that flourished after 9/11: a mix of cable-news-encouraged overconfidence in US military capacities, naive World War II nostalgia and crusading humanitarianism in its liberal and neoconservative forms. Like most Americans, I shared in those moods once; after so many years of failure, I cannot imagine indulging in them now. But it’s clear from the past few weeks that they retain an intense subterranean appeal in the American elite, waiting only for the right circumstances to resurface. Thus you have generals and grand strategists who presided over quagmire, folly and defeat fanning out across the television networks and opinion pages to champion another 20 years in Afghanistan. You have the return of the media’s liberal hawks and centrist Pentagon stenographers, unchastened by their own credulous contributions to the retreat of American power over the past 20 years. And you have Republicans who postured as cold-eyed realists in the Trump presidency suddenly turning back into eager crusaders, excited to own the Biden Democrats and relive the brief post-9/11 period when the mainstream media treated their party with deference rather than contempt. Again, Biden deserves plenty of criticism. But like the Trump administration in its wiser moments, he is trying to disentangle America from a set of failed policies that many of his loudest critics long supported. Our botched withdrawal is the punctuation mark on a general catastrophe, a failure so broad that it should demand purges in the Pentagon, the shamed retirement of innumerable hawkish talking heads, the razing of various NGOs and international-studies programs and the dissolution of countless consultancies and military contractors. Small wonder, then, that making Biden the singular scapegoat seems like a more attractive path. But if the only aspect of this catastrophe that our leaders remember is what went wrong in August 2021, then we’ll have learned nothing except to always double down on failure, and the next disaster will be worse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/joe-biden-s-critics-lost-afghanistan-1025685.html
01-09-2021||Opinion||GDP numbers: Much ado about very little||The latest gross domestic product (GDP) numbers have been released. The government and ruling party members are rejoicing. While relieved that things are improving, the common people are not impressed. Here's why: the magnitude of India's economy, its GDP in April-June 2021, is lower than its GDP for the same period in 2018. Loud claims of recovery cannot hide the economic devastation. The scars from seven years of economic mismanagement and the mishandling of the pandemic are here to stay. The government can choose to try to indulge in its usual spin or actually confront the challenges. Consider the following table: Item Value in April-June Quarter (in Rs. lakh crore) 2018-19 2021-22 Gross Domestic Product 33.84 32.38 Private Consumption 18.82 17.84 Investment (Gross Fixed Capital Formation) 10.89 10.22 Manufacturing 5.64 5.43 Construction 2.51 2.21 Trade, Hotels, Transport, Communications, and Broadcast Services 6.26 4.63 India has drastically fallen behind. On all major heads, we are far behind the levels in 2018-19. This regression has acute human costs. Lakhs of families have fallen into poverty as joblessness has risen to unsustainable levels. India's middle class has contracted. Malnutrition has worsened. The economic prospects of an entire generation are at risk. Consumption and investment are the most significant contributors to GDP. Where does India stand on both? Consumption is about 12 per cent behind the 2019-20 (pre-pandemic) levels; investment is about 17 per cent behind. How long will it take for us to get back to pre-pandemic levels? Who will be held accountable for the lost time? The government cannot forever hide behind the excuse of the pandemic. India had been suffering from sluggish demand well before Covid-19 impacted our economy. In 2019, we read how demand had collapsed, whether for a Rs 5 biscuit packet or automobiles. The pandemic made an already concerning situation worse. And the government played an inglorious role. Faced with an inevitable disruption due to the pandemic, countries announced fiscal stimulus measures with substantial outlays. India offered an economic package of barely 1 per cent of its yearly GDP (the Atmanirbhar Bharat package) while claiming it to be worth ten times as much-a boast that was quickly exposed. The government put its weight behind supply-side measures such as offering more loans. With falling demand, fewer businesses were keen to add to their liabilities. The stated logic behind the stingy stimulus was that the government wanted to open its purse strings when the fund utilisation would be optimal. That optimal moment has not arrived even as quarterly GDP has fallen to below 2018 levels. A well-targeted fiscal stimulus would have addressed both consumption and investment challenges. A direct income transfer scheme (such as NYAY) and support to MSMEs and those in the informal sector would have raised consumption and investments and kept small businesses alive. When you start for a very low base (the GDP had shrunk 24 per cent a year earlier), any positive momentum appears to be substantial. The low base of 2021-22 has made the GDP growth rate look like a historical high. Yet, across the country, despondency is writ large. The last round of the Reserve Bank of India's Consumer Confidence Survey, conducted in the last week of June and the first week of July, paints a distressing picture. More than 60 per cent of respondents believe that the economic situation will not improve by next year. Negative perceptions impact demand and start a vicious cycle that can drag growth downwards. Rural India has not remained untouched by the setbacks. That agricultural growth rate is above 2019 levels is a testament to the resilience of our farmers. However, rural India faces an acute crisis. As much as 77 per cent of the MGNREGA budget has been used in five months. If we were experiencing a 'historical' growth phase, demand for MGNREGA work would be lower. Here again, we see the government adopting policies that hurt rather than help. The MSP (Minimum Support Price) for principal cash crops like cotton, paddy, and soybean has been increased by less than 5 per cent at a time when inflation has been in double-digits. Last week, the government announced FRP for sugarcane. It has been increased by Rs 5/quintal (0.05/kg). The diesel price increased by Rs 16/litre during the same period. Agriculture employs one-half of the population. If agricultural incomes drop, it will further depress consumption. The government claimed as "historic" the measly increases in MSPs and FRP. Over the next few days, we can expect a deluge of propaganda singing paeans to this government's economic policies. But that will not change the reality. The latest GDP numbers confirm our worst fear: economic recovery to pre-pandemic levels is nowhere close in sight. The government may outwardly exult in its "record" double-digit growth; privately, it is sure to be worried. India continues to stare at a long, challenging road ahead. (Prof M V Rajeev Gowda is a former MP and Chairman, Research Department, Indian National Congress; Akash Satyawali is its National Coordinator) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/gdp-numbers-much-ado-about-very-little-1025712.html
01-09-2021||Opinion||Is the economic marginalisation of Muslims becoming widespread?||That the politics of polarisation in India keeps getting worse is hardly a secret. But can bangles and dosas be used to inflame old societal divisions and fuel the toxic narrative of an economic boycott of Muslim street vendors and micro-businesses? Let us face it - India's scrap dealers, bangle sellers, dosa hawkers and tangawallas rarely make news. They are part of the vast army of unsung, uncelebrated individuals who comprise the informal sector, which props up India's economy. Mostly, they remain invisible. What then explains the spate of attacks on such people, who happen to be Muslim, in recent days in different parts of the country?  The common thread in all the reports – everyone who came under attack was a working-class Muslim trying to earn a living in a pandemic-battered economy. First, it was a Muslim bangle seller in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. On August 22, Tasleem Ali, who sells bangles for a living, found himself catapulted to celebrity status after a video of him being thrashed by a mob went viral. He was allegedly using a Hindu name. Soon after, Ali had an FIR registered against him for allegedly possessing fake documents and molesting a minor. There are multiple versions of what happened, and the case is taking tortuous twists and turns with allegations and counter-allegations. More recently, there has been another incident where a popular Muslim-owned dosa joint in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, was vandalised because a mob took exception to its name, Shrinath Dosa, and accused the owner of exploiting a Hindu name. The terrified Muslim family has now re-named the place "American Dosa Corner." In another recent incident, a Muslim scrap dealer in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, was forced to chant "Jai Shri Ram." One has to be exceptionally naïve to see all these incidents as isolated cases. This is not the first time that poor Muslims working in the lowest rungs of India's vast informal economy have been targeted. Last year, two vegetable vendors in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district were allegedly stopped from selling their goods by a group of people who accused them of being members of the Tablighi Jamaat and spreading the coronavirus. New dangers loom even as old fissures deepen. Pratik Sinha, the co-founder of the portal Alt News, established to debunk misinformation, recently tweeted that Muslim tanga drivers in Telibagh, Lucknow, were accused by sections of the media of painting Pakistan's flag on their tanga. The reality, "The tanga was painted with Islamic symbols, not the flag of Pakistan," he pointed out. Sinha recalls that calls for boycotting Muslim street vendors happened last year during the first phase of the pandemic. What is new, he says, is more and more conversations on social media and blatant calls to boycott Muslims economically. A May 2020 report by a Delhi-based civil society group, Citizens against Hate, notes, "Economic boycott of Muslims too have been reported from across the country, directly affecting the livelihoods of a community that has already largely been confined to the informal sector." The recent attacks on Muslim street vendors are tell-tale markers of deepening political polarisation and attempts at further economic marginalisation of informal workers of the minority community. What makes it more worrying is the lack of systematic tracking of the situation of Muslims in the lower rungs of India's informal economy. While there has been work on the status of Muslims in the formal labour market, there is little granular data available on their status in the informal labour market/economy, says Dr Niranjan Sahoo, Senior Fellow with The Observer Research Foundation, a think tank based in New Delhi. "The most systematic work exploring the status of Muslims in the informal economy was by the Sachar Committee in 2006. However, this too lacked the empirical depth," he adds. In recent years, Sahoo points out, the only credible way of knowing the participation (or absence) of Muslims in the informal labour market is through the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS). The PLFS is part of the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO), which provides comparative data among SC, ST, OBC, Muslims, etc. According to the latest PLFS survey (2019), labour force participation in the informal sector among Muslims is lowest among all social and religious categories. Sahoo sees the recent harassment and attacks on Muslim bangle sellers, shopkeepers and others alongside the prickliness about Muslims adopting Hindu second names as "a continuation of the broad trend of discrimination/exclusion of Muslims since 2014." He argues that given that Muslims have an overwhelmingly large presence in India's informal labour market and dominate certain low-end jobs such as hawkers, mechanics, barbers, bangle making, masons, these professions are now systematically targeted. "Initially, it began in 2015 with cattle trades, beef production, leather goods which disproportionately employ Muslim labourers. Thus, the recent attacks are part of a systemic effort to marginalise a vast chunk of the Muslim population from the informal sector that acts as the mainstay of the community," he says. Sahoo authored a report titled, Mounting Majoritarianism and Political Polarization in India, last year for Carnegie Endowment, which also pointed out the role of social media in deepening the polarization and accelerating the pace at which misinformation and propaganda spread. WhatsApp, in particular, Sahoo noted, has emerged as a favoured tool for disseminating misinformation to foment communal discord. Khalid Khan, Assistant Professor at Indian Institute of Dalit Studies, and co-author of a study, Muslims in Urban Informal Employment: A Scoping Study of Experiences of Discrimination (2017), also sees the recent attacks on Muslim workers in the informal economy as "an attempt to further economically marginalise the community". A large number of Muslims are clustered in the informal economy as self-employed workers, points out Khan. Disturbingly, nearly 85 per cent of the wage-workers among Muslims do not have any written contract, according to the Periodic Labour Survey Data (2019-20), Khan says. The corresponding figures are 78 per cent for Hindus and 76 per cent for other religious minorities. More than half of the workers in the Muslim community are engaged in self-employment. Another 25 per cent of their workers are engaged in casual work. So, the attempt of economic boycott will affect more than 80 per cent of the workers among Muslims, says Khan.  He argues that these incidents "are not simply a fanatic outburst." Rather, he says, "It is a well-thought strategy to create a narrative against Muslims to minimise their access to the market. The sentiment based on religion may play an important role in boycotting small businesses and casual workers effectively. The goal of such attacks is to send a message that a market dominated by Hindu customers cannot be unconditionally exploited by Muslim sellers and workers." He cites the recent attacks on working-class Muslims who adopt Hindu names, or "the practice of name-passing" as an indicator of "prevalent discrimination in the market." While doing his fieldwork, Khan says, he found that Muslim domestic workers in one of the housing colonies in Delhi-NCR were changing their names merely to improve the chance of getting the job. Asked how they tackle religion-based discrimination in the market, many Muslims who owned small businesses and whom he interviewed also said they adopt "name change" to minimise the loss of customers. Joining a union may be an effective way of dealing with such challenges. However, Khan points out that this requires a collective effort and alliance with other communities. Relatively fewer Muslim workers are members of any union in self-employment and casual work than Hindu workers. Khan says he has not come across any evidence during his fieldwork of Muslim workers joining unions as a strategy to cope with discrimination. "In fact, they preferred to adapt to the changing market conditions. Name passing is one of the ways of such adaptation in the changing market environment." In 2020, The National Hawker Federation, an association of street vendors across 29 states in India, had come out to support street vendors from the Muslim community who faced discrimination during lockdowns. Last week, I spoke to the Federation's general secretary, Shaktiman Ghosh. He told me recent attacks targeted Muslim street vendors, such as the bangle seller in Indore. They were typically not part of any organised association and not part of the Federation. "They are going after the most vulnerable lot who can't fight back," says Ghosh. What helps perpetuate the problem is a growing culture of impunity. Not that there are no arrests of people who are attacking Muslim street vendors, including in states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party. The police do register cases. But they typically peter out. Why? Alishan Jafri, a young journalist who has been documenting anti-Muslim violence in India, offers some insights. Jafri says the police and law are more often than not prejudiced against the Muslim community, and "often the victims don't have the fight in them to pursue the painful and tiresome course of justice, partly because of economic woes and partly because their assaulters have patronage. Once the media attention fades, they are rendered easy targets." There is another layer that complicates things further. Unlike Dalits and Scheduled Tribes to whom the law provides special protection from such targeted assaults, poor and marginalised Muslims, including converts from marginalised castes, ghettoised into very menial informal jobs, have no protection, Jafri adds. Asymmetrical power relations, weak legal protection and societal prejudices load the dice heavily against Muslims in the lowest rungs of India's informal economy. But should it be left to the weakest to counter this? The many Indians who oppose such targeting of Muslims need to stand up and resist the current trend in their own individual ways. (Patralekha Chatterjee is an independent journalist and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-the-economic-marginalisation-of-muslims-becoming-widespread-1025721.html
01-09-2021||Opinion||Why euphoria around Q1 GDP is misplaced||The gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the first quarter of the current financial year (April-June) came at 20.1 per cent year-on-year on a low base as the GDP contracted by a massive 24.4 per cent during the same period of the last year due to a strict lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The first quarter of the current financial year was marked by an intense second wave of the pandemic. However, the economic impact was lower than the first one as lockdowns were local against a stringent national lockdown of 2020. Chief Economic Advisor KV Subramanian said the GDP data for the first quarter reaffirms the government's prediction of an imminent V-shaped recovery made last year while adding growth would reach pre-pandemic levels next year. Economists, however, were less enthusiastic. "The spectacular headline number cannot be interpreted as a V-shaped recovery. The fact that the economy has still not recovered to the 2019-20 level, which was in itself seen as a disastrous year for growth, is not good news," said Alok Sheel, professor at the Indian Council for Research in International Economic Relations (ICRIER). While the first quarter number looks impressive, but on a perusal, the GDP is still lower than what it was in the last pre-pandemic first quarter of 2019-20. The GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q1 of 2021-22 is estimated at Rs 32.38 lakh crore, as against Rs 26.95 lakh crore in Q1 of 2020-21, and Rs 35.66 lakh crore in Q1 of 2019-20. "In line with our expectation, the YoY GDP growth soared to 20.1 per cent in Q1 FY2022, with the low base of last year's stringent nationwide lockdown concealing the impact of the second wave of Covid-19," said Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA. "However, the sharp YoY expansion in Q1 FY2022 is analytically misleading, with a sequential slowdown of 16.9 per cent over Q4 FY2021 and a shortfall of 9.2 per cent relative to the pre-Covid level of Q1 FY2020," she said. The first-quarter growth number was lower than the Reserve Bank of India's projection of 21.4 per cent made in the August monetary policy review. "The optically robust Q1FY22 GDP growth of 20.1 per cent was led by pandemic-induced low base effects, but also reflected lower-than-initially-expected economic losses from Covid-II," said Madhavi Arora, Lead Economist, Emkay Global. "The supply-side depicted Q1FY22 growth was led by manufacturing and construction while services remained a laggard with contact-sensitive sectors bearing the brunt of localized lockdown. Financial and real estate improved sequentially," Arora said. According to economists, sectors that have underperformed the most are trade, hotels, transport and communications. These are the sectors that suffered the most during the second wave. The ICRIER's Sheel pointed to a sharp fall in the share of consumption in the GDP by about four percentage points, led by government consumption. "This reflects the fact that fiscal policy had hardly any role to play in the macroeconomic response to the pandemic by putting income in the hands of those who lost their means of livelihood. The share of foreign trade and investment has increased, but except for exports, these are still below the 2019-20 level." Growth projection revised upwards Several economists and analysts have now revised the growth projections for the full financial year upward due to the increased pace of vaccination, seen as a protection from a possible third wave, apart from festival-related demand. "For the full year FY21-22, we revise up our GDP forecast, and now expect the economy to grow by 10.2 per cent in FY21-22, modestly higher than the RBI's 9.5 per cent projection and our previous forecast of 9.2 per cent," said Rahul Bajoria, chief India economist, Barclays. Interestingly the growth forecast was revised downward following the second wave. Before April-May this year, many projected double GDP growth, which was pruned down to a single digit. The RBI, for example, cut its growth projection for FY22 from 10.5 per cent to 9.5 per cent. Emkay revised up FY22 growth projections by 110bps to 10.1 per cent amid limited economic loss of Covid19 but said it may still be around 5-6 per cent lower than the pre-pandemic expected. Suman Chowdhury, Chief Analytical Officer, Acuité Ratings & Research, said they continue to maintain a tone of cautious optimism for the remainder of FY22. The assessment is based on the economy expected to be provided momentum by the approaching festive season, accommodative fiscal and monetary policy backdrop, vaccination progress, and a better global growth outlook to be favourable for exports. "As such, we continue to retain our FY22 GDP forecast of 10.0 per cent with some downside risks emanating from the possibility of another wave of Covid, besides a long term weakness in consumer sentiment, jobs, and incomes," he said. "… mobility indicators, power demand and GST e-way bills generated have recovered quite well, while exports continue to be buoyant," said Sreejith Balasubramanian, Economist - Fund Management, IDFC AMC. Apart from vaccination, support from rural, particularly agriculture, needs to be monitored given the fluctuations in monsoon rainfall and its impact on reservoir levels and crop harvest, he said. "In the medium term, export momentum could soften, and a K-shaped recovery could be insufficient to drive domestic demand, which will need a growth cycle in employment and wages," Balasubramanian added. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-euphoria-around-q1-gdp-is-misplaced-1025773.html
01-09-2021||Panorama||Why you should exercise||For more than five decades, the scientific community has been working towards evidence on the positive effects of sports and physical activity as part of a healthy lifestyle. Regular physical activity can help children and adolescents improve cardio-respiratory fitness, build strong bones and muscles, control weight, reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression, and reduce the risk of developing health conditions. The positive, direct effects of engaging in regular physical activity are particularly apparent in preventing several chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, hypertension, obesity, depression and osteoporosis. World Health Organization (WHO) stated that one in four patients visiting a health centre has at least one mental, neurological or behavioural disorder but most are neither diagnosed nor treated. Several studies have shown that exercise may play a therapeutic role in addressing these disorders and positively influences Depression. Physical self-worth and self-perception, including body image, have been linked to improved self-esteem. This is also relevant for children. Children who play sports have lower body fat, stronger muscles and bones, and increased cardiovascular fitness. They have a much lower risk of becoming overweight or obese and can create a foundation for a healthy lifestyle. Positive health outcomes are one of the significant benefits of youth sports participation. Many athletes do better academically. Playing a sport requires a lot of time and energy. Some people may think this would distract student-athletes from schoolwork. Sports require memorisation, repetition and learning — skill-sets that are directly relevant to classwork Sport teaches teamwork and problem-solving skills. Fighting for a common goal with a group of players and coaches teaches you how to build teamwork & effectively communicate to solve problems. Physical health benefits of sports. Clearly, sports can help you reach your fitness goals and maintain a healthy weight. However, they also encourage healthy decision-making, such as not smoking and not drinking.  Sports boost self-esteem.  Watching your hard work pay off and achieving your goals develops self-confidence.Reduce pressure and stress with sports: Exercising is a natural way to loosen up and let go of stress.    Here is how exercise and sports promote good health:  Improved cardiovascular health Lowers risk of heart disease, stroke, and diabetes Helps manage weight Reduced blood pressure Enhanced aerobic fitness Improved muscular strength and endurance Improved joint flexibility and range of motion  Stress relief Lowers risk of certain types of cancer Controls cholesterol Wards off Osteoporosis Strengthens immune system Improved sleep Mental health benefits Prolonged life Walking (recreational), fitness or gym, running or athletics, swimming, cycling, basketball, tennis and football are some activities that can benefit you. In the pandemic, we might not get to engage in a few of the activities mentioned above but some can be done, such as walking in isolation or cycling. In the end, make it a habit to eat breakfast daily, within one to two hours of waking up, then eat again every three to four hours, for a total of five to six meals per day. These meals should comprise mini to moderate-sized meals, snacks, and pre-and post-workout meals or snacks throughout the day. (The writer is a Senior General Physician at a hospital, Mulund, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-you-should-exercise-1025626.html
01-09-2021||Panorama||Worrying about your carbon footprint is exactly what big oil wants you to do||By Dror Poleg, Everybody’s going carbon neutral these days, from the big boys — Amazon, Microsoft, Unilever, Starbucks, JetBlue — to your favourite outdoor brand, even ski resorts. Probably your neighbourhood coffee roaster, too. What’s not to like? Becoming carbon-neutral means cutting greenhouse gas emissions as much as you can, then offsetting what you can’t avoid with measures like tree planting. Seems admirable. Well, not exactly. Carbon neutrality doesn’t achieve any sort of systemic change. A coal-powered business could be entirely carbon neutral as long it stops some landfill gas in Malaysia from entering the atmosphere equal to the emissions it’s still releasing. American fossil fuel dependence would remain intact, and planet-warming emissions would continue to rise. The only way to fix that is through politics, policymakers and legislation. But distressingly, most businesses don’t want to play in that arena. Instead, they’re doing exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants: staying in their lane, accepting some blame for a global problem and maintaining the dominance of fossil fuels. They’re well-intentioned, sure, but also clueless, even complicit. Imagine if businesses put as much effort into climate lobbying as climate neutrality. Corporations wield tremendous influence over the political system. But on climate, most corporations have decided to sit this one out. Notably, the five biggest tech corporations — Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, Alphabet and Amazon — spend only 4% of their lobbying dollars on climate, according to Influence Map. As a result, they avoid the chance to put in place systemic solutions in favour of carbon-neutral navel-gazing. Large corporations will protest, saying that they are lobbying on climate. But they are typically working both sides of the aisle. And their political contributions are mostly going in the wrong direction. Bloomberg Green examined political donations by more than 100 major American corporations and found last year that they were “throwing their support behind lawmakers who routinely stall climate legislation.” Climate never ascends to the level of mission-critical issues like trade policy and taxation. Sure, there are exceptions: Salesforce recently said it would intensify its focus on climate lobbying. And Patagonia has always been aggressive, along with Ben and Jerry’s. But they are anomalies, led or inspired by charismatic founders. How did it come to this? The story of how what’s considered the best approach to corporate sustainability became complicity with the very industry responsible for climate change starts with the famous “Crying Indian” commercial of the 1970s. The ad, in which an actor portraying a Native American is devastated by the sight of rampant pollution, created several generations of dutiful litter-picker-uppers. (Guilty!) But it wasn’t so benign. It was, in fact, masterly propaganda from the beverage and container industries, designed to place responsibility for the trash problem on American consumers, not manufacturers. The approach was so good that the fossil fuel industry adopted the very same strategy. In 2004, BP hired the public relations firm Ogilvy & Mather to improve its image, in part by conveying the message that consumers of oil and natural gas bear the responsibility for their greenhouse gas emissions, not the producers of the oil and gas they use. The result was BP’s ingenious carbon footprint calculator, which allows individuals to calculate the carbon emissions that result from their activities. It’s “about helping you to go carbon neutral — reducing and offsetting your carbon footprint,” BP says on its “target neutral” website. Nor was BP alone among the big oil companies communicating this message. A study by Naomi Oreskes and Geoffrey Supran at Harvard published in May in the journal One Earth found that since 1972, ExxonMobil has consistently used “rhetoric aimed at shifting responsibility for climate change away from itself and onto consumers.” Yes, those consumers want the hot showers, warm homes and cold beer that coal, oil and gas provide. But they did not insist on the burning of fossil fuels for those amenities. Now there are other ways to produce energy, and the responsibility to tap those renewable resources lies with the world’s energy companies. Today, almost 20 years after BP’s carbon calculator went live, cutting a firm’s carbon footprint is still the gold standard of corporate climate action. The phrase is firmly lodged in the environmental lexicon. The idea of offsetting one’s carbon footprint by reducing or eliminating greenhouse gas emissions in one place to make up for emissions elsewhere has grown into an enormous industry. Businesses often do this by buying carbon credits to offset emissions they can’t or won’t reduce. The consulting firm McKinsey estimates that “the market for carbon credits could be worth upward of $50 billion in 2030.” Many of these offsets underwrite worthwhile projects — protecting virgin expanses in some of the world’s last great forests, as in the Amazon, or the deployment of solar power. But according to an analysis by the private-sector Taskforce on Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets, fewer than five % of offsets in 2020 removed carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Which, of course, is what we desperately need to be doing. A giant, systemic problem like climate needs to be addressed like other huge environmental challenges the world has successfully taken on — reducing ozone-depleting chemicals worldwide, for example, and sharply cutting back on smog and water pollution in the United States. Imagine if, in response to the expansion of the ozone hole, businesses and governments had said, “We’ll just hope businesses do the right thing.” Instead, international policymakers created the Montreal Protocol, which set standards that phased out ozone-destroying chlorofluorocarbon use worldwide. We need more of that approach — citizens, businesses and governments working together to address this crisis. It might result in policy solutions like government regulation, effective carbon taxes, national standards for renewable energy and electrification, the elimination of legacy subsidies for the fossil fuel industry, strict auto emission standards and new national building codes. All of these approaches threaten fossil fuel’s business model and, not coincidentally, would help to slow the warming of the planet. What do fossil fuel companies prefer? They like consumers and corporations to do anything and everything as long as they stay out of the companies’ way and avoid doing anything that could actually make a difference. Tragically, the overwhelming majority of American businesses are on a path of complicity. Their climate strategy avoids conflict and generates great P.R. Unfortunately, it also allows fossil fuel interests to monetize their remaining assets unhindered, ensuring catastrophe for all. How carbon neutral is that? (The writer is the senior vice president of sustainability at the Aspen Skiing Company, the chairman of the board of the group Protect Our Winters and the author of “Getting Green Done.”)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/worrying-about-your-carbon-footprint-is-exactly-what-big-oil-wants-you-to-do-1025659.html
01-09-2021||Panorama||The winners of remote work||By Dror Poleg, Who wins and who loses when companies can hire from anywhere? Some employees and freelancers who can work remotely will have vastly expanded opportunities and the possibility of significant increases in pay, but remote workers in general figure to face more competition and have a higher dependence on luck. One thing that seems unavoidable, research suggests, is an intensification of inequality. In his 1981 paper, “The Economics of Superstars,” Sherwin Rosen described the impact of recording and broadcasting on the incomes of athletes and entertainers. As technology enabled individuals with specialised skills to reach a giant market — one hour of work in a single location could suddenly reach many people across the country — fewer stars captured more of the rewards. Rosen expected that over time many other professions would follow a similar pattern. A teacher’s income, for example, was traditionally limited by the number of students who could fit into one classroom. But today on Udemy, an online learning platform, teachers like Chris Haroun have earned millions from courses they created, especially after Covid-19 lockdown pushed enrollments on the platform up by 425%. The vast majority of teachers on Udemy don’t come close to Haroun’s earnings, however, resulting in an extremely unequal distribution of income between superstar teachers and everybody else. A meaningful shift in the distribution of income can also be seen in platforms where remote instruction is more similar to traditional teaching. On Outschool, an online marketplace for virtual classes for children, hundreds of teachers earn more than $100,000 a year, and dozens earn over $230,000. But most Outschool teachers earn far less, partly because they treat online teaching as a hobby or side hustle, and partly because they haven’t yet figured out how to attract students. The adoption of remote work is also affecting more traditional institutions. Scott Galloway, a professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business, told me in April, “Because all my classes are remote now, the school asked me, ‘Can you go from 160 — dictated by the size of Stern’s largest classroom — to 280?’ That’s 120 fewer seats for the other marketing professors to fight over.” Similar dynamics can be seen in professions that were assumed to be inherently “in-person.” During the lockdowns, most fitness instructors were out of work. But a handful were thriving — especially those who worked for Peloton. By the end of 2020, Peloton had about 4 million members — equal to the number of gym patrons in New York state. Unlike New York’s fitness industry, Peloton did not employ 86,000 people in a single state. Instead, the company’s millions of members were served by several dozen instructors who could live anywhere they liked. While most fitness instructors could not work at all, some Peloton instructors earned more than $500,000 — more than 12 times the median salary of their peers. When a market expands, the benefits tend not to accrue equally to all participants, a dynamic true in fields beyond teaching and instruction. As early as 1995, economists Robert Frank and Philip Cook observed that payoff structures previously common in entertainment were becoming more prevalent in a variety of other professions. Some lawyers, doctors, consultants, bankers and managers were making more than ever, while fewer of their colleagues occupied middle-income jobs. The two economists attributed these changes to “the revolution in information processing and transmission,” which provides “increasing leverage for the talents of those who occupy top positions and correspondingly less room for others.” This trend continued into the 21st century. According to a 2020 study by economists David Autor, Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz, most of the increase in income inequality over the past two decades occurred “within, rather than between, education groups.” Some college-educated employees — particularly those with advanced degrees — earned more than ever while most of their peers stood in place or retreated. Technology contributed to this increase by enabling companies to produce more and reach more customers while depending on fewer but more specialised employees. Significant as it was, technology’s impact on many professions was constrained by geography. When most companies hired only employees who lived within commuting distance of the office, the size of the labour market was capped. This put a ceiling on the employment options and earning capacity of employees with the most specialised, in-demand skills. It also put a floor beneath other professionals who enjoyed a decent salary and relative job security by virtue of living within commuting distance to a central business district or office park. The constraints of geography are loosened now that Silicon Valley and other industries are embracing remote work — gradually, then suddenly. The Economist recently analysed job listings on Hacker News, a site popular with programmers. It found the share of jobs mentioning “remote” reached 75% in 2021, up from 35% pre-Covid-19 and 13% a decade earlier. How will this affect the average tech worker? There are some early indications. In June, Google told rank-and-file employees it would reduce the pay of those who choose to work remotely or move farther from the office. Avoiding the office saves employees money — in commuting costs, for example — but as economist Austan Goolsbee recently wrote for The New York Times, companies in the last 40 years have usually found a way to claw back any potential gains for workers. For most tech workers, remote work means competing in a much larger pool of equally qualified candidates, many of whom are based in lower-income cities and countries. Should this worry the most in-demand engineers and product management? Probably not. For them, working remotely means competing for the highest-paying jobs from a larger number of companies. But even many highly qualified and specialised employees have something to worry about. As Enrico Moretti pointed out in “The New Geography of Jobs,” hiring “is very similar to dating.” Access to more potential candidates in a bigger pool of people increases the chance of finding an ideal match. Matching specialised talent to specific jobs is a major reason that innovation, productivity and salaries are higher in large cities. But the biggest markets don’t just offer the biggest rewards. They also tend to distribute these rewards unevenly and, often, unpredictably. Income inequality grows with city size. And while access to more candidates increases the odds of an ideal match, it also introduces more “noise” into the selection process, leaving a bigger role for chance events in determining which candidates end up earning more throughout their career. The same dynamics figure to intensify as employees join a remote labour market that is orders of magnitude larger than any city on Earth. During the deep and sudden recession last year brought about by lockdowns, those who could work remotely kept their jobs or quickly found new ones. A job that could be done from anywhere was a source of comfort and security. But in the long term, remote work’s promise is more ambivalent. It offers more flexibility, accommodating people who would otherwise give up office work altogether. For many, it offers access to better economic opportunities, regardless of location. But for some it will also introduce more competition. Ultimately, remote work ushers some freelancers and employees into a global arena that seems to promise a higher ceiling, but a lower floor as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-winners-of-remote-work-1025694.html
01-09-2021||Right in the Middle||A trip to a volcano||"Appa, do you want to see a volcano?" asked my son Sumukh when I visited him in Manila, Philippines. "Of course," I replied enthusiastically. But when he said the volcano was active, I hesitated. “Don’t worry, it hasn’t erupted for the past 15 years,” he reassured me. "What if it erupts now?" I doubted. "Then there will be no need for cremating our bodies," he replied wryly.  We boarded a taxi. "Could we have not gone by a Jeepney?" I asked. Jeepney is a cross between a jeep and a van and the most popular public transport in Manila. Its conductors shout names of destinations, compete with other Jeepneys, grab and push customers into the overcrowded vehicles in true abductor style. Sumukh said it would take us the entire day if we travelled in a Jeepney.  After two hours, we reached Tagaytay, from where we had to take another vehicle to go to the volcano. A lone tuk-tuk was nearby. Unlike the auto-rickshaw, the Philippine contraption had a roofed sidecar attached to a motorcycle. We sat in the sidecar, remembering the movie Sholay. In typical Dharmendra style, the driver drove manically downhill and dropped us on the banks of a vast lake. To see the volcano at close quarters, we had to cross the lake by boat. As we got down from the boat, scores of guides surrounded us. "To climb to the viewpoint, it takes more than an hour and you have to ride a mule," chorussed the guides.  We both mounted two mules. They were malnourished and looked more like the horses drawing Mysore Jutkas. They were reluctant to climb up again as they had already done two or three round trips. The first few minutes were okay, but when we started climbing a steep narrow and slippery mule path, I felt I may fall any time and desired to dismount and climb on foot. "What Appa, why are you scared? Did they not train you to ride horses in the Police Academy?" asked Sumukh. "After I fell from a horse and broke my arm, I avoided horse-riding and failed in my test. I cleared it on my third attempt thanks to a kind-hearted SP. May his soul rest in peace," I said and asked the guide to slow down. He gave a dirty look but obeyed. When we reached the top of the hill, the sight surrounding us made me forget the physical discomfort thanks to the mule ride. The blue hills, green forests, grey clouds, and the placid lake below looked picture perfect.  Our guide offered to take us to Crater Lake near the volcano for a bath. He said its water has medicinal properties. I agreed. When he asked me to mount the mule again, I said no and walked back to the waterfront. Six months after I returned home in one piece, the volcano erupted. But none died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-trip-to-a-volcano-1025658.html
01-09-2021||Second Edit||Wrong reasons, remarks for bail: Can we consider a rapist to be a 'future asset'?||The grounds cited by the Gauhati High Court for granting bail to a student accused of raping a fellow student at IIT-Guwahati raise disturbing questions about judicial thinking in such cases. The male student has been charged with raping his junior in March this year after luring her on the pretext of discussing her participation in the college club activities. He has been in detention ever since. The court granted him bail with the observation that “as the investigation of the case is completed, and both the informant/victim girl and the accused are the state’s future assets, being talented students pursuing technical courses at IIT-Guwahati, who are young in the age group of 19 to 21 years only, and further, they are being hailed (sic) from two different states, the continuation of detention of the accused in the interest of the trial of the case may not be necessary.” Courts can grant bail to accused persons if the investigation of the case is complete, subject to certain conditions. But every one of the other reasons given by the judge for granting bail to the accused student is wrong and inappropriate. They are especially scandalous and shocking, coming from a judge of the high court. Can anyone consider a rapist to be a “future asset” of a state or the country? Being a “talented student of IIT” does not give the accused any greater right to bail. Being young and hailing from different states are also irrelevant to the issue of bail. A rape accused cannot be called a future asset, however talented he may be. He is just an accused. The equivalence between the victim and the accused in the court’s observation is also wrong as there cannot be such an equation before the law.  The survivor has said that she was aggrieved, as all those in her situation are, by the community’s responses to what she experienced, and the court’s remarks aggravated her condition. She has rightly said that the IIT does not give anyone intelligence but only an opportunity, and being a student of an IIT does not mean that anyone will be a future asset. Students and alumni of some IITs have also expressed unhappiness over the court’s remarks. The observations show yet again that even judges of the higher courts need sensitisation on sexual crimes. The Supreme Court has reiterated this many times. The thinking of the judge in such cases should not be influenced by any extraneous considerations. The Gauhati High Court’s observations should be removed from the records in the interest of justice, fairness and good sense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/wrong-reasons-remarks-for-bail-can-we-consider-a-rapist-to-be-a-future-asset-1025622.html
01-09-2021||South||AIADMK leader Panneerselvam's wife dead||AIADMK coordinator and former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister O Panneerselvam's wife Vijayalakshmi died here on Wednesday at a hospital following illness. She was 66 and died of heart attack at a private hospital, where she was admitted for treatment days ago, party sources said. Vijayalakshmi had an acute heart attack this morning and despite treatment she passed away, GEM Hospital said in a statement. The AIADMK leader's wife had an attack when she was set to be discharged on Wednesday as she recovered following 10 days of treatment, the hospital said. Chief Minister M K Stalin, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, AIADMK co-coordinator K Palaniswami visited the hospital and extended their condolences and sympathies to Panneerselvam and his son O P Raveendranath, who is also the AIADMK Lok Sabha MP from Theni. In his condolence messages, Stalin said he was shocked and grieved to learn about the demise of Panneerselvam's wife Vijayalakshmi and condoled her death. Palaniswami said he was anguished to learn of her death. In a statement, the top AIADMK leader said he prayed to the Almighty to give strength to "my brother Panneerselvam to bear this agony." Extending his condolences to Panneerselvam and his family, the leader of opposition said he prayed for her soul to rest in peace. Vijayalakshmi's body has been taken to Panneerselvam's native Periyakulam in Theni District and the funeral would be held there following public homage, sources added. State Secretaries of CPI and CPI(M), R Mutharasan, and K Balakrishnan respectively, VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan, BJP MLAs Vanathi Srinivasan, M R Gandhi, Dravidar Kazhagam chief K Veeramani visited the hospital and met Panneerselvam to condole his spouse's death. Former Ministers including S P Velumani and C Vijayabaskar, AIADMK leaders including K P Munusamy were also in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-leader-panneerselvams-wife-dead-1025743.html
01-09-2021||South||Schools and colleges in Tamil Nadu resume physical classes with Covid-19 SOPs||Offline teaching for classes 9 to 12 in Tamil Nadu resumed on Wednesday, with strict Covid-19 protocol in place, while physical classes in colleges also commenced in the state. On March 20, in the backdrop of surging coronavirus cases in the state, the government had ordered closure of schools for classes 9, 10 and 11 from March 22 until further orders. However, it was then announced that they would continue to function for the 12th standard students as they had to take up the board examination. On Wednesday, students, after a gap of five months, returned to their respective institutions and were allowed entry upon thermal screening and provision of hand sanitizers while the face-mask rule has been made mandatory, officials said. The government, which had earlier announced resumption of schools from today, had last week issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be strictly adhered to when the classes commence from Wednesday. The SOPs include presence of 50 per cent students at a time. The government had mandated that schools should function six days a week and classes and sections have to be split into batches of not more than 20 students per classroom, according to the SOP, which was being implemented in the educational institutions across the state. Online or distance learning will continue to be an alternate mode of teaching and students may be permitted to attend online classes if they prefer and those willing to study from home with the consent of the parents may be allowed to do so, the government had said.  School premises should be kept clean and tidy and social distancing norms should be strictly followed to avoid crowding at the entrance, exit and inside the school, the government had stated, while allowing resumption of physical classes for students of classes IX to XII. Similarly, colleges also commenced physical classes on a rotational basis for students studying in their respective years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-and-colleges-in-tamil-nadu-resume-physical-classes-with-covid-19-sops-1025786.html
01-09-2021||South||Kerala govt's 'over-reliance' on antigen tests turn homes into Covid-19 clusters: Congress||The Opposition Congress on Wednesday said the LDF government's over-reliance on "less accurate" antigen tests had resulted in the state homes turning into Covid-19 clusters. The pandemic had spread widely as the infection was not detected in the rapid tests and the number of RT-PCR tests was limited to just 25 per cent in the state, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly V D Satheesan said. Taking a swipe at the government's latest decision to carry out the entire Covid tests in six districts in RT-PCR format only, the leader said it was a wisdom that dawned late upon the government. The state government on Tuesday decided to conduct RT-PCR testing only in six districts-- Wayanad, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki and Kasaragod -- where the vaccination is 80 per cent complete or is close to 80 per cent. Welcoming the decision, Satheesan said he had asked the government to maximise the number of RT-PCR tests in view of his own experience.   "I was given a negative result during the antigen test when I was affected with the disease...but tested positive in the RT-PCR later. The government's complete reliance on less accurate rapid tests has resulted in the state homes turning into Covid-19 clusters," he said in a Facebook post. When all other states relied completely on RT-PCR tests, Kerala had taken preventive steps based on the results of rapid tests, he alleged. He also wanted the government not to limit the decision to carry out complete RT-PCR tests in just six districts but across the state.  Meanwhile, Health Minister Veena George said the tele-medicine platform E-Sanjeevani has been strengthened by including the service of more speciality doctors in view of the continuing spread of the virus infection. New OP services are being started at the the paediatric cardiology department of the Sree Chitra Institute here and the Child Development Centre as part of the plan, she said. The platform would help people to seek treatment staying safe at home avoiding hospital visits as much as possible during the pandemic, she said adding the service of a total of 4,365 doctors is available at E-Sanjeevani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govts-over-reliance-on-antigen-tests-turn-homes-into-covid-19-clusters-congress-1025859.html
01-09-2021||South||Centre has decided to concede demand of statehood for Puducherry, says CM N Rangasamy||Chief Minister N Rangasamy on Wednesday said the Centre has decided to concede the demand for statehood to Puducherry. Replying to the views of members of both the ruling and opposition blocks during a debate on budget for the fiscal 2021-22 in the legislative assembly, the Chief Minister said, "statehood is absolutely necessary for Puducherry." He noted that several hardships had been experienced without statehood status for Puducherry. The central government has decided to concede the plea for full-fledged statehood for Puducherry, the CM said without elaborating. He also announced that monthly assistance given to freedom fighters under a state government scheme as pension for the freedom fighters would be raised to Rs 10,000 from the present Rs 9,000. Rangasamy said his government had decided to exempt students selected through the Centralised Admission Committee (CENTAC) for medical and engineering students from paying tuition fees. The government would bear the expenditure. The legislation would get Rs 2 crores under Local Area Development scheme instead of Rs 1 crore disbursed so far. He also announced that monthly assistance given to aged press persons would be hiked to Rs 8,000 from present Rs 7,500. The internship allowance to the medical graduates would be raised from present Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000. Rangasamy further said he has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to sanction central grants to the Puducherry budget under 90:10 ratio, with Centre's contribution at 90 per cent of the total requirements and the territorial government`s share being 10 per cent. Presently, the ratio was 60:40. He said loans borrowed from the Backward Welfare corporation by the students belonging to the Backward Class for their educational pursuits would be waived. All vacancies in different posts of jobs in government would be filled and police personnel would be recruited soon. Earlier, during the debate members belonging to both the treasury and opposition blocks wanted the government to tone up education in the Union Territorry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-has-decided-to-concede-demand-of-statehood-for-puducherry-says-cm-n-rangasamy-1025871.html
01-09-2021||South||Kerala logs 32,803 fresh Covid cases, 173 deaths||Kerala on Wednesday reported 32,803 new Covid-19 cases and 173 deaths which pushed the total infection count to 40,90,036 and the fatalities to 20,961. The test positivity rate (TPR) was found to be 18.76 per cent after testing of 1,74,854 samples in the last 24 hours, according to a state government release. With this, 3,17,27,535 samples have been tested till now, it said. It also said that since Tuesday, 21,610 people have recovered from the infection taking the total recoveries to 38,38,614 and the number of active cases to 2,29,912. Among the 14 districts of the state, Thrissur recorded the highest with 4,425 cases followed by Ernakulam (4,324), Kozhikode (3,251), Malappuram (3,099), Kollam (2,663), Thiruvananthapuram (2,579), Palakkad (2,309), Kottayam (2,263), Alappuzha (1,975), Kannur (1,657), Pathanamthitta (1,363), Wayanad (1,151) and Idukki (1,130). Of the new cases, 108 were health workers, 154 from outside the state and 31,380 infected through contact with the source of the contact not being clear in 1,161 cases, the release said. There are currently 5,57,085 people under surveillance in various districts. Of these, 5,24,380 are in home or institutional quarantine and 32,705 in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-32803-fresh-covid-cases-173-deaths-1025894.html
01-09-2021||South||Four infections have not deterred this Kerala doctor's work in Covid-19 care||A Kerala doctor serving in Covid wards has been tested Covid-19 positive four times. Even then he continues to serve at the Covid wards with his positive attitude remaining undeterred. Having been infected twice even after taking both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the doctor’s specimen is being subjected to genomic analysis as part of studies into breakthrough infection. Dr. Abdul Gafoor, a casualty medical officer at the Government Medical College hospital at Manjeri in Malappuram district, was tested Covid-19 positive four times - in May 2020 and in December and April and August this year. He took the Covid-19 vaccine during February and April.  Dr. Gafoor has been working in Covid wards right from the outbreak of coronavirus in Kerala and is still continuing it. He told DH that the first time he was asymptomatic but conducted a Covid-19 test after one of his family members was tested positive. The next three times he had symptoms like fever and loss of smell and taste. Though he did not suffer serious health issues, the frequent quarantine was distressing, he said.  Health department sources said that the specimen collected from the doctor would be sent to the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology for conducting analysis. The state government also recently decided to conduct a genome sequencing study in view of the high breakthrough infection in some districts of the state. Dr. Gafoor said that he himself was quite eager to know the reason why he was frequently testing Covid-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-infections-have-not-deterred-this-kerala-doctors-work-in-covid-19-care-1025899.html
01-09-2021||South||Amid rising cases in Kerala, Mandaviya reviews Covid situation in neighbouring Karnataka, Tamil Nadu||With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in Kerala, the Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday asked his counterparts from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to increase the pace of vaccination in the bordering districts to contain the inter-state spread. While reviewing the epidemic situation following the Kerala surge, Mandaviya in a telephonic conversation with the two state ministers discussed the strategies that need to be followed in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka – two states bordering Kerala – so that the number of new cases doesn't flare up. The Union government also wants the imposition of a strategic lockdown and better monitoring of cases in home isolation even though the state is opposed to such a curb because of the livelihood issues that the traders faced in the last few months. "There was hesitancy to impose lockdown and strategic containment measures for reducing transmission intensity even as the Malabar state was contributing to three-fourth of the new daily Covid-19 cases," a government source said. "With over 85% of positive patients in home isolation," sources said, "the state should implement the containment guidelines more strictly as over the last few weeks such guidelines were not being followed properly in several areas, leading to the spread of infection." The high test positivity rate of more than 20% in a few districts is evidence of intense virus circulation. Kerala reported 32,803 new Covid cases and 173 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the infection count to over 40 lakhs and nearly 21,000 deaths. The test positivity rate for the state was 18.76%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-rising-cases-in-kerala-mandaviya-reviews-covid-situation-in-neighbouring-karnataka-tamil-nadu-1025930.html
01-09-2021||South||'Kerala needs strict containment steps, strategic lockdown to curb Covid-19 cases'||The Covid-19 test positivity rate is high in Kerala, going over 20 per cent in some districts which is an evidence of intense virus circulation, government sources said on Wednesday underlining the need for strict containment measures and strategic lockdown to bring down the cases. There is hesitancy to impose lockdown and strategic containment measures for reducing transmission intensity even as the small coastal state is contributing to over three-fourth of the new daily Covid-19 cases in the country, a government source said. With over 85 per cent of the coronavirus patients being in home isolation, there is a greater need for implementing stricter containment measures. In several areas, home isolation guidelines are not being followed properly which is leading to the spread of infection, the sources pointed out. "The Covid-19 test positivity rate is high in Kerala, going over 20 per cent in some districts which is evidence of intense virus circulation. As the state is following home quarantine as the key strategy, wider containment and strategic lockdown needs to be implemented to contain the transmission of the disease, especially in view of festivals," the source said.  According to experts, if Kerala adopts strict containment measures, the cases can come down substantially within two weeks, the source stated.   Kerala on Wednesday reported 32,803 new Covid cases and 173 deaths which pushed the total infection count to 40,90,036 and the fatalities to 20,961. The test positivity rate (TPR) was found to be 18.76 per cent after testing of 1,74,854 samples in the last 24 hours, according to a state government release. With this, 3,17,27,535 samples have been tested till now, it said. It also said that since Tuesday, 21,610 people have recovered from the infection, taking the total recoveries to 38,38,614 and the number of active cases to 2,29,912.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-needs-strict-containment-steps-strategic-lockdown-to-curb-covid-19-cases-1025939.html
01-09-2021||South||Former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy seeks relaxation in Karnataka's quarantine norm||Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Wednesday urged Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to exempt students turning up for medical entrance examination from the seven-day quarantine norm in place for those coming from Kerala. In a letter sent to the Karnataka chief minister, Chandy, who is an AICC general secretary, said that the seven-day quarantine norm would be causing much inconvenience to students appearing for the medical entrance examinations. Hence students and one of their relatives should be exempted from the seven-day quarantine norm provided they take the Covid-19 vaccine and produce a negative result of the RTPCR test. Meanwhile, daily new Covid-19 cases in Kerala remained high with 32,803 fresh cases being reported on Wednesday, which took the total number of active cases to 2.29 lakh. The TPR on Wednesday was 18.76 per cent. With 173 more deaths, the total Covid-19 deaths in Kerala reached 20,961.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan held a meeting with public health experts from within India and abroad on Wednesday to review the situations in Kerala as well as to discuss steps to be taken to contain the Covid-19 spread in Kerala. A meeting with local body representatives would be also held this week to discuss the fresh restrictions to be imposed in the state as it is witnessing a surge in cases after the Onam festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-kerala-cm-oommen-chandy-seeks-relaxation-in-karnatakas-quarantine-norm-1025945.html
01-09-2021||South||Mother and son suffer moral policing in Kerala||Kollam native Shamla, 44, and her son Salu, 23, suffered an attack from a local native at Paravur in the district on Monday afternoon while they were having food inside their car near a beach. The accused, identified as Aashi, was held by police by Wednesday after there were allegations of laxity on the part of the police on acting on the complaint. The mother and son were returning from a hospital. Since dining at hotels in Kerala is not allowed now due to Covid, they bought food from a hotel and were having it in their car on the beach roadside. The two said that the accused alleged them of immoral activity and attacked them using an iron rod causing serious wound to Salu's right hand. When they said that they were mother and son, the accused asked for evidence. Their car was also damaged in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mother-and-son-suffer-moral-policing-in-kerala-1025993.html
01-09-2021||South||Karunanidhi's statue will be reinstalled, says Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin||A statue of late leader M Karunanidhi would be installed on the arterial Anna Salai here, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced on Wednesday in the Assembly. Replying to DMK legislator Neelamegam's request that the statue of former Chief Minister Karunanidhi should be installed on Anna Salai, Stalin said Dravidar Kazhagam chief K Veeramani has also made the same request to him. The Chief Minister said, for sure Karunanidhi's statue would be installed on Anna Salai following consultations with legal experts in view of a court ruling vis-a-vis installation of statues. A statue of Karunanidhi, installed by the DK on Anna Salai was damaged following the demise of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran (MGR was the CM at the time of his death) on December 24, 1987, and it was eventually moved out of that location.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karunanidhis-statue-will-be-reinstalled-says-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-m-k-stalin-1026004.html
01-09-2021||South||Kerala filmmaker, actor quit film on Malabar rebellion||Amidst a political row over the century-old Malabar rebellion in Kerala, known filmmaker Aashiq Abu and actor Prithviraj Sukumaran reportedly decided to quit from a film project based on the 1921 rebellion. The Malayalam film 'Variyamkunnan' announced last year was caught up in a row earlier as BJP and Hindu Aikya Vedi alleged that it was an attempt of CPM to glorify the Malabar Rebellion leader Variyamkunath Kunjahammed Haji especially since Ashique Abu was a left sympathiser. Both Abu and Prithviraj also faced cyber attacks. Abu told a section of media on Wednesday that differences with producers were the reason for quitting the project. Incidentally, the state is now witnessing a row over the Malabar rebellion now as a panel reviewing entries to the fifth edition of the Indian Council of Historical Research’s (ICHR) Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle recommended that Malabar rebellion could not be considered as freedom struggle as it was a rebellion against the landlords who were Hindus and no slogans against British rule were raised.  While BJP and other Hindutva leaders were maintaining that the Malabar rebellion was against the Hindu landlords, the left front's view is that it was a rebellion against the British rule only. RSS leader Ram Madhav even termed the Malabar rebellion as a first manifestation of Talibanism in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-filmmaker-actor-quit-film-on-malabar-rebellion-1026013.html
01-09-2021||State||RT-PCR report mandatory for international arrivals in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Wednesday made an RT-PCR test report mandatory for international arrivals in the state. Meanwhile, all students/employees coming from Kerala will have to compulsorily bring a negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours irrespective of their vaccination status. The persons will have to be in institutional quarantine for seven days and tested again on the seventh day.  The passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, Middle East, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe at the Kempegowda lnternational Airport and other entry airports in Karnataka, shall provide the sample and leave the airport for further compliance as per the protocol.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-international-arrivals-in-karnataka-1025906.html
01-09-2021||State||Karnataka reports 1,159 Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,159 fresh Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,50,604 and the toll to 37,339. The day also saw 1,112 discharges as the recoveries tally in the state swelled to 28,94,827. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the most number of cases (359) and seven deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 18,412.  While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.66%, the case fatality rate was 1.81%. Out of 21 deaths reported on Wednesday, seven were from Bengaluru Urban, while Dakshina Kannada saw five fatalities followed by Udupi three and Hassan two. Among new cases reported from districts, Dakshina Kannada registered 191 infections, Kodagu 95, Mysuru and Udupi 91 each. A total of 4,36,49,857 samples had been tested in the state, so far, out of which 1,75,319 were done on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-1159-covid-19-cases-21-deaths-1025933.html
01-09-2021||State||10 central schemes for Karnataka got no funds in first quarter of current fiscal||Ten centrally-sponsored schemes on rural development, housing, agriculture and other crucial sectors have not received any money from the Centre in the first four months of the current fiscal, leaving them in a limbo as the Karnataka government, too, has not released its share of funds.  Projects under these schemes are worth Rs 3,890.59 crore, of which the Centre's share is Rs 2,410.81 crore, while state's share is Rs 1,479.78 crore. According to data that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai reviewed at the Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) meeting earlier this week, schemes like the Swachh Bharat (Rural),  PM Grameen Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), PM Awas Yojana, mechanising agriculture, National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture, National Food Security Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana (irrigation) and scholarships offered for students received no funds at the end of July. Among the projects, the maximum allocation is for PMGSY. While the Centre has budgeted Rs 900 crore, the state allocated a matching grant of Rs 600 crore. The state, however, has spent the funds that were carried over from the previous fiscal.  Seven other schemes have reported zero progress during the fiscal, as they did not have any carryover funds from the last financial year nor were any grants released during the year. Responding to media queries following the KDP meeting on Tuesday on paucity of funds for various projects, Bommai said funds were not released as allocations of the previous fiscal was yet to be utilised. "Opening accounts of some schemes are being used to fund them. I have said that funds will be released quarterly based on expenditure," he said. Earlier, the state government used to release even the Centre's share of funds in case the Centre delayed the grants, according to sources. But financial stress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and decline in GST devolution and compensation funds had hurt the state. The Finance Department has written to all departments asking them not to release the state's matching grants until the Centre released its share, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/10-central-schemes-for-karnataka-got-no-funds-in-first-quarter-of-current-fiscal-1025971.html
01-09-2021||State||Group assault 2 youths for speaking to Muslim woman||A group of four to five youth assaulted and later issued threats to two youth for allegedly talking to a woman of different faith near Puttur bus stand on Wednesday. The men who were assaulted were identified as Hanumantharaya and Chowdaiah from Manvi taluk in Raichur. According to the complainant Hanumantharaya, he had known Ameena Banu from Puttur on social media. Later, the duo was in contact with each other over the phone.  A week ago, Ameena Banu had contacted Hanumantharaya and had asked him to come down to Puttur. Accordingly, Hanumanthraya along with his friend Chowdaiah had left his native village on August 31 and reached Puttur on Wednesday. On reaching Puttur, Ameena Banu along with her friend Gauthami had met the duo at the Puttur bus stand. When they were talking in the bus stand, four to five youth surrounded them and assaulted the victims for allegedly speaking to a girl from Muslim community. The group not only assaulted the victims but also issued threats. In his complaint, Hanumantharaya said the youth aged between 25 to 28 years were conversing in Beary language. The Puttur police have booked cases under various sections of the IPC against four to five unidentified miscreants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/group-assault-2-youths-for-speaking-to-muslim-woman-1026005.html
01-09-2021||State||580 litre diesel stolen from vehicles of BSY's kin||Over 580 litre diesel worth Rs 55,582 was reportedly stolen from four buses belonging to PES Institute of Technology & Management parked near Mythri apartment on Sominakoppa road in Shivamogga on Tuesday night. The buses, owned by former chief minister B S Yediyurappa's family members, were parked by drivers on Tuesday night. The incident came to light when the drivers returned to their duty the next morning. They saw caps of the tanks were left open. Vinobnagar police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/580-litre-diesel-stolen-from-vehicles-of-bsys-kin-1026008.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Final decision on public Ganeshotsav on September 5: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the final decision on public celebrations of Ganeshotsav would be taken on September 5. "Ganeshotsav is celebrated in different ways in different regions. Experts are studying reports from districts regarding how public Ganeshotsav was managed during the Covid-19 situation last year, and what has to be done this time. I will hold a meeting with experts on September 5," he said. Shah coming Union Home Minister Amit Shah would visit Karnataka on Thursday. Union Government's programmes and other development issues in the state would be discussed with him, Bommai said. On local body polls Requesting people to continue the support to BJP, Bommai expressed confidence that BJP would come to power in Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi local bodies. Thinking is going on to prepare a comprehensive programme for all municipal corporations, for infrastructure and industrial development, and welfare of the poor and slum dwellers, he said. 'No violation' Bommai also clarified that he has not violated the rules by visiting Hubballi after the open campaigning for Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) elections ended. "I am going to Shiggaon from the airport here," he said. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that VVIPs visiting Hubballi on Wednesday and Thursday are not campaigning for the HDMP polls to be held on September 3 as open campaigning ended by 7 am on Wednesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/final-decision-on-public-ganeshotsav-on-september-5-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1025735.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt can allow bullock cart race, says Karnataka High Court||The High Court has directed the state government to ensure fulfilment of conditions, laid down by the Supreme Court, while granting permission to bullock cart race. The court held that under the amended provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Karnataka Second Amendment) Act, 2017, the state government can permit the holding of bullock cart racing. A division bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, disposed of a PIL filed by People for Animals, a Mysuru-based animal welfare organisation. The petitioners challenged permission granted by the government for an event held at Karekura village, Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, in March. They had sought directions to Karnataka Animal Welfare Board to oversee all such events across the state. The petitioners further claimed that these kinds of races are held during Ugadi, Sankranti festivals and also regional elections wherein Rs 2,500 entry fee is collected from participants and the prize money starts from Rs 60,000 and may extend to lakhs of rupees. The bench referred to the Supreme Court order in the case of Baji Rao Patil and the State of Maharashtra, which was heard along with the Jallikattu matter. The Supreme Court had stipulated that a separate track for each bullock cart will have to be provided at every bullock cart race event. The other conditions stipulate the organisers to inform district administration and the local police station. The apex court had also said that a veterinary doctor, in association with NGOs espousing the cause of animals, and the committee appointed by the High Court, shall be permitted to videograph the event. The order also restricted cart men from whipping the bull or induces pain or cause injury to the animal. The bench said that under section 28A of the amended Act, the state government can permit the holding of bullock cart racing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-can-allow-bullock-cart-race-says-karnataka-high-court-1025958.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Panel recommends overseeing committee for children’s safety in schools||A committee, constituted by the department of primary and secondary education to examine the need for safety and security certificates during the renewal of recognition for schools, submitted its report on Wednesday asking the government schools to follow all safety and security norms. The committee, headed by MLC V S Sankanur, submitted the report to Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh. It said the department should follow all safety and security measures at the government-run schools on a par with the private unaided schools. One of the members of the committee said, “When we insist private schools stick to safety and security measures, it is the responsibility of the department to ensure the same at government-run schools and pre-university colleges.” The committee recommended the government set aside funds in the upcoming budget for the upgradation of safety and security measures at government schools and colleges. Another major recommendation of the committee is for the constitution of a state-level overseeing committee under the department of public instructions to address any issues related to the safety of children. As recommended, this committee should include officials from all departments to address safety issues including unsafe buildings, lack of toilets, no drinking water, lack of infrastructure, violence, abuse etc. Former minister for education S Suresh Kumar had constituted the committee to examine the need for safety certificates from various departments for schools while getting renewal of affiliation. This committee was formed following the demand from the private unaided schools. However, the private schools are not happy with the recommendations. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “While preparing the report, the committee has considered only the 2009 order of the Supreme Court and ignored all other orders which came later regarding safety and security issues at schools. There is no clarity in the report and we are disappointed.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panel-recommends-overseeing-committee-for-children-s-safety-in-schools-1025962.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Phone tapping: IPS officer files protest plea against CBI closure report||Senior IPS officer Bhaskar Rao has filed a protest petition requesting the court to reject the closure report (B report) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the telephone tapping case. The officer said that the closure report does not inspire confidence in the eyes of rule of law. The CBI had filed a closure report in the case on June 30, 2021, stating that there was no direct evidence to prove with certainty as to who leaked three intercepted audio files and how a TV journalist Kushala Satyanarayana got access to these files. These three files contained conversation between Bhaskar Rao and one Faraz Ahmed, whose calls were intercepted in connection with the investigation against a chit fund firm Injaj International Associated Group. The conversation was about the post of city police commissioner. In his protest petition, Bhaskar Rao claimed that the CBI has not pressed charges for criminal breach of trust against IPS officer Alok Kumar despite having prima facie material. The interceptions were carried out from May 3, 2019, and all the calls landed at Technical Support Centre (TSC). Bhaskar Rao contended that TSC comes under the jurisdiction of the then Additional Commissioner of Police Alok Kumar. He also said the CBI hurriedly filed the B report even though a CFSL report in Hyderabad is awaited. The CBI report stated that the conversations between police officer Mirza Ali Raza and Alok Kumar, pertaining to transfer of voice recordings, could not be retrieved since their mobile phones had been formatted post the incident. Bhaskar Rao stated that CBI’s closure report does not justify its own findings, investigative references and collated documentary evidence. On August 2, 2018, the then Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Alok Kumar was transferred and Bhaskar Rao took charge as the new Commissioner. Within six days, on August 8, 2019, three intercepted calls were aired on a television channel. The CBI report established that the three audio files, which were found with the possession of the journalist, indeed originated from the TSC. The report, however, stated that it could not be established who provided three intercepted audio files to the journalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/phone-tapping-ips-officer-files-protest-plea-against-cbi-closure-report-1025966.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt plans internal audit to vet crop loans waived||Three years and Rs 15,000 crore later, the Karnataka government has prepared an audit plan to scrutinise the crop loan waiver scheme, the flagship programme of the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition.  From 2018 till date, 19.87 lakh crop loan accounts received Rs 15,608.8 crore towards the waiver, according to data made public by the government. This includes loans borrowed from both commercial and cooperative banks. However, the internal audit, whose draft guidelines are awaiting the Finance department’s nod, will be done for the loans that were waived in commercial banks, covering more than 10 lakh farmers with a cash outgo of over Rs 7,600 crore.  The main objective of the proposed internal audit is to ascertain if the loan waiver scheme benefited all eligible farmers and the exclusion of those who were ineligible. The crop loan waiver was JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy’s poll promise, which he implemented even as he shared power with the Congress amid concerns that it would hit the state’s finances. The waiver covered loans between April 2009 and December 2017. It involved crediting Rs 25,000 into the accounts of farmers with regular loans and up to Rs 2 lakh in all other loan accounts, including non-performing assets (NPAs).  IAS officer Munish Moudgil was asked to oversee its implementation for which he designed a software.  A pre-audit done for 1,532 randomly-selected loan accounts did not throw up large-scale anomalies. Of them, 27 accounts were sanctioned before April 2009, eight were not crop loan accounts, 10 accounts had an outstanding balance of less than zero as on December 31, 2017, and in 180 accounts the information provided did not tally.  “These discrepancies are caught by the system anyway and payment will not be done,” Moudgil said. “The purpose of the pre-audit was to check that the data entry by banks was in accordance with documents.” The loan waiver scheme itself is still active as payments continue to be made. Recently, Rs 82.64 crore of the waiver money credited into 13,966 loan accounts bounced back.  The top four banks with the highest number of loans waived are the Karnataka Gramin Bank, Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank, Canara Bank and the State Bank of India.  Once the audit starts, auditors will verify at least 25% of the accounts to see if the scheme was implemented properly, according to the State Level Bankers’ Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-plans-internal-audit-to-vet-crop-loans-waived-1025967.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka health dept issues advisory for international passengers||Passengers from UK, Europe, Middle East, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe, on arrival at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) or other airports in Karnataka, have to provide samples for Covid testing, the Health department has said.  The passengers shall leave the airport for further compliance as per the standard operating procedure.  This is in view of the new mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 virus being reported and the rising incidence of variants of concern and variants of interest.  However, passengers arriving from Brazil and South Africa, after providing the samples at KIA or other airports, shall wait for the results at the airport. They shall leave the airport only after testing negative, said a circular issued here on Wednesday by additional chief secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar. The strict telemonitoring of these passengers should be ensured, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-dept-issues-advisory-for-international-passengers-1025969.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New sand policy soon: Karnataka CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday that he has suggested the officials to prepare a sand policy draft and that the new policy would be implemented soon. "There's a confusion among the stakeholders due to multiple sand policies in the state. Hence there's a need for one comprehensive and inclusive policy," the chief minister told reporters on the sidelines of an event to mark the inauguration of civic works worth Rs 96.97 crore in Shiggaon and Savanur taluks. "A sand policy was formulated when C C Patil was the Mines and Geology minister. The officials will look into the said policy while preparing the draft. The government will make sand easily accessible to state projects, beneficiaries of Ashraya and other housing schemes and common man," Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-sand-policy-soon-karnataka-cm-bommai-1025970.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Outsourced employees of Nimhans protest lay-offs||Nineteen hospital assistants were refused employment by National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans) on July 9 this year, said the Nimhans Pragatipara Workers Union (NPWU), affiliated to the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), in a press release issued here on Wednesday. The workers were seen protesting on the hospital campus on Wednesday. But Nimhans has distanced itself from the issue, saying the problem is between an outsourcing agency and the workers, and that they’re not employees of Nimhans. Of these 19 workers, 15 are women. “When the state government had imposed a night curfew prohibiting travel after 9 pm, Nimhans unilaterally changed the timings of the workers and sought that they work up to 9.30 pm. When the workers expressed their difficulties and apprehensions for their safety and sought for the provision of transportation, the management of Nimhans fired them on July 9, 2021,” said the release.  As per a notification dated November 20, 2019, issued by the state government, women workers can work in shifts beyond 7 pm only if their consent has been taken and if the employer provides transportation facility to them from their residence, and ensures that each transportation vehicle is equipped with a CCTV camera. These workers, who are members and office-bearers of NPWU, have been sitting in protest from July 9, demanding that they be taken back into service. They will continue their protest till they’re reinstated, said the note. In a media statement, the Nimhans registrar said, “All the 16 workers belong to the outsourced agency Sree Vinayaka Enterprises. None of these are employed by Nimhans and we don’t have any control on these workers.” “The agency defines the nature of work, postings and timings of their workers. Nimhans has nothing to do with it,” the registrar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/outsourced-employees-of-nimhans-protest-lay-offs-1025985.html
01-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||11.3 lakh vaccinated in Karnataka on first 'lasika mela' day||The first Wednesday of 'Lasika Mela' saw the Karnataka government crossing the 10 lakh target as 11.37 lakh Covid vaccine doses were administered till 8.53 pm. Health Minister K Sudhakar tweeted, “Karnataka crosses 10 lakh doses today! Pace is picking up and we have given more than 35 lakh doses in the last five days!” Mega vaccination camps were organised in Bengaluru to speed up vaccination. Three centres had been identified at Malleswaram playground, Epidemic Diseases Hospital, CV Raman Nagar and Ambedkar Bhavan in Yelahanka. The minister visited the Epidemic Diseases Hospital to review the preparations. Seven districts that managed more than 75% target coverage till 5.45 pm were Dharwad (118%), Mandya (108%), Bengaluru Urban (108%), BBMP (97%), Chikkamagaluru (84%), Shivamogga (81%) and Bidar (77%). Twenty one districts had more than 60% target coverage. However, some districts achieved less than 50% vaccination target. These were: Gadag (28%), Chikkaballapur (31%), Ballari (35%), Hassan (38%), and Yadgir (47%). Yadgir vaccinated the least number of people (14,010). In all, 10 districts had less than 60% target coverage.  Wednesday’s target was increased for BBMP limits from 1.5 lakh-2 lakh doses/day. The civic body met the target by vaccinating 1,83,990 till 9 pm. Three vaccination centres each in every Assembly constituency of the city, totalling to 50, functioned from 8 am to 9 pm. One vaccination centre in each zone was also designated to function 24/7. Special on-site vaccination drives were conducted to vaccinate slum dwellers, senior citizens and other special groups like bedridden patients. Mobile vaccination units were also set up at bus/rail stations, markets, government offices, tech parks, etc. The permanent vaccination centres that were identified in primary health centre limits, however, were to operate only from 8 am to 2.30 pm from Wednesday. However, if the public waited in the queue even after 2.30 pm, vaccination was to be continued. If the vaccine stock in the primary health centre was exhausted by 2.30 pm, tokens were issued for the next day’s vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/113-lakh-vaccinated-in-karnataka-on-first-lasika-mela-day-1025995.html
01-09-2021||West||Maharashtra woman ends life after tiff with husband over bringing street food at home||A 23-year-old woman allegedly took her own life here in Maharashtra following a fight with her husband after he brought 'pani puri' (a street snack) at home without telling her even though she had prepared a meal, police said on Wednesday. The woman, Pratiksha Saravade, got married to Ambegaon area resident Gahininath Saravade (33) in 2019 and the couple used to have frequent quarrels over domestic issues, they said. "Last Friday, the man, without telling his wife, brought 'pani puri' at home following which they had a fight as she had already prepared the meal. The next day, the woman allegedly consumed a poisonous substance and was subsequently rushed to a hospital where she died on Sunday," an official from Bharti Vidyapeeth police station said. The police on Monday registered a case of abetment to suicide against her husband, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-woman-ends-life-after-tiff-with-husband-over-bringing-street-food-at-home-1025714.html
01-09-2021||West||Saira Banu hospitalised due to low BP, doc says doing fine now||Veteran actor Saira Banu was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a hospital here earlier this week following complaints of low blood pressure and is doing well now, a hospital official said on Wednesday. The 77-year-old “Padosan” actor, who lost her husband Dilip Kumar in July, was taken to the Khar Hinduja hospital three days ago, the official said. "She is admitted to the hospital due to low BP. She was brought to the hospital three days ago. She is fine and much better now. There's nothing to worry about," he said, adding that he had spoken to the actor on Tuesday. He said the hospital is not a Covid facility. She had tested negative for Covid-19 but was isolated as a norm in the wake of the pandemic. Saira Banu, who burst onto the screen with "Junglee" and went on to act in a range of films, is likely to be discharged in a day or two. Her husband and screen icon Dilip Kumar died on July 7 at the age of 98 after a long ailment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/saira-banu-hospitalised-due-to-low-bp-doc-says-doing-fine-now-1025765.html
01-09-2021||West||NIA, Maharashtra govt oppose bail pleas of Elgar Parishad accused; Bombay HC reserves order||The Maharashtra government as well as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday opposed applications for `default' bail filed by some of the accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case before the Bombay High Court. After both sides concluded arguments, the court reserved its order. Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira have challenged the power of the Pune sessions court which took cognisance of the chargesheet in 2019, and sought bail on this technical ground or `by default'. On Wednesday, senior advocate Sudeep Pasbola, Dhawale's lawyer, told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that the accused were booked for `scheduled offences' under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), and hence only a special court for UAPA cases could have handled the case and not an ordinary sessions court. On the other hand, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, the state government's lawyer, argued that in September 2018 the Pune court had granted extension of 90 days to Pune Police (who probed the case initially) to file a charge sheet. As the chargesheet was filed within that period, the accused were not entitled to default bail, he said. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, made the same argument. A court taking cognisance of chargesheet has no relevance for default bail application, he added. Advocate Pasbola said the NIA's argument was that the case should have gone before a special court only after the central agency took it over in January 2020, but that was not what the law mandated. The bench then reserved the matter for order. Activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, a co-accused, too had filed a similar plea earlier this year seeking default bail. Bharadwaj's counsel and senior advocate Yug Chaudhry had argued before the HC that judge K D Vadane, who had taken cognisance of the police's chargesheet and remanded Bharadwaj and seven other accused in judicial custody, was not a designated special judge. The bench led by Justice Shinde reserved its order on Bharadwaj's plea on August 4. It is yet to be pronounced. The case relates to Elgar Parishad, a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017. Pune Police had alleged that it had been backed by Maoists, and provocative speeches made there led to caste violence near Bhima-Koregaon war memorial the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-maharashtra-govt-oppose-bail-pleas-of-elgar-parishad-accused-bombay-hc-reserves-order-1025870.html
01-09-2021||West||'Golden' catch makes Palghar fisherman a crorepati||When Chandrakant Tare, a fisherman from Murbhe in Palgar, set sail with his crew in mid-August, little did he know that he would net the a truly rare catch. Come September, he is now a crorepati! On 15 August, coinciding with the Independence Day festivities, trawler Harba Devi, with Tare and 10 crew members on board, cast off into the Arabian Sea. About 20 to 25 nautical miles in Wadhwan along the Maharashtra-Gujarat coast, Tare and his team caught 157 Ghol fish, known as 'Sea Gold'. Even while they were on the high seas, the news spread like wildfire in the fishing community. On 28 August, they returned back to Murbhe and traders had lined up. The catch was auctioned and it attracted a bid of around Rs 1.33 crore. The Ghol fish or Protonibea diacanthus, commonly known as the blackspotted croaker, and in Australia as the black jewfish, is a species of fish native to the Indo-Pacific region. This fish is considered amongst the most-expensive variety of marine fish. Its heart is known as the 'Sea Gold', which is said to have medicinal properties and is an important ingredient in making a variety of medicines. The fish is considered a delicacy, it is prized in East-Asia for the medicinal properties of its internal organs. Its fins also have medicinal value and are used by pharmaceutical companies to make dissolvable stitches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/golden-catch-makes-palghar-fisherman-a-crorepati-1025916.html
01-09-2021||West||RT-PCR test must for travellers from select countries arriving at Mumbai airport from September 3: BMC||Covid-19 RT-PCR test is made mandatory for travellers arriving at the international airport here from select countries such as the UK, Middle East, Brazil and China, from September 3, the Mumbai civic body said on Wednesday. It said passengers arriving from or transiting through the UK, Europe, Middle East, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe will have to undergo paid RT-PCR tests after they land at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International airport. Other passengers (excluding the above countries), who have to exit the airport or board connecting flights, will have to show the RT-PCR negative report conducted within 72 hours of their journey, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) stated. "RT-PCR tests will not be mandatory for such passengers on arrival at the Mumbai airport from 12 AM on September 3," it said. All passengers will have to submit their self-declaration forms and undertakings to officers deployed at the airport and will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. The civic body further stated that the steps are being taken based on the Centre's guidelines because of the detection of more transmissible variants of coronavirus. The airport operator has already made arrangements for conducting RT-PCR tests and registration at the airport, for which passengers will have to pay Rs 600, the release stated, adding the airport can conduct 600 tests per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rt-pcr-test-must-for-travellers-from-select-countries-arriving-at-mumbai-airport-from-september-3-bmc-1025937.html
01-09-2021||West||Maharashtra to set up science city named after Rajiv Gandhi in Pune||In a major decision, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has okayed a proposal to set up a science innovation city in memory of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi at Pimpri-Chinchwad, the sister city of Pune.  The Bharat Ratna Rajiv Gandhi Vigyan Avishkar Nagari would be spread over 8 acre.  The project, which has an outlay of Rs 191 crore, is expected to come up in the precincts of the famed Pimpri-Chinchwad Science Park. The decision was taken at the weekly Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. “It will be ready within the next five years. It is intended to create a scientific outlook among the students and to prepare future scientists,” Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-set-up-science-city-named-after-rajiv-gandhi-in-pune-1025940.html
01-09-2021||West||Will of majority has to prevail in democratic set up: SC||“In a democratic set up, the will of the majority has to prevail”, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday while upholding the Bombay High Court order to approve selection of an elected member as the group leader of Congress Party in a ‘Panchayat Samiti’ in Maharashtra due to the majority support. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai said a group leader in a municipality has to be chosen by the majority and cannot be imposed and in the absence of any procedure for removal, the selection process can be adopted for getting rid of the person after he or she loses the majority support. “It could thus be seen that this court has clearly held that the leader of a municipal party has to be chosen by ‘aghadi’ or front and not by any outsider...,” the top court said quoting judgements. The imposition of a Group Leader otherwise than by the democratic process cuts at the roots of the democracy and certainly it is in violation of the Rules, said Justice Gavai, who wrote the judgement for the bench. “As soon as such a person loses the confidence of the majority, he becomes unwanted. In democratic set up, the will of the majority has to prevail,” it said. The verdict came on the appeal of one Sau Sangeeta against the March 30, 2021 verdict of the Bombay High dismissing her plea against an order, passed on January 6, 2020 by the District Collector of Ahmednagar. The District Collector had granted approval to the selection of one Vandana Dnyaneshwar Murkute as group leader of Congress Party in the Shrirampur Panchayat Samiti Party. Sangeeta and three others including Murkute were elected as members of the ‘Panchayat Samiti’, Shrirampur in the elections held in 2017. In a meeting of the elected members of the party, Sangeeta was elected as the group leader of the Indian National Congress Panchayt Samiti Party (INCPS) and later was removed following the complaint that she did not take other three members of members of INCPS into confidence for over two years nor had convened any meeting. Later, Sangeeta with the help of elected members of other parties got elected as Chairman of the Panchayat Samiti. The High Court dismissed her plea against her removal from the post of group leader. The apex court said “The appellant was elected as ‘Gatneta’ (group leader) when she enjoyed the support of all the members of INCPS Party. However, after she decided to walk on a different path, she lost the support of majority of the INCPS Party and as such, could not have thrust her leadership on the majority.” It said the law and rules have been framed to prevent horse­ trading and maintain purity in the political system but, at the same time, the provisions cannot be interpreted in a manner that one person in minority will thrust himself or herself upon the other members who are in absolute majority, the verdict said. The bench was “amazed” and said the appellant, who became chairperson from outside support, was alleging horse-trading. “We are amazed to hear the argument of horse­trading from the mouth of the appellant. It is the appellant who has acted contrary to the wishes of the Party and chose to contest the election of the Chairman of the Panchayat Samiti with the support of to guess as to who has indulged in horse­trading,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-of-majority-has-to-prevail-in-democratic-set-up-sc-1025944.html
01-09-2021||West||Maharashtra to set up medical colleges and super-speciality hospitals under PPP||In a major decision aimed at expanding the health infrastructure, especially in rural and semi-rural areas, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to set up new medical colleges and super-speciality hospitals across the state on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis. This decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. A statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said the state Industries Department's scheme of incentives will be applicable for private parties that wish to set up the health infrastructure in rural and remote areas .A high-powered committee headed by the state chief secretary will examine the provisions of the scheme to be made applicable to the health sector and give approvals accordingly. In the next three years, additional 1,000 seats in MD, MS and DNB courses will be created, it said. These 1,000 seats include 350 in the proposed government medical colleges and 650 in the existing medical colleges. In the next ten years, there will be 2,600 more MBBS seats, including 1,800 in the new medical colleges and 800 in the present colleges, the statement said. Every year there will be an increase (in the number of patients) in OPDs (Out Patient Departments) by one crore and in In-Patient Department (IPD) by 10 lakh, it added. The government's decision will help improve the health infrastructure in rural and semi-rural areas. Funds from the Central government and international financial institutions will be sought, the statement said. Speaking to reporters after attending the Cabinet meeting, Maharashtra Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh said medical education will change due to this decision. "Every district will have a medical college. At present, 18 districts have government medical colleges. There are proposals to set up medical colleges in eight districts. We will utilise the Central government's scheme and funds for (setting up the health infrastructure) in Maharashtra,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-set-up-medical-colleges-and-super-speciality-hospitals-under-ppp-1025946.html
01-09-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray meets Governor Koshyari over nomination of 12 MLCs||In a significant political development in Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray called on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan and discussed various issues including the long-pending nomination of 12 MLCs. Thackeray, who is the Shiv Sena president, was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, the leader of Congress legislature party, during the hour-long meeting. Pawar and Thorat confirmed that the nomination of the three MLAs was discussed in the meeting. "We have made a formal request on the names for MLCs...the governor gave us a patient hearing...the governor has assured us an appropriate decision," Pawar said. "We have discussed issues like Covid-19 situation, rainfall situation," Thorat said. On being specifically asked about the MLCs nomination, he said: "Yes...at the end, we have requested him to clear the names and take a decision as early as possible...we all the three parties expect that there will be a decision soon." On November 6, 2020, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government had submitted 12 names for nomination to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. However, it has been kept pending. The three parties have agreed on a 4-4-4 formula for the 12 vacant seats. The term of 12 legislators nominated to the Upper House from the Governor’s quota had expired in June 2020. In Maharashtra, the Governor nominates 12 MLCs for a tenure of six years – based on the recommendations of the state Cabinet. According to Article171(5) of the Constitution: “(5) The members to be nominated by the Governor under sub clause (e) of clause (3) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely: literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service.” While the Governor has to go by the recommendations of the Cabinet, there is no deadline by which the Governor has to clear the nominations. Before sending the names, the MVA trouble-shooters have vetted every name and checked all the details so that there are no hiccups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-governor-koshyari-over-nomination-of-12-mlcs-1025952.html
01-09-2021||West||CBI books Anil Deshmukh's lawyer for trying to influence probe against him||The CBI has registered an FIR against the lawyer of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for allegedly trying to influence the Bombay High Court directed preliminary enquiry into corruption allegations against the leader, officials said Wednesday. The CBI Wednesday also questioned lawyer Anand Daga for allegedly trying to pay "illegal gratification" a sub-inspector-rank officer of the agency to "subvert the preliminary enquiry", they said, A report of preliminary enquiry purportedly giving clean chit to Deshmukh was leaked Saturday night. The CBI started a probe into the leakage which has so far revealed that Deshmukh's team allegedly tried to influence the conduct of PE against him by paying illegal gratification to a sub-inspector ranked officer of the agency, the officials said. The central agency Wednesday examined Deshmukh’s son-in-law Gaurav Chaturvedi and lawyer Anand Daga in over its probe after which an FIR was registered, they said. The CBI did not find Chaturvedi's involvement so far and he was allowed to go, they said. "Attempt of Anil Deshmukh's team were in contempt of Bombay High Court which had directed that all concerned should fully cooperate with the CBI while conducting the PE. In this case it has appeared that Deshmukh's team tried to subvert the PE," an official told PTI. Their attempt could not succeed as there is a procedure in the CBI in which evidences on record and legal opinion is also taken on record before the registration of the FIR, he said. "They could not influence people at higher level," he said. The CBI had started a PE on the orders of the Bombay High Court which had issued the direction while hearing a public interest litigation on allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. The claimed PE findings which were leaked showed the Deputy SP probing the matter had purportedly opined that no cognisable offence was made out against Deshmukh. It was later converted into an FIR based on a contrasting opinion of the Deputy SP. The opinion mentioned in the FIR said that cognisable offence is made out against Deshmukh. "The Preliminary Enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then Home minister of Maharashtra, Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR alleged. In the FIR, the CBI had booked Deshmukh and others unidentified under IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy and section of Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty." Allegations against Deshmukh had surfaced after the removal of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. He was removed after the role of a policemen Sachin Waze surfaced into the case of an explosive-laden SUV which was found parked outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Waze was arrested by the NIA. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, after his removal, Singh had alleged Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai, they said. The FIR alleged that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-books-anil-deshmukhs-lawyer-for-trying-to-influence-probe-against-him-1025997.html
01-09-2021||West||Goa to have 'vaccination holidays' during Ganesh Chaturthi festival||After 228 days of a nonstop vaccination drive, the Goa health administration on Wednesday announced September 10 and 11 as "vaccination holidays" in order to give a break to health workers during the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which also begins on September 10.  "We are announcing a vaccine holiday on September 10 and 11. There will be no vaccination in government centres on these two days. Vaccination will resume on the 12th of September," according to Dr. Anup Netravalkar, a nodal officer at the Directorate of Health Services for the vaccination exercise.  "This will provide a much-needed break for our healthcare professionals. They have been working for 228 days without a single break. We are also doing this because during Ganesh Chaturthi, there may not be a big rush. After considering these factors, the Goa government has decided that it will be a vaccine holiday on September 10 and 11," Netravalkar also said.  The Goa government has also decided to reduce the gap between vaccination doses for teaching and non-teaching staff employed in Goa's schools and colleges to six weeks from the standard 80 plus day gap between the two vaccine jabs.  The reduction in the gap to six weeks will enable fast vaccination of the teaching and non-teaching staff in schools and colleges, which would thereafter clear the way for the opening of educational institutions in the state for offline classes in the near future.  "Our target is to finish vaccination of teachers and non-teaching staff before Teachers' Day. The principal or headmaster will be certifying teaching and non-teaching staff for schools and colleges making them eligible for vaccination," Netravalkar also said.  The official also said that so far 15.5 lakh vaccine doses had been administered in the state and that nearly 95 per cent of the state's population had taken at least one vaccine jab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-have-vaccination-holidays-during-ganesh-chaturthi-festival-1026003.html
01-09-2021||West||Bomb scare case: Vaze seeks presence of blood relative at hospital||Dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, an accused in the Antilia bomb scare-Mansukh Hiren murder case, on Wednesday moved a plea before a special NIA court here through a lawyer, seeking presence of a blood relative during his treatment at a private hospital. Vaze (49) was on Tuesday admitted to SS Hospital and Research Centre in Bhiwandi town of Thane district from the Taloja central jail in Navi Mumbai where he has been lodged under judicial custody. On Monday, special judge P R Sitre had permitted the former Assistant Police Inspector to undergo treatment for his heart ailment at the private hospital. On Wednesday, he moved an application, through his lawyer, before the court seeking presence of a blood relative during his treatment at the hospital. His plea is likely to be heard on Thursday. The judge, while allowing Vaze to get admitted to a private hospital, had directed the Taloja prison superintendent to submit his medical report before the court every 15 days. The cost of treatment is to be borne by Vaze and his family, the court had said. Vaze, through his lawyer, had earlier told the court that three of his arteries had "90 per cent blockage" and that doctors had advised immediate surgery for the same. An explosives-laden vehicle was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence ''Antilia'' on February 25. The vehicle owner Hiren, a Thane businessman who had claimed his car was stolen, was found dead in a creek on March 5. The NIA claimed Vaze was involved in the planting of the explosives and Hiren's murder, and arrested him on March 13. He was later dismissed from police service||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bomb-scare-case-vaze-seeks-presence-of-blood-relative-at-hospital-1026006.html
01-09-2021||West||Mumbai reports 400-plus Covid-19 cases after over a month||Mumbai reported 416 new Covid-19 cases, the highest since July 21, and four deaths on Wednesday, a senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the financial capital of the country thus rose to 7,44,571 and death toll reached 15,981. On July 21, the city had recorded 435 new cases. The number had dipped below 400 after that. The average doubling rate -- period taken for the caseload to double -- has now gone below 1,500 days while the number of sealed buildings has crossed 30, adding to the authorities' concerns. In August, the average doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the city had improved to more than 2,000 days and number of sealed buildings had gone down to 20. But daily new cases are rising steadily for the past two weeks. On August 16, Mumbai had reported 190 new infections, lowest since April 2020. The number climbed over 300 from August 25. There are 3,187 active Covid-19 cases in the city at present, as per the BMC. As many as 41,929 coronavirus tests were carried out in the city since Tuesday evening, taking the total of samples tested so far to 92,83,493. There are 32 sealed buildings in the city at present though slums and chawls have remained free of containment zones since mid-August. The civic body seals buildings or declares containment zones if five or more residents test positive. With discharge of 329 recovered patients from hospitals during the day, the tally of recovered patients in the city rose to 7,22,950. The rate of recovery is 97 per cent. This year, Mumbai had reported the highest 11,163 cases on April 4, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-reports-400-plus-covid-19-cases-after-over-a-month-1026009.html
