02-09-2021||First Edit||GDP growth: Too early to cheer||The 20.1% GDP growth in the first quarter of 2021-22 is not surprising given the low base on which it has been measured. The first quarter of 2020-21 had seen a crash of 24% in GDP because of the nationwide pandemic lockdown, and the present growth figure should be seen in that context. The economy, even after growing nearly 25%, is about 9% smaller than it was in the first quarter of 2019-20. The growth number is also below both the Reserve Bank of India forecast, which had placed it at 21.4%, and some other projections. But the first quarter of the current fiscal was also not normal because the second wave of the pandemic had hit many parts of the economy. Though there was no national lockdown, some areas were badly affected and some others showed signs of recovery. Sectoral performances are varied, with some throwing up surprises and others meeting expectations. Though it was apprehended that agriculture and allied activities would be hit because of an erratic monsoon, they held up and scored a high 4.52% growth. The services sector, which involve high-contact activities, was also expected to fare badly because of the lockdowns, but that sector too did better than expected. It is a surprise that construction grew by 69% and trade, hotel, transport and communications were up by 34.5%. Manufacturing and mining did well, growing 50% and 19% respectively. One other bright point was the increase in private consumption, which is an indication of growth, but it was below the 2019-20 level and below the overall growth rate. Exports did well but they were also below the 2019-20 level. The growth in fixed investment was high, and this was because of government spending on big projects. The message from the figures about the immediate future course of the economy is mixed. There are indications of momentum returning to some sectors but it is not certain that it will be sustained. The impact of the monsoon is yet to be fully felt. If there is another wave of the pandemic and it happens in the economically important regions of the country, growth will certainly be hit, and the present pace of recovery will slacken. Much will also depend on the spread of the vaccination programme. It is not known whether the unorganised sector has grown, as the GDP figures are only about the formal economy. Private consumption and household spending might remain low and the government has not taken any major steps to stimulate demand. So, the chances of the economy making a quick rise to pre-pandemic levels are still low.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/gdp-growth-too-early-to-cheer-1026060.html
02-09-2021||In Perspective||Not being depositor-friendly costs PSBs trillions||Public Sector Banks (PSBs) once treated depositors with reverence. Not any longer. Interest rates are falling and the rules for depositors are no longer friendly. So, there is a growing trust deficit, and depositors are moving away. As a result, the deposit share of PSBs has fallen from 78% to less than 65% in the 10-year period 2011-2020. The private sector banks seized the opportunity and have more than doubled their market share during the last decade and now account for nearly 30% of total bank deposits. As PSBs struggle with bad debts, their lending slowed, but what is the justification for such a precipitous drop in deposits? The total deposits of scheduled commercial banks are around Rs 139 lakh crore as of 2020, including demand deposits, saving bank deposits and term deposits. Had the PSBs not lost 9% of the market in the last five years, they would have had Rs 12 trillion more as deposits. They would not need the government to pump in over Rs 3 lakh crore of taxpayers’ money to rescue them. However, the PSBs alone are not to blame for this continuous exodus of depositors. Short-sighted policies of the department of banking and the RBI over the past decade are equally to blame. One of them is the policy on fixed deposit (FD) renewal, which empowers banks to hold on to depositors’ money after maturity, virtually without crediting interest – a policy that has badly hurt depositors during the pandemic because the lockdowns have restricted mobility in the last 18 months. While private banks reached out to depositors to renew deposits, PSBs, especially the merged entities, made it doubly difficult. The July 2021 circular of RBI on ‘interest on overdue domestic deposits’, an extension of its May 2016 circular, has made it easier for banks to hold on to unclaimed matured deposits as ‘free lunch’ -- a source of low-cost funds to the banks at the depositors’ expense. It states that “If a term deposit (TD) matures and proceeds are unpaid, the amount left unpaid with the bank shall attract the rate of interest as applicable to savings account or the contracted rate of interest on the matured TD, whichever is lower.” A decade back, the interest on deposits that was prevalent during the FD period was paid if the deposit was renewed even a few months after maturity. That was changed subsequently as FD interest rates started to plummet. So, if depositors forgot to renew deposits at the time of maturity, they would get paid not at the previous but the existing deposit rates for the intervening period once they renewed the FD. That was a fair practice as the depositor was getting a proper return on investment. However, a decade back, the bankers started to get greedy, with the regulator’s approval. New provisions were introduced. You had to choose the options for ‘automatic renewal’ and ‘automatic credit to the depositors savings bank account’ if you wanted your deposits renewed or transferred back to your account. The PSBs would tell you about these new clauses only when prodded, as a result of which large amount of depositors’ money stayed as ‘free lunch’ for the PSBs once they matured. This was the first move that was not depositor-friendly. The second was when the RBI decided that banks would pay only savings interest on the FDs not renewed. Later, the PSBs stopped informing depositors about when FDs were maturing and started keeping it separately as ‘unclaimed’. Only when customers claimed them would they credit the amount back to their savings account and give the interest as per the savings rate, which was a pittance. The private sector banks, however, kept calling depositors and even turned up at your door if you had not renewed your deposits, while the PSBs made it a headache to renew deposits. Depositors realised what was happening. They started fleeing. The situation is even more grim in the PSBs that have been merged of late, as the banks are insisting on fresh KYC before issuing chequebooks, ATM cards and crediting deposits to the accounts. The demands for linking PAN to Aadhaar every year or two by the banks, especially during the pandemic, is nothing less than harassment. There is over Rs 82,000 crore of unclaimed depositors’ money lying in bank accounts, provident fund, insurance and mutual funds. But no regulator is making an effort to return the depositors’ money. Unfriendly policies are causing depositors to flee PSBs, and the loss is many times what they would gain by usurping depositors’ funds. Banks must turn depositor-friendly and have fair regulations to attract depositors. Else, they stand to lose the most. (The writer is a journalist and author of three books on economic governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/not-being-depositor-friendly-costs-psbs-trillions-1026063.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Aim is to improve lifestyle of police constables: Karnataka Home Minister||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that he would give primary importance to improve the lifestyle of police constables.  Speaking to media persons at Honnali in Davangere district on Thursday, he said over 49 per cent constables had been allotted two bedrooms in staff quarters. Around four thousand constables are under training and will report for duty soon. He also stated that he held a separate meeting with police constables recently. "Many graduates and post graduates are serving as police constables. Their lifestyle has to be upgraded," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aim-is-to-improve-lifestyle-of-police-constables-karnataka-home-minister-1026158.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Women cultivate paddy on fallow land during lockdown||Instead of sitting idle at home during the lockdown, members of Vanasuma Sanjeevini Federation cultivated paddy on a plot of 60 cents that was left fallow at Majalu in Kurnad gram panchayat limits in Bantwal taluk. The field, owned by late Narayana Devasya and his children, was left barren for the past seven years. Using funds from the Vanasuma Sanjeevini Federation, developed under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), the members took a bold decision of cultivating the land. Once a barren land, the lush green paddy field is attracting onlookers now. The initiative of the Federation came in for praise from Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, who visited the field recently. The Federation’s community resource person Mamatha said, “The NRLM taluk office had directed the Federation to engage in productive activities.” “Initially we had planned to cultivate vegetables. Later, we decided to go for paddy cultivation. As many as 10 members, including myself, were engaged in the transplantation of paddy seedlings. It was a new experience for us. Only two members had knowledge on paddy transplantation,” Mamatha recollected. “Those who had discouraged us from pursuing the paddy cultivation are now patting our backs after witnessing our success. The paddy field had remained fallow for years and we had removed all the weeds that had grown on it. Using a tractor, the field was levelled and plouged,” Mamatha explained. The women members, who were a part of transplantation, were paid Rs 350 per day. The Federation had availed Rs 75,000 loan for the purpose. Majority of the loan amount was paid as rent for the tractor, said Mamatha and added that they will cultivate paddy during the rabi season as well. “Our family members had supported us in our initiative. The locals had even arranged the required water for the field. We are following organic methods of cultivation. Women members are now confident of working in paddy fields as well,” she said. During the lockdown, many members who were eking out living by rolling beedi, did not have work. The paddy cultivation gave them a new experience, as well as a way of livelihood. At least 600 bunches of seedlings have been used in the paddy field for cultivation. “We will repay the loan amount from the profit we get from the sale of paddy harvested. The remaining paddy will be given away among the poor families,” said Mamatha. During the ‘Mahila Kayakotsava’ under the Mahathma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the Federation members had removed silt from at least 15 drains as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/women-cultivate-paddy-on-fallow-land-during-lockdown-1026165.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Conduct vaccination drive in a transparent manner in Dakshina Kannada: Congress||Dakshina Kannada district Congress Committee President and MLC Harish Kumar demanded transparency in vaccination camps being carried out in Dakshina Kannada district. The drive should not be conducted as a political programme of the BJP, he said. Alleging that the corporators from Congress are not intimated on the vaccination drive being carried out in their wards in Mangaluru City Corporation jurisdiction, he said that corporators are asked to make arrangements for the vaccination drive by the health officials. At the last minute, the vaccination camps were cancelled citing various reasons, he said citing the example of a drive that was cancelled recently in Bunder ward after making all the arrangements for the camp by the Corporator Lathif. The vaccination drive should be increased in Dakshina Kannada as the district has second highest daily Covid-19 cases next to Bengaluru Urban. “Only 14% of the people in the age group of 18 to 44 years have received both the doses of vaccine in DK. While 40% in the age group of 45 to 60 years have been inoculated fully. In above 60 years category, only 57% have been fully vaccinated in the district. At least 90% of the targeted population should be vaccinated by third wave of Covid-19 reaching its peak,” he said. Flaying PM Narendra Modi’s photograph on vaccination certificates, the MLC said let the authorities issue death certificates of those died of Covid with Modi’s photo on it. The vaccination camps should be conducted in gram panchayats not near the houses of BJP leaders. The discrepancies in vaccination have already been brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner. On the misuse of food kits being supplied through the labour department for the registered labourers, he said that kits were found in a khirana shop at Narikombu in Bantwal. The kits have failed to reach the genuine beneficiaries. The kits are stocked in the BJP leaders' houses in those gram panchayats that have Congress supported candidates in majority. The health check up camps being conducted on KSRTC ICU on wheels are also politicised in Bantwal. The officials are hand in glove with the BJP MLAs, he alleged. The Congress labour cell has already submitted a memorandum to labour officers in taluks on the discrepancies in the distribution of kits. If this continues, then the Congress will stage protest in all the taluks, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/conduct-vaccination-drive-in-a-transparent-manner-in-dakshina-kannada-congress-1026179.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||For security reasons, Amit Shah's programme in Davangere changed||The programme schedule of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Davangere was changed at the eleventh hour citing security reasons on Thursday. Earlier, Shah was expected to inaugurate Gandhi Bhavan at Sriramnagar on the outskirts of Davangere city. Later, he was scheduled to inaugurate police public school at Kondajji in Harihar taluk. Finally, he was supposed to inaugurate GM central library on GMIT campus. But for security reasons, Shah is slated to inaugurate Gandhi bhavan, police public school virtually on GMIT campus. Shah arrived in GMIT campus in Davangere around 2:40 pm to inaugurate Gandhi Bhavan and police public school virtually in a programme slated to be held on GMIT campus owned by MP and former union minister GM Siddeshwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/for-security-reasons-amit-shahs-programme-in-davangere-changed-1026196.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Row as historic Karnataka temple bans vehicle parking for non-Hindus||The management of historical 12th-century Mahathobhara Mahalingeshwara temple in Puttur taluk of Karnataka's communally-sensitive Dakshina Kannada district has banned vehicle parking by non-Hindus, stirring up a controversy. Those not belonging to the Hindu religion are not allowed to park their vehicles in the Devamaru Gadde area which lies in front of the temple, as per a signboard set up by the management. It warns that legal action will be taken against those who violate the guidelines. Mahalingeshwara temple comes under the state Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. As the step by the temple authorities was termed a sign of intolerance, temple management President Maliya Keshava Prasad sought to clarify that if people from other religions parked their vehicles in the land belonging to the temple, "it caused trouble for Hindu devotees who visited the temple". "Many devotees have complained about it. The signboard has been installed for the convenience of Hindu devotees. It is also a precautionary measure to avoid untoward incidents. The Bajarang Dal and Hindu Jagaran Vedike activists have filed complaints. We have also received individual complaints," he said. "They (non-Hindus) used to overspeed in the Chariot lane near the temple. People used to sit in the parked cars causing inconvenience to Hindu devotees. We are planning to erect a wall around the temple to avoid the problem," he claimed. Talking to IANS, Dakshina Kannada's Superintendent of Police, Sonawane Rishikesh, said that the temple comes under the Religious and Charitable Endowments Department and they will initiate action according to procedure. The police is not aware of the development and has not initiated any action, he said. "So far, the Police Department has received no complaint in this regard. We will definitely look into it and inquire if it is required," he added. Meanwhile, sources said that the district administration has issued a notice to the temple management in this regard and is inquiring into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/row-as-historic-karnataka-temple-bans-vehicle-parking-for-non-hindus-1026291.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Devotees banned but Goa CM allowed into Savadatti Yallamma temple||The entry of pilgrims and devotees into the Renuka-Yallamma temple at Savadatti is banned in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. But Goa Chief Minister Dr Pramod Sawant was allowed to enter the temple and offer obeisance to the deity on Thursday. The devotees of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Goa and Andhra Pradesh visit the Renuka-Yallamma temple in large numbers. In the wake of Covid-19, the district administration has banned the entry of devotees into the temple. In the last nearly two years, the temple has been opened for just 18 days. During the visit of Dr Sawant to the temple, media personnel from Savadatti too were not allowed entry. Sawant was accompanied by Karnataka Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani. Anticipating protests by Kannada activists during the visit of Sawant over the Mahadayi river water issue, elaborate police deployment had been made at the hillock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devotees-banned-but-goa-cm-allowed-into-savadatti-yallamma-temple-1026345.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) ready to give tickets to more women: H D Deve Gowda||JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda on Thursday said his party was ready to field nine women as candidates out of 28 assembly constituencies in Bengaluru.  “Many of you are graduates, but are fearful of losing. I’d like all of you to work in your constituencies,” Gowda, a former prime minister, told a convention of the JD(S) women leaders here.  Gowda gave a clarion call to the cadre to “save the party”, adding that this responsibility was not just his or that of his son and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. “We need to save the party. People say the party will go once Deve Gowda is gone. Why will that happen when we have all of you,” he told party workers.  The veteran also announced his plan to link enrolment of new members into the party with the issuance of election tickets. “I will visit each and every district. Those who don’t enroll at least 25 members into the party will get the B-Form, regardless of who says what,” Gowda said.  He further cautioned party workers that they should be mindful of internal attempts to sabotage elections. “Many of our own people will try to defeat you...no one should do such things,” Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-ready-to-give-tickets-to-more-women-h-d-deve-gowda-1026265.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cong keeps distance as ‘Lingayat religion’ demand revives||Karnataka's Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday maintained distance from former minister M B Patil’s call to relaunch the campaign for a separate Lingayat religion, which was seen as a big reason for the Congress’ defeat in the 2018 Assembly polls. On Wednesday, Patil said the Lingayats will benefit with ‘religious minority’ status like the Jains and Sikhs. “We will bring everyone together - the Pancha Peethas, the Veerashaiva Mahasabha, the Jagatika Lingayat Mahasabha - to form a consensus to go ahead. We want the Basava Dharma to become a global dharma,” Patil, who led this campaign earlier, told reporters. Patil also asserted that the ‘separate Lingayat religion’ campaign was not the cause for the party’s defeat in 2018. Siddaramaiah refused to comment on this. “I will not speak about this. Go ask Patil,” he said. Former minister Vinay Kulkarni, who also campaigned for a separate Lingayat religion, said the issue should not be made political. “It’s good if everyone is together on this. We will be happy if the Pancha Peetha pontiffs come together. Earlier, too, our stand was that everyone should be on the same page,” he said. Even KPCC president DK Shivakumar, who had tendered an apology in public to the Lingayats after the assembly elections in October 2018 said Wednesday that the party will not comment on Patil’s statements. Ahead of the 2018 polls, the BJP accused the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government of dividing society by pushing for 'religious minority' status to the Lingayats. There are 13 districts in the northern and central regions of Karnataka where Lingayats are numerically-significant in 96 assembly constituencies. Of these seats, the Congress won 40 in 2018, down from 57 in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cong-keeps-distance-as-lingayat-religion-demand-revives-1026332.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||ULB polls: BJP, Congress go up against smaller outfits||In what will be Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s first electoral litmus test, more than 14 lakh people will vote in the city corporation elections at Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi along with other smaller urban local bodies on Friday.  Hubballi-Dharwad is the biggest of the three city corporations with 82 wards, followed by Belagavi (58) and Kalaburagi (55). They will go to polls with the Doddaballapur City Municipal Council (31), Tarikere Town Municipal Council (23), Bidar City Municipal Council (2) and Bhadravathi City Municipal Council (1).  The Congress will look to wrest control of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation from the BJP, which has held power for the last two terms. However, both parties are battling dissidence: Congress has expelled 37 leaders while BJP has booted out 23 for ‘anti-party activities.’  The Hubballi-Dharwad polls are crucial for former chief minister Jagadish Shettar, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and BJP legislator Arvind Bellad.  The JD(S) will field candidates in 49 wards while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is making its debut with 41 candidates. Also, the Asaddudin Owaisi-led AIMIM is testing the waters. A three-pronged battle  The Belagavi election will be the first where political parties will fight on their symbols. Earlier, elections were contested without a party symbol, but on the basis of candidates who were either pro-Kannada or pro-Marathi.  The Belagavi fight is largely seen as a triangular contest between the BJP, Congress and independents backed by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES). The JD(S), AAP and AIMIM are also in the fray.  The MES has backed 22 candidates and has appealed to voters to elect Marathi-speakers.  The entry of AIMIM could affect prospects of the Congress in Muslim-majority areas. Smaller parties flex muscles Similarly, in Kalaburagi, smaller parties like the JD(S), AAP and AIMIM are said to be giving sleepless nights to the BJP and Congress.  In the previous election, Congress emerged as the single-largest party and came to power with the support of Independents. This time, the party will fight the election without former minister, the late Qamar-ul-Islam. His supporters who missed the ticket have jumped to AIMIM and JD(S).  While the BJP is depending on the Lingayats and Brahmins, the Congress is banking on Dalits, OBCs and minorities, provided there is no split in the votes caused by the smaller players.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ulb-polls-bjp-congress-go-up-against-smaller-outfits-1026334.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY stepped down from CM post on his own: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday that veteran BJP leader B S Yediyurappa stepped down from the post of chief minister voluntarily to pave the way for other leaders to head the BJP-led government in Karnataka.  He was speaking after inaugurating the police public school, Gandhi Bhavan and GM central library virtually in a programme organised by the district administration on the campus of the Goudara Mallikarjunappa Institute of Technology here.  The institute is owned by BJP Lok Sabha member G M Siddeshwara.  The home minister said Yediyurappa left no stone unturned for the overall development of Karnataka, giving special importance to the farming community and rural areas during his tenure as chief minister twice. Yediyurappa ushered in an era of development in Karnataka, Shah said. He added that Basavaraj Bommai, who has been with the BJP for many years, has started off well as chief minister. His small decisions such as doing away with the police guard of honour to the CM in public places and no zero traffic for the CM have set a good trend in administration, the home minister said. The party’s central leaders have appreciated the simplicity of Bommai, Shah said. The home minister exuded confidence that the BJP would get a clear majority under Bommai’s leadership in the next Assembly polls, paving the way for the party to return to power again. Bommai, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra and a host of other dignitaries were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-stepped-down-from-cm-post-on-his-own-amit-shah-1026338.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ugly display of wealth, say Congress leaders on BJP MLA's son cutting birthday cake with iPhone||A video clip of Kanakagiri BJP MLA Basavaraj Dadesugur's son cutting birthday cakes with his expensive iPhone has drawn flak from the locals and the netizens. The video clips of Suresh Dadesugur, the MLA's second son, cutting eight cakes with an iPhone during the birthday bash in Hosapete are doing rounds on social media. Sources said, Suresh took his friends from Kanakagiri and Karatagi for a joyride in his BMW 520D luxury car and celebrated his birthday at an unidentified place in Hosapete. "This is ugly display of wealth. When lives and livelihoods are at stake, many are struggling for one square meal, such ostentatious display of wealth by the MLAs family is an insult to the poor and deprived classes in the constituency," Congress leaders complained. Meanwhile, MLA Basavaraj Dadesugur has defended his son's act saying, "What's wrong in it? My son used his iPhone to cut cake, instead of hands as the Covid-19 pandemic still persists. He is celebrating his birthday with his hard-earned money." After losing the Assembly elections twice, Dadesugur sought sympathy votes saying he's no money to fight elections. People of the constituency made generous donations and ensured his victory in 2018 elections. After getting elected as MLA, Dadesugur bought expensive cars and cared little for the welfare of his constituents, a few locals alleged. Dadesugur's elder son had stirred a storm recently of chairing officials meetings at panchayats in the constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ugly-display-of-wealth-say-congress-leaders-on-bjp-mlas-son-cutting-birthday-cake-with-iphone-1026340.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||6 months on, many Karnataka Budget promises remain on paper||In sharp contrast to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s call to end the ‘chalta hai’ attitude, nearly half of all the announcements that his predecessor B S Yediyurappa made in the 2021-22 Budget have remained on paper without any executive orders issued. A government order is awaited for implementation of as many as 151 of the 306 announcements made in the Budget, six months after it was presented. Data shows that the government has issued orders for implementing only 110 announcements made in the budget. Among various departments, the Health & Family Welfare department lags behind as none of the 15 projects have seen the light of the day. According to the proceedings of the recently concluded Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) meeting, 174 of the 306 budget announcements were new and government orders had to be issued for the implementation of most of these projects. Authorities have dragged their feet over implementing them as the state continued to be under severe fiscal distress caused by the lockdown, say official sources. Among the budget announcements were 19 old schemes which were revised with new provisions, while 72 were existing schemes of the government. The e-Governance and Transport departments, too, are dragging their feet to implement the schemes promised by Yediyurappa in March. While 10 of the 15 schemes under the health department are new, eight of the 12 and seven of the 10 announcements under e-Governance and Transport departments, respectively, are fresh ones. Government orders were issued for only two of the 12 projects under e-Governance department. Like health, orders are yet to be issued to implement budget announcements of the Transport department. Other departments, too, have fared similarly. Orders are issued for less than half of the budget promises made for infrastructure development, commerce & industries, revenue, women & child development among other departments. Acknowledging the delay in issuing executive orders, Bommai said the Budget promises will be fulfilled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/6-months-on-many-karnataka-budget-promises-remain-on-paper-1026344.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar promises sops for Madiwalas||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Thursday met leaders from the Madiwala (washermen) and assured them that the party’s election manifesto will have promises for their welfare.  The Madiwala community has been demanding inclusion under the SC list. At present, they come under the OBC Category-2A.  “Nowadays, everybody is obsessed with caste. They claim their numbers to be in lakhs. Going by that, the state’s population will cross 20 crore,” Shivakumar told them. “I don’t care if anyone has even bothered to listen to your problems. But, it’s true that politicians have not done justice to your community. Remedying that is my intention,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-promises-sops-for-madiwalas-1026346.html
02-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa stepped down from Karnataka CM's post voluntarily: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah stated that veteran leader and former Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa stepped down from the top post voluntarily to pave the way for other leaders to head BJP-led government. Inaugurating police public school, Gandhi bhavan and GM central library virtually in a programme organised by the district administration on Gowdara Mallikarjunappa Institute of Technology (GMIT) campus owned by MP G M Siddeshwar, he said that Yediyurappa left no stone unturned for the overall development of Karnataka with special importance to farming community and rural areas during his tenure as chief minister twice. Yediyurappa created an era of development in Karnataka and it would always remain in the history of BJP, he said. Hailing the incumbent chief minister, he said Bommai, who has been with BJP for many years, has been made chief minister and he has started off well. The central leaders have stated that the party did the right thing by making Bommai as chief minister. His small decisions such as no need of guard of honour by police in public places and no zero traffic have set a good trend in administration. He said the Modi-led government in the Centre and party's central leaders have appreciated the simplicity of Bommai. He exuded confidence that BJP would get complete majority under Bommai's leadership in the next Assembly polls and the party would come back to power in Karnataka again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-stepped-down-from-karnataka-cms-post-voluntarily-amit-shah-1026376.html
02-09-2021||Main Article||Expect BJP to use ‘Taliban’ to polarise voters||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan following the extraordinary capitulation of the Afghan government and the abject withdrawal of American troops is expectedly causing global waves. The dramatic resurgence of the inimical Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K), whose suicide bomber killed over 170 people (including 13 American soldiers) at Kabul airport, is symptomatic of the crisis looming in the aftermath of US/NATO forces leaving Afghanistan to its wretched fate. With Pakistan, China and Russia occupying strategic positions on the war-ravaged buffet table, it looks like the Afghan imbroglio will witness undulating political upheavals. The global headlines from Kabul are unlikely to change in a hurry. Interestingly, back home in India, the Taliban has already become an attractive proposition for effete BJP governments desperately seeking a diversionary issue from their underwhelming governance and failed promises. Poisonous partisan politics becomes their default option. Are we surprised? I was on a TV show when the Taliban was marching effortlessly, almost with insouciant ease, towards the huge palace of former president Ashraf Ghani, who had fled to save his life. I don’t exactly remember the full conversation but the word ‘Taliban’ was used several times by one of the speakers sympathetic to the right-wing fringe to describe the Indian Muslim and those who allegedly cavort with them for votes (Congress being accused as the principal offender, of course). “Talibani mindset” was the frequently deployed term, and the attempt was to make secular/liberal people out to be sympathisers of the jihadist insurrectionists. It was absolutely farcical, but the barrage was relentless. Why is there a malevolent thread with the Taliban being sewn in to malign ordinary Muslims? Obviously because of the forthcoming elections. There is, of course, at stake the biggest prize of them all -- Uttar Pradesh, but there are also Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur). The BJP’s CT Ravi recently called Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM “the Taliban of Karnataka”; the rebranding of Muslim organisations is in full swing. Uttar Pradesh, based on reports, is already planning for a ‘Commando Training Centre’ for the Anti-Terror Squad at Deoband to take on the Taliban, obviously assuming that the latter will board a Shatabdi train from Delhi and arrive waving AK-47 machine guns and suicide vests. The symbolism is wilfully insidious, pregnant with political connotations. Of course, religious zealots from both sides flirt dangerously with inflammatory vitriol. So, Samajwadi Party MP Shafiqur Rahman Barq called the Taliban “freedom fighters similar to our own”. Is he unaware that the atavistic outfit plundered Afghanistan, suppressed both women and human rights, shot Malala Yousafzai right through the head for pursuing education, ran a repressive Sharia law, and made it one of the world’s poorest countries? Those who are expecting a miraculous transformation popularly called Taliban 2.0 maybe in for a massive jolt. A leopard cannot change its spots. The Taliban are inherently terrorists believing in guerrilla warfare -- 75,000 of them overpowered a 300,000 Afghan army trained over 20 years by the US military that spent a $87 billion fortune to do so. Of course, now the Taliban have a government to run, and this time around, they will seek international legitimacy. In their previous avatar, during 1998-2001, they were recognised by just three countries – the UAE, Iran and Pakistan). But anyone buttressing their cause is being foolhardy. In the foreseeable future, Afghanistan may just return as the epicentre of global terrorism (a resurrected al-Qaeda and a savage IS-K). For the BJP, the Taliban’s success is ready fodder for electoral exploitation. Muslims will be generally stereotyped as dangerous, untrustworthy extremists -- a sequel chapter to ghar wapsi, love jihad, anti-Romeo squads, cow slaughter, population control, etc) in pursuit of a parochial agenda. Of course, there is no denying the genuine fear that Pakistan’s ISI will stoke dormant embers of fire in the Kashmir Valley through Taliban infiltration. We should expect Pakistan to reignite separatism, but that is no excuse to demonise Muslims all over our country. I read a report recently that in a counter-terrorism course in the JNU syllabus, “jihadi terrorism” is called “the only form of fundamentalist religious terrorism.” It is specious, false. The saffronisation of education is the Sangh Parivar’s preferred strategy to brainwash impressionable youth. Of course, some of the most horrendous terror attacks have been by rogue jihadists, with 9/11 being the most macabre instance of it, but weaponising hate against India’s largest minority, which comprises 14% of the population, is a malicious project. It is unlikely that there will be any mention of the Christchurch massacre, perpetrated by a White far-right fanatic, or the Norway killings, or the Las Vegas bloodshed, among many others. On the other hand, a well-documented research report in the US made this rather stunning disclosure: Only 12.5% of 136 terror attacks globally between 2005 and 2015 were perpetrated by Muslims. Another survey pointed out that Islamist terror got 357% more media coverage than that by other terrorists, thus exacerbating the prevalent polarisation against Muslims. It is most unlikely that the BJP MP from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur -- who lionizes Nathuram Godse, Gandhiji’s convicted assassin -- who is still undergoing trial as a terror accused, will find any mention in academic research on domestic terror. Aren’t those ghastly lynching deaths wreaked by hate mobs acts of terror, too? What about the physical assaults on Muslim merchants in a bid to force them not to sell in Hindu localities? The list of ugly violent retribution in the name of religion is never-ending. In the run-up to the Assembly elections next year in February-March 2022 (and later in December that year in Gujarat), expect the militant occupants of Kabul to be named vociferously from Kapurthala to Kanpur, repeatedly. The political Olympics of sectarianism has just begun. (The writer is a former Congress party spokesperson)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/expect-bjp-to-use-taliban-to-polarise-voters-1026059.html
02-09-2021||National||Right to eat beef can never be considered a fundamental right: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court has said that eating beef can't be a "fundamental right" and that the cow should be declared a "national animal", amid alleged incidents of lynching of cattle traders in different parts of the country. A single judge bench headed by Justice Shekhar Yadav made the observations on Wednesday while declining bail to a Muslim man, who was accused of slaughtering a cow in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh in February this year. "Fundamental right is not a special right for beef eaters. Those who worship the cows and are dependent on them also have a right to life. Eating beef can never be a fundamental right. The right to life cannot be snatched just because someone finds something tasty," the court said. The HC further noted that it is not only Hindus who have understood the importance of cows, Muslim rulers also considered it as an important part of India's culture during their reign. For example, Babur, Humayun and Akbar prohibited the sacrifice of cows in their religious festivals, the court said. The ruler of Mysore, Hyder Ali, made cow slaughter a punishable offence, the HC added. The court said that the government should enact a law by bringing a Bill in the Parliament declaring the cow a 'national animal' making its rearing a fundamental right. "The government should enact strict laws against those who harm the cows and also against those who, though talk about sheltering and protecting the cows but in effect only want to make money on this pretext," it added. The court said that protection of the cows was not connected to any specific religion. "Cow is the symbol of our culture and to protect and conserve the culture is the responsibility of every citizen, irrespective of his religion," it went on to say. The court also referred to the victory of the Taliban in Afghanistan. "There are hundreds of examples that the foreigners made us slaves whenever we ignored our culture. We should not forget about the Taliban and its victory in Afghanistan," it remarked. The court referred to the vedas and other ancient Hindu epics, texts in other religions, including Islam, Jainism, Buddhism, Sikkhism and Christianity, and said that killing of the cows had been barred in all of them. "Freedom fighter Mangal Pandey had rebelled when he came to know that cow fat was used in the pin of the grenades," it observed. The court also said that several members of the Constituent Assembly had favoured including cow protection in the list of fundamental rights. With PTI inputs Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-eat-beef-can-never-be-considered-a-fundamental-right-allahabad-hc-1026039.html
02-09-2021||National||DCGI gives nod for phase 2/3 trials of Biological E's Covid vaccine on those aged between 5 & 18||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Wednesday granted permission to Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited to conduct phase 2/3 clinical trials of its 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccine on children aged between 5 and 18 years with certain conditions, sources said. The phase 2 and 3 clinical trials have be conducted as per approved protocol titled 'A  Prospective, Randomised, Double-blind, Placebo controlled, Phase-2/3 Study to Evaluate Safety, Reactogenicity, Tolerability and Immunogenicity of Corbevax Vaccine in Children and Adolescents', a source said. The trial will be conducted across 10 sites in the country.  The DCGI's permission was given based on the recommendations by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19. So far, indigenously developed Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator, making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. Meanwhile, the data of phase 2/3 clinical trials of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in the age group 2 to 18 years is underway. India's drug regulator in July granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions. Biological E's anti-coronavirus shot, Corbevax, which is a RBD protein sub-unit vaccine is currently undergoing phase 2/3 clinical trials on adults, sources had said earlier.  Biological E will supply 30 crore doses of Corbevax to the central government by December, as announced by the Union Health Ministry in June. The ministry finalised arrangements with the Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer to reserve 30 crore vaccine doses, an official statement had said. The Biological E Covid-19 vaccine candidate has been supported by Government of India from preclinical stage to phase 3 studies. The Department of Biotechnology has not only provided financial assistance in terms of grant-in-aid of over Rs 100 crore but has also partnered with Biological E to conduct all animal challenge and assay studies through its Research Institute Translational Health Science Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, a Health Ministry statement had stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-gives-nod-for-phase-2/3-trials-of-biological-es-covid-vaccine-on-those-aged-between-5-18-1026050.html
02-09-2021||National||EC takes stock of situation in states where LS, Assembly bypolls are due||Top officials of the Election Commission on Wednesday took stock of the situation in various states, including West Bengal, where Lok Sabha and assembly bypolls are due, as part of an exercise to allow the poll panel to take an informed decision on holding the democratic exercise. Sources aware of the meeting said the idea was to know about the issues and challenges being faced by various states due to the coronavirus pandemic, floods and other issues. They were also asked about local festivals, holidays as well as the law and order situation. In some states, panchayat polls are in progress, the sources pointed out adding that details of events that result in large gatherings were also sought. Seven assembly seats are due to go to polls in West Bengal. These include two seats where polls were deferred during the assembly elections in the state following the death of candidates. Five other bypolls are due in the state due to death or resignation of sitting MLAs. The ruling Trinamool Congress is keen on an early bypoll schedule. Chief Minister and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee lost from Nandigram in the assembly elections and needs to get elected as a member of the state legislative assembly by November 5. Besides West Bengal, bypolls are due in at least three Lok Sabha and eight assembly seats in other states and UTs. According to an EC statement of May 5, there were notified three vacancies in parliamentary constituencies of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Khandwa (Madhya Pradesh) and Mandi (Himachal Pradesh). Also, there were eight vacancies in assembly constituencies of Kalka and Ellenabad in Haryana, Vallabhnagar in Rajasthan, Sindgi in Karnataka, Rajabala and Mawryngkneng in Meghalaya, Fatehpur in Himachal Pradesh and Badvel in Andhra Pradesh. On May 5, the poll panel had decided to defer bypolls in these three Lok Sabha and eight assembly seats due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-takes-stock-of-situation-in-states-where-ls-assembly-bypolls-are-due-1026052.html
02-09-2021||National||DH Toon | GDP grew but domestic LPG price hiked again||The 20.1% GDP growth in the first quarter of 2021-22 is not surprising given the low base on which it has been measured. The first quarter of 2020-21 had seen a crash of 24% in GDP because of the nationwide pandemic lockdown, and the present growth figure should be seen in that context.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-gdp-grew-but-domestic-lpg-price-hiked-again-1026074.html
02-09-2021||National||India reports 47,092 new Covid-19 cases with over 32K from Kerala alone||India on Thursday reported 47,092 new Covid-19 cases as 509 persons succumbed to the disease in the past 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data showed. Kerala continued to drive the surge in daily cases as it accounted for 32,803 fresh infections and 173 deaths. In the past day, 35,181 have recovered, pushing total recoveries to 3,20,28,825. Thursday's cases bring the total cases to 3,28,57,937. Active cases now stand at 3,89,583. The death toll has climbed to 4,39,529. The number of active cases comprise 1.19 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.48 per cent, ministry said. It said that active cases increased by 11,402 in a span of 24 hours. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.62 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 69 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,20,28,825, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. With 81.09 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses being administered on Wednesday, the cumulative doses given in the country under the vaccination drive has reached 66.30 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-47092-new-covid-19-cases-with-over-32k-from-kerala-alone-1026102.html
02-09-2021||National||Former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra passes away||Veteran journalist and former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra, who left the BJP to join Trinamool Congress three years ago, passed away after prolonged illness. His journalist-son Kushan Mitra tweeted, "...Dad passed away late last night (Wednesday). He had been suffering for a while." The 65-year-old, who was a two-term BJP MP in Rajya Sabha and considered close to BJP stalwart L K Advani, was the Editor of Pioneer, whose control he bought from the Thapar family in 1998. A mentor to generations of journalists, Mitra first worked as an Assistant Editor with The Statesman in Kolkata before moving to Delhi to work with Times of India. He then shifted to The Sunday Observer. He had also worked as Executive Editor of Hindutan Times before joining Pioneer. Mitra went to La Martiniere in Kolkata and St Stephen's in Delhi before moving to Oxford where he was awarded PhD for 'Political Mobilisation and the Nationalism Movement in India – a Study of Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, 1936-1942'. Before entering the world of journalism, Mitra taught for a short while at Hansraj College in Delhi. Rajya Sabha MP and journalist Swapan Dasgupta was his classmate in Stephens and Oxford. "I lost my closest friend...We were together as students of La Martiniere and went on to St Stephen’s and Oxford. We joined journalism at the same time and shared the excitement of Ayodhya & the saffron wave...Be happy my dear friend wherever you are," Dasgupta said in tweets as he shared a photograph of Mitra and him together during a school trip in 1971.    Congress MP Shashi Tharoor also studied with him in St Stephen's where Mitra was his campaign manager when the former stood for college union election. "Deeply saddened by this news. Chandan was my campaign manager in my successful race to be President of the St Stephen’s College Union Society, served in my Cabinet and succeeded me. We remained in touch over the years, ironically till I returned to Delhi & politics separated us. RIP," Tharoor tweeted.   President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among a host of leaders who condoled his death. Modi said Mitra will be remembered for his intellect and insights and that he distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. In a statement, the Press Club of India said, "Chandan Mitra was a stalwart editor who also had fruitful innings in The Statesman and as editor of Hindustan Times. Mitra mentored young reporters, and relaunched The Pioneer. His passing is a great loss. The Press Club of India stand with his family in this hour of loss."    Chandan Mitra was a stalwart editor who also had fruitful innings in The Statesman and as editor of Hindustan Times. Mitra mentored young reporters, and relaunched the Pioneer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-rajya-sabha-mp-chandan-mitra-passes-away-1026113.html
02-09-2021||National||Naseeruddin Shah condemns groups of Indian Muslims supporting Taliban||Actor Naseeruddin Shah expressed his disapproval towards sections of Indian Muslims celebrating the Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan, labelling it 'dangerous'. In a video shared on social media, the veteran actor said that it is worrisome for the world that the Taliban have reclaimed the war-torn country, but some sections of Indian Muslims celebrating the barbarians is no less dangerous. He called on every Indian Muslim to ask themselves if they want reform and modernity from their religion or if they want to revive the barbarism of the old times. "I am an Indian Muslim and like Mirza Ghalib had said, my relationship with Allah is seamless, I don't need a political religion," he said. Shah said 'Hindustani Islam' has always differed from Islam around the world. "May God never bring about a time where it changes to an extent that we cannot recognise it," Shah said. Shortly before the US was due to withdraw from Afghanistan after 20 years of war, the Taliban took control of the country on August 15 quickly, catching the international community off guard. The militant group has declared amnesty and assured civilians that this time, they will respect human rights and protect women's right to education and work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naseeruddin-shah-condemns-groups-of-indian-muslims-supporting-taliban-1026129.html
02-09-2021||National||News bearing communal tone could bring bad name to country: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed serious concern over dissemination of news with communal tone by a section of media and misuse of social media platforms to tarnish image of institutions and judges due to absence of regulatory mechanism. The top court said if this goes on unchecked, it would bring bad name to the country. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana pointed out there was no control over fake news and slandering in web portals and YouTube channels.  The bench said the social media companies like Twitter, Facebook and YouTube never respond to us. They write (host) anything against judges, institutions without accountability. They only worry about powerful men and not judges, institutions or common people. "If you go to YouTube, you will find how fake news is freely circulated and anyone can start a channel on YouTube," the bench, also comprising CJI, and Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna, said. The court made these oral remarks while hearing a plea by Jamiat Ulema-E-Hind against demonising of Tablighi Jamaat members, who participated in Nizamuddin Markaz here in March, 2020, in a section of media during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic. "What is shown in a section of private media bears a communal tone. Ultimately, this country is going to get a bad name. Did you ever attempt to regulate these private channels," the bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The officer, for his part, said, "Not only communal but planted stories. These portals even put fake news."   He also submitted the Union government has brought in Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which provided a redressal mechanism and timely resolution of grievances of users of social media and Over-The-Top platforms. The rules, among others, mandated the social media companies to appoint an Indian resident as grievance redressal officer.  “The real contest is between the freedom of the press and the right of citizens to get unadulterated news. We have tried to regulate and balance,” Mehta submitted. He also submitted a transfer petition has already been filed in the top court by the Union government against the challenges to new IT rules from different High Courts in the country to avoid contradictory decisions. The top court can take holistic view on the rules as it was an all-India issue, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/news-bearing-communal-tone-could-bring-bad-name-to-country-sc-1026130.html
02-09-2021||National||Chandan Mitra's demise leaves void in Indian journalism, says President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday condoled the passing away of veteran journalist Chandan Mitra and said his demise leaves a void in Indian journalism. Former BJP MP Mitra passed way on Wednesday night. "Shri Chandan Mitra was an outstanding journalist and his stint as a parliamentarian added to his reputation. His understanding of Hindi heartland and its history was profound. His demise leaves a void in Indian journalism. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," Kovind tweeted. Shri Chandan Mitra was an outstanding journalist and his stint as a parliamentarian added to his reputation. His understanding of Hindi heartland and its history was profound. His demise leaves a void in Indian journalism. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandan-mitras-demise-leaves-void-in-indian-journalism-says-president-kovind-1026131.html
02-09-2021||National||Taliban assured Sikhs of 'safe passage' to India for gurpurab, say evacuation organisers: Report||Taliban has assured Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan a safe passage to India for 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur or Gurpurab celebrations this year, organisers who are coordinating to evacuate them from the country said. Some Hindus and Sikhs have taken refuge in a gurdwara in Kabul after their failed attempt to reach the airport in hope of exiting the country, which now effectively lies under the control of the Taliban, as the US military made a hurried exit. The chaos at the Kabul airport further escalated after the twin bomb attacks last week that killed scores of people including US servicemen. As part of India's efforts, at least 70 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, including two Sikh MPs, Narinder Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Kaur Honoryar, have been evacuated out of Kabul in two batches. There is no certainty about future evacuation flights to New Delhi. Among those who want to evacuated, some of them want to reach the US or Canada instead of India. “We are trying our best to evacuate the remaining Afghan Sikhs and Hindus to India by next week. The Taliban has allowed them to travel to India with valid documents," Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum said. According to World Punjabi Organisaton, at least 180 Sikhs have moved out of Kabul gurdwara to their homes to resume business, with many unwilling to leave Afghanistan. One of them told the publication: "We have started opening our shops here but there is hardly any business. We hope everything remains fine here only so that we don’t have to leave our country at all. Even if we go for the pilgrimage to India for the 400th Gurpurab of Guru Teg Bahadur, we have to return to Afghanistan again, because we can’t leave our businesses here in one go. What we have here, we can’t get in India. We will be refugees there. Who likes leaving their own country?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-assured-sikhs-of-safe-passage-to-india-for-gurpurab-say-evacuation-organisers-report-1026143.html
02-09-2021||National||Aviation personnel may soon have to undergo stringent drug tests||Pilots, cabin crew and air traffic controllers in the country may soon have to undergo drug tests to ensure that they are not addicts and are mindful of aviation safety if a draft rule is implemented. Aspiring pilots will also have to undergo tests for consumption of psychoactive substances, according to the draft Civil Aviation Rules published by the office of the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on August 25 The drugs to be tested are amphetamine, methamphetamine, cannabis, cocaine, opioids, barbiturates, benzodizipine and MDMA or ecstasy tablets. At present, flight crew and other key persons involved in flight operations have to undergo breath analyser tests to identify those who are under the influence of alcohol. If any among the personnel is found positive in the dope test, they should be immediately removed from safety-sensitive duty and upon confirmation, he or she should be referred to a de-addiction centre. Such an employee could return to work after getting a negative report for drugs. Those persons who have been confirmed positive for the second time, their licence will be suspended for three years and a third positive test would mean cancellation of licences. According to the draft, the aircraft operators, maintenance and repair organisation (MROs), flying training organisations (FTO) and air navigation service providers will have to carry out "random drug testing" of at least 5 per cent of its flight crew members and air traffic controllers. Aircraft operators and others should also carry out such tests before employing a person, before admitting a trainee pilot in an FTO and follow-up testing of confirmed cases, as per the draft rules. Any employee will have to take the test within three days and refusing to do so would licence suspension for a year. The employee will also have to undergo a rehabilitation process before returning to active roles. Those refusing a test a second time or test positive after the first occasion of refusal for testing, their licence will be suspended for three years and any subsequent violation will lead to cancellation of licence. The move comes as the most recent official national data available showed that 2.8 per cent of the population has used any cannabis product in the previous year, 0.25 per cent suffered from cannabis dependence, 2.1 per cent used opioids like opium and its variants like heroin. The Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) of the United States and the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) have also developed their policy for detection of consumption of psychoactive substances by personnel engaged in safety-sensitive functions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-personnel-may-soon-have-to-undergo-stringent-drug-tests-1026154.html
02-09-2021||National||RSS-affiliate farmers' body to stage nationwide dharna against agri laws on September 8||RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) has decided to hold a nationwide dharna on September 8 as the Centre has failed to act on its "ultimatum" on considering demands regarding three new farm laws and MSP by August 31. The minimum support price (MSP) of crops should be decided on the basis of cost and a new law should be formulated, keeping in mind the concerns raised by the farmers to resolve the dispute arising out of the new farm laws, the BKS said. "For these demands, a nationwide symbolic dharna will be organised on September 8. The (Narendra) Modi government was given time till August 31 to act on the demands. As there are no positive indications from the government, we will be holding the dharna on September 8," BKS treasurer Yugal Kishore Mishra told reporters here on Wednesday. He said press conferences will be held on the day at all district headquarters to tell people about the plight of the farmers. "We will decide the future course of action after September 8," he added. "Farmers do not get a remunerative price for their produce. The MSP is not remunerative," Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-affiliate-farmers-body-to-stage-nationwide-dharna-against-agri-laws-on-september-8-1026159.html
02-09-2021||National||Govt sets up 12-member panel to review journo welfare scheme||The government on Thursday set up a 12-member committee headed by Prasar Bharti Board member Ashok Tandon, which includes journalists, to review the guidelines of the Journalist Welfare Scheme, which include examining the need for revising the quantum of ex-gratia payment in death and other cases. The committee will have to submit the report within two months. Besides the ex-gratia payment issue, the Terms of Reference of the panel also include looking into the aspect of "differentiation/parity between accredited and non-accredited journalists" for availing benefits under the scheme and revision or broad-basing the definition of working journalist keeping in view the Occupational, Safety, Health and Working Condition Code-2020 as well as Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. Members of the committee are The Week Resident Editor Sachidananda Murthy, senior journalist Shekhar Iyer, Panchjanya Editor Hitesh Shankar, Amitabh Sinha (News 18), Shishir Sinha (Business Line), Ravinder Kumar (Zee News), Smriti Kak Ramachandran (Hindustan Times), Amit Kumar (Times Now), Vasudha Venugopal (Economic Times) and  Press Information Bureau Additional Director General Kanchan Prasad. Pankaj Salodia, Director (IP) will be the Convener of the committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-sets-up-12-member-panel-to-review-journo-welfare-scheme-1026164.html
02-09-2021||National||Goa state-run transport co restarts interstate operations to Karnataka||After months of inactivity, the Kadamba Transport Corporation, a state government public transport agency, has restarted its interstate route buses to Karnataka and Maharashtra, general manager of the corporation Sanjay Ghate said on Thursday. "We have started buses along the routes to Bengaluru, Belgaum, Hubli and Karwar, in Karnataka and Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra. This is the first time that we have opened interstate bus transportation services in a major way," Ghate said. The official also said that five electric buses, which were recently requisitioned by the Corporation, have been introduced along the Goa-Karwar route. "We have a good response from Karwar. We are also starting one bus to Gulbarga. Because of the expected increase in demand during the Ganesh Chaturthi season, we will also be operating more buses along the Karwar and Belgaum route," Ghate said. Before the pandemic set in, the state transport corporation had nearly 94 inter-state buses operational in both Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-state-run-transport-co-restarts-interstate-operations-to-karnataka-1026206.html
02-09-2021||National||UP Cabinet clears Ganga Expressway tender documents, matters related to Lalitpur airport construction||The Uttar Pradesh government's Cabinet on Thursday approved various proposals including tender documents related to the Ganga Expressway. Giving information about the decisions taken at the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the state government's spokesperson and Cabinet Minister Siddharth Nath Singh said that in the coming times, the network of Expressway will play a big role in making UP a $1-trillion economy. "The Ganga Expressway will be the country's largest expressway being built through a state. Till now, 92.02 per cent land has been acquired for Ganga Expressway. "Tender documents, both RFQ (request for proposal) and RHP (request for quotation), are being brought out. This expressway is of six lanes which can be increased to eight lanes," he said. The Ganga Expressway is being planned between Meerut and Prayagraj and it will be 594-km long. "There are four packages of the expressway and, the cost of each package will be from Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 5,800 crore. The entire process of tender will be completed within 60 days. The Cabinet has approved it all so that its work on it could start soon," Singh added. He said the construction of the Ganga Expressway will be done on the public-private partnership (PPP) model, and the maximum speed of vehicles on this expressway has been fixed at 120 kmph. "There will also be an airstrip on it. The chief minister has also said places where industrial clusters is to be made should be earmarked. Provision has also been made for public facilities on the expressway at nine places. In future, it will be increased further," the minister said. The estimated total cost of civil and construction work on Ganga Expressway project is Rs 36,230 crore, and Rs 19,754 crore will be spent on civil works. There is also GST of Rs 2,371 crore on this. "This makes the total to Rs 22,125 crore and a provision of Rs 9,255 crore has been made for the purchase of land," he said. Singh said that in the Cabinet meeting, approval was also given on various matters regarding the construction of an airport in Lalitpur. A state airport is being built at Lalitpur, which will be for small aircraft in the first phase; and in the coming time, it will be made an airport of international standard as a defence corridor is being built there, he said. Along with this, a bulk drug park is also being prepared there. In view of this, this airport will become important, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-cabinet-clears-ganga-expressway-tender-documents-matters-related-to-lalitpur-airport-construction-1026212.html
02-09-2021||National||Saira Banu diagnosed with cardiac problems||Veteran actor Saira Banu, admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a hospital here, has been diagnosed with a heart problem and doctors are keen on an angiogram procedure but she has refused permission, a hospital doctor said on Thursday. The 77-year-old Padosan actor, who lost her husband Dilip Kumar in July, was admitted to the Hinduja Hospital, a non-Covid-19 facility, in Khar on August 28 following breathlessness, high blood pressure and high sugar. “Yesterday, her cardiac tests happened and she has been diagnosed with acute coronary syndrome,” a Hinduja Hospital doctor told PTI. Doctors suggested a CAG (coronary angiogram), but Saira Banu has refused to undergo the medical procedure, the doctor said. "Once she gives her consent, doctors can perform an angiography." According to the doctor who is attending on her, Saira Banu is also battling depression after Dilip Kumar’s death.. “She doesn't sleep much. She wants to go home.” The actor might be discharged from the ICU and moved to a room soon. Her husband and screen icon Dilip Kumar died on July 7 at the age of 98 after a long ailment. The couple, who acted together in several films, including Sagina and Gopi, got married in 1966. Saira Banu made her acting debut opposite Shammi Kapoor in the 1961 film Junglee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saira-banu-diagnosed-with-cardiac-problems-1026223.html
02-09-2021||National||Full vaccination prerequisite for attending mass gatherings during festivals: Centre||Mass gatherings should be discouraged but if attending it is essential then full vaccination should be a prerequisite, the Union government said on Friday and urged people to get the jabs and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially during the festive season. In a press conference, it warned the second wave of coronavirus infection in India was not yet over even though the weekly positivity rate was showing an overall declining trend. The Centre said that 39 districts in the country reported over 10 per cent weekly Covid positivity rate in the week ending August 31 while in 38 districts it was between 5 and 10 per cent. It asserted that 16 per cent of India's adult population have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine while 54 per cent have been administered at least the first dose. "In Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Himachal Pradesh all the adult population have got at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine," the government said. In view of the upcoming festive season amid the scare of the third wave of Covid-19 infections striking the country, the Centre said mass gatherings have to be discouraged and full vaccination should be a prerequisite if attending such a congregation is essential. "People should celebrate festivals at home, follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and embrace vaccination," the government said. It added that about 300 cases of delta plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in India so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-vaccination-prerequisite-for-attending-mass-gatherings-during-festivals-centre-1026229.html
02-09-2021||National||India's interests come before vaccine exports: Health ministry||India would resume exports of Covid-19 vaccines only after its own interests are taken care of, a health ministry official said on Thursday, as a recent surge in immunisations raised hopes of foreign sales that have been barred since mid-April. "Every country works with an aim of keeping its people, economy and social system safe," Rajesh Bhushan told a weekly news conference. "Even the public health response to Covid is governed by those goals. So we will also try to achieve those goals and see when would be the right time to export vaccines."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-interests-come-before-vaccine-exports-health-ministry-1026232.html
02-09-2021||National||ONGC evaluating stake buy in Russia's Vostok Oil project||India's Oil and Natural Gas Corp is evaluating the purchase of stake in Russia's massive Vostok Oil project, a company official said on Thursday, as the two countries seek to deepen their economic ties in the energy sector. Vostok is one of Russia's biggest oil projects, comparable in size with the exploration of West Siberia in the 1970s or the US Bakken oil province over the past decade. "We are still in the evaluation stage ... We are looking at it (Vostok Oil), it is a very large complex project," AK, Gupta, managing director of ONGC Videsh Ltd, the overseas investment arm of ONGC, told Reuters. He did not give any further details on the deal. Russian oil major Rosneft is in talks with several players about participation in Vostok, which according to initial estimates could require the investment of more than 10 trillion roubles ($137 billion). Global commodities trader Trafigura has a 10 per cent stake in Vostok Oil and a consortium of traders Vitol and Mercantile & Maritime have shown interest in taking a 5 per cent stake in the project. Indian Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who is in Russia for an economic forum, met Russian Energy Minister Nikolai Shulginov and Rosneft chief Igor Sechin. The forum in the Russian Pacific port of Vladivostok was also attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin. "Look forward to further strengthening strategic cooperation across the entire value chain of the energy sector with Russia," Puri said on Twitter after meeting Shulginov. Gupta said Russia was a "preferred destination" for energy investment by India. ONGC Videsh owns 26 per cent  stake in Russia's Vankor field and a 20% stake in Sakhalin-1 project. In 2009, it acquired Imperial Energy, an independent exploration and production company in Russia. Russia aims to begin shipping oil from the planned Vostok project in 2024 via the Northern Sea Route, an alternative to the Suez Canal which shortens travels to markets in Asia. Vostok Oil consists of the Vankor cluster, the West-Irkinsky area, the Payakha group of fields and the East-Taimyr cluster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ongc-evaluating-stake-buy-in-russias-vostok-oil-project-1026239.html
02-09-2021||National||Elgar case: Navlakha moves HC, seeks medical check-up and house arrest instead of prison custody||Activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case and currently lodged in Taloja prison, moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday seeking that he be placed under house arrest as part of his judicial custody, owing to his advanced age and medical ailments. In his plea, Navlakha, 69, also sought that the HC direct authorities of the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to get him medically examined for a lump developed in his chest. His counsels, Yug Chaudhry and Payoshi Roy, told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Navlakha wished to be examined medically to rule out "cancer". In his plea, Navlakha cited the Supreme Court's order issued in May this year, whereby the apex court had dismissed his default bail plea, but found merit in treating house arrests as an alternative form of detention, especially for such undertrials who are aged or suffering from serious medical ailments. Navlakha's counsels also told the HC that they had already written to the Taloja prison authorities, seeking a medical check-up for the lump in his chest, but they were yet to hear anything from the authorities. They further told the HC that Navlakha also suffered from hypertension that he developed while in prison, and several other ailments. Navlakha was arrested by Pune police from Delhi on August 28, 2018 in connection the Elgar Parishad case. He was initially kept under house arrest, but subsequently sent in judicial custody. As per Navlakha's plea, he has spent one year and three months in prison. The HC will hear the plea further later in the day. The case relates to the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Maharashtr's Pune district on December 31, 2017. The Pune police had claimed that the event was backed by Maoists, and provocative speeches made there led to caste violence near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial in the district the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-case-navlakha-moves-hc-seeks-medical-check-up-and-house-arrest-instead-of-prison-custody-1026245.html
02-09-2021||National||Hyderabad pub booked for allowing 8-year old girl inside||A case was registered against a pub management here for allowing a minor girl inside after a video of the child dancing with others there went viral on social media, police said on Thursday. The video, in which the eight-year-old girl is seen dancing along with some family members and others, was posted on social media and was tagged to police. Police who took up investigation said the incident happened on Sunday night and added the pub management allowed the child inside the pub violating the rules. The girl was part of a group comprising family members and others which came to the pub, a police official attached to Gachibowli police station said. Police on its own registered a case under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) against the owner and the manager of the pub, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderabad-pub-booked-for-allowing-8-year-old-girl-inside-1026249.html
02-09-2021||National||Concerns relating to terrorism primary focus: India on Afghanistan||India's immediate focus is to ensure that Afghan soil is not used for terrorist activities directed against it, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday, two days after the Indian envoy to Qatar held talks with a top Taliban leader in Doha. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India used the meeting in Doha to convey its concerns over the possible use of the Afghan territory for anti-India activities and to bring back the remaining Indians from Afghanistan. "We received a positive response," he said referring to the meeting between Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal and Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai. To a volley of questions on whether India would recognise a Taliban regime in the backdrop of the meeting between the two sides, Bagchi said: "It was just a meeting. I think these are very early days." Asked whether India will have more meetings with the Taliban, the MEA spokesperson said he does not want to speculate. "I would not like to speculate on the future. I have no update to share on that," he said. On bringing back the remaining Indians from Afghanistan, Bagchi said India will be able to revisit the matter once the Kabul airport resumes operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/concerns-relating-to-terrorism-primary-focus-india-on-afghanistan-1026252.html
02-09-2021||National||Exports up 45% to $33.14 billion in August||India's exports jumped 45.17 per cent to $33.14 billion in August as against $22.83 billion in the same month last year, according to the commerce ministry's provisional data. The exports during April-August 2021 stood at $163.67 billion, an increase of 66.92 per cent over $98.05 billion in the same period a year ago, the data showed. Imports in August rose 51.47 per cent to $47.01 billion, as against $31.03 billion in the corresponding month of 2020. Imports during April-August this fiscal rose by 81.75 per cent to $219.54 billion. The trade deficit in August 2021 was $13.87 billion, compared to $8.2 billion in the year-ago period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exports-up-45-to-3314-billion-in-august-1026254.html
02-09-2021||National||India, UK sign up to new climate finance initiative||The Indian and UK governments on Thursday agreed a new tie-up to finance inclusive, resilient and sustainable infrastructure in India by harnessing public and private capital to meet the country’s low-carbon goals. Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) India initiative, which is backed by the City of London Corporation and led by Bloomberg’s CFLI, was announced at the 11th UK-India Economic and Financial Dialogue (EFD) held via video conference between finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her British counterpart Rishi Sunak. “Supporting India’s green growth is a shared priority so I’m pleased that we’ve announced a $1.2 billion investment package, and launched the new CFLI India partnership, to boost investment in sustainable projects in India as the UK gears up to host COP26,” said Sunak. “We expect that the platform would be able to mobilise private capital, at scale, into climate and environment sectors, particularly green and resilient infrastructure,” noted Sitharaman. The aim of the CFLI India project is to drive capital into India through public, private, and multilateral initiatives to help the country meet its 2015 Paris Agreement commitments, which include a pledge to reduce emissions intensity of GDP by 33-35 per cent by 2030. “The Climate Finance Leadership Initiative is working to eliminate barriers to investment and create market conditions to drive more capital to green projects – and this collaboration between India and the UK, two of the world’s largest and most dynamic economies, can create a model for countries around the world to learn from,” said CFLI Chair Michael R Bloomberg, UN Special Envoy on Climate Ambition and Solutions. The City of London Corporation, the governing body of the financial hub of the UK capital known as the Square Mile, said it will support the initiative by providing a secretariat from London and the organisation’s long-standing representative office in Mumbai. “CFLI India is a genuinely new approach to mobilising capital at the scale and pace demanded by the global transition to net zero,” said William Russell, the Lord Mayor of the City of London. “In order to raise the trillion of dollars of investment needed, we must connect London’s innovation and talent together with India’s dynamism and industry. Together we can cut emissions and fight back against climate change,” he said. City of London Corporation Policy Chair Catherine McGuinness said London, as a leading international financial centre and global hub for green finance, is well placed to support this as a world leader in green finance, innovation and capital raising through CFLI India. “India has already taken bold steps to decarbonise its economy, but billions of financing is still needed to help the country meet its climate commitments,” she said. The announcement of CFLI India comes in advance of November’s UN Climate Change Conference – better known as COP26 – in Glasgow, where the City of London Corporation and Green Finance Institute are holding a hybrid summit on green finance. “It is critical that as we move towards a more sustainable future that financial markets like London partner with leading countries like India to develop projects that address climate change,” said Shravan Joshi MBE, City Corporation representative at CFLI. CFLI India will be co-chaired by Shemara Wikramanayake, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Macquarie Group, and Natarajan Chandrasekaran, Chairman of Tata Group, and comprises major private sector Indian and multinational corporates and financial institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-sign-up-to-new-climate-finance-initiative-1026272.html
02-09-2021||National||CBI books institute, its directors for alleged irregularities in conduct of JEE (Mains) exam||The CBI has booked Affinity Education Pvt Ltd and its directors for alleged irregularities in the conduct of JEE (Mains) examination and carried out searches at 20 locations across the country on Thursday, officials said. The searches were spread at various cities, including Delhi-NCR, Pune, Jamshedpur, they said. The CBI has booked the institute, its directors, their touts/associates and staff posted at the examination centre and other unknown persons, CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. "A case was registered on 01.09.2021 against a the private company and others, including its directors, three employees and private persons (conduits)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-books-institute-its-directors-for-alleged-irregularities-in-conduct-of-jee-mains-exam-1026278.html
02-09-2021||National||Amid new Covid strain fears, India makes RT-PCR test compulsory for those arriving from 7 more nations||With the arrival of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 on the horizon, India has strengthened its airport surveillance by making it mandatory for passengers from seven additional countries including South Africa and China to undergo a RT-PCR check on arrival. Other nations on the list are Botswana, Bangladesh, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday. Since February, RT-PCR test was a must for travellers arriving from the UK, European and the Middle East countries. The step has been taken in the wake of the emergence of the C1.2 variant in South Africa and a few other countries. “Globally there are107 sequences, of which 85 per cent are in South Africa. So far there is no presence of the variant in India,” noted virologist Shahid Jameel told DH. While those tested positive would be followed up by the health officials from the respective states, the samples from Covid-19 positive persons would be sent to the laboratories under the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortia for sequencing to check the entry of the new variant. According to a biologist, airport surveillance would indeed be important to track any emerging variant across the globe. “But looking at the numbers, it appears that the lineage is not on an alarming rise even in South Africa,” he said. The initial discovery of C.1.2 seems to have come from the Mpumalanga and Gauteng provinces of South Africa and as of August, the variant has been found in six of the nine South African provinces. The variant has been widely discussed among scientists and health researchers since it has 14 mutations in the spike protein. “At this point in time, we do not know whether the variant is more transmissible or causes immune escape, though the mutations have been independently associated with such properties. Research is under way to better characterise and understand its properties,” Vinod Scaria, a scientist at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi wrote in a report. On the vaccination front, Bhushan said more than 18 crore shots were administered in August and the last week witnessed a daily vaccination in excess of 80 lakh doses. Nearly 54 per cent of adults got the first dose, while 16 per cent received both the doses. Three states and Union Territories – Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Himachal Pradesh – gave the first shot to 100 per cent of their adult population, whereas more than 85 per cent of the target population in Tripura, Mizoram, Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Daman & Diu received the first dose. But worryingly, India recorded more than 47,000 fresh cases on Wednesday – the biggest single-day rise in two months – riding high on the growing caseload in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-new-covid-strain-fears-india-makes-rt-pcr-test-compulsory-for-those-arriving-from-7-more-nations-1026290.html
02-09-2021||National||SC to consider plea against extension of time for NGOs to comply with FCRA||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine a plea against a notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on May 18, 2021, giving more time to NGOs to comply with provisions of the Foreign Contribution Regulation (Amendment) Act (FCRA), 2020. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar put a plea filed by Noel Harpar and others for consideration on September 7. The petitioner sought directions to the Centre and the Niti Ayog to strictly maintain and monitor the directory of the NGOs receiving foreign contributions, in order to restrain them from indulging in dubious activities in the name of ongoing pandemic. Highlighting many instances misappropriation of funds by NGOs, the plea alleged in the shield of Covid relief work, such organisations, involved in religious conversion, may try to divert funds for those activities. The MHA, through the order, validated the licence of NGOs and individuals till September 2021 and also extended the deadline of opening bank accounts at designated branches of SBI. The plea claimed that various NGOs have been misusing the FCRA regime to siphon off funds obtained from abroad by taking undue advantage of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. It further alleged some of the NGOs misused the funds, by circumventing the provisions of FCRA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-against-extension-of-time-for-ngos-to-comply-with-fcra-1026295.html
02-09-2021||National||Centre extends visas of all foreign nationals stuck in India due to Covid-19 till September 30||In a relief to foreign nationals stuck in India due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government on Thursday extended their visas till September 30. A Home Ministry spokesperson said the decision was taken because a number of foreigners who came to India on various types of visas prior to March, 2020 got stranded in the country in the absence of flights to their destinations due to the pandemic. The central government had facilitated the stay of such foreign nationals within India by giving deemed extension of their regular visa or e-visa or stay stipulation period on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty. "This facility which is presently available till August 31, 2021 has now been extended by the central government till September 30, 2021. Such foreign nationals will not be required to submit any application to the FRRO/FRO concerned for extension of their visas till September 30, 2021," the spokesperson said. The spokesperson made it clear that Afghan nationals, already in India on any category of visa, will be granted extension of visa under guidelines issued separately for Afghan nationals. Before exiting the country, the foreign nationals may apply online for an exit permission on e-FRRO portal which would be granted by the authorities on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty. The spokesperson said that if someone wanted visa extension beyond September 30, they may apply on the online e-FRRO platform on payment basis, which would be considered by the authorities, subject to the eligibility as per the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-visas-of-all-foreign-nationals-stuck-in-india-due-to-covid-19-till-september-30-1026299.html
02-09-2021||National||Over half of India's adult population received at least 1 dose of Covid vaccine: Govt||More than half of India's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 16 per cent have got both, the Union government said on Thursday as the cumulative number of doses administered in the country crossed 67 crore. In Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Himachal Pradesh all the adult population have got at least one dose of vaccine, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference. About ramping up of daily vaccinations, he said 18.38 crore doses were given in August during which 59.29 lakh doses were administered daily. The average daily vaccination in the last seven days of August has been 80.27 lakh. "That's a huge achievement and would not have been possible without very effective and optimal participation of all healthcare workers, state governments and Union Territory administrations," Bhushan said. On both August 27 and 31 more than one crore vaccinations took place. According to data shared at the press conference, the number of vaccine doses administered daily has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June and further to 43.41 lakh in July. In Sikkim, 36 per cent of the eligible population have been administered the second dose, in Dadra and Nagar Haveli it is 18 per cent and in Himachal Pradesh it's 32 per cent. Besides, in Tripura, Ladakh, Daman and Diu, the Lakshwadeep and Mizoram, over 85 per cent of the population have been administered the first dose. Bhushan said that 99 per cent of the healthcare workers have received the first dose of vaccine while 84 per cent of the eligible healthcare workers have taken the second dose. He said 100 per cent of the frontline workers have been administered the first dose while 80 per cent of them have been given the second dose. "Besides, 16 per cent of India's adult population have been fully vaccinated which means they have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine while 54 per cent have been administered at least one dose," the Union health secretary said. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul urged people who have not got vaccinated yet to take the jabs. The message of vaccination must be taken to the heartland of India, he said, adding, "No one should be left behind. Vaccine availability is increasing and we must use this opportunity to push back this pandemic." In view of the upcoming festivals such as Ganesh Chaturthi, Eid, Navratri, Paul urged people to celebrate at home with family and not venture out unnecessarily. "Whatever stabilisation we are seeing can be lost and the X factor here is the behaviour of viruses. If a virus mutates then the whole system will shake as we have seen in the second surge. "We would like to request people that during festivals they should... wear masks, maintain social distancing, not crowd, and embrace vaccination. We request people who have not got vaccinated yet to get the shots," he said. Paul further underlined that vaccination programmes among pregnant women must be accelerated while stating it is being seen that many people have not got vaccinated.  Vaccination is important for pregnant women and their baby otherwise, the risk of complications rises. The more pregnant women can get vaccinated the better, he stressed. Paul also emphasised the need for taking the second dose. "For complete protection, the second dose is important. The level of protection one gets after the second dose is much higher than the one after the first. The complete guarantee that one gets is after the second dose. "The government is making its efforts but if your second dose is due please get it because then only you are more protected and it becomes difficult for the virus to transmit through you," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-half-of-indias-adult-population-received-at-least-1-dose-of-covid-vaccine-govt-1026303.html
02-09-2021||National||300 cases of Delta Plus Covid variant found in India: Govt||About 300 cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 have been found in India, the government said, noting that vaccine has been found to be effective against the strain. Responding to a question at a press briefing, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said vaccine efficacy has been tested against Delta Plus strain. "It has been some months since the isolation of the Delta Plus variant. Earlier, we found 60-70 cases, now there are around 300 cases of Delta Plus, and Delta Plus virus has been isolated and vaccine efficacy has been tested against it. Vaccine is found to be effective against Delta Plus too," he said. A viral variant of the coronavirus, Delta Plus, was identified on June 11 and was classified as a variant of concern.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/300-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-variant-found-in-india-govt-1026304.html
02-09-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi walks down memory lane with father Rajiv, uncle Sanjay||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi went down memory lane at a photo exhibition on his late father Rajiv Gandhi, a former Prime Minister, as he recalled the passion both shared for aircraft and flying. A trained pilot, Rahul also remembered Sanjay Gandhi, who died in a plane crash, saying both he and his uncle had flying hours of 300-350 hours. On Sanjay, he said his uncle should not have been flying the plane which crashed as he was not experienced enough to fly that particular aircraft. His recollections, which were captured on video and released on Thursday, came during his visit to a photo exhibition on Rajiv Gandhi, organised by Youth Congress in the national capital. As a child, he said, Rahul used to accompany Rajiv on political tours and he used to be on the cockpit. "Generally whenever I was in a plane or helicopter with my dad, I was put into the cockpit. What he’d do is he’d ask me about all the instruments, ask me questions and we’d do the flight check together. So we would walk around the plane and he’d ask me -what’s that?" he said. He recalls his father telling his younger brother Sanjay not to fly Pitts S-2A, which was a "very aggressive plane". "My father told him that you know, don't do this. My uncle really didn't have the experience. My uncle had similar hours to what I have about 300-350 hours. And, he shouldn’t have been flying that plane. And, he flew it. And that's what happens when you don't have the experience and you fly. It's easy to kill yourself," Rahul said.  Sanjay died on 23 June, 1980 in a plane crash near Safdarjung Airport in Delhi while flying the aircraft of the Delhi Flying Club. He had lost control while performing an aerobatic manoeuvre. Referring to a photo of an Airbus A320, Rahul said one of Rajiv's "big regrets" was that he left airlines and could not fly the bigger jets. Rahul also remembered how his mother Sonia Gandhi, the Congress president, used to react on his father's flying planes. "My mother was worried, so every time my father would go on a flight. You know it would be, my mother would have this record playing in the background that he's on a flight. It's so dangerous and she would be worried and she would be transferring that worry. Then once there was some problem with Kashmir and then there was some issue with his aircraft. So my mother I remember getting very worked up," he said. Asked about how being a pilot trains you for life as a leader, Rahul said pilots have a very particular ability that comes from their training and it is this idea, that you have to move, from a 30,000 foot vision to details in the cockpit. "If you lose track of details in the cockpit, you run into trouble. And if you lose track of the 30,000 foot picture you, run into trouble. So a pilot, and I am one, we move from these two spaces very seamlessly and very quickly. Pilots also when they fly, their imagination isn't blocked by roads, by railway lines. Their imagination is at 30,000 feet, so  they have this ability to see large systems. This is what really helped my father," he said. "I could see this process taking place where he would go and meet people, get into their details, understand their details and then instantly move to 30,000-40,000-50,000 feet and look at the big picture. His work was constantly moving between these two perspectives and always understanding that imagination can bridge anything so that to me was a very powerful thing that my father had," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-walks-down-memory-lane-with-father-rajiv-uncle-sanjay-1026305.html
02-09-2021||National||Repeated inquiry on caste certificate detrimental to SC/STs: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said subjecting members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to repeated inquires would be deleterious to them, once caste certificates issued in favour of them stood verified by a scrutiny committee. "The purpose of verification of caste certificates by Scrutiny Committees is to avoid false and bogus claims. Repeated inquiries for verification of caste certificates would be detrimental to the members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Reopening of inquiry into caste certificates can be only in case they are vitiated by fraud or when they were issued without proper inquiry," a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said. The top court allowed an appeal filed by J Chitra against an order passed by the Chennai District Vigilance Committee in 2008 cancelling the community certificate issued in 1982 showing her to be from Valluvan community, which is scheduled caste. As she joined the Office of the Accountant General, a complaint was made by Dr Ambedkar Service Association raising doubts about the community certificate produced by her.  An inquiry by the District Vigilance Committee, expressed its view that she belongs to Valluvan community which is a Scheduled Caste. The association, however, again made a complaint alleging she secured employment as reserved category candidate on the basis of a false caste certificate. The State Level Scrutiny Committee remanded the matter to the District Vigilance Committee, which again conducted an inquiry and cancelled the community certificate issued to her. After having gone through the guidelines, the court said once recognition of the community certificate issued in favour of the appellant had become final, the State Level Scrutiny Committee did not have jurisdiction to reopen the matter and remand for fresh consideration by the District Level Vigilance Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/repeated-inquiry-on-caste-certificate-detrimental-to-sc/sts-supreme-court-1026309.html
02-09-2021||National||Congress should decide on Goa poll alliance as soon as possible: NCP||The Congress party in Goa should decide on the contours of a poll-alliance with NCP as well as other like-minded parties right away, the national party's general secretary Praful Patel told reporters on Thursday. Addressing a press meet here, Patel also said that his party is in informal touch with the Congress leadership over forming an alliance in the state ahead of the 2022 assembly polls, but added that if the alliance does not come through, the NCP would not hesitate to try other political options. "Congress should reach out to NCP and if they have other minded parties in mind in September itself, so that every party has a few months to prepare in those assembly segments so that there is a better chance of success," Patel said. The NCP leader said that a decision on whether to go-ahead with the alliance should be made by the Congress within "10 to 15 days", which would help the opposition parties to "work unitedly" to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party. "We have spoken to the Congress informally and we have indicated that we have been in alliance in past in Goa together and it would be better and in the interest of the overall politics in Goa that all like-minded parties like Congress, NCP should work together and have an alliance like in the past," Patel also said. The NCP had tied up with the Congress and other regional parties to cobble up an alliance government from 2007-2012. Patel also said that he was in contact with leaders of other political parties in Goa, including the Goa Forward party, which is headed by former deputy Chief Minister Vijai Sardesai. "I have met Vijai Sardesai and he has also told me that he is also waiting to hear from the Congress party. Let us see now what happens. I do not want to comment beyond this. It is important that all political forces who are like-minded should come together as soon as possible in the interest of the state and politics of Goa," Patel also said. A Congress-NCP alliance would be crucial to the fortunes of the Congress party, which is gearing up to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the coastal state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-should-decide-on-goa-poll-alliance-as-soon-as-possible-ncp-1026312.html
02-09-2021||National||Centre invites bids for second time from law firms for LIC IPO||The government has for the second time invited bids from law firms to advise it on the mega initial public offering of LIC. On July 15, the government had floated request for proposal (RFP) inviting bids from reputed legal advisors and the last date for bidding was August 6. However, the RFP did not receive sufficient response. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) on Thursday came out with the second RFP for appointing legal firms, who have to bid in consortium with an international firm, and the last date for bidding is September 16. “Considering insufficient demand received in the first RFP, it has been decided to issue a fresh RFP,” DIPAM said. In the RFP, DIPAM said it requires the services of reputed law firms with experience and expertise in initial/further public offerings in capital markets to act as legal advisors and to assist the government in the process of listing of LIC. “The domestic law firm will act as the legal adviser to the transaction and should submit proposal in consortium with an international law firm of repute, with similar experience and expertise in public offerings in capital markets,” DIPAM said. DIPAM had invited bids from merchant bankers too for LIC on July 15, and 16 firms had put in bids. Following that, DIPAM last week shortlisted 10 merchant bankers, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc, JPMorgan Chase & Co, ICICI Securities Ltd, Kotak Mahindra Capital Co, JM Financial Ltd, Citigroup Inc and Nomura Holdings Inc, among others for managing the LIC IPO. The government aims to come out with the IPO and subsequent listing of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) on the bourses in January-March 2022. The government is also mulling allowing foreign investors to pick up stakes in the country's largest insurer. As per Sebi rules, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) are permitted to buy shares in a public offer. However, since the LIC Act has no provision for foreign investments, there is a need to align the proposed LIC IPO with Sebi norms regarding foreign investor participation. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs had last month cleared the initial public offering proposal of LIC. The ministerial panel known as the Alternative Mechanism on strategic disinvestment will now decide on the quantum of stake to be divested by the government. "The potential size of the IPO is expected to be far larger than any precedent in Indian markets," DIPAM had said. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government in meeting its disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22 (April-March). So far this fiscal, Rs 8,368 crore has been mopped up through minority stake sales in PSU and sale of SUUTI stake in Axis Bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-invites-bids-for-second-time-from-law-firms-for-lic-ipo-1026315.html
02-09-2021||National||Other than Jammu and Kashmir, no major terror strike in India after Modi took over: Rajnath singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that other than Jammu and Kahmir, there has been no major terror strike in India after Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed office in 2014, and asserted that terrorists were scared of the BJP government at the Centre. Addressing Gujarat BJP leaders on the second day of the party's three-day state executive meeting at Kevadia in Narmada district, Singh also slammed the Congress, saying the party was not sensitive enough towards the Army jawans as it kept the issue of One Rank-One Pension (OROP) unresolved for 40 years. “We have not let terrorists succeed in their designs. That is why other than Jammu and Kashmir and some nearby areas, there has been no major terrorist incident in the country in the past seven years,” Singh said. “It seems that terrorists are now scared of the BJP government. This is not a small thing," he said. "Terrorists now realise that they are not secure even in their safe havens. What we did (surgical strike in PoK) after the Uri attack gave a clear message to the world that we can kill terrorists on this side as well as by crossing the border if need arises," Singh said. Had the previous Congress governments been sensitive towards Army jawans, the issue of OROP, which the soldiers had been demanding for 40 years, would have been resolved, he said. The Congress did not accept their demand, he added. "But Modiji implemented it (OROP) immediately. This shows the difference between a Congress government and a BJP government," he said. Singh attacked the Congress and its leaders, saying that they only used Mahatma Gandhi's name, but failed to follow in his footsteps. Issues like Ram temple at Ayodhya are not mere slogans but BJP's commitment, he said. "We always fulfil what we promise. These are not mere election slogans...it's our cultural commitment. Now, no force can stop the construction of a grand Ram temple. We had sacrificed three of our state governments after the structure (Babri mosque) was razed. Though the Centre had dismissed three of our governments, we never diluted our commitment and movement," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/other-than-jammu-and-kashmir-no-major-terror-strike-in-india-after-modi-took-over-rajnath-singh-1026325.html
02-09-2021||National||India says 'no comments to offer' on Pak PM declaring official mourning on Geelani's demise||With Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan declaring a day of official mourning on the demise of Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, India on Thursday said it was the Pakistani PM's statement and it had no comments to offer. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said he was "deeply saddened" to learn about Geelani's death. Asked about Khan's statement at an online media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, "I don't have an immediate comment on this. It is his statement. They had given him 'Nishan-e-Pakistan', their wish, what can I say." Asked about reports of vandalising of temple and breaking of idols in Pakistan, Bagchi said India has issued many statements on attacks on minorities in Pakistan and has raised such issues with them in the past. On the resumption of air bubble with Bangladesh, the MEA spokesperson said talks are underway and proposals are being discussed. To a separate question on Vishal Jood, who is lodged in an Australian prison reportedly over his alleged hand in a series of hate attacks on suspected pro-Khalistan Sikhs in Sydney this year, Bagchi said a judgment has been passed in the case on Thursday and the ministry is ascertaining its details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-no-comments-to-offer-on-pak-pm-declaring-official-mourning-on-geelanis-demise-1026350.html
02-09-2021||National||PM Modi to launch sign language dictionary on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Indian Sign Language (ISL) dictionary comprising 10,000 words and talking books for the visually-challenged on Tuesday as part of the 'Shikshak Parv'. The fortnight-long 'Shikshak Parv' will commence on Teacher's Day on Sunday, September 5, when President Ram Nath Kovind would honour 44 teachers with the National Awards for their excellence and commitment in shaping the minds of the youth. The basic aim of the ISL dictionary is to remove communication barriers between the deaf and hearing communities. The dictionary contains signs of everyday use and their corresponding English and Hindi words. Specialised terms from legal, academic, medical, and technical fields too are explained in ISL dictionary. The Prime Minister, who will also address a conclave, will launch School Quality Assessment and Accreditation Framework (SQAAF) of CBSE, NISTHA teachers' training programme for NIPUN Bharat, and Vidyanjali Portal for facilitating education volunteers, donors and CSR contributors for school development. The conclave will also be attended by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Ministers of State for Education Annpurna Devi, Subhas Sarkar and Rajkumar Ranjan Singh. “The inaugural conclave will be followed by webinars, discussions and presentations up to September 17 in which the educational practitioners from various schools of the country have been invited to share their experience, learnings and the roadmap ahead,” an education ministry official said. “The SCERT and DIETs in respective states will also be deliberating further on each of the webinars and suggesting the roadmap which will be consolidated by state SCERT. These will be shared with NCERT and provide inputs for curricular framework and teacher training modules,” he added. The theme of webinars has been further segregated into nine sub-themes in the subsequent webinars such as Technology in Education: NDEAR, Foundational Literacy and Numeracy: A Prerequisite to Learning and ECCE, Nurturing Inclusive Classrooms, among others, to highlight the best practices and initiatives which can be adopted by schools of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-sign-language-dictionary-on-tuesday-1026357.html
02-09-2021||National||India, UK to work expeditiously on recognition of vaccine certificates||India and the UK on Thursday agreed to work expeditiously on the recognition of vaccine certificates to facilitate the free movement of people, including professionals, and contribute to early economic recovery. "The successful collaboration between Oxford University, AstraZeneca and the Serum Institute of India is a testament to the positive impact of our cooperation to support global vaccination efforts," said a joint statement issued after 11th India-United Kingdom Economic and Financial Dialogue (EFD), chaired by Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and UK Treasury Chancellor Rishi Sunak. The meeting was held virtually. The two leaders welcomed the new Fleming Fund partnership to facilitate India's response to Covid-19 and promote the implementation of the national action plan on Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR). "We agree on the need to work expeditiously on the recognition of vaccine certificates to facilitate free movement of our people, including for professional and business reasons, thus contributing to early economic recovery," the statement said. The two sides also noted that "this is a moment of global leadership" for both the countries, with the UK presiding over the G7 and COP26, and India chairing the BRICS and set to chair the G20 Presidency in 2023, while being present on the UN Security Council (2021-22), said the joint statement. "We reaffirm our commitment to cooperate through the multilateral system at this important time," it added. They also endorsed the Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP) announced earlier this year, "which is creating jobs and investment to deliver our ambition of more than doubling bilateral trade by 2030". The two sides welcomed the agreement to work towards a comprehensive free trade agreement (FTA), including considerations of the opportunity arising from an interim agreement, to achieve early gains of the ETP. The UK also welcomed moves by India to support improved ease of doing business, including the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, which will "strengthen" the business environment. Further, India and the UK committed to a joint dialogue, including relevant stakeholder participation, for mutual exchanges and sharing of information concerning the possibility of signing a Social Security Agreement. The first meeting took place on August 26. "We also welcome the signing of MoU on Migration and Mobility Partnership, which would enable the exchange of talents from both sides," the joint statement said. The dialogue, inter alia, covered discussions on economic cooperation on multilateral issues, including G20 and COP26. Both the sides deliberated on furthering financial services collaboration with special emphasis on Fin-Tech and GIFT City, annual India-UK Financial Market Dialogue and measures underway to reform financial markets. Infrastructure development and promotion of sustainable finance and climate finance were also discussed. Private sector initiatives under India-UK Financial Partnership (IUKFP) and India-UK Sustainable Finance Working Group, including its progress, were also discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-to-work-expeditiously-on-recognition-of-vaccine-certificates-1026367.html
02-09-2021||National||Dharmendra Pradhan to discuss NEP 2020 with VCs of central varsities on September 3||Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will discuss the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020 with Vice Chancellors of 45 central universities on Friday. This will be the first formal meeting of the Minister with the vice-chancellors in a group, an Education ministry spokesperson said. The minister would also discuss setting up an Academic Bank of Credit, multiple entry, exit system for academic courses, open and online education and the start of the new academic session. Also on the agenda are the steps taken by the universities to fill the backlog of vacancies of teachers of SC, ST, OBC and economically weaker section categories. Issues such as glue grants for educational institutions and celebrations of 75 years of Independence will also come up for discussion. The Academic Bank of Credit has been set up with an aim to provide students with mobility of not only moving between institutes while pursuing one degree but also offers the flexibility of leaving a course and rejoining it after taking some time off from where a student had left it. It also supports the multiple entries and exits systems as offered under the National Education Policy (NEP) which enable a student to get appropriate certification who decides to leave a programme after a certain time period. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharmendra-pradhan-to-discuss-nep-2020-with-vcs-of-central-varsities-on-september-3-1026373.html
02-09-2021||National||Sebi moves SC against SAT order on PNB Housing Fin's Rs 4,000 crore preference issue||PNB Housing Finance on Thursday said capital markets regulator Sebi has approached the Supreme Court against the Securities Appellate Tribunal's order in the matter related to the company's Rs 4,000 crore equity capital raise plan. Pronouncing its order on August 9, the two-member bench of the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) gave a split verdict, saying there was difference of opinion between the members of the bench. SAT directed that its interim order of June 21, 2021 will continue till further orders, restraining PNB Housing Finance from disclosing the voting results by the shareholders on the fund raise plan. The voting was part of a special resolution to seek shareholders' approval for the Rs 4,000 crore equity raise plan of PNB Housing by allotting preference shares and warrants to a handful of investors led by US-based private equity player Carlyle Group. "It has been brought to our notice that SEBI has filed an appeal to the Supreme Court of India against the order of SAT," PNB Housing Finance said in a regulatory filing. The company is examining the appeal filed by Sebi, it added. On May 31, the housing finance company promoted by state-owned lender Punjab National Bank (PNB) had announced the capital raise plan. However, it soon hit a roadblock after a proxy advisory firm red flagged the preference issue, contending it was not in the interest of the promoter and the minority shareholders of the company. Soon after, Sebi intervened and asked the company not to go ahead with the plan until a valuation of its shares is done by an independent registered valuer. PNB Housing Finance had fixed the preference issue price at Rs 390 apiece, much lower than the stock price prevailing at that time. However, the company defended the decision, saying it followed Sebi regulations while fixing the issue price. On Thursday, share of PNB Housing Finance closed at Rs 656.50 apiece on BSE, down 0.68 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sebi-moves-sc-against-sat-order-on-pnb-housing-fins-rs-4000-crore-preference-issue-1026378.html
02-09-2021||National||India non-committal on recognising new Afghan govt that Taliban is planning to announce soon||Though the Taliban is preparing to announce its government in Kabul, India on Thursday remained non-committal on recognising the new dispensation in Afghanistan, notwithstanding its recent engagement with the leadership of the militant organisation. “It's not a matter of yes and no,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said when journalists asked him if India would recognise the new Afghan Government that the Taliban would announce soon. “We are not aware of any detail or nature of what kind of government could be formed in Afghanistan.” He also played down the recent meeting between New Delhi’s envoy to Doha, Deepak Mittal, and Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s political office in the capital of Qatar. “Let us just treat the Doha meeting for what it is...It’s just a meeting. These are very early days,” said the MEA spokesperson. He apparently sought to drive home the point that Mittal-Stanekzai talks in the capital of Qatar on Tuesday should not be construed as a prelude to India recognising the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan and the new government the militant organisation was planning to announce soon. Mittal’s meeting with Stanekzai was New Delhi’s first publicly acknowledged engagement with the Taliban in 22 years. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on August 26 told the leaders of the political parties that India would decide on its engagement with the new regime in Afghanistan after taking into account whether it would be born out of an inclusive and broad-based power-sharing arrangement or solely run by the Taliban. Bagchi on Thursday said that New Delhi’s priority was to evacuate Indian citizens, who were still stranded in Afghanistan. He said that Mittal conveyed to Stanekzai New Delhi’s concerns over the possibility of the territory of Afghanistan being used for terror attacks in India and received “a positive response”. “Our main, primary and immediate concern is that the Afghan soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities or terror activities. This is our focus,” the MEA spokesperson told journalists in New Delhi. New Delhi earlier signalled that it might recognise a new regime in Kabul with participation from the Taliban, if it was an “inclusive dispensation” with representation of all communities of Afghanistan, respected the aspirations of the children and voices and rights of women and promised not to allow anyone to use the country to export terror to other countries in the region and beyond. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-non-committal-on-recognising-new-afghan-govt-that-taliban-is-planning-to-announce-soon-1026379.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi to take final call on induction of Prashant Kishor into Congress||Congress President Sonia Gandhi will take a final call on the induction of poll strategist Prashant Kishor in the party and has held discussions with several senior leaders on the issue, sources said. Some of these leaders have raised objections over his inclusion in the party, while others have favoured it as they feel he will bring a lot to the table for the party, they said. The sources said a decision is pending at Gandhi's end. The group of 23 leaders, who had written to Gandhi last year seeking an overhaul of the organisation, are also learnt to have objected to his joining the Congress as the matter was discussed among them at a meeting, the sources said. Kishor had recently met Rahul Gandhi amid talk of his joining the Congress party and assuming a key role of election management. The matter is, however, pending as no final call has been taken. Kishor had initially worked with the BJP in the run-up to 2014 Lok Sabha elections and thereafter joined the JD(U) and was the party's vice president. Kishore also worked with Congress during the last assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. He also assisted the party in Punjab and was Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's adviser, a post he quit recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-to-take-final-call-on-induction-of-prashant-kishor-into-congress-1026040.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||UP Assembly polls will be decisive, pave way for LS elections: Keshav Maurya||Asserting that the BJP will cross the 300-mark in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Thursday said the elections will be decisive and pave way for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. He said the elections will be fought under the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and added that the next CM will be decided by the central leadership and elected MLAs. "The 2022 elections will be decisive and will pave way for the 2024 election. The outcome will be in favour of the BJP. I am not the party president now but my role in 2022 will not be less than his," Maurya told PTI in an interview. Claiming that the BJP would cross the 300-mark in 2022, he said, "I don't see any doubt in crossing this figure. We believe that the elections of 2022 will be decisive and pave way for 2024". On the question of leadership, Maurya said "At present Yogi Adityanath is the chief minister. Right now we are also believing and everyone else is also believing that when the results of 2022 will come, Yogi ji will be the chief minister. But this cannot be said by me. This decision has to be taken by the central leadership, the Central Parliamentary Board and central observers". Maurya was the state President of the BJP at the time of the 2017 assembly elections, and under his leadership, the party got 312 out of the 403 seats while 13 seats were won by allies.   After the win, there was speculation that Maurya would be made the chief minister but the central leadership chose Adityanath. Responding to a question, he said, "Backward castes constitute 55 percent of the population in Uttar Pradesh. It is not possible to do politics or work leaving 55 percent of the community neglected. We are working for the uplift of every section. In all the elections that have been won since 2014 till now, the biggest contribution has been made by the backward classes." Asked if the backward castes have been given fair representation, Maurya said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi comes from a backward class. The BJP constantly thinks and works with the vision of social uplift and harmony." On being asked whether Brahmins are angry with the BJP, the Deputy Chief Minister said, "No section is angry with the BJP". On the opposition charge that the government and especially the chief minister is giving preference to a particular caste and this is also one of the reasons for the displeasure among Brahmins, Maurya said, "These are allegations only."  Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party President Om Prakash Rajbhar recently said the BJP did not make Maurya the chief minister even after promising him. When asked about this, Maurya said, "Who told this to Om Prakash Rajbhar ji. I do not know because then I was the state president and at that time no decisions were taken in my absence." When Adityanath's name came up, some people naturally spoke about it because the state president becomes the CM of the state, he said.   On some BJP MPs, MLAs and a Union Minister expressing displeasure over the system that was in place in the state to deal with the Covid wave, Maurya said, "Something must have been lacking somewhere, we do not deny it." "It is also true that Uttar Pradesh fought in the best way against Covid as compared to other states. Our government fought against corona and won it," he said. On charges of religious polarisation against the BJP, Maurya said, "I think people judge in their own way.We fight elections on merit and win elections." "There is no place in our government for religious polarisation. It is true that there have been no riots, no disputes in our government. This definitely causes restlessness in the opposition camp. If the opposition parties see polarisation in the development work, then there is a defect in their vision," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-assembly-polls-will-be-decisive-pave-way-for-ls-elections-keshav-maurya-1026177.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||J&K delimitation is part of agenda to further disempower people: Mehbooba Mufti||Delimitation in Jammu and Kashmir is part of the Centre's agenda to further disempower people after the "illegal" scrapping of Article 370, PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti said. "Following the meeting, we decided not to meet the delimitation commission, because what is the point? It was set up in such a rush. That raises a lot of questions in itself. It makes you question the hurry," she told the publication.  Mufti said the Centre's actions suggested that they had a "plan" in mind.  "After the illegal revocation of Article 370 (in August 2019), this is the next agenda. Delimitation is a part of that agenda to further disempower people. So we decided not to be a party to it," she said.  She said the meeting with PM Modi has made no difference and "nothing really has moved," adding that the meet with leaders was organised to show at both national and international level that the Centre has tried to reach out. "It seems it was an exercise done to showcase this photo where everybody was in the same frame, especially those two parties whom they have been calling all kinds of names," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jk-delimitation-is-part-of-agenda-to-further-disempower-people-mehbooba-mufti-1026215.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||Won't say all is well in Punjab Congress: Harish Rawat||The turmoil within the Punjab Congress seemed going out of control with the two warring factions led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu toughening their stands, putting the central leadership in an awkward situation and making it admit that all is not well in the state unit. "I won't say all is well, but we are heading towards that. There are some issues, but we are towards their resolution. We are a political organisation. Issues come up, but they are resolved," AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat said on Thursday. Rawat said he "does not want to hide" that "there are many questions, which are unresolved" but expressed confidence that they will be resolved. Rawat had a three-hour-long meeting with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday and asked him to fulfill the 18-point agenda of action and to address the discontentment of party leaders, mostly from Sidhu camp about non fulfillment of poll promises. There was a report that the CM insisted on the exit of two ministers from the Sidhu camp, who demanded the resignation of the Chief Minister, but the CM's media advisor tweeted a denial and asked the media not to indulge in unnecessary speculation. "Incorrect story. Issue of cabinet reshuffle was neither raised nor discussed at the meeting between Captain Amarinder Singh and Harish Rawat. So where’s the question of dropping or retaining any ministers? Any cabinet changes will happen at an appropriate time after due consultation. The only issues discussed at the meeting were the same 5 points raised even earlier by Punjab Congress. The Chief Minister has apprised the Congress' Punjab in-charge Rawat of steps taken by his govt wrt the same," the CM's media advisor said. Meanwhile Sidhu came to Delhi on Wednesday but so far, Gandhis have yet to give him an audience. Asked why Sidhu went to Delhi after talking to him or whether this means his issues were not resolved, Rawat only said, "He had met me. After that he had some work in Delhi. So he has gone to Delhi. It's not like that he will accompany me wherever I go," Rawat said Thursday. Sidhu has also skipped the Coordination committee chaired by Captain Amarinder Singh. There was speculation earlier when the Chief Minister on August 31 appeared took a different stand from Rahul Gandhi on the issue of revamped Jallianwala Bagh Memorial saying "I don’t know what was removed but to me, it looks nice," even as Gandhi had launched a scathing attack on the government on the issue. In Wednesday's meeting with the CM, Rawat told Singh that it was his duty to address the resentment of his party leaders in the state unit and implement the 18-point programme given by the party high command. Rawat's back-to-back meetings happened after a group of leaders close to Sidhu demanded resignation of the Chief Minister and later also met Rawat in Dehradun. While the party high command made Sidhu Punjab PCC chief in July ignoring the objections of the Chief Minister, it has not taken kindly to the acts of open rebellion by Sidhu camp against Captain as the leadership is of the firm view a divided approach will massively damage the party in the state polls. The issue of internal divide in Punjab Congress also figured in a big way at a gathering of senior leaders, mostly from the dissenting group G-23 at the residence of Kapil Sibal on Janmashtami, where the majority view was against Sidhu's "tantrums".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-say-all-is-well-in-punjab-congress-harish-rawat-1026282.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||MPs should maintain dignity of Parliament, we don't want to act like headmasters: Om Birla||Underlining that MPs should maintain the dignity of Parliament while sharing their views, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said chairs of Houses don't want to act like headmasters and punish the members for their misconduct. All parties should sit together and devise a code of conduct for MPs to restrict them from entering the well of the House and raising placards, he said while expressing concern over the disruptions that occurred regularly during the recently-concluded Monsoon Session. "Parliament is expected to act as a guiding light for all democratic institutions of the country. Disruptions and unruly scenes are not good for democracy. We (MPs) all should ensure that the dignity of Parliament is upheld and even raised further," Birla told PTI. Asserting the dignity and decorum of Parliament is sacrosanct, the Lok Sabha Speaker said, "We are celebrating the 75th year of Independence and it is high time that political parties sit together and set standards for MPs for their decent conduct in Parliament." The parties should deliberate on how disruptions and ruckus can be stopped in Parliament. They all should set such standards that restrict their MPs from entering the Well of the House and raising placards, he said. Asked whether the rules need to be changed, Birla said existing rules are stringent enough and presiding officers are forced to take action when a situation goes out of hand. "It is for MPs to maintain the dignity of Parliament. They should act in a decent manner to uphold the dignity of the Parliament. We don't want to act like headmasters and punish MPs for their unruly behaviour," the Lok Sabha Speaker said. Noting disagreements are a part of the democracy, Birla said members of Parliament should maintain certain decency while debating an issue. His remarks were made against the backdrop of ruckus in the Rajya Sabha during the recent Monsoon Session. Opposition MPs stood on the secretary-general table in the Rajya Sabha and threw papers on the chair. The stormy Monsoon Session of Parliament, which was marred by Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues since its beginning on July 19, ended two days ahead of the scheduled date of August 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mps-should-maintain-dignity-of-parliament-we-dont-want-to-act-like-headmasters-om-birla-1026283.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||Third front will be formed soon: INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal president Om Prakash Chautala on Thursday claimed the people of the country are upset with the BJP government and asserted that a 'third front' will soon be formed at the national level. Addressing a workers' meeting at a new grain market here, he said he has started efforts to form a third front as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. "The third front will be formed soon," Chautala said. "Today, the people of the country as well as of Haryana are upset with the BJP government and want to get rid of it. The manner in which the BJP government went against the interests of farmers to enact the three farm laws can never be forgiven," the former Haryana chief minister said. He also alleged that corruption was rampant in the BJP-JJP government in Haryana. In July, the 86-year-old Chautala, who had walked free from Delhi's Tihar Jail after serving a sentence in a recruitment scam, had said that he will start contacting opposition leaders to forge a "third front" at the national level. He said that when he went to jail, Congress assumed that the INLD would be finished. "But the workers kept the party going. Now, people are saying that in the coming time, an INLD government will be formed in Haryana." The INLD supremo said when his party was in power in Haryana, it had started a 'Sarkar Aapke Dwar' programme to redress people's grievances at their doorsteps. "We used to go from village to village in Haryana and listen to the problems of the people. The situation in today's government is such that they are indulging in open loot and are not bothered about people's interest," Chautala alleged. About the Ellenabad bypolls, he said the INLD will register an emphatic win in the election whenever it is held and the BJP-JJP government will come to know of its popularity. The Ellenabad seat in Sirsa district was represented by Chautala's younger son Abhay Singh Chautala, who resigned as MLA earlier over the farm laws issue and came out openly in support of the farmers protesting the laws. The bypolls to the Assembly seat are yet to be announced by the Election Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/third-front-will-be-formed-soon-inld-chief-om-prakash-chautala-1026317.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||Congress brings Priyanka in panel to plan 'sustained agitations on national issues'||Congress has set up a high level panel with Priyanka Gandhi to plan "sustained agitations on national issues". Senior party leader Digvijaya Singh, a sharp critic of hardline Hindutva politics of BJP has been made the Chairman of the committee. Prianka's drafting in a panel to take up national issues is significant as it is the first time she will be officially taking up issues beyond Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka, who was looking after election affairs and political strategy in Raebareli and Amethi, the Parliamentary constituencies of her mother Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for many years, was made AICC general secretary on January 23, 2019. She was given the charge of Eastern Uttar Pradesh before she became the in-charge of the whole state after Jyotiraditya Scindia, who was looking after Western Uttar Pradesh, quit the party. Being a general secretary, she became by default a member of the party's apex decision-making body Congress Working Committee. Priyanka's secret role as party troubleshooter has come to fore many times, more publicly in recent times during the crisis in party ruled states Rajasthan and Punjab. She was instrumental in bringing a rebelling Sachin Pilot to the negotiating table and the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab PCC chief. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has led an aggressive campaign on issues like the handling of Covid-19, sugarcane prices and law and order in Yogi Adityanath ruled Uttar Pradesh. With the new role as a member in this national panel at a time Congress has gone in a virtual campaign mode against the Modi government on a range of issues like Covid-19, farmers, youths and unemployment, LPG prices, and national monetisation plan, Vadra is expected to give an edge to the party's strategy ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Apart from her, the other members in the nine-member committee are Lok Sabha MP Uttam Kumar Reddy, Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora, Manish Chatratha BK Hariprasad, Udit Raj, Ragini Nayak and Zuber Khan. The panel was set up by leaders of 19 political parties on August 20 after which they had announced to organise joint protests and demonstrations across the country from September 20 to 30. Attacking the BJP on Thursday, Vadra said the BJP government is increasing the price of LPG cylinders every month, and petrol and diesel prices have been hiked 60 to 70 times in three-four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-brings-priyanka-in-panel-to-plan-sustained-agitations-on-national-issues-1026343.html
02-09-2021||National Politics||BJP leader Purandeswari makes 'spit' remarks against Baghel, triggers row||In controversial remarks, BJP General Secretary D Purandeswari on Thursday said if her party workers "spit", Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and his cabinet will get "swept away". Purandeswari, in-charge of Chhattisgarh, made the remarks while exhorting BJP activists to work with a resolve to bring the party in power in the state in the 2023 assembly polls. The comments triggered a controversy with Bahgel reacting by saying that "if anyone spits on the sky, it falls on one's own face". While addressing BJP workers on the concluding day of the three-day- long 'chintan shivir (brainstorming session) of the party here, Purandeswari said, “We appeal to you (activists) to work with a resolve. If you turn back and spit, then Bhupesh Baghel and his entire cabinet will be swept away. With this resolution you have to work and with your hard work, the BJP will definitely be elected to power in 2023.” The BJP is a party with different principles, whose workers serve the poor, destitute and helpless with selfless and dedicated spirit, she said. Every worker is respected in the BJP even if they hail from a small town or village, the former Union minister added. She said an answer will be received immediately if you ask who will become the next Congress president. However, this was not the case in the BJP where any worker who deserves can rise to become the party president, Purandeswari said. She said winds of change in the state have started blowing from Bastar, a tribal dominated region. The ruling Congress has "cheated" the people of Chhattisgarh and they will give the party a befitting reply, she added. Reacting to her "spit" remarks, Chief Minister Baghel said he did not expect such a statement from the BJP leader. “What reaction should I give to such a statement? I did not expect that D Purandeshwari's mental state would stoop down to this level after joining the BJP. She was well when she was with us (Congress) as Union Minister of state..” he said while talking to reporters here at the helipad. “If (anyone) spits on the sky, it falls on one's own face,” Baghel added. Purandeswari quit the Congress in 2014 and joined the BJP. She was a minister in the Congress-led UPA government. The saffron party, that ruled the state for 15 years before being ousted from power by the Congress in the 2018 polls, organized a brainstorming session for the first time in the politically significant and tribal-dominated Bastar region since the formation of the state in 2000. The conclave is being seen as an exercise of the party to regain its tribal vote base in the region where it had put up a dismal show in the 2018 assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-purandeswari-makes-spit-remarks-against-baghel-triggers-row-1026359.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Syed Ali Shah Geelani: A hawk among separatist leadership of Kashmir||Pro-Pakistan leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani's death has brought to an end a chapter of anti-India and separatist politics in Kashmir. Born on September 29, 1929, in a village in Bandipora district, Geelani completed his education from Oriental College, Lahore. He worked as a teacher for few years before joining Jamaat-e-Islami. Geelani, who was seen as a hawk among the separatist leadership of Kashmir, went on to become an MLA three times from Sopore constituency. He won the assembly elections in 1972, 1977 and 1987. Geelani, however, became an anti-election spearhead following the eruption of militancy in Kashmir in 1990. He was one of the founder-members of the Hurriyat Conference, a separatist amalgam of 26 parties but fell out with the moderates who advocated dialogue with the Centre for resolution of the Kashmir problem.  He launched his own Tehreek-e-Hurriyat Kashmir in 2003 following a vertical split in the Hurriyat Conference that he is believed to have engineered. He launched his own faction of the Hurriyat after bickering with moderates over the allegations of proxy participation in 2002 Assembly elections by People's Conference led by Sajad Lone.   However, Geelani said goodbye to Hurriyat politics in June 2020 saying the second rung leadership did not rise to the occasion following abrogation of Article 370 by the Centre in 2019. He was suffering from kidney-related ailments since 2002 and had one of his kidneys removed due to problems. Geelani's health deteriorated over the past 18 months.  Despite being anti-mainstream politicians, Geelani was seen as well cultured and a civilised politician. His death drew condolences from even Sajad Lone, who once accused Geelani of making instigating statements that led to his father Abdul Gani Lone's killing.  "Heartfelt condolences to the family of Syed Ali Shah Geelani Sahib. Was an esteemed colleague of my late father. May Allah grant him Jannat," Sajad Lone said.  PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also condoled his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/syed-ali-shah-geelani-a-hawk-among-separatist-leadership-of-kashmir-1026068.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Security clampdown in Kashmir after death of separatist icon Geelani||Authorities imposed a security clampdown in Kashmir late Wednesday after the death of separatist icon Syed Ali Geelani at the age of 92. Troops put up barbed wire and barricades on roads leading to Geelani's house in the main city of Srinagar after the family announced the death. Announcements were made from loudspeakers of the main mosque near Geelani's residence asking people to march towards the house. But police said no one in the Kashmir valley would be allowed to leave their homes. Thousands of security forces were immediately deployed and mobile internet services were cut across the area. Scores of armoured vehicles and trucks patrolled main roads in Srinagar. Geelani was an uncompromising campaigner against Indian rule in the Muslim-majority Himalayan region divided between India and Pakistan since 1947. He spent years in jail and had been under house arrest for most of the past 11 years. He had been ill for several months with heart and kidney problems. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was among the first to pay tribute to Geelani, saying on Twitter that he was "deeply saddened" at the death of the "Kashmiri freedom fighter". Khan said that Geelani had "struggled all his life for his people and their right to self-determination. He suffered incarceration and torture by the occupying Indian state but remained resolute." Pakistani cricket legend Shahid Afridi also tweeted in tribute. "The fight for Kashmir's freedom has taken so many of our elders who have carried the weight of this movement for decades," he wrote. "May we carry on their courage and legacy." Geelani had been a thorn in India's side since the early 1960s when he began campaigning for the territory's merger with Pakistan. He also pursued his separatist calls as a member of the Kashmir assembly. The veteran politician was jailed for nearly 10 years after 1962 and often restricted to his home after that. Since his youth, Geelani had been a member of Jamaat-i-Islami, the largest political-religious organisation in Kashmir that was banned by the Hindu nationalist government in 2019. He rejected any notion of direct talks with the New Delhi government unless it formally "accepts Kashmir as a disputed territory" and stopped describing the region as an "integral part of India". Governments of all political colours insist on sovereignty over Kashmir. Geelani was also a staunch critic of the sporadic but failed attempts at dialogue between India and Pakistan -- nuclear-armed rivals that fought two of their three wars since independence over Kashmir and came close to a fourth one in 2016. His hardline stance also had critics in Kashmir. Mehbooba Mufti, a former chief minister of Kashmir, said on Twitter: "We may not have agreed on most things but I respect him for his steadfastness and standing by his beliefs." Kashmir is one of the world's most militarised zones, with 500,000 Indian security forces deployed in the region. Tens of thousands, mainly civilians, have died since an insurgency erupted in 1989. India has been struggling to bring normal life back to Kashmir after it cancelled the region's semi-autonomous status and divided it into two centrally controlled territories in August 2019. A security clampdown imposed at the time saw mobile internet services cut for more than a year. Scores of political leaders were detained and many are still not free. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the move was intended to bring peace and prosperity to Kashmir. Separatist leaders said it was to punish the Muslim population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-clampdown-in-kashmir-after-death-of-separatist-icon-geelani-1026073.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Rain drenches Delhi for third day on the trot  ||Another spell of rain pounded Delhi on Thursday morning, worsening the waterlogging problem in some areas and plunging road traffic into chaos. The capital has recorded 229.8 mm rainfall since Tuesday morning, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Usually, it gauges only 16.7 mm rainfall on the first two days of the month. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi recorded 117.7 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Thursday, the highest on a day in September in 19 years. This is the second day on the trot that the capital recorded more than 100 mm rainfall in a day. The city had gauged 112.1 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Wednesday which submerged several areas, including the diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri and commercial hub of Connaught Place, in knee-deep water and disrupted rain and road traffic. The capital had recorded 126.8 mm rainfall on September 13, 2002. The all-time record is 172.6 mm rainfall on September 16, 1963.   The incessant rains submerged roads, residential areas, schools, hospitals, and markets in knee-deep water and affected the movement of around 25 trains on Wednesday. Municipal corporations in Delhi reported 21 incidents of uprooting of trees. On Thursday morning, the situation worsened at some places due to standing water. IMD officials said the intensity is likely to reduce and another spell of rain is expected from September 7.    "The next spell may see Delhi breaking records for monthly (September) rainfall," an official said.  Asked if the India Meteorological Department (IMD) expected such heavy rainfall, an official said it is difficult to make "precise predictions" for a small area like Delhi two to three days in advance.   "The predictions are for larger areas, such as Haryana and Punjab. This applies across the world," he said.     IMD officials said the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, gauged 117.7 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Thursday, the highest on a day in September in 19 years.  The weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ridge, Palam and Ayanagar recorded 133.6 mm, 68.4 mm, 108.2 mm and 56.2 mm rainfall, respectively, in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am.  Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate, between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is heavy, between 115.6 and 204.4 is very heavy. Anything above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall. In its forecast for the month of September, the IMD said, "Normal to below normal rainfall is most likely over many areas of northwest." Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said the monsoon pattern is changing due to climate change.  "The number of rainy days has reduced over the last four to five years, and there has been an increase in extreme weather events," he said. "We have been recording short and intense bouts of rain, sometimes around 100 mm rainfall in just 24 hours. In the past, this much precipitation would occur over a period of 10 to 15 days," he said. Weather experts said such spells of rain do not help recharge groundwater and lead to flooding in low-lying areas. The water percolates in the ground if it rains slowly over four to five days. In case of heavy falls, the rainwater runs off quickly, Palawat said. "The rain washes away pollutants, but since the number of rainy days has reduced, the average annual air quality is also getting affected," he said. Overall, Delhi has recorded 986.2mm rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, which is 82 percent more than normal. The city recorded just 10 rainy days in August, the lowest in seven years, and a cumulative rainfall of 214.5 mm, lower than the average of 247 mm. In July, the national capital gauged 507.1 mm rainfall, which was nearly 141 per cent above the long-period average of 210.6 mm. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. Despite the monsoon embracing Delhi only on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital had recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years.  It received 34.8 mm rainfall against the normal of 65.5 mm in June.PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rain-drenches-delhi-for-third-day-on-the-trot-1026120.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Firozabad CMO transferred as 41 die of suspected dengue, viral fever||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday transferred the chief medical officer of Firozabad, where 41 people, mostly children, died of suspected dengue and viral fever. A team of the ICMR reached Firozabad on Wednesday night to take stock of the situation, which has caused widespread concern. Meanwhile, the Opposition parties expressed concern over the situation, with the Samajwadi Party alleging that people are suffering due to poor health services. According to a government order, Dr Dinesh Kumar Premi will be the new CMO of Firozabad. He till now held the charge of the additional CMO in Hapur. CMO Neeta Kulshresth has been transferred from Firozabad as senior consultant of Aligarh’s Malkhan Singh District Hospital, the order said. The order, however, did not mention the reason for the transfer. Additional Director (Health) of Agra Division A K Singh and Firozabad Government Medical College Principal Sangeeta Aneja told reporters that 41 people, mostly children, died due to viral fever and suspected dengue in the past over 10 days. Earlier on Tuesday, Firozabad BJP MLA Manish Asija had claimed that 44 people died of suspected dengue in the district since August 22-23. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has claimed that 56 people have died. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath too had on Monday visited some dengue patients. "Till now, 32 children and seven adults have died," the chief minister had said after the visit, adding that the death of children will be probed to ascertain its reason by a team from King George's Medical University in Lucknow. Following the CM’s visit, Singh and Aneja, along with other senior health officials, visited affected areas of Firozabad and also enquired about the patients admitted to hospitals. At a joint press conference, the two officials said among the dead, 36 belonged to urban and five rural areas. They said dehydration, stomachache, blood shortage and drop in platelet count along with high fever have been noticed among the victims. The additional director said a 18-member medical team including members from Agra, Meerut and Kanpur has reached Firozabad to assist in tackling the disease. In addition, a surveillance team is moving around in the affected areas of Firozabad to know about the mosquitoes spreading the disease. Aneja said 538 people got themselves examined at the medical college of Firozabad and 126 of them were found suffering from dengue. None of the samples have tested positive for Covid-19, Aneja said. Children are falling ill after sudden drop of water in the body and infection in the stomach, Aneja said. The health officials said along with Firozabad, the spread of dengue is also suspected in Mathura and it is doubted that the disease could have been triggered by animals. "We are probing this and a 11-member team of the ICMR will be reaching Firozabad tonight and look for the variant causing the health problem," they said. They said of 300 beds available in the medical college, 240 are occupied at present. An additional 100 beds are being added to cater to the surging numbers of patients. A total of 35 samples have been sent to the KGMC, Lucknow, and reports are expected to arrive by Wednesday night. A few other samples have also been dispatched to a national virology laboratory in Pune. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav attacked the BJP government, alleging that people are suffering due to poor health service. “Due to rain and waterlogging, vector-borne disease are spreading rapidly. The number of patients infected with such diseases is increasing continuously,” he said. "No efforts have been made by the government to check the spread. Neither fogging was done timely nor proper arrangements of treatment are available," Yadav said in a statement in Lucknow. "Even after 56 deaths due to dengue and viral fever in Firozabad, the administration is sleeping. Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh, and adjoining districts are in the grip of typhoid. About 100 people have been affected by typhoid in Lucknow so far," he said. The BJP government, which is busy campaigning, should wake up from its slumber and ensure quality medical facilities for children and elders, who are affected by these diseases, he added. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati also expressed concern over deaths of several children. She also raised the issue of floods in parts of the state and asked the state government to take a serious note of the situation or else it would go out of hands. Interacting with party workers in the state capital to take feedback on the prevailing political situation in the state, she asked them to extend help to the affected people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/firozabad-cmo-transferred-as-41-die-of-suspected-dengue-viral-fever-1026141.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||ITBP jawan found dead in mysterious circumstances in Uttar Pradesh||A 25-year-old Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawan was found dead under mysterious circumstances at an under-construction house in Mohanlalganj on the outskirts of Lucknow. The body was found late on Wednesday night. Police suspect the jawan died of poisoning and have sent the body for autopsy. The deceased, identified as Manoj Yadav of Alwar in Rajasthan, was presently posted at 32 battalion of ITBP in Kanpur. Additional DCP, South Zone, Purnendu Singh, said the investigations revealed that Manoj was close to one Arun Yadav, who lives in the New Colony area. Manoj returned from Rajasthan on Tuesday but instead of joining duty in Kanpur he took a stopover in Mohanlalganj to meet Arun. Arun is employed on contract at the office of ADO Panchayat in Mohanlalganj. On Wednesday, Manoj told Arun that he had to meet bank officials regarding approval of a loan and left. Arun left for his workplace and his wife went to attend a function at a neighbour's house. Manoj returned in the afternoon and called up Arun when he found the house locked. Around 2.30 p.m., Manoj returned home and found the doors locked. He told Arun that he was waiting at an under-construction house nearby. "I sent my acquaintance Jai Sharan to inquire about Manoj and he found the latter lying in an unconscious state." The police were informed and he was taken to hospital where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/itbp-jawan-found-dead-in-mysterious-circumstances-in-uttar-pradesh-1026148.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||30-year-old woman beaten to death in UP's Shahjahanpur, 3 arrested||A 30-year-old woman was beaten to death in Damolia village here after a dispute broke out over taking of water from a government tap, police said. The incident occurred on August 30 following an argument between Ladaiti Devi and Rachna on who would take water first, they said. Following their argument, some people beat up Devi with sticks, police said. She suffered serious injuries and was admitted to a hospital where she died on Wednesday during treatment, they said. Four people have been booked in the case and of them Rebari, Sunil and Chheda Lal have been arrested while Ajay is at large, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/30-year-old-woman-beaten-to-death-in-ups-shahjahanpur-3-arrested-1026162.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Building caves in, two killed in Bareilly||Two people were killed and several others injured when a two-storey building caved in due to construction of a basement next to it, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday evening when the work of digging of the basement was going on at Fatehganj Paschim main market by one Deepak Goel, they said. Due to the work, the adjoining building caved in killing two persons working in the basement. While one of the injured persons is in a serious condition, the condition of the building owner and his domestic help is stated to be stable. A probe is on in the matter, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/building-caves-in-two-killed-in-bareilly-1026187.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over deaths due to fever||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the deaths in the state, including of children, due to fever and alleged that concrete steps had not been taken to strengthen the health system. She said that the news of the "death of 100 people including children" due to fever in Firozabad, Mathura, Agra and many other places in Uttar Pradesh is very worrying. The state government has still not taken any concrete steps to strengthen the health system, the Congress general secretary alleged. "Look at the condition of hospitals. Is this your 'Number 1' facility for treatment?" Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi and tagged a media report claiming that fever had gripped several districts in the state and in Firozabad the situation was grim with treatment being given on brick benches. उप्र में फिरोजाबाद, मथुरा, आगरा व अन्य कई जगहों पर बुखार से बच्चों समेत 100 लोगों की मौत हो जाने की खबर बहुत ही चिंताजनक है। उप्र सरकार ने अभी भी स्वास्थ्य व्यवस्था मजबूत करने के लिए कोई ठोस कदम नहीं उठाए हैं। The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday transferred the chief medical officer of Firozabad, where about 41 people, mostly children, died of suspected dengue and viral fever. Health officials said along with Firozabad, the spread of dengue is also suspected in Mathura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-govt-over-deaths-due-to-fever-1026192.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||SP should never allow mafia to enter the party, says Shivpal Yadav||Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) founder Shivpal Yadav said members of the mafia should not be taken into the Samajwadi Party and claimed that when he was president of the Akhilesh Yadav-led outfit, such people were never allowed entry. Shivpal Yadav had quit the SP after differences with his nephew Akhilesh Yadav and formed his own party. "The mafia never came to the Samajwadi Party (SP). Mafias should not be taken. I had also not taken any. I was the state president (of the SP) and no mafia came to us. We never took Mukhtar Ansari," Shivpal Yadav told reporters here on Wednesday evening. He was asked about don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari's brother Sigbatullah Ansari joining the SP recently. "I took Sigbatullah Ansari and Afzal Ansari in the SP but later had to leave the SP," he said in an reference to Akhilesh Yadav, who was against their joining the party in 2016. The BJP has attacked Akhilesh Yadav for taking Mukhtar Ansari's brother into his party, saying that the SP cannot run without the help of mafias. Asked whether he would return to the SP, Shivpal Yadav said, "If I get due honour, I would consider returning to the Samajwadi family." He alleged that corruption has increased five times in the state under the present BJP regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-should-never-allow-mafia-to-enter-the-party-says-shivpal-yadav-1026198.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC seeks UP govt's reply on funding religious education institutions||The Allahabad high court has sought to know from the Uttar Pradesh government if funding educational institutions imparting religious education is consistent with the constitutional provisions. A single judge bench headed by Justice Ajay Bhanot, while hearing a petition by a 'madrasa', which received financial aid from the state government, also directed the government to state in its counter affidavit whether the 'madrasas' recognised by it also admitted girl students. "The State Government will bring in the record the syllabi/courses, conditions and standards of recognition including the requirement for playgrounds at the madrasas and all other religious institutions which are recognized or aided by," the court said. "It shall be disclosed whether madrasas so recognised and aided also admit girl students," the bench said. Raising a constitutional issue, the court sought to know from the government "whether the policy of the state government to provide financial aid to educational institutions which impart religious education is consistent with the scheme of the Constitution, particularly, in light of the word Secular in the Preamble to the Constitution of India,". It also sought to know whether "the institutions which impart knowledge in diverse fields and also include courses in theological learning come within the ambit of the phrase religious instruction or religious worship or only schools which exclusively impart religious education come within the ambit of Article 28 of the Constitution of India". The court also wanted to know from the state government if there was a "prohibition against women from applying as students in religious schools and if so whether such bar is an act of discrimination prohibited by the Constitution."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-seeks-up-govts-reply-on-funding-religious-education-institutions-1026237.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab: Cops use force to disperse farmers trying to march inside SAD event||Police on Thursday used a water cannon to disperse a group of farmers who allegedly tried to force their way inside the venue of an event of the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab's Moga, which was being addressed by its chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. Police claimed that some of the protesters scuffled with them and hurled stones in a bid to force their way inside the SAD event venue in Moga's grain market. "We warned them several times. But some protesters resorted to pelting of stones after which police used force and a water cannon to disperse them. "They had also blocked the national highway near the spot which was later cleared," Moga's Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale said, adding around 35 of the 600 odd protesters have been detained and the situation brought under control. SAD president and MP Sukhbir Singh Badal was addressing the function in the grain market when protesters tried to force their way inside. Some of the protesting farmers said they wanted to question Badal on certain issues but were stopped by the police. "They tried to break the barricades. When stones were pelted, we had to baton-charge in a restrained manner to disperse them," the SSP said. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had recently started a 100-day "yatra" across hundred assembly constituencies in Punjab. A protesting farmer said they have been holding protests at the borders of the national capital for over nine months but political parties were "more concerned with power and only shedding crocodile tears" for peasants. A few days ago too, the SAD had faced a protest by a group of farmers during their event in Baghapurana in the Moga district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cops-use-force-to-disperse-farmers-trying-to-march-inside-sad-event-1026271.html
02-09-2021||North and Central||India ready to partner with like-minded nations for technology-embedded governance: Rajeev Chandrasekhar||India is ready to partner with like-minded nations towards development in technology-embedded governance, Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar, said on Thursday. Participating in the UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ) high-level policy dialogue, the Minister highlighted that India is poised today as one of the largest connected countries in the world in terms of Internet connectivity with around 80 crore people online and one of the world’s largest rural broadband connectivity projects being executed. He also shared that the distance between the citizen and government has been bridged tremendously over the last 6 years by leveraging technology and public digital platforms including digital identity, digital payments systems and digital literacy and thus preventing the leakage of social subsidies. Ministers from India, Indonesia and Sri Lanka shared policy experiences towards digital inclusion & social empowerment at the policy dialogue. The webinar was a pre-event organised in the run-up to the 15th session of the Ministerial Conference of the UNCTAD. While talking about the story of India's digitisation drive, Chandrasekhar said that India’s success story of digitalisation is driven by the public and private sector in the global technology eco-system in terms of providing innovative solutions to the worth. He also said that India has successfully showcased a technology-led model of governance by embedding technology into the governance and transforming the lives of people and India is ready to partner with all like-minded nations towards development in technology-embedded governance. India advocated for harnessing digital technologies and public digital platforms towards technology embedded governance and social inclusion at the UNCTAD High-level Policy Dialogue. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-ready-to-partner-with-like-minded-nations-for-technology-embedded-governance-rajeev-chandrasekhar-1026368.html
02-09-2021||Oasis||When knowledge meets power||Knowledge is always an asset but it is governance which sets the tone for knowledge to grow and be useful. When governance is all about power, those who rule are arrogant. When persons of knowledge hanker after rewards, the processes of learning could become compromised or there could be a feeling of humiliation. A crisis sometimes redefines these relations in a way that could benefit everyone. A story from the Shantiparva, in the epic Mahabharata, reflects on this theme. A learned but poor man with ambition petitions the king many times for a donation. He also hopes to catch the eye of the king and maybe get some recognition as a person of learning. The arrogant king has no time for him and insults him by literally throwing a golden vessel at him. Deeply humiliated, the poor man takes the vessel but decides to never again ask for anything. He shrinks both his hopes and expectations and retires to the forest to dedicate himself to learning. Such is his austerity and concentration that he also shrinks in size and becomes hardly visible. His practice bestows on him the power to see the past, present and future. Eventually, even without his desiring it, his fame spreads far and wide.  Meanwhile, the king goes through a personal crisis. His only son has gone missing in a hunting expedition. The distraught king approaches the sage for help. The king does not recognise the man he had insulted but the sage remembers everything. He talks to the king at length about how hope could be a cause of sorrow.  Mellowed by his grief, he does not command but pleads with the sage to find his son. The sage, who is now detached and without rancour, uses his knowledge and finds the prince. The overwhelmed king wants to honour him and give him wealth. The sage refuses. Suddenly in front of the assembled entourage he rises from his shrunken form and reveals himself as none other than Lord Dharma. He then disappears.  Yudhisthira, to whom this tale is narrated in an attempt to assuage his grief at the end of the battle of Kurukshetra understands. The man of learning will be generous with his knowledge when the king has respect for learning. Renunciation is for the sage, those who rule need to be compassionate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/when-knowledge-meets-power-1026065.html
02-09-2021||Opinion||Taliban rule likely to be fragile and unstable||As an Islamic government once again takes charge in Kabul, the problem before it is not merely how to form an "inclusive government" but how to create an inclusive state. This can only be done by restructuring the Afghan polity. But are the Taliban up to the challenge? Since the overthrow of the monarchy, every Afghan regime has been obsessed with replicating a unitary state, with Kabul reigning supreme over the regions. This is an unrealistic dream today after education, and social change has fired the political aspirations of Afghanistan's diverse ethnic groups (Uzbek, Tajik, Turkmen, Bloch, Aimaq, Nuristanis, etc.), and religious minorities (Hazara and Qizilbash Tajiks Shias in the main but also Ismailis, Bahais and those of Indic religions). The mindset of the dominant Pashtun community, which sees itself as the natural ruler of Afghanistan, will, however, be a major hurdle in any restructuring of the Afghan state. Kabul has traditionally been ruled by a Pushtun leader. Even the US chose Pushtuns - Hamid Karzai and Ashraf Ghani - as presidents. The US sponsored a Pashtun candidate despite allegations that the presidential elections had been repeatedly fixed and results manipulated. The Taliban are predominantly Pashtun and subscribe to the idea of a unitary state headed by an unelected supreme leader. Like their predecessors in Kabul, they refuse to acknowledge that ethnic divides in Afghanistan have historically proved to be stronger than the bonds of Islam. However, they are being nudged in the direction of greater inclusivity by Pakistan, their puppet master. This would mean that, unlike the last time they were in power, they could accommodate the ethnic minorities. "Warlords" in Afghanistan represent the ethnic elite in the provinces where they are in the majority. Aware of Pakistan's clout, a delegation of Afghan ethnic leaders made a beeline to Islamabad to plead for power-sharing. Among their number were the two brothers of the late Ahmad Shah Massoud – Ahmad Wali Massoud and Ahmad Zia Massoud (Tajiks from Panjshir), Mohammad Yunus Qanooni (former vice president and a Tajik from Panjshir), Salahuddin Rabbani (former minister and son of former president Late Burhanuddin Rabbani, a Tajik from Badakshan), Abdul Latif Pedram (a Tajik from Badakshan), Khalid Noor (son of former Balkh Governor Atta Mohammad Noor, a Tajik from Balkh), Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq (former vice president and a Hajara from Balkh) and Mohammad Karim Khalili (former vice president and a Hajara from Wardak). These leaders are remnants of the erstwhile Northern Alliance (or descendants of those who led it). They seek accommodation in power with the Taliban regime. Indeed, Wali Massoud pragmatically announced that his nephew and son of the late Ahmad Shah Massoud would accept a "good" government if it were formed in Kabul. He thereby tried to reject the claims of the Panjshir resistance group led by former vice president Amrullah Saleh who has claimed to be Acting President of Afghanistan after President Ashraf Ghani fled. There are reports that Uzbek leader "General" Abdul Rashid Dostum has also sought dialogue with the Taliban. Whether the Taliban will accommodate such traditional ethnic elites to gain international legitimacy remains to be seen. But it is unlikely that the Afghan ethnic divide will be bridged by only forming short-term power-sharing arrangements with new or old leaders who have been a part of the US-sponsored regimes. The minorities will remain restive and fearful of the Taliban and their policy of Islamicisation unless they get a share in state power – both as an ethnicity as well as regions that they have historically inhabited (e.g. Hazaras in Hazarajat, Uzbeks in Balkh, Tajiks in Panjshir, etc.). The previous stint of Taliban led regime from September 1996 to October 2001 did not accommodate their aspirations. Will the Taliban be more open to federalism through sharing power with the ethnicities/regions this time around in the interests of stability? Despite a medieval mindset, there is nothing in Islam that prevents fashioning a federal state. Next door Pakistan is both Islamic as well as a federal state. Some Afghan political intellectuals have propounded a federal polity as the solution for Afghanistan. Hussain Yasa, a political activist and Hazara public intellectual, argues that the idea is "more natural" as "the major communities have their geography with their culture and historical backgrounds within their natural boundaries" and that they had inhabited these regions "for centuries even before Afghanistan came into being." He admits that "there are pockets of mixed population in each and every part of Afghanistan, but still that is not a substantial barrier against this idea." However, there have been no takers for a federal polity even among the non-Taliban regimes. Power-sharing has never permeated the ethnic population. Without fundamental restructuring of the political system, the present Taliban regime will rule over an unstable country - not based on consent. And governance based on fear is always fragile. (The writer is a Delhi-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taliban-rule-likely-to-be-fragile-and-unstable-1026140.html
02-09-2021||Opinion||Governance by Gundagiri (not Gandhigiri)||Gandhi Jayanti Quiz time, dear readers. An Indian Administrative Service officer ordering police to crack the skulls of protesting farmers. An RWA (resident welfare association) in its gated apartments in Indian cities bullying residents for daily trinkets even if that means sacrificing threats to life safety. A multi-billion-dollar Indian ed-tech startup purportedly threatening its enrolled parents for monthly EMIs. Patients and their families showing up at hospitals in Indian cities, big and small, to bash up healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, or others included. Or an Indian university dean insisting on in-person classes, enforcing attendance despite digital frictions or invoking salary cuts even with a potentially waning Covid-19. Scan your news, and if you caught the general trend and are observing its pervasiveness, you got it right. India of late has seen this rapid diffusion of Governance by Gundagiri, or translated informally, governance by hooliganism - from the grassroots to its topmost levels. And these are indeed the milder ones. Twitter is now inundated with videos of horrific deaths after rapes on young women in villages or torture inflicted on Dalits and Muslims in villages - for whom it's a daily story of brutality, especially in certain Indian states. The turn of events is particularly tragic when one remembers that the country was once a harbinger of smiles, hopes, trust and social bonds even during the times of structural poverty during the past few decades. But while a mad rush for growth has now collapsed on its way to losses and stresses of Covid-19 during the last year and a half, a mismanaged economy by a populist government added to massive lack of jobs, is potentially resulting in normative citizen behaviour in India reaching its socially appropriate tipping point. Meanwhile, many around, with privileged protection of elite access, turn a blind eye. When Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra recently spoke out about not making his javelin taking in Tokyo from his Pakistani counterpart, a matter of unnecessary hate or bigotry, or when a Rani Rampal or Bajrang Puniya issues similar supportive statements; they end up being the odd ones out. Their celebrity counterparts in society more or less remain mute. Those who speak out face the wrath of trolls in India's deeply divided society, where hate or fear against speaking up runs within and across households. Alternatively, there is always the spectre of wilted institutions being unleashed on them as well. Is there a panacea for all this? In general, the solutions look bleak unless there are political mean reversions or new mean formations that India at large witnesses. But in a world where the country is surrounded by an uncertain and increasingly risky neighbourhood, be that from China, Pakistan, or Afghanistan, such hopes look like a distant dream. Many have now recently commented and debated on this transmogrification of India's historically cacophonic democracy. None have offered a solution, though. Strongman populist governments seem to continue their march supported by the apparent need for internal security from external forces, dark institutions like intransparent electoral bonds to finance their advent, compliant police forces and judiciary (with a rare judge here or there sticking their neck out albeit with costs). In fact, political responses to strongman political leaders have also seen the rise of other regional strongman or strongwoman leaders. No wonder the country's overall performance keeps sliding recently, not just on economic or democratic performance but also parameters like outward migration or happiness indices. Maybe this is a global phenomenon. An era when a Nelson Mandela from the South African apartheid struggle or a Martin Luther King from the American civil rights movement, or a certain Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi from the country's own independence struggle will be few and far between. Or maybe even if they arise, antiquated draconian laws will be invoked to mute their new age equivalents (remember Stan Swamy or Sudha Bharadwaj). And maybe the world and some 1/6th of its population (in India) will have to endure this reality of hooliganism in what Max Mueller once saw as paradise on earth.  And then hope may turn to magic one day, in a world where the country has magically thrown up social messiahs and Olympic gold medalists from nowhere on the anvil to suddenly in the nation's consciousness. Maybe that's how Vasudhaiva Kutambakam (the world is my family) will be restored in India, a minimum that the world can wish for its children tomorrow still romanticizing Gandhi's land, India. (The author is a tenured faculty member at the University of Sussex, visiting fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University, and visiting faculty at IIM Ahmedabad) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/governance-by-gundagiri-not-gandhigiri-1026221.html
02-09-2021||Panorama||Gujarat Model: Unequal ‘licence-permit raj’ for liquor||On August 23, a Gujarat High Court order created ripples after it rejected the state government's objection to hearing a set of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of liquor prohibition law. The court cleared the way for judicial scrutiny of the archaic law known as the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949, which makes Gujarat a dry state. The state government had opposed the petitions and argued that the court should not entertain them at the threshold itself as their contentions were not maintainable. The government argued that back in 1951, the Supreme Court had already dealt with the same issue and hence the High Court cannot intervene. It was also argued that the appropriate forum would be the apex court itself. The court rejected the argument while noting that the grounds of challenge to the law back in 1951 were different. One of the grounds of the present challenge to the law is that prohibiting a person from drinking alcohol within the four walls of one’s house amounts to a breach of privacy. The petitions have also pointed out how the state government has created a "class" of permit-holders, including tourists, who can sell, buy and consume liquor and a “class” that cannot. Gujarat is a ‘dry state’ that has 66 government-authorised liquor shops, and nearly 58,000 residents who have special permissions called ‘health permits’ that allow them to buy and consume liquor from these outlets. Visitors from other corners of the country and foreigners can also buy alcohol from these shops. Additionally, if you are hosting a conference for business purposes, you can also get permission to entertain the guests with alcohol with the help of a special provision called 'group permit', which allows buying and consuming liquor in the state in groups. Then, there are the Special Economic Zones (SEZ), which are exempted from the liquor prohibition law. These are some of the tiny dots on the map of ‘dry’ Gujarat where, over the last couple of decades of slow relaxation, liquor has been made available to attract tourists and investors. Yet, at the same time, the government has taken a paradoxical turn by making the liquor prohibition law more stringent for the locals. A rough estimate shows that liquor prohibition violation cases contribute to nearly 15% of the total backlog of cases pending in the courts. While the impact of the liquor law is a matter of debate, the law has hardly checked liquor smuggling, which continues to be rampant through the borders of neighbouring states such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. In March this year, the state government informed the Assembly that between April 1, 2019, and December 31, 2020, police seized liquor worth over Rs 215 crore. The amount of alcohol smuggled into the state, which goes undetected, is estimated to be many times higher. The figure also revealed that police are looking for 4,545 accused in the prohibition cases. "The figure of seizure of liquor on government records is just a drop in the ocean. The amount of undetected liquor flooding the state is humongous. I can say with my experience that out of 100 truckloads of liquor smuggled into the state, barely one or two get caught. Hundreds of trucks arrive every day, loaded with liquor. I never understood the logic behind this law. It is not working. We are dealing with cases of drunk driving, public commotion, robbery, and murders, which are occurring under the influence of alcohol, like in any other state," said a DGP rank police officer who retired recently, on condition of anonymity. In fact, just on Tuesday, a drunk man created a ruckus in Surat in full public view, leading to a major traffic jam. The retired officer said that there are numerous cases revealing the involvement of cops and politicians in the organised syndicate behind the smuggling. "It is impossible to break that syndicate. No one can stop liquor smuggling," he said. Besides being part of the organised smuggling racket, there are many cases of policemen doubling up as bootleggers. In one case reported in Mehsana district last year, eight policemen were suspended for selling seized liquor out of a police station. They had dumped a few consignments of liquor in the Narmada canal for fear of getting busted. "We started giving permits to a few people after receiving various representations from large hoteliers who were demanding liquor permission for business in the state and to attract tourists. So, we granted permission to buy liquor and consume within the four walls and not in public. But this was a small concession the government extended with various conditions," said Jay Narayan Vyas, a senior BJP leader, who was also the tourism minister in former chief minister Narendra Modi’s government. However, he added, "Gujarat has benefited immensely from the prohibition law. There are certain ethos and beliefs behind the law which may not sound logical, but it has been able to keep the state peaceful and safe. It is an open secret that liquor is available in the state, but the law works as a deterrent for people who drink and create a nuisance." The hearing on the petitions challenging the law is set to start in the High Court on October 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gujarat-model-unequal-licence-permit-raj-for-liquor-1026064.html
02-09-2021||Panorama||Management of foreign exchange reserves||The foreign exchange reserves include three items -- gold, special drawing rights (SDRs) and foreign currency assets. India’s foreign exchange reserves have seen a sharp accretion this fiscal with reserves hitting $620 billion mark as of August 7, thanks mainly to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) soaking up the dollars flowing into the nation’s booming stock market through investments in the secondary market as well as IPO’s. India’s foreign exchange reserves are the fourth-largest in the world after China, Japan and Switzerland. Such large foreign exchange reserves call for an open discussion regarding the reserve’s adequacy, usage of the reserves and return earned on the investment of these reserves.  India’s current foreign exchange reserves are good enough to pay for 18 months of imports. In 2020-21, Indian imports were valued at $388.92 billion, an 18 % drop from 2019-20, when the country imported goods and services worth $474.71 billion. Though India’s import cover is better than most other countries, it is behind a few select countries - Switzerland’s reserves which can cover for 39 months of imports, Japan’s reserves which can cover for 22 months of imports and Russia’s reserves sufficient for 20 months of imports. Although India’s foreign exchange reserves are rising, the economy still has a net negative international investment position -- meaning foreigners hold more Indian assets than the nation holds foreign assets. These obligations include External Debt, FPI investments in capital markets, Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) and Non-Resident Indian (NRI) deposits. At the end of March 2021, India’s external debt was placed at US$ 570 billion, recording an increase of US$ 11.5 billion over its level at end-March 2020. The external debt to GDP ratio increased to 21.1 per cent at end of March 2021 from 20.6 per cent at end of March 2020. Total NRI deposits touched $135.36 billion as of July 2020, up from $130.58 billion in March 2020. The value of the foreign portfolio investors’ (FPI) holdings in the domestic equities reached a record $555 billion in 2020-21, a whopping $105 billion growth between September 2020 and March 2021, according to a report of Bank of America Securities. In 2020-21, FPIs, which have been the main driver of domestic equities, have pumped in a record $37 billion into Indian equities, the highest in two decades.   A country’s foreign exchange reserves should be adequate enough to cushion the country from any possible external shocks. A recent working paper published by the Bank for International settlements in May 2021, depicted that India is vulnerable to monetary tightening by the Fed, with outflows potentially impacting domestic credit markets, rupee strength and the economy at large. The upcoming Fed taper and the rate hiking cycle will test the defence provided by India’s foreign exchange reserves. One general advice is to use these reserves for financing infrastructure development. Utilizing forex reserves for infrastructure funding could lead to difficulties in monetary management and lead to an increase in government debt. Since a portion of forex reserves would have to be converted to rupees, that would lead to an increase in money supply and inflation. The most feasible option could be the import of capital goods directed towards building long-term productive assets in the country. Import of capital goods is feasible only when the domestic demand picks up. But countries do build additional productive capacities well ahead of an upward tick in demand, as long gestation periods are needed to build new capacities. A major question on the level of reserves relates to the scope for measuring overall economic costs and benefits of holding reserves. If it is assumed that the direct financial cost of holding reserves is the difference between interest paid on external debt and returns earned on external assets in reserves, such costs have to be treated as an insurance premium to assure and maintain confidence in the availability of liquidity - to ward off external risks and to ensure better credit rating. However, setting up an investment entity akin to a sovereign wealth fund to manage a part of foreign exchange reserves could maximise the returns. ( The writer is a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/management-of-foreign-exchange-reserves-1026066.html
02-09-2021||Panorama||Japan needs tech workers. Can it find place for women?||By Malcolm Foster, If Anna Matsumoto had listened to her teachers, she would have kept her inquisitive mind to herself — asking questions, they told her, interrupted class. And when, at age 15, she had to choose a course of study in her Japanese high school, she would have avoided science, a track that her male teachers said was difficult for girls. Instead, Matsumoto plans to become an engineer. Japan could use a lot more young women like her. Despite its tech-savvy image and economic heft, the country is a digital laggard, with a traditional paperbound office culture where fax machines and personal seals are known as Hanko remain common. The pandemic has reinforced the urgent need to modernise, accelerating a digital transformation effort promoted by Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, including the opening on Wednesday of a new Digital Agency intended to improve the government’s notoriously balky online services. To narrow the gap, Japan must address a severe shortage of technology workers and engineering students, a deficit made worse by the near absence of women. In the university programs that produce workers in these fields, Japan has some of the lowest per centages of women in the developed world, according to UNESCO data. It also has among the smallest shares of women doing research in science and technology. Improving the situation will depend in part on whether Japanese society can be nudged away from the mindset that tech is a strictly male domain. It’s an attitude reinforced in comic books and TV shows and perpetuated in some households, where parents worry that daughters who become scientists or engineers will not get married. As Matsumoto sees it, keeping women out of technology is wasteful and illogical. “Half the world’s population is women,” said Matsumoto, 18, who will attend Stanford University this fall and intends to study human-computer interaction. “If only men are changing the world, that’s so inefficient.” With its shrinking, greying population and declining workforce, Japan has little room to squander any of its talent. The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry projects a shortfall of 450,000 information technology professionals in Japan by 2030. It has likened the situation to a “digital cliff” looming before the world’s third-largest economy. In the World Digital Competitiveness Ranking compiled by the International Institute for Management Development, Japan ranks 27th globally and seventh in Asia, behind countries like Singapore, China and South Korea. Japan’s new digital push could offer an opportunity to elevate its women. But it could also leave them further behind. Globally, women stand to lose more than men as automation takes over low-skilled jobs, according to the 2021 UNESCO Science Report, released in June. Women also have fewer opportunities to gain skills in the increasingly high-demand fields of artificial intelligence, machine learning and data engineering, the report said. “Because of digitisation, some jobs will disappear, and women will probably be affected more than men,” said Takako Hashimoto, a former software engineer at Ricoh who is now vice president of Chiba University of Commerce and a delegate to the W-20, which advises the Group of 20 major nations on women’s issues. “So there’s an opportunity here but also a danger.” Hashimoto noted that there were few government programs in Japan that sought to draw women into technology. The Japanese government should set up tech retraining programs for women who want to go back to work after staying at home to raise children, she said. Others have suggested scholarships expressly for female students seeking to study science or engineering. “The government needs to take leadership on this,” she said. “It hasn’t really linked digitalisation with gender equality.” Miki Ito, 38, an aerospace engineer, said that when she had become enraptured by space as a teenager, she had few role models other than Chiaki Mukai, Japan’s first female astronaut. In college and graduate school, 90 per cent of the students in Ito’s aerospace department were men, as were all her teachers. Ito, who is general manager at Astroscale, a company that seeks to remove space debris circling the Earth, said she had not encountered gender discrimination either in school or in her work. But she said she did see an entrenched bias in Japanese society, including a belief that women “aren’t very logical or mathematical.” She blames images in popular culture. “Boys use robots to fight the bad guys, but girls use magic,” she said. “I’ve wondered why we don’t see the opposite very much.” Ito predicted mixed fortunes for Japanese women as the country digitizes. While those in their 40s and older may be left behind, younger women will benefit from the new opportunities, she said. “The youth of today will narrow the digital gender gap, but it will take time,” she said. To help prepare young people for the digital future, the Japanese government last year made computer programming classes mandatory in elementary schools. Haruka Fujiwara, a teacher in Tsukuba, just north of Tokyo, who has been teaching and coordinating programming classes, said she had seen no difference in enthusiasm or ability between girls and boys. By age 15, Japanese girls and boys perform equally well in math and science on international standardized tests. But at this critical point, when students must choose between the science and humanities tracks in high school, girls’ interest and confidence in math and science suddenly wane, surveys and data show. This is the beginning of Japan’s “leaky pipe” in technology and science — the higher the educational level, the fewer the women, a phenomenon that exists in many countries. But in Japan’s case, it narrows to a trickle, leaving a dearth of women in the graduate schools that produce the country’s top science talent. Women make up 14 per cent of university graduates in Japanese engineering programs and 25.8 per cent in the natural sciences, according to UNESCO data. In the United States, the figures are 20.4 per cent and 52.5 per cent, and in India they are 30.8 per cent and 51.4 per cent. To help change this trend and create a space for teenage girls to talk about their futures, two women with science backgrounds, Asumi Saito and Sayaka Tanaka, co-founded a nonprofit called Waffle, which runs one-day tech camps for middle and high school girls. Saito, 30, and others offer career lectures and hands-on experiences that emphasise problem-solving, community and entrepreneurship to counter the stereotypically geeky image of technology. “Our vision is to close the gender gap by empowering and educating women in technology,” said Saito, who has a master’s degree in data analytics from the University of Arizona. “We think of technology as a tool. Once you get that tool and get empowered, you can make an impact on the world.” Waffle supported 23 teams totalling 75 teenage girls in an app creation contest — including Matsumoto, whose three-person team pitched an app called Household Heroes. It divvies up household chores among family members, and rewards those who finish tasks by adding items to a cute Pokémon-like character. “The sex-based division of labour is deeply rooted,” Matsumoto said. “To change people’s thinking, we decided to develop this app.” The same cultural expectations extend to child-rearing, too, leading many women to quit their jobs once they give birth. That leaves fewer women to ascend to leadership roles or contribute to technological innovations. Megumi Moss, a former Sony employee, said she felt that she had to choose between her career and her family. For 10 years, Moss had a demanding if rewarding job, often returning home on the last train just before midnight only to wake up early the next morning and repeat the cycle. When she and her American husband, an investment banker, decided to have children, she quit her job with Sony. But a few months before she gave birth to her daughter, she started an online business, CareFinder, that helps alleviate women’s child care duties by matching them with prescreened sitters. “I feel like I’m addressing a social problem and helping ease the burden that women carry,” said Moss, 45. “That’s really fulfilling.” Matsumoto, the student headed to Stanford, said she, too, wanted to make life better for girls and women in Japan. A bit of a rebel against the country’s cultural expectations, she dyed her hair bright pink after her graduation — something that is banned at Japanese high schools. She said she had decided to attend college in the United States after learning that she would not get in trouble for asking questions in American classroo Eventually, she wants to return to her home prefecture in the southern island of Shikoku “because I hated it there,” she said. “I want to go back there to help create a society that won’t let girls suffer the way I did.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/japan-needs-tech-workers-can-it-find-place-for-women-1026067.html
02-09-2021||Right in the Middle||The elixir of mornings||Amidst all the other reasons to divide us in the world we live in, who would have thought something as benign as one’s hot beverage preference would become a lightning rod for discord? At a recent get-together, I ventured into, all that the host did was to cordially ask the guests whether they opted to have coffee or tea. This set off an immediate coffee versus tea debate. While there was no indication that the argument would degenerate into fisticuffs, I am sure it led to some residual friction among the ‘warring’ parties. Whether coffee or tea is the better drink is a never-ending dispute and I would be hallucinating if I thought, me or anyone else could put it to bed. According to me, mornings are made for coffee. Drinking my morning joe is as natural as witnessing the sunrise. Morning coffee is the elixir of life that saves me from eternal grumpiness as if to remind my grey cells to light up after deep slumber. It is my only companion while I slug it out during long nights trying to finish up my writing. You don’t need to be in a supine position to doze off on a warm afternoon, especially after curd rice fuelled lunch. Indulge in a fresh cup of filter coffee, lest you end up being ‘caught napping’ by your colleagues! It is hard to imagine the scale to which coffee has unwittingly lodged itself in the fabric of our society. Job interviews, tete-a-tetes between long lost friends, dates - all happen “over a cup of coffee”. I have been witness to some of the knottiest problems getting resolved amicably over coffee. Coffee even comes to the aid of truant public workers. ‘Coffee ge hogidaare’ (‘He has gone for coffee’) is a convenient alibi heard often on the precincts of government offices when the person you are seeking to meet might have very well packed his bags for the day! Coffee is a barometer of courtesy, for it is impolite to let go of visitors without offering them “at least a cup of coffee”. I have a theory that only a few make it to that rarefied list of things in life that never go out of fashion and I daresay that coffee is one of them. I cannot imagine anything else replacing it (although its cousin, tea, has tried hard and continues to be a worthy adversary). I have not and never will come to terms with the notion that some people (which includes my better half) can stay away from coffee altogether. As for me, coffee is pure ambrosia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-elixir-of-mornings-1026062.html
02-09-2021||Second Edit||'Break farmers' heads' approach unhelpful||The orders of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of Karnal that the police should “break the heads” of those who trespassed the security cordon set up by the force on Saturday should have appeared to the agitating farmers there as the voice of the government. The farmers, who have been agitating for months for the withdrawal of the three farm laws, have always said that the government is insensitive and non-responsive, and lacked concern for them. Many farmers were injured in the lathi-charge when they gathered at a venue where a BJP meeting presided over by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was being held. The SDM has said that his words were selectively quoted, but Khattar has said that his choice of words was not correct. The BJP’s partner in the state government, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), has demanded action against the officer. The Chief Minister said that the government had to strictly maintain law and order, but there was no law and order issue and no threat of violence in Karnal. The farmers have remained peaceful all these months, since their protests started last November, except on Republic Day this year when, according to them, they were blamed for the violence planned and resorted to by others. When the protests were more active and visible, the farmers had alleged that the governments at the Centre and in Haryana and UP were trying to undermine and scuttle them, instead of trying to engage them in a productive dialogue. The central government has held a dozen rounds of talks with them but the farmers have felt that none of them was intended to seriously address their concerns over the laws but only to convince them that the laws were for their own good. The laws have now been put in cold storage on the intervention of the Supreme Court. The government promised to suspend implementation of the laws and continuance of the system of support prices. But the farmers are not ready to accept anything less than the withdrawal of the laws altogether. Even when the government said it was ready for any number of rounds of talks and that it was just a phone call away for them, the laws were not negotiable. There is a complete lack of trust and, in the past few months, there has been no serious movement from either side. But the Karnal incident shows that the issue is still live, and the coming elections in Punjab will increase its political salience. There is a case for more fruitful engagement between both sides, and incidents like the action at Karnal will not help at all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/break-farmers-heads-approach-unhelpful-1026061.html
02-09-2021||South||Kerala exploring options to reopen schools||Kerala is also exploring the option of reopening schools as experts who attended a meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday suggested that the state could consider relaxing the restrictions imposed due to Covid. Kerala general education minister V Sivankutty said that a high-level team would be asked to give suggestions on reopening schools. Based on the suggestions of the committee, a final decision would be taken at the level of Chief Minister. Meanwhile, the Covid situation of Kerala continued to be worrisome with 32,097 persons being tested Covid positive on Thursday, while the state has a TPR of 18.41 per cent. The number of active Covid patients in the state crossed 2.4 lakh. The number of persons in hospitals is 33,282, while the remaining infected are in home and institutional quarantine. Health department sources said that only around 50 per cent of the hospital beds in the state were occupied so far and hence, "there was not much to worry". Though oxygen shortage were reportedly faced by some hospitals, those were managed. Experts from various countries who attended the online meeting convened by the Chief Minister had reportedly expressed satisfaction over Kerala's Covid management, especially since the death rate and spread of infection in the state was "quite under control". It was also evaluated that the severity of the Covid infection in Kerala was coming down and hence, majority of those being tested positive did not require any medical care. Experts suggested that the state could consider easing the restrictions and intensifying the Covid vaccination drive.  The Chief Minister will be holding a meeting of local body representatives and subsequently take decisions on whether to ease Covid restrictions or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-exploring-options-to-reopen-schools-1026138.html
02-09-2021||South||Man attacks mother, son who were eating inside a car in Kerala; arrested||In an alleged incident of moral policing, a 44-year-old woman and her 23-year-old son were recently attacked by a man while they were having food inside their car on a busy roadside near Paravoor beach in Kollam district of the state. The incident, which occurred on August 30, received widespread condemnation on social media. Subsequently, on September 1 night, the accused - Ashish - was arrested by Kerala police from Thenmala here. The SHO of Paravoor police station in Kollam, where the mother-son duo have lodged a complaint, confirmed the arrest of the accused and said that he was apprehended while trying to escape to Tamil Nadu. The officer said the incident in question looked like a case of moral policing and they were looking into it. The officer said the accused attacked them while they were having food inside their car on a busy roadside near Paravoor beach. The officer said that according to the complaint received by them, initially the accused made obscene comments against the mother and son and when the son objected, Ashish started attacking the vehicle. When the son stepped out to stop him, he was also attacked and when the mother intervened, she too was not spared, the officer said and added that both the mother and son received multiple injuries in the assault. Their vehicle was also damaged in the assault. Subsequently, the accused fled from the scene and while trying to escape to Tamil Nadu was apprehended from Thenmala, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-attacks-mother-son-who-were-eating-inside-a-car-in-kerala-arrested-1026189.html
02-09-2021||South||Kerala to set up expert panel to study practicality of reopening schools||General Education Minister V Sivankutty said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the high level committee monitoring the Covid situation and guiding actions to deal with the disease in the state would take a final decision on the school reopening. "The Education Department is contemplating to set up a suitable expert panel to submit a report to know whether the circumstances in the state are all right to reopen the schools," he told reporters here. Besides this, the Department would prepare a project report detailing which classes can be reopened in the initial phase, what facilities can be ensured for the safety of children in the coronavirus situation and so on. Both the reports would be submitted to the Chief Minister and the high level Covid committee, who would take a final decision on the reopening of schools, he added. Classes for school students have been conducted in the online mode in the southern state for the last two academic years after the pandemic outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-set-up-expert-panel-to-study-practicality-of-reopening-schools-1026226.html
02-09-2021||South||Prisoners in Kerala may soon be able to donate organs||A recent order of the Kerala High Court that criminal background of a person should not be a bar on voluntary organ donation could be a fillip to a proposal of the Prisons Department of Kerala that prisoners shall be allowed to donate organs. It was after a prisoner in Kannur district sought permission to voluntarily donate organ a few years back that the prison department looked into the matter. Deputy Inspector General of Prisons S Santosh told DH that a proposal was already submitted to the Kerala government that prisoners shall be allowed to voluntarily donate organs. It was only after a prisoner in Kannur district made a request a few years back that he be allowed to donate organs, that the prisons department gave a serious thought to the matter. A major concern that came up was the post transplant medical care of donor and their health conditions. After detailed deliberations, the prisons department recommended to the government that provisions shall be included in the prisons rules allowing prisoners to donate organs. Meanwhile, the prisoner at Kannur who sought permission for organ donation was already released after his jail term ended. The Kerala HC recently observed that criminal history of a person should not be a reason to reject request for organ transplant. The court order came on a petition filed by a Kollam native, challenging an order of the committee for organ transplant rejecting the request of an organ donor citing that he was involved in criminal case. The HC order was hailed by those associated with organ donation. A doctor in a district committee on organ transplant said that the police only need to verify whether any sorts of trade is involved in the organ transplant. But most police reports on organ donors mention that the donor has no criminal background. Known industrialist Kochouseph Chittilappilly, who is an organ donor and a campaigner of organ donation, said that criminal background of a persons should not be a reason to turn down a person's wish to donate organ as it was an act of charity and kindness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prisoners-in-kerala-may-soon-be-able-to-donate-organs-1026267.html
02-09-2021||South||Despite Covid-19 effect, record number of placements at University of Hyderabad||Despite the pandemic effect on the economy, 396 students of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) have received placement offers ranging from Rs 3.50 to Rs 17.71 lakhs per annum, for the 2020-21 year. This is the highest number of placements in the university's history, coordinated through the campus Placement Guidance Advisory Bureau (PGAB). Over 221 students were placed in 132 companies through the campus placements just before the Covid-19 lockdowns earlier this year. From May 2021, companies conducted video interviews and online assessments as they could not physically visit the university campus. The final tally was 396 students placed with 213 companies, UoH officials said. “It is gratifying to note that against the heavy odds such as Covid-19 lockdowns, PGAB secured record placements for the 2020-21 batch University students. We are confident that the successfully placed students will continue to keep the flag of UoH flying high,”Professor Salman Abdul Moiz, Professor-in-charge for PGAB said. The hiring firms included many reputed organisations, in the public and private sectors, and in various fields like TCS, GE, One Convergence, Deloitte, Dr Reddy’s, Bridge i2i, Blaize, Techsophy, Phenom People, ICICI Bank, Tech Mahindra, Elastic Run, Azentio Software Pvt Ltd, UBS, Global Data, Jocata, Cargo flash Ltd, Brane Enterprises Pvt Ltd, Accenture, Mercedes-Benz, Pega System, Cognizant, Team F1, Thought Works, Manthan School.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-covid-19-effect-record-number-of-placements-at-university-of-hyderabad-1026275.html
02-09-2021||South||Monetising PSUs not in national interest: M K Stalin||Opposing the proposed National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday said such a move was not in the national interest.  Speaking in the Assembly, the Chief Minister said he would soon write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing Tamil Nadu’s opposition to the Centre’s proposed move to monetise assets of public sector undertakings (PSUs).   Intervening during a Special Attention Calling Motion against the proposed privatization of PSUs, Stalin the country’s assets belong to its people and these undertakings serve as the foundation for the economic growth and provide jobs to people.  “It is our opinion that privatising or leasing PSUs is not in the national interest. These companies serve people and do not operate just based on profit,” Stalin said. The Chief Minister added that he would soon write to Modi expressing his opposition to the move.  During the discussion, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said the Union Government should listen to the state government’s views on monetising PSUs as “we have given land” for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/monetising-psus-not-in-national-interest-m-k-stalin-1026277.html
02-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to bring legislation against NEET||Tamil Nadu will soon bring legislation seeking exemption from National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission into medical and dental colleges and send it to the President of India for his assent, the Health Department said on Thursday.  Presenting the department’s policy note in the Assembly on Thursday, Health Minister Ma Subramanian said a Committee of Secretaries has suggested promulgating an Act, similar to Tamil Nadu Act No.3/2007, indicating the need for elimination of NEET in medical education. “This will ensure social justice and protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated in admission to medical education programmes,” the Minister said in his note. He also noted that Tamil Nadu has been consistently opposing NEET for admission to medical courses.  Recalling that the Government constituted a high-level committee under the chairmanship of retired High Court judge, Justice A K Rajan, Subramanian said the committee undertook a detailed study on whether the NEET based admission process has adversely affected the social, economic and federal polity and the students of rural and urban poor.  The AIADMK government in 2017 passed two bills seeking exemption from NEET but were rejected by the Centre. NEET is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with over a dozen students choosing to end their lives due to failure in the exam or due to fear of facing the test. He said 11 new government medical colleges are being established in Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, The Nilgiris, Dindigul, Tiruppur, Namakkal, Nagapattinam, Krishnagiri, Tiruvallur, Kallakurichi and Ariyalur with an intake of 150 MBBS seats each. “Administrative and financial sanctions have been accorded for construction of buildings and creation of new posts as per the National Medical Commission norms. Now the construction of buildings are in progress,” he said. On Covid-19, the Minister said vaccination is being given a full thrust on a drive mode to mobilize the general public to come forward for vaccination. “With the vaccine drive, and continued vigil, it is hoped that the impact of Covid-19 will come down further in the coming days,” he said, adding that currently Tamil Nadu has a storage capacity of around 1794.75 MT of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-bring-legislation-against-neet-1026284.html
02-09-2021||South||Kodanad heist-cum-murder case posted for October 1||The Nilgiris District Sessions Court on Thursday posted the hearing of the sensational Kodanad heist-cum-murder case for October 1, even as the district police formed a special team to further investigate the case.  The court, which heard the matter on Thursday, adjourned the case to October 1 after granting four weeks’ time for the prosecution to submit a report on the status of the inquiry. The development comes almost a week after the Madras High Court ruled that the Nilgiris police can continue with further investigation in the case.  Lawyers representing the government sought more time to submit the status report as they will have to interrogate more people in connection with the case. Accepting the request, Judge C Sanjai Baba granted four weeks’ time and posted the case for October 1. Sayan and another accused Walayar Manoj were produced before the court on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Nilgiris Police formed a special team to carry out further investigation in the case. Sources said the team will be headed by an officer in the rank of ADSP.  The case assumed political significance after former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami alleged that the DMK was trying to frame him in the case by further investigating at a time the probe was nearing completion. During the hearing last week, Justice M Nirmal Kumar of the Madras High Court said the police was “fully empowered” to conduct further investigation in the case and ruled that the petitioner, ‘Anubhav’ Ravi, has no locus standi to seek a stay on further probe since he is a prosecution witness. Ravi is an office-bearer of Nilgiris district AIADMK.  Kodanad was the summer retreat of Jayalalithaa since she and her long-time aide V K Sasikala bought the sprawling bungalow in Kothagiri in the early 1990s. The former chief minister would visit the bungalow often when her party, AIADMK, was occupying the Opposition benches in the Assembly. Sayan and nine others are accused of breaking into the sprawling mansion owned by Jayalalithaa in 2017, months after her death, and killing a guard who was posted there. Police had then alleged that C Kanagaraj, Jayalalithaa’s former driver, and Sayan plotted the crime.  However, Kanagaraj, Sayan’s wife and their daughter died in separate road accidents, raising doubts. An “independent investigation” conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel alleged that Palaniswami was behind the break-in, but the former Chief Minister had steered clear of the issue, saying vested interests were trying to bring “disrepute” to him and Jayalalithaa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kodanad-heist-cum-murder-case-posted-for-october-1-1026286.html
02-09-2021||South||Amara Raja group in talks with TN for establishing new battery unit||Amara Raja group, the second-largest manufacturers of batteries in the country, is in talks with the Tamil Nadu government for setting up a battery-making unit in the neighbouring state as part of its expansion plans.  The move comes amidst trouble in the home state of Andhra Pradesh where the company and the government are locked in a battle that is now before the High Court. Highly placed sources told DH that the Chittoor-based company touched base with Guidance Tamil Nadu a couple of months ago for its expansion plans out of Andhra Pradesh. The sources said the Amara Raja group asked for land parcels close to Chennai for the proposed manufacturing unit.  “They spoke to us and wanted us to find land close to the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border as it would be easy for them to connect the existing facilities and the proposed one. We have given them a detailed proposal with details of what we can offer. We hope they will choose TN,” a top government functionary said.  The company had recently confirmed that it was in talks with various state governments for its expansion plans.  While the sources refused to divulge the locations offered for the company, districts like Vellore, Ranipet, and Tiruvallur that share borders with Andhra Pradesh, particularly Chittoor district, could be ideal for setting up the factory.  Vellore and Ranipet that boasts of huge industries are around 120 km away from Karakambadi, where Amara Raja’s factories are located, and Chennai is around 135 km.  Besides the expansion plans, the Tamil Nadu government has invited the Amara Raja group to set its shop for manufacturing batteries for e-scooters in and around Hosur, which is being developed as a hub for manufactures of electric two-wheelers and their accessories.  “Since we believe companies like Amara Raja will eventually move to the electric vehicle sector by producing batteries for them, we have invited them to Hosur as we are keen on developing an ecosystem for electric scooters in the industrial city,” a senior government official said.  On reports of Amara Raja Batteries moving to Tamil Nadu lock, stock and barrel from Andhra Pradesh, the government functionary said he was not aware of any such move.  “The company approached us for expansion not for moving its factories. And we understand their facilities in AP are quite huge and we don’t really know how it is possible to shift the units. At this point, the talks between Tamil Nadu Government and Amara Raja batteries are for expansion,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amara-raja-group-in-talks-with-tn-for-establishing-new-battery-unit-1026288.html
02-09-2021||South||Four fishermen die as boat capsizes in Kerala||Four fishermen died after their boat capsized in the sea, off Kollam coast, in Kerala on Thursday. Police sources said the rough tide was prima facie considered to be the cause for the incident. Some fishermen were also injured, and the fishing boat was damaged. Local sources said the fishing boat with around 15 fishermen ventured into the sea in the morning. As the boat reached hardly one nautical mile, it capsized following unexpected high tide. Fishermen on other boats carried out the rescue operation. At least 10 people were rescued, and the injured were rushed to nearby hospitals. The deceased hailed from nearby localities. Fisheries Minister Saji Cheriyan visited the spot and assured assistance to the families of the deceased. A detailed probe is also likely to be ordered into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-fishermen-die-as-boat-capsizes-in-kerala-1026289.html
02-09-2021||South||Kashmiris held with unlicenced arms under scanner in Kerala||Five youths from Kashmir held by the Kerala police in Thiruvananthapuram on charges of possession of arms without a licence were under the scanner of central agencies. According to the Thiruvananthapuram city police sources, the youths were working as security guards of a logistic agency involved in maintaining bank ATMs. They were under scanner over the last few months as they did not surrender their guns during the time of Assembly elections. Though the youths hailing from Rajouri in Kashmir maintained that the guns were licenced from the district administration of Rajouri, it was found false during probe and hence they were held on Wednesday and the weapons seized. Officials of various central agencies were examining the five on Thursday and the weapons were also being verified. The youths identified as Shoukath Ali, Gulzaman, Mohammad Javed, Shukur Ahmmed and Mushtaq Hussan were recruited by the logistics firms through a private recruiting agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kashmiris-held-with-unlicenced-arms-under-scanner-in-kerala-1026352.html
02-09-2021||State||Karnataka diploma courses: Sept 20 last date for admission||The department of technical education has extended the last date for admission to diploma courses up to September 2. The extended date will be applicable to 62 government polytechnic colleges and 34 aided institutions of engineering and non-engineering diploma courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-diploma-courses-sept-20-last-date-for-admission-1026337.html
02-09-2021||State||Mini Vidhana Soudha name to be changed: R Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the Karnataka government would soon take a decision on changing the name of Mini Vidhana Soudha, the taluk office, as writers have expressed objection to the English term mini in the name.  He told reporters, "The taluk offices have been named as Mini Vidhana Soudhas. The writers have opposed the English word mini in this name and have said that it is better to keep 'Taluk Adalitha Soudha', a Kannada name (Taluk Administrative Complex). An order will be issued in this regard soon." He said there is a dispute between the revenue and the forest departments over 9 lakh hectares of land. The issue has been discussed with the forest minister and an agreement has been entered to give 6 lakh acres of deemed forest to the revenue department. It would help to provide land to Bagarhukum cultivators. Those who till the land would get the land, he explained.  He said steps have been taken to recognised Lambani Tandas and Kurubara Hattis as revenue villages.  Ashoka said the server problem in sub-registrar offices is due to the non-upgradation of the office software. The information and technology department has agreed to provide the new software and Rs 12 crore has been released for the maintenance of batteries and other equipment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mini-vidhana-soudha-name-to-be-changed-r-ashoka-1026342.html
02-09-2021||State||RGUHS asks colleges to monitor students returning to Karnataka from other states||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has asked the affiliated colleges to be vigilant and monitor students returning from other states for Covid-19 like symptoms. Following the reports on Covid-19 clusters at some of the nursing colleges affiliated with RGUHS, the university has issued a circular on Thursday instructing all colleges to monitor students returning from other states. The university has asked the colleges to nominate an official or the faculty member to coordinate with the university on the issue. Dr Jayakara S M, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said a committee has been formed to look into the matter and investigate why colleges had a spike in cases. “All the students in our colleges are vaccinated and have to undergo testing before they come to the campus. We will investigate if there were any lapses in following the guidelines,” said Dr Jayakara. All colleges have been told that all students and employees coming from Kerala should bring a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours irrespective of their vaccination status. So far, Covid-19 clusters have been detected in two nursing colleges in the state -- one in Kolar, another one in Bengaluru. In both the colleges, students who first tested positive have had travel history from Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rguhs-asks-colleges-to-monitor-students-returning-to-karnataka-from-other-states-1026380.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cop accused of forcing Dalit youth to drink urine arrested in Karnataka||The Criminal Investigating Department (CID) sleuths probing the sensational case of Dalit youth allegedly forced to drink urine while in custody have arrested the prime accused sub-inspector Arjun, police sources said on Thursday. Arjun, a former sub-inspector at the Gonibeedu police station in Chikkamagalur district was arrested by the team headed by Superintendent of Police Ravi D. Channannavar on Wednesday night in Bengaluru, sources said. The police in Gonibeedu had picked up Punith K.L. on May 10 in connection with an elopement case probed by SI Arjun. Arjun allegedly tortured Punith and asked another youth to urinate on his face. It has also been charged that Punith was asked to lick the urine on the floor. The matter came to light when Punith wrote a letter to the police department and the Human Rights Commission. An FIR was registered in this connection against the accused police officer Arjun on May 22. Following the backlash, the accused police officer was kept under suspension. Meanwhile, a rape case was lodged against Punith and his relatives but he had obtained bail in the case. Both the cases are being investigated by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The Karnataka High Court has turned down the plea of accused sub-inspector Arjun to quash the charges against him in the case in July. He had withdrawn the application seeking quashing of the case. The court had also directed the police not to take any coercive measure and file a charge sheet in the case. Various organisations in the state have planned a massive protest this week demanding the arrest of the accused sub-inspector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cop-accused-of-forcing-dalit-youth-to-drink-urine-arrested-in-karnataka-1026204.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka revises Covid protocol for travellers from Kerala||The Karnataka government has revised its Covid-19 protocol for people coming from Kerala, exempting a set of people from mandatory seven days institutional quarantine. It had earlier stated that all those coming from Kerala have to be under institutional quarantine for seven days in view of the alarming rise in Covid cases. The revised protocol exempted constitutional functionaries, healthcare professionals and their spouses from institutional quarantine. Apart from them, children below two years, people in dire emergency situation such as death in the family or medical treatment, short term travellers (within three days), students arriving to Karnataka for examination along with one parent each and go back within three days and passengers in transit from and to Kerala via any mode of transport have been exempted, the order said. According to the government order, all students and employees should compulsorily bring negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours irrespective of their Covid-19 vaccination status. It clarified that the validity of such certificates is for one week. Meanwhile, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the situation in Kerala was "scary." "We are scared of the prevailing situation in Kerala. The number of Covid patients is not reducing. Yesterday also more than 30,000 people were tested positive for Covid-19," Sudhakar told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday. He also said that the situation had prompted the Karnataka government to make institutional quarantine mandatory for those coming from Kerala. "Students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) have complained that institutional quarantine for a week will affect them. Hence, keeping in view the academic future of the students, the government has directed the centres and institutions to arrange for institutional quarantine," Sudhakar said. He further said the employers will have to make arrangement for institutional quarantine of their staff. Others coming here will be home quarantined, he explained. The Karnataka government had earlier made it mandatory for everyone coming from Kerala to get quarantined for a week even if they possess a negative RT-PCR report or have taken the Covid-19 vaccine. These measures were taken in view of the alarming rise in Covid cases in the neighbouring Kerala which reported 32,803 new Covid-19 cases and 173 deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-revises-covid-protocol-for-travellers-from-kerala-1026218.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will discuss rising fuel prices with FM Nirmala Sitharaman, says Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he would discuss the fuel and cooking gas price hike issues with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman who would visit the state on September 5. He told media persons in Bengaluru on Friday that the fuel price hike has different reasons, including crude oil price at the international market, processing cost, financial condition of oil companies, and payment related to oil bonds. In the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, Bommai said, steps are taken to prevent the entry of those who come from Kerala with fake Covid negative reports. A special vaccination drive is also being conducted in all villages within 20 km from Karnataka’s boundary with Kerala, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-discuss-rising-fuel-prices-with-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-says-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1026227.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No link between Covid-19 vaccine and Karnataka govt schemes: P Ravi Kumar||Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Thursday clarified that there was no link between citizens getting the Covid-19 vaccine and them receiving government benefits such as ration or pensions. Kumar issued a circular after Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner M R Ravi's ‘no vaccination, no ration, no pension’ plan led to outrage. “Since the Covid-19 vaccination has not been linked to any government scheme or programme, deputy commissioners and district health officers are directed not to impose any restrictions on citizens in order to get them vaccinated,” Kumar said, adding that the vaccination programme should be made successful by taking up awareness campaigns. “If, in case, the vaccination has been wrongfully linked to any government scheme or programme, it should be immediately dropped,” Kumar said. On Wednesday, the Chamarajanagar DC clarified that no order had been issued linking vaccination with the provision of ration or pension. However, Ravi had told reporters recently that the district administration wanted to roll out a ‘no vaccination, no ration, no pension’ programme in Chamarajanagar from September 1, to create awareness on the importance of vaccination, in the wake of the second wave. Even Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai disapproved of the plan to link vaccination with government services. “Instead they should address the concern of vaccine hesitancy and convince people to get vaccinated,” Bommai said Wednesday. The chief secretary’s circular came a day after Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar demanded DC Ravi’s suspension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-link-between-covid-19-vaccine-and-karnataka-govt-schemes-p-ravi-kumar-1026260.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP strengthened its position by installing Bommai as CM in Karnataka: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday lauded Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for his "small but significant moves" in a short time and said those monitoring Karnataka from the national capital say that the BJP has strengthened its position in the state by installing him. "Bommai has made some small but significant beginning. He has stopped the tradition of receiving police guard of honour, put a brake on many VVIP practices and he has taken certain steps for transparency. It is a very short time since Bommai took over but people who are sitting in Delhi and closely watching the developments in Karnataka, say that the BJP has strengthened its position by installing him as the Chief Minister," Amit Shah said at an event here. In his maiden visit to Karnataka after Bommai took over as Chief Minister on July 28, the BJP leader exuded confidence that the party would come back to power by winning the Assembly election due in 2023. "Bommai has experience of running the government and leading a decent public life, and he being in the BJP for a very long time, I have full confidence that under his leadership the BJP will come back to power with full mandate (in 2023)," Shah opined. The Home Minister also heaped praises on former Chief Minister and BJP stalwart B S Yediyurappa, whose resignation as Chief Minister on July 26, brought Bommai to power. "I am confident that Yediyurappa did not leave any stone unturned for the development of villages and farmers. If a new era of development has started in Karnataka, it happened in the BJP government during the tenure of Yediyurappa," Shah said. According to him, Yediyurappa himself had decided to give new faces a chance to lead Karnataka and the BJP leadership decided to give the responsibility to Bommai. Speaking about the Covid-19 management, Shah praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the best handling of pandemic and bringing out the country to a good extent from it with public support. He said the entire world was watching with surprise how a nation of 130 crore population will face the challenge. "However, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, the nation abided by the lockdown norms initially and then carried out the biggest vaccination drive of the world in India.Today we can proudly say that if there is a nation, which has given maximum vaccines, it is India," Shah said. The Home Minister also pointed out that the country broke its own previous record of one crore jabs on a single day by vaccinating 1.36 crore people on a single day a couple of days ago. Speaking about the vaccination drive in Karnataka, Shah said the state has vaccinated almost 90 per cent of its eligible population by carrying out 5.2 crore inoculations. "Over four crore people have received the first dose while 1.16 crore people have taken the second dose. It is an example what a government can do by taking along people," he explained. Noting that the economically weaker section was hit hard due to the pandemic, the Home Minister said the BJP government at the Centre gave five kg rice to each member of BPL families for 10 months from May last year. According to him, 80 crore people from weaker sections had received five kg rice every month for 10 months. Shah added that the Prime Minister has also announced financial packages to deal with any further wave of Covid-19. Recalling the oxygen crisis during the second wave of Covid-19, the Home Minister said many new oxygen plants which came up in a very short period have started operations. Exuding confidence that India will be self reliant in oxygen production in the event of any epidemic outbreak in future, Shah said the country will not require to go anywhere for oxygen. Seeking public support in the fight against Covid-19, Shah expressed his disappointment over vaccine resistance among some communities. He said it is everyone's responsibility to make sure that no one in the family, friends, and neighbourhood is left without vaccine. "The 'mantra' to win the battle against coronavirus is the vaccine," Shah said. He appealed to BJP activists to work with people in spreading awareness about the vaccine and take those people to the vaccination centre who have not taken it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-strengthened-its-position-by-installing-bommai-as-cm-in-karnataka-amit-shah-1026269.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More than a lakh await corneal donations in Karnataka but pledges sparse||Every year, on average, 5,600 eye donations are made in Karnataka, but an estimated 1.25 lakh corneal blind are waiting for corneal donations. Of the 32 eye banks functioning in Karnataka, only seven are government-run. At state-run Minto Eye Hospital, for example, an average of 250 eye donations were made every year pre-Covid which has reduced to 55 during Covid. This when the waiting list at this hospital alone was less than 10 prior to the pandemic, it has increased to 80 patients now. Doctors say that with a death rate of eight per 1,000 currently in the country, even if 10% of the population donate their eyes, it would suffice. Deaths at homes can contribute significantly, even though cornea retrieval programmes at hospitals exist. Dr B L Sujatha Rathod, director, Minto Ophthalmic Hospital, said, "A large proportion of blindness cases are avoidable. Corneal scarring either as a result of corneal diseases including ulcers or trauma is a major cause of bilateral or unilateral blindness and vision impairment in children and young adults. Even among the donated eyes, the proportion of unused eyes has increased over the years due to various factors." Despite the fact that vision restoration is possible for a sizable proportion of the corneal blind, relatives of the deceased who has pledged his/her eyes do not honour that pledge after his/her death. There is still lack of awareness about essential aspects of eye donation like corneal retrieval needing to be done within six hours of death and that it does not cause facial disfigurement. Dr Bhujang Shetty, chairperson, Narayana Nethralaya, said, "There's been a drastic drop of 70% to 80% in corneal donations over the last year. We used to collect 200 eyes a month but it has come down to 40 a month. We have 100 people on our waiting list. It comes down to zero whenever a Covid wave peaks. "Even when patients die of heart ailments in non-Covid deaths, there is some suspicion on whether Covid infection is present in the cornea. RT-PCR testing takes time but we err on the side of caution." During the first and the second Covid waves, Eye Bank Association of India had placed some restrictions on retrieving the eyes of Covid suspects. On a positive note, senior consultant of Cornea and Cataract Services at Sankara Nethralaya, Dr Anand Balasubramaniam, said, "Corneal donations have slightly improved now. Also, because of the National Eye Donation Fortnight from August 25 to September 8, we've got quite a lot of pledges." Steps to follow in case of death at home: * Call the nearest eye bank* Switch off fans of the rooms* Keep ACs (air conditioners) on* Place wet cotton on closed eyes of the donor* Support the head with a pillow||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-than-a-lakh-await-corneal-donations-in-karnataka-but-pledges-sparse-1026300.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka colleges, companies to provide institutional quarantine facilities for Kerala travellers||ln view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Kerala, it has been observed that students and employees arriving in Karnataka from Kerala in spite of bringing negative RT-PCR reports are testing Covid-19 positive during a repeat test and a number of such cases are being reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. In this regard, students and employees coming from Kerala shall compulsorily bring negative RT-PCR certificates that are not older than 72 hours, irrespective of their Covid vaccination status (one or two doses), and the validity of such certificates is for seven days, said Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar in a circular issued here on Wednesday. The necessary arrangements for institutional quarantine of students from Kerala have to be done by the administrators/principals of the educational institutions. In the case of employees, necessary arrangements for institutional quarantine are to be made by the respective offices/companies/firms, the order further said. Under no circumstances will such persons be permitted to be in home isolation. The persons shall compulsorily be in institutional quarantine and under strict supervision for seven days. On the seventh day they shall be tested by RT-PCR and on testing negative they shall be released. They shall further do self-assessment and in case of onset of symptoms, they shall get RT-PCR test done, seek medical consultation and follow the state protocol. The person who tests positive shall compulsorily be shifted to a CCC and the contacts tested by RT-PCR, and if negative, placed under institutional quarantine for seven days, and on testing RT-PCR negative on the seventh day, he/she shall be released. ln cases of breakthrough infection (occurring 14 days after the second vaccine dose) and samples with Ct value higher than 25, the person shall be compulsorily sent for whole genomic sequencing and pending results, the samples may be subjected to reflex/variant PCR testing (after the test kits are validated) to know the variant quickly. Visitors from Kerala other than students and employees should produce the RT- PCR negative test report and should be in home quarantine for seven days. Other permitted exemptions for institutional quarantine are constitutional functionaries, health care professionals and their spouses, children below two years, those in dire emergency situations (death in the family, medical treatment etc.), short term travellers (leaving within three days), students arriving in Karnataka for writing exams along with one parent (leaving within three days), and passengers in transit from and to Kerala via any mode of transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-colleges-companies-to-provide-institutional-quarantine-facilities-for-kerala-travellers-1026306.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,240 new Covid cases, 22 deaths ||Karnataka on Thursday clocked 1,240 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 29.52 lakh, while 22 deaths pushed the death toll to 37,361. The day also saw 1,252 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,96,079. Active cases stood at 18,378. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 319 cases and four fatalities. Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major Covid-19 hotspot with 264 fresh infections and five fatalities. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including Udupi 111, Mysuru 88, Hassan 76, Belagavi 49 and Uttara Kannada 42. Chikkaballapur and Haveri reported zero infections and zero deaths. Twenty districts reported zero fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1240-new-covid-cases-22-deaths-1026307.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka degree colleges to work 2 shifts to handle student rush||Colleges in Karnataka will function in two shifts this year to cater to the increased demand for undergraduate course seats this year. If the colleges get more admissions, they will be allowed to conduct classes in two shifts, preferably in the morning and afternoon. The colleges can utilise the existing infrastructure for the same. As per the information from the department of collegiate education, the morning classes will be conducted from 8 am to 12 pm and the afternoon shift will be from 12 pm to 4 pm. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, "We don't think there will be a dearth of seats. Every year, around 1 lakh seats in undergraduate courses remained vacant. We have also opened evening colleges in 11 government degree colleges and allowed colleges to function in shifts." He said that the department of collegiate education had been instructed to increase intake at private unaided colleges up to 20%. "Unaided colleges can submit requests for an increase in intake. In case the colleges have the additional infrastructure and need more seats, they can submit a request to the department," said Ashwath Narayan. The minister sought to reassure students on the availability of engineering seats. "We can afford any number of students who wish to pursue higher education. If there is a shortage of teachers, we will hire guest faculties and we have already started the process to recruit 1,200 assistant professors," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-degree-colleges-to-work-2-shifts-to-handle-student-rush-1026349.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ensure no illegal mining at Sadahalli bande, HC to Karnataka govt||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the state government to ensure that no illegal mining takes place at Sadahalli quarry/Sadahalli Bande at Sadahalli and Chowdenahalli villages of Devanahalli taluk off Kempegowda International Airport Road. A division bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, passed this interim direction on a petition filed by the local residents. The bench ordered notice to the government, including the Department of Mines and Geology. The petitioners, including retired IPS officer S Mariswamy, alleged that mining/quarrying is being undertaken in an area fully surrounded by residential layouts. The mining activities are barely 100-200 meters away from some residential areas such as Jade Garden, Hollywood Town and Swiss Town residential layouts. The resumption of activities has affected the residents, mostly senior citizens. The petitioners contended that the quarry dust can cause serious fatalities as well as diseases like “Silicosis”. They said many residents have fallen ill and also apprehended that dust may also aggravate the Covid risk, they contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ensure-no-illegal-mining-at-sadahalli-bande-hc-to-karnataka-govt-1026354.html
02-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Demonstration on processing saltwater into freshwater on September 3||A demonstration for converting seawater into freshwater using technology in the deep-sea fishing boats will be held in the presence of the Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Water Transport S Angara on September 3. The demonstration will be held near the estuary in the fishing boats by a private firm, said Fisheries department Deputy Director Harish Kumar to DH. The fisheries department officials, representatives of fishermen, bank officials will take part in the demonstration. The fishing boats that venture into the deep sea remain in mid-sea for seven to 10 days. Each boat will have a minimum of 15 fishermen. The fishermen who venture into deep-sea fishing have been facing inconvenience with the shortage of potable water when the water carried by them in the boat gets exhausted. Now, a technology has been developed to process the salt water for drinking purpose. Already, a demonstration was held before the officials from the fisheries department and Fisheries College recently. Fishermen leader Ramachandra Baikampady said that 5000 litre water is carried by fishermen. Here using a potable purifier, the seawater can be converted into potable water. This in turn helps the fishermen and prevents them from spending money on the purchase of potable water, which in turn reduces the weight in the boat as well. The space used for storing water can be in turn used for storing the fish catch. The saltwater is collected in a small pipe when the boat starts its journey. Later with the help of a purifier fixed in the machine, about 2000 litre of water can be purified daily. The purifier machine costs Rs 4.50 lakh. If the government could provide subsidy or financial assistance, then it will be of great help to the fishermen, said Baikampady. “During a recent demonstration held at an estuary in Mangaluru, the fisheries department deputy director and I had even consumed the saltwater which was converted to freshwater. It is as tasty as normal drinking water without any change in taste,” he said. A proposal seeking help from the government for the fishermen was submitted to B S Yediyurappa when he was the chief minister. It is an Australian-based technology that is used widely in Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/demonstration-on-processing-saltwater-into-freshwater-on-september-3-1026381.html
02-09-2021||West||Over 300 Mumbaikars getting vaccinated per minute against Covid-19: Maharashtra govt||As many as 336 people are getting vaccinated against coronavirus in Mumbai every minute considering the number of doses administered in the last few days, the Maharashtra government claimed on Wednesday. A total of 97 lakh vaccine doses have been administered at civic-run vaccination centres and private hospitals in the city to date, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). At least 71 lakh people have got a first dose, while 26 lakh people are now fully vaccinated, the data revealed. Over 1.6 lakh people were vaccinated in Mumbai on August 21, 27 and August 29, while 1.39 lakh got the jab on Wednesday, the state government said. “Higher vaccination coverage of people in Mumbai will ensure greater protection and strengthen our preparation for the predicted third wave, " state minister Aaditya Thackeray said in the statement. Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said the civic body had adequate number of doses in stock as of Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-300-mumbaikars-getting-vaccinated-per-minute-against-covid-19-maharashtra-govt-1026079.html
02-09-2021||West||Ex-Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh's lawyer arrested||The CBI has arrested former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's lawyer, Anand Daga, for allegedly trying to subvert the Bombay High Court directed preliminary enquiry against the ex-minister, officials said on Thursday. The agency has brought Daga, who was arrested in Mumbai, to Delhi on a transit remand, they said. The advocate will be produced before a competent court along with arrested CBI sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari, who was taken into custody on Wednesday night for allegedly receiving bribe from Daga, they said. In its FIR, the CBI has booked Daga and Tiwari in the case, they said. "The CBI has registered a case against its Sub-inspector; a Nagpur based advocate and unknown others on certain allegations, including illegal gratification. During the investigation of the said case, CBI has today arrested the Sub Inspector. The said advocate is being questioned. Searches were conducted in Allahabad and Delhi," CBI spokesperson RC Joshi had said. A report of the preliminary enquiry purportedly giving clean chit to Deshmukh was leaked on Saturday night causing embarrassment to the agency.  The CBI started a probe into the leakage in which it emerged that findings of the PE were influenced.  "Attempt of Anil Deshmukh's team were in contempt of the Bombay High Court which had directed that all concerned should fully cooperate with the CBI while conducting the PE. In this case it has appeared that Deshmukh's team tried to subvert the PE," an official told PTI. Their attempt could not succeed as there is a procedure in the CBI in which evidences on record and legal opinion is also taken on record before the registration of the FIR, he said. "They could not influence people at higher level," he said. The CBI had started a PE on the orders of the Bombay High Court which had issued the direction while hearing a public interest litigation on allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. The claimed PE findings which were leaked showed the Deputy SP probing the matter had purportedly opined that no cognisable offence was made out against Deshmukh. It was later converted into an FIR based on a contrasting opinion of the Deputy SP. The opinion mentioned in the FIR said that cognisable offence is made out against Deshmukh. "The Preliminary Enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then Home minister of Maharashtra, Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR alleged. In the FIR, the CBI had booked Deshmukh and others unidentified under IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty." Allegations against Deshmukh had surfaced after the removal of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.  He was removed after the role of policemen Sachin Waze surfaced into the case of an explosive-laden SUV which was found parked outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Waze was arrested by the NIA. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai, they said.  The FIR alleged that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukhs-lawyer-arrested-1026117.html
02-09-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh moves Bombay HC against ED summons in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh approached the Bombay High Court on Thursday, seeking to quash the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case registered against him. Deshmukh's application came up for hearing before a single bench of Justice Revati Mohite Dere. However, Justice Dere recused herself from hearing the application without assigning any reason and said, “Not before me”. The application will be heard by another bench in due course of time. The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) lodged an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. The ED's case is that while serving as the state home minister, Deshmukh allegedly misused his position and through dismissed police officer Sachin Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was allegedly laundered to the Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by Deshmukh's family. The ED has till now issued five summons to Deshmukh, asking him to appear before it for questioning. However, Deshmukh skipped all the five summons, claiming that he would be seeking appropriate remedy available under law. Deshmukh last month approached the Supreme Court against the summons and sought protection from arrest. The apex court had, however, refused to grant any relief and said Deshmukh had alternate remedies. The NCP leader then approached the HC, challenging the summons. The ED has so far arrested two persons - Sanjeev Palande (additional collector-rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant) - in the case. The agency last month submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court in Mumbai. The CBI had lodged the FIR against Deshmukh after it conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Deshmukh resigned from the post of state home minister the same day, but has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-moves-bombay-hc-against-ed-summons-in-money-laundering-case-1026163.html
02-09-2021||West||Walrus tusk seized in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra forest and police departments have seized ivory tusks of Walrus found in the Arctic region. This is for the first time that such a seizure has been made in India. The seizure was made from the Hatkhamba village in Ratnagiri district in the coastal Konkan belt of the state. The three accused have been identified as Mohammed Numan Yasin Naik (41), a resident of Goa, and Hemant Suresh Kandar (38) and Rajan Dayal Pange (58), both residents of Sindhudurg district. The team has also seized a car in which the tusk was being transported to an unknown location for a sale, and all the accused have been charged under the section 49(c), of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Following a tip-off, the Maharashtra Forest Department teams of Ratnagiri and Satara, along with the Crime Investigation Department (CID) laid a trap and nabbed 3 accused red-handed with the booty. “We have recovered the tusk, approximately 15-16 inches long, of a walrus,” Honorary Wildlife Warden Rohan Bhate, who is also Member, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), said. Walrus (Odobenus rosmarus) is a large flippered marine animal found in the North Pole region of Arctic Ocean and sub-Arctic areas of the Northern hemisphere. Ratnagiri Range Forest Officer Priyanka Lagad said that this is the first ever such seizure of a walrus tusk since these sea animals are found only in the icy shores of Northern Hemisphere, around 10,000 km from here. How it was brought here is a matter of investigation. The details of the cache and weight has not been disclosed as detailed investigations were still in progress. The secret operation was carried out under the guidance of Chief Conservator of Forests, Kolhapur; Dr Clement Ben, Assistant Conservator of Forests Sachin Nilakh, Divisional Forest Officer Deepak Khade, Satara Forest Range Officer Sachin Dombale, and other team members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/walrus-tusk-seized-in-maharashtra-1026213.html
02-09-2021||West||Leaked CBI report giving clean chit to Anil Deshmukh is genuine: NCP||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday claimed that a leaked CBI report which purportedly gave a clean chit to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in a corruption case was genuine. The Central agency has now claimed that the report was leaked after a bribe was paid and it has registered a criminal case in this regard, NCP leader and Maharashtra minority affairs minister Nawab Malik told reporters here. But the Central Bureau of Investigation is not stating that the report itself was fake, he said. "To save its face, it is saying that the report had been managed," Malik alleged. "If the report is presented in the court, Anil Deshmukh will get reprieve. Whatever is happening is all politically motivated," he added. The CBI on Thursday said it has arrested NCP leader Deshmukh's lawyer Anand Daga for allegedly trying to subvert a Bombay High Court-directed preliminary enquiry against the former Maharashtra minister. It has also arrested CBI sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari for allegedly receiving bribe from Daga, it said. A report of the preliminary enquiry purportedly giving clean chit to Deshmukh was leaked on Saturday night. The CBI started a probe into the leak and claimed later that findings of the enquiry had been influenced. The Bombay high court had directed the agency to start a preliminary inquiry while hearing a public interest litigation on allegations of corruption leveled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leaked-cbi-report-giving-clean-chit-to-anil-deshmukh-is-genuine-ncp-1026247.html
02-09-2021||West||Hernia surgery conducted on dog for first time in India||A team led by Dr Narendra Pardeshi, India's leading veterinary surgeon from Pune-based Small Animal Clinic, Pune, Dr Shashank Shah, a pioneer and renowned laparoscopic surgeon with expertise has performed a complex surgery on a dog.  Dr Shah, along with Dr Jyoti Pardeshi, Sudhindra Haribhat, Reena Haribhat, Rutuja Kakade, Shilpa Pujari performed a complex Laparoscopic Hiatus Hernia surgery on a dog, Rolly.  The dog has had a single kidney since birth.  This surgery is the first of its kind in India and probably in the world.  Rolly is now leading a normal life after surgery. Rolly is three years old, weighs 51 kgs, and has been suffering from Hernia for the last one year and is being treated in the hospital for the last 3 months.  “Rolly was diagnosed with the disease. This case is one of the rarest cases, which has been successfully performed. The procedure of the surgery was followed by Gastropexy. The symptoms of Gastropexy were - vomiting, Diarrhoea, hunching back, abdominal pain, regurgitation, difficulty in breathing and drooling,” said Dinesh Kathuria, guardian of Rolly, who resides in Mumbai. “Rolly was living a normal life. He has been part of our family for the last 3 years. Initially, He would run around the house, help us with few household chores, play with me, go for walks, won’t get irritated easily, followed my instructions, eat properly, exercise with me, helped us fetching things and was highly active and attentive,” said Dinesh Kathuria, Rolly's guardian. “Rolly was brought to the hospital for surgery. After undergoing Gastroscopy, CT scan, and MRI tests, the disease was diagnosed following the surgery. The surgery was performed with the help of different kinds of instruments like a harmonic scalpel, laparoscopic set, and liver retractor forceps which are expensive hence depend on it as well. We also needed experienced hands because it shouldn't reoccur. The dog, Rolly, soon recovered after the two hours long surgery. Post-surgery, Rolly was on a liquid diet of bland soup and water for 15 days. No solid food was allowed to heal stomach mucosal ulcers because of hiatus hernia,” said Dr. Narendra Pardeshi, from Small Animal Clinic and referral hospital, Pune. “We have noticed good changes in Rolly after the surgery. He can walk freely without experiencing any complications. This surgery has made us aware as a pet guardian that even animals suffer similar diseases or pain like humans, but unlike us, they cannot speak or express like us. Hence, it's our responsibility to carry regular check-ups by visiting nearby veterinarians and take their utmost care to prevent such health issues,” added Kathuria.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hernia-surgery-conducted-on-dog-for-first-time-in-india-1026259.html
02-09-2021||West||After rechristening dragon fruit, Gujarat govt kicks off first ever 'kamalam' farm festival||About eight months after the Vijay Rupani led BJP government announced renaming of dragon fruit as "kamalam" meaning lotus, the state government, for the first time on Thursday kicked off a five-day farm festival "Farm Fresh Kamalam & Fruit Mahotsva" with an aim to promote the fruit's production and consumption in the state. After inaugurating the festival at Karnavati club in Ahmedabad, state agriculture minister R C Faldu said that "for the two years, farming of kamalam has seen a steep rise in the state, which accounts to nearly 35% of total production in the country. This is a matter of pride. Therefore, we will be holding such festivals every year to promote the farmers growing kamalam and other fruits." According to state agriculture department's estimate, kamalam is grown in about 1,200 hectares of land across Gujarat with annual production of about 4,000 metric tones. Secretary of Agriculture Manish Bharadwaj, who was present during the inauguration, said that "kamalam has been included in Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) in which subsidies are provided to the growers by the central government. On name change, Bharadwaj said that after farmers' push the name was changed to "kamalam" and central government recently released an advisory in this regard also. He said that, "kamalam is different from the standard dragon fruit grown in Southeast Asian countries like Vietnam. "The local farmers here have created the varieties by grafting and other techniques. They are now different in size, taste and colour. kamalam is bigger, much sweeter and comes in different colour as well," Bharadwaj said while adding that to promote the farming and consumption of the fruit, a similar festival will be organised in Delhi also by the end of this month. In the festival over 30 farmers are exhibiting their produce of kamalam, its byproducts including chocolates, jams among others along with other fruits. Mehul Patel, a farmer from Navsari in south Gujarat, said that he left his job at a mobile service provider firm and started cultivating dragon fruit four years ago on his one acre of land. "I learnt how to grow this fruit from Google and currently I grow nearly 10 tones a season. I sell them at around Rs 180 a kg in markets in Surat and Mumbai. This is a good business where the expenditure is much less and profit was reasonably well," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-rechristening-dragon-fruit-gujarat-govt-kicks-off-first-ever-kamalam-farm-festival-1026351.html
