03-09-2021||First Edit||Ideological tampering: Bid to erase women’s, Dalit perspectives||The changes made in the English undergraduate literature syllabus of Delhi University (DU) are yet another attempt to take politics to the classroom, to shape academic narratives in partisan ways and to ensure that students see, hear and read only what the authorities want them to. This is done by both exclusion and inclusion--exclusion of what the authorities do not want students to study, and inclusion of what authorities think they should. The Oversight Committee of the university has removed from the syllabus Mahasweta Devi’s short story Draupadi and the works of two Tamil Dalit writers, Bama and Sukirtharani, which were replaced with the writings of an “upper caste’’ writer, Ramabai. The department has also been told to replace Chandrabati Ramayana with Tulsidas. The changes speak a language now known to pervade academia.   The DU Registrar has said that the changes were made so that the literary content does not hurt the sentiments of any individual. He said that the language used in Mahasweta Devi’ story, which is about the gangrape of a tribal woman in custody, was not acceptable, and it would make students hate the military. Bama is a novelist and Sukirtharani a poet, and both of them have made important contributions to Dalit and women’s writing. Chandrabati’s Ramayana is a retelling of the epic from Sita’s point of view by a 16th century woman poet in what’s presently Bangladesh. The Oversight Committee’s aversion to these writers is self-explanatory because their positions do not belong to the ideology that it might want to promote in the university. A pushback against power by a tribal woman, assertions of identity by Dalits and women, and other versions of the Ramayana than the one the authorities favour, are anathema for such a mindset. Women’s narratives and perspectives perhaps appear especially dangerous to the Committee. The decisions were taken without consulting the Academic Council, whose members have protested against the “arbitrary changes” and termed the Committee’s action “maximum vandalism”. The English department was consulted apparently, and the Committee chairman said in effect that one does not need a PhD to take such a decision. But the implications should be evident. Literature exposes students to the complex human condition, opens up their minds and makes them aware of the various versions and realms of reality. It holds a mirror to society, echoing many voices and presenting many narratives. To deny the diversity of such stories to students and to give them only an authorised version of ‘reality’ is wrong, as it limits their thinking, imagination and experience. A censored and sanitised syllabus without suffering Dalits, questioning Sitas, and custodial rapes will only show them an unreal world. Instead, students should be encouraged to question, not to accept, to imbibe everything and to exclude nothing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/ideological-tampering-bid-to-erase-women-s-dalit-perspectives-1026436.html
03-09-2021||In Perspective||'World-beating' GDP can't mask economic pain||By Andy Mukherjee, Before the ink could dry on India’s quarterly gross domestic product statistics, officials have been quick to parade last quarter’s 20% growth as vindication of their prediction of “imminent V-shaped recovery.” How sensible is that claim? The April-June period was when the pandemic overwhelmed oxygen supplies and hospital beds, villagers floated bodies in rivers or left them in shallow graves, families sold their assets to save their loved ones, and an estimated 2.5 million to 2.8 million Indians died because of Covid-19, according to independent researchers. Statistical artefacts may serve to deny the pain. But GDP expanded 20% from a year earlier, and is set to beat expansion in any major economy this year, only because it had shrunk 24% in the same quarter of 2020. Cheery spin can’t hide the mass suffering across the country. Nor should it detract from the long road to recovery ahead. The number policymakers should focus on is minus 20%, for that’s the shortfall in production from India’s pre-coronavirus growth path. To see this, consider the 36 trillion rupees ($500 billion) of output in the June quarter of 2019. Index it to 100. Had that number continued to increase at the near-7% rate seen during the April-June period of the previous eight years, it would have crossed 114 by now. Instead, India is left with 32 trillion rupees of real production, which corresponds to roughly 91 on the index. That’s a fifth of potential GDP lost in the first quarter of the fiscal year. Assuming that the country gets lucky and avoids a deadly third wave, some of the loss might get made up in the remaining nine months. For that, though, India needs robust pent-up demand. Where will it come from? The economy was slowing even before the pandemic. What has changed in the past year is the distribution of the income pie. By firing workers, cutting wages and squeezing small suppliers, large firms have improved their share, repaid debt and strengthened their balance sheets. But the gains for India Inc. and the stock-owning rich have come at the expense of households and tiny enterprises, which haven’t received much support from the government.  Even after the pandemic subsided, consumer sentiment in July was only half as strong as before the onset of Covid-19 in February 2020. Worse still, the crucial backbone of the middle class, which comprises over 160 million households earning between 200,000 and 500,000 rupees a year, saw the lowest improvement, “a mere 1 per cent increase over June,” as Mahesh Vyas at the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy puts it. Private consumption, which accounts for more than half of India’s economy, is where it was four years ago. Among other sources of demand, investment jumped 55% in real, or inflation-adjusted terms, but it was still 17% lower than during April-June 2019. Exports clocked a strong 39% growth over the same period of 2020, but that was because there was no nationwide lockdown this time around. India’s growth strategy is mostly about boosting the supply side of the economy. The corporate tax rate was cut even before Covid-19. In addition, firms have been promised $28 billion in production-linked fiscal incentives. The underlying demand conditions, however, are artificially propped up by the central bank. More than $125 billion of excess liquidity in the banking system is keeping markets buoyed on the bet that 5%-plus inflation will be transitory, interest rates will remain low for a long time, and that foreign capital won’t up and leave because of any abrupt tightening by the Federal Reserve. Yes, there’s an ambitious $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan to reinvigorate demand. But its success is predicated on the government first monetizing $81 billion of its existing roads, railway, power and other assets to raise resources.  How long can the economy wait for jobs and incomes? Vaccinations have picked up pace, but have some way to go: Only 146 million people in a country of 1.4 billion have been inoculated so far with the required two doses. With the spread of the delta variant in the southern state of Kerala starting to look scary again, India isn’t even in a position to reopen schools. Policy makers aren’t just downplaying the urgency of short-term fiscal palliatives for households, but they’re also ignoring the damaging consequences for India’s long-term competitiveness. An economy that performs well below potential for too long will suffer a permanent loss. With technology and tastes changing, it’s safe to write off production that fails to materialize in even three or five years. Most of it will never arrive. Something else will have to replace the lost output and the attendant jobs, and that just can’t be food or grocery delivery. There’s work to be done. Chest-thumping about a V-shaped recovery can wait.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/world-beating-gdp-cant-mask-economic-pain-1026433.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Voting begins for Kalaburagi City Corporation polls||Voting for elections in 55 wards of the Kalaburagi City Corporation began on a slow note from 7 am on Friday.  Candidates have arranged for conveyance for voters in their wards.  Of the total 533 polling booths, 50 have been identified as hyper-sensitive and 150 as sensitive and security has been provided accordingly.  A total of 2,700 staff have been deployed to poll duty and 1,118 police personnel have been deployed for security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/voting-begins-for-kalaburagi-city-corporation-polls-1026477.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Voting begins for Belagavi City Corporation election||Voting for the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) elections commenced at a slow pace on Friday. The civic body has been witnessing maiden election wherein political parties have fielded their candidates as independents. Even Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) has fielded its candidates as independents. In these polls, 385 candidates including 55 of BJP, 45 of Congress, 27 of AAP, 11 of JD(S) and 7 from AIMIM are in fray. There are 238 independents including rebels of Congress, BJP and MES. First one hour recorded about 50 votes being cast in each polling station in the city. A total of 4.31 lakh voters will exercise their franchise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/voting-begins-for-belagavi-city-corporation-election-1026478.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Poaching: One injured in firing, arrested in Mandya village||The forest department personnel opened fire against four suspects, allegedly involved in poaching at Cauvery Wildlife Range at Halagur, Mandya district, in the wee hours of Friday. While one injured has been arrested, three others escaped. Venkatesh, who sustained bullet injuries, is arrested. He is being treated at the district hospital in Mandya. Manu, Shekar and Theertha are the other three, who escaped in the cover of darkness. According to the department sources, the poachers had killed two deer with a country rifle at around 3 am. Hearing the sound of gunshots, the locals alerted the forest department. The forest guards on night patrol rushed to the spot and surrounded the suspects. The poachers tried to escape and opened fire. The guards retaliated and countered them. Venkatesh received bullet injuries and has been arrested. A team has been constituted to nab the other three accused, the officials said. Assistant conservator of forest Mahadevaswamy, DySP Lakshmi Narayan Prasad, sub-inspector Maruthi Thimmannavar visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poaching-one-injured-in-firing-arrested-in-mandya-village-1026739.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bidar sedition case: Enquiry initiated against cops, Karnataka govt tells HC||The Karnataka government on Friday informed the high court that a communication has been forwarded to the state DG&IGP for departmental enquiry against officers who questioned juvenile students in violation of rules. The students of Shaheen Education Society in Bidar were questioned by the police officials in uniform and some even possessing firearms in connection with staging a play against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The government advocate submitted an affidavit to the court in this regard and said that the investigating officer (IO) of the case was not wearing uniform while questioning the students. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma directed the state government to file a fresh affidavit in respect of the stage of the proposed departmental inquiry and adjourned the hearing to October 21. The bench also said that the affidavit filed by the state government is silent on the other orders issued by the court in the previous hearing about issuing directions to the police. The bench on August 16 had directed the state government to consider issuing necessary directions to the police across the state to ensure that such violation of rights of children does not repeat. In the previous hearing, the bench had perused the photographs submitted in March last year showing students, two boys and one girl, interrogated by five police persons. Among the policemen seen in the photographs, four were in full uniform and at least two of them seen carrying firearms. The court had observed that these acts were prima facie, a serious case of violation of rights of children and provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act. Anti-CAA play The play was staged by the students on January 21, 2020. Based on a complaint by an activist, the Bidar police had booked a sedition case against the school management. The PIL was filed by city-based advocate Nayana Jyothi Jhawar and South India Cell for Human Rights Education and Monitoring (SICHREM). The petition sought for directions to initiate departmental inquiry against the police personnel for subjecting the students to questioning in violation of JJ Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bidar-sedition-case-enquiry-initiated-against-cops-karnataka-govt-tells-hc-1026740.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Confident fuel prices will fall soon: Arun Singh||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, defended on Thursday the increase in petrol and diesel prices saying that the tax revenue generated from this were funding welfare programmes for the poor. “I am confident that petrol and diesel prices will fall soon, despite the temporary increase in prices,” he said. Singh was here for a meeting with the party’s office-bearers from Bengaluru North, South and Central districts. “I will not comment on the price of petrol, tomato or onion. You should speak to the RBI or economists about this,” he said.  “All projects require money. Welfare schemes require money. The government is getting some (revenue from) taxes. Though there is a temporary rise in petrol and diesel prices, I am confident that it will decrease in the coming days,” he said. Under PM Narendra Modi, inflation is at its lowest, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/confident-fuel-prices-will-fall-soon-arun-singh-1026430.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai govt's performance can't be assessed in just one month: Shettar||In the wake of Union Home Minister Amit Shah's statement about the BJP going for the next Karnataka Assembly elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, BJP MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar on Friday stated he would abide by the party's decision. Shettar, who had decided not to join Bommai's Cabinet, stated that he is a disciplined worker of the BJP.  He also said that one month is too short to decide whether the Bommai government has performed well or not. 'Rebels will not win' "The party has already taken disciplinary action against those who have contested as rebel candidates in the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) elections. People are in support of the BJP and no rebel would win," Shettar said. The former chief minister claimed that BJP would win more than 60 seats and would come back to power in the HDMP. Price rise would not have any impact on the results of local body polls, as it occurred during the regime of other parties also, he added. Earlier, Shettar exercised his franchise in the HDMP elections, along with his family members, at the polling station set up at Devaki English Medium School at Vinayak Colony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-govts-performance-cant-be-assessed-in-just-one-month-shettar-1026578.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Move seeking minority status for Veerashaiva-Lingayat after 2023 polls: MB Patil||Former Congress minister M B Patil on Friday clarified that any move to seek ‘religious minority’ status for the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community will be done with full consensus and after the 2023 Assembly elections.  Patil said this at a news conference to clear the air after his recent call to revive the demand for the ‘religious minority’ status allegedly caused some wariness within the Congress.  “I have never used words such as ‘fight’, ‘struggle’ or ‘separatism’. I have said that we will start discussions after the 2023 elections,” Patil said. “Earlier, there was a wrong propaganda that Veerashaivas and Lingayats are not the same. Today, I’m saying we will go together and I don’t see what the problem is,” he said.  Patil, who led the campaign for a ‘religious minority’ tag ahead of the 2018 elections, said he would try to bring together the Pancha Peethas (holy pantheon), the Virakta Mutts, the Veerashaiva Mahasabha and the Jagatika Lingayat Mahasabha.  “I will take two steps back and make an attempt. There are ideological differences. It may or may not be successful. All of us with sit and discuss openly to figure out what is good for the community,” he said.  The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had decided that ‘religious minority’ status should be accorded to Lingayats and Veerashaiva-Lingayats who believe in 12th century social reformer Basavanna’s ideology. This led to a rift within the community: the Lingayats argued that theirs was a religion founded by Basavanna that was independent of the Veerashaiva faith. The Veerashaivas opposed this and argued that Lingayats and Veerashaivas were the same, and that the Veerashaiva faith predated Basavanna.  The entire issue has come to be known as a big reason for the Congress’s defeat in the 2018 Assembly polls.  “There was confusion back then due to lack of time and all of it happened close to the election, which gave it a political colour,” Patil said. “This time, without any confusion and prestige, we will sit, take as much time as it takes and decide how we need to move forward,” he said.  Patil, who is seen as trying to emerge as a Lingayat leader of the Congress, argued that ‘religious minority’ status would immensely benefit the community in education and jobs. “Our children will get 50 per cent seats in medical, dental and engineering colleges, as well as UPSC and KPSC,” he said. He pointed out that if the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community was to get the minority tag, then the ongoing agitation of the Panchamasali sub-sect for Category-2A reservation won’t arise.  Asked if he was eyeing the chief minister’s chair for the next election, Patil said his community campaign had nothing to do with the Congress. “I’m saying this will be taken up after the elections expressly to avoid such speculation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/move-seeking-minority-status-for-veerashaiva-lingayat-after-2023-polls-mb-patil-1026620.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Nobody is facing problem with price rise: Karnataka minister KC Narayana Gowda||Karnataka Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister KC Narayana Gowda on Friday claimed that there was “no real problem” citizens faced with rising fuel and cooking gas cylinder prices. “Everybody knows why the prices are rising. But, there’s politics taking place on this. Real gas users aren’t on the streets. Politicians are on the streets to do their political drama. Nobody is really facing a problem. This is a political conspiracy. There’s no real problem,” Gowda told reporters. Gowda’s statement came at a time when the ruling BJP is on the defensive over the hike in the price of domestic liquified petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders. “Who gave gas to every household? It is PM Modi who gave facilities for women who were suffering from burning eyes and noses,” Gowda said. “Petrol and gas [prices] are flexible. They go up and down at once. This happened under the Congress’ rule also. It’s temporary,” he said. Blame Taliban: MLA Meanwhile, BJP’s Hubli-Dharwad (West) MLA Arvind Bellad suggested that the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan was the reason for the price rise. “Internationally, prices are up and that’s why the gas rates are up. Voters are mature. They are not affected. They know that the Taliban problem has started. All over the world, gas and oil supplies have been hit. That’s why the rates are up. Voters will understand this,” he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nobody-is-facing-problem-with-price-rise-karnataka-minister-kc-narayana-gowda-1026634.html
03-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Withdraw NEP immediately, Siddaramaiah tells govt||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday urged the BJP government to withdraw its decision to implement the new National Education Policy (NEP). Siddaramaiah was responding to a letter written to him by Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan seeking an appointment to discuss the NEP. "It is to be noted that the government has already decided and inaugurated the said policy from the current academic year, without any discussion with the students, teachers, education experts or opposition. It is not correct to call for discussion now after inaugurating the implementation," Siddaramaiah stated. The former chief minister charged that the NEP’s intention was to "indoctrinate" students with "communalism" and that it infringed upon the autonomy of states on education and universities. "NEP is unscientific and will push lakhs of students to darkness," he argued. "Detailed deliberations should have been initiated democratically before drafting such issues with wide implications," he said. "The NEP also recommends the allocation to education to be at 6% of GDP. So then Karnataka should allocate about Rs 1.08 lakh crore." Expressing concern that the NEP would promote privatisation "leading to inequality and social injustice," Siddaramaiah said he would agree for a discussion only after it was withdrawn. "If, after deliberations, NEP is found to be good, we will support the government...Otherwise, the government will have to take the burden of pushing lakhs of people to misery," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/withdraw-nep-immediately-siddaramaiah-tells-govt-1026728.html
03-09-2021||Main Article||Marriage is not consent||Although marital rape has been criminalised in over a hundred countries, India remains one among the 30-odd countries yet to do so. According to UN Women, one out of every three women across the world is subject to physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner. The pandemic has further exposed the fault lines of gender parity, with the lockdown periods witnessing a rise in the incidence of domestic violence. When the Indian Penal Code was written by the British rulers in the 19th century, women were not entitled to any rights independent of their husbands. Entrenched in Victorian values, the 161-year-old law treats women as subservient chattel, with one of the exceptions to the offence of rape provided under Section 375 of India’s criminal code stating that “sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.” By virtue of this exemption, a husband is granted immunity for sexual intercourse with his wife against her will. This outrageous flaw surviving in India’s rape law has escaped meaningful scrutiny since its inception in the 1860s. While the legal status of women began to change with the passage of statutes and reforms, the archaic colonial-era provision on marital rape stands even today. In a recent milestone judgement that reignited the debate on marital rape, the Kerala High Court ruled that “a husband's licentious disposition disregarding the autonomy of the wife is marital rape, albeit such conduct cannot be penalised, it falls in the frame of physical and mental cruelty...In modern social jurisprudence, spouses in marriage are treated as equal partners, and husband cannot claim any superior right over wife, either with respect to her body or with reference to individual status. Treating wife's body as something owing to the husband and committing sexual act against her will is nothing but marital rape.” Subsequently, the Chhattisgarh High Court took a step backward and observed that “Exception II of Section 375 of the IPC…makes it clear that sexual intercourse or sexual act by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 18 years of age, is not rape. In this case, complainant is legally wedded wife, therefore, sexual intercourse or any sexual act with her by the husband would not constitute an offence of rape, even if it was by force or against her wish. Therefore, charge under Section 376 of the IPC framed against the husband is erroneous and illegal.” A court in Maharashtra also went strictly by the book and granted anticipatory bail to the applicant while observing that although it was the wife’s grievance that the applicant, her husband, had forcible sexual intercourse with her which left her paralysed, he cannot be said to have committed an “illegal thing,” simply because the applicant was her husband. In 2013, the Justice J S Verma Committee recommended the removal of the exemption for marital rape, noting that a marital relationship between the perpetrator and victim cannot serve as a valid defence against the crimes of rape or sexual violation. The three-member panel, which was set up to suggest amendments to Indian criminal laws, also opined that the relationship between the accused and the complainant is not relevant to the inquiry into whether the complainant consented to the sexual activity, and the fact that the accused and victim are married or are in any other intimate relationship is not to be regarded as a mitigating factor justifying lower sentences for rape. Regrettably, the parliamentary panel which deliberated on the amendments to Section 375 of the criminal code observed that outlawing marital rape could place the whole family under stress and result in more injustice, while failing to consider that marital rape itself fractures a marriage. The State should have no interest in conserving disintegrated and decaying familial relationships. The Supreme Court and various High Courts have in recent years taken strides to acknowledge gender discrimination in situations where the law thwarted deviation from traditional sex roles. The continued existence of the marital rape exemption, however, freezes and further entrenches married women in the role of sexual objects aligned to their husbands' desires. India’s marital rape law nurtures a man's sexual entitlement to a woman within a contract of marriage and the contemporary justifications for the exception manifestly display an underlying compliance to the ideology of female servitude and inferiority. The exemption eliminates a married woman's bodily autonomy in one of the most intimate and private of all human interactions. The modern rationales in support of the exception, though divergent in structure from their 1860s forerunners, upholds the same ideals of an androcentric society and are rooted in the treatment of women as chattel. Promoting and favouring reconciliation, preserving the institution of marriage, and extinguishing evidentiary barriers and deficiencies are some of the present-day recipes sustaining the ancient 19th century potion for women's subjugation. A man's forceful sexual possession of his unwilling wife is an exercise of unchecked power. The law’s silent sanction for this exercise of power serves as a dangerous encouragement for the continued violent subjugation of women in society. Neither can marriage be a defence against rape nor can it imply a blanket irrevocable consent. The time is ripe, if not long overripe, to discard the peculiar notion that women who enter into marital relationships with men impliedly consent to sexual intercourse, or that a wife who on one occasion consents to sexual intercourse is forever so bound. In any case, a rapist remains a rapist, irrespective of his relationship with the survivor. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based lawyer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/marriage-is-not-consent-1026431.html
03-09-2021||Mysuru||MLA Sa Ra Mahesh accuses IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri of corruption||MLA Sa Ra Mahesh has accused IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri of indulging in rampant corruption when she was Mysuru Deputy Commissioner. At a press conference here on Friday, Mahesh accused Sindhuri of misusing power and alleged irregularities of Rs 6 crore in connection with procurment of cloth bags. Sindhuri had procured 14.71 lakh cloth bags to distribute among the people of the district. While each bag costs Rs 13, the officer procured to procure the same at the cost of Rs 52. Mahesh urged the state government and Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar to suspend the officer and conduct an inquiry. "I will wait for two to three days and then will sit protest in front of Chief Secretary's office," Mahesh said. Mahesh also said that he will meet Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the Chief Secretary on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mla-sa-ra-mahesh-accuses-ias-officer-rohini-sindhuri-of-corruption-1026650.html
03-09-2021||Mysuru||Another sexual assault case in Mysuru, suspect arrested||Within a few days after a college girl was gang-raped by a group of men near Chamundi Hill, another case of sexual assault of a girl, a nun, was reported in the city, on Friday. In a swift action, the city police arrested the suspect within a few hours of the incident. According to the police, the survivor and the suspect were known to each other for a few months and the police suspect personal revenge to be the motive behind the incident. The incident was reported in a hostel in R S Naidu Nagar. The suspect gained entry into the room when the girl was alone and sexually assaulted her. She sustained multiple injuries as she tried to resist. The girl is undergoing treatment in a hospital.      DCP Pradeep Gunti said a case under Section 376 of the IPC has been registered and it is yet to be ascertained whether it is a case of rape or an attempt to rape. “We are waiting for the victim’s statement and medical report,” the officer said. Fingerprint experts and the dog squad visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/another-sexual-assault-case-in-mysuru-suspect-arrested-1026676.html
03-09-2021||National||India needs 43 lakh more nurses by 2024 to meet WHO norms: Nurses bodies||India is in need of 43 lakh more nurses by 2024 to meet WHO norms, nursing and midwifery professional organisations said, underlining the importance of stepping up investments and promoting inclusiveness in decision-making to address shortage in the sector. The organisations also stressed on the need for implementation of requisite regulations that have been outlined by the Centre, need to step up and make better investments in education, training and recognition and need for inclusiveness in decision-making. With 1.7 nurses per 1,000 population, India falls short of the WHO recommended rate of 3 nurses per 1,000 population, they said, noting that the country is in need of 4.3 million more nurses by 2024 to meet WHO norms. T Dileep Kumar, president of India Nursing Council, said there is a need for the government to create more vacancies for the nursing population. "A lot of additional positions have to be created and for that the government has prescribed 55 per cent over and above the sanctioned strength that needs to be created," he told PTI. Roy K George, president of The Nurses Association Of India, said shortage of nurses also exist because many of them are going abroad for decent satisfactory positions. "We are having a shortage of nurses but also many are going abroad because of lack of positions in India. In private sector too there is shortage. So it is actually a shortage of positions, shortage of decent, satisfactory positions available... private sector is paying very low. These factors in the long run are going to discourage people from getting into the profession," he said. Bulbul Sood, Senior Strategic Advisor, Jhpiego India, said there is need to focus on adequate number of staff and a managerial position has to be created. GK Khurana, secretary general of All India Government Nurses Federation, said nurses and midwives form the cornerstone of healthcare delivery in India and are the unflinching pillars on which the healthcare system rests. "Despite their undeniable role and contribution, they are often denigrated to be insignificant, sacrificing angels bearing the whole burden with minimal support and dignity," she said. These organisations also launched a #NurseMidwife4Change campaign conceptualised by and for nurses and midwives of India. It aims to bring to light their true profile, status and contribution in the country by creating awareness about the multiple roles they play as educationists, service providers, specialist and leaders. About the campaign, Khurana said it will spotlight some of the key issues facing this critical workforce like working conditions, remuneration and image in the society, and highlight global and national recommendations for the overall growth and development of this professional cadre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-43-lakh-more-nurses-by-2024-to-meet-who-norms-nurses-bodies-1026420.html
03-09-2021||National||India, UK agree on $1.2 billion investment in green projects, renewable energy||India and the UK on Thursday agreed on a $1.2 billion investment in green projects and renewable energy to boost India’s green growth ambitions at the 11th India-UK Economic and Financial Dialogue between Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her British counterpart Rishi Sunak, driving forward the bilateral agenda of an Enhanced Trade Partnership. Sitharaman and Sunak, who met virtually for the annual summit, signed off the $1.2-billion package of public and private investment in green projects and renewable energy in India. This includes a $1 billion investment from CDC, the UK’s development finance institution in green projects in India, joint investments by both governments to support companies working on innovative green tech solutions, and a new $200 million private and multilateral investment into the joint Green Growth Equity Fund which invests in Indian renewable energy. A new Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) India partnership has also been agreed to mobilise private capital into sustainable infrastructure in India, including clean energy like wind and solar power and other green technologies. “The UK and India already have strong ties, and today we’ve made important new agreements to boost our relationship and deliver for both our countries,” said Sunak. “Supporting India’s green growth is a shared priority so I’m pleased that we’ve announced a $1.2 billion investment package, and launched the new CFLI India partnership, to boost investment in sustainable projects in India as the UK gears up to host COP26," he said. "With trade negotiations also coming up, our agreement to be ambitious when considering services will create new opportunities in both markets, supporting jobs and investment in the UK and India,” he said. At the Economic and Financial Dialogue (EFD), both ministers agreed to be ambitious when considering services in the upcoming UK-India trade negotiations and strengthen the financial market collaboration efforts already underway to finance growth. The UK also welcomed India’s recent decision to lift the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) cap in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent which will help British firms to take greater ownership of their operations in India. According to UK government statistics, UK-India bilateral trade stands at around 18 billion Pounds in 2020 and supports nearly half-a-million jobs in each other’s economies. The countries have set a goal to double trade by 2030, including through negotiating a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) following an Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP) agreed between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson earlier this year. The joint statement signed at the end of the EFD covers a broad range of areas, including the financial services and opening up new opportunities for UK financial firms and helping more Indian companies access finance in the City of London. According to official figures, over the last five years, Indian firms have raised GBP 13.41 billion in Masala, dollar and green bonds listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE), with the LSE dubbed the “largest global centre for Masala Bonds”. The two governments also welcomed the launch of the India-UK Global Innovation Partnership under the Trilateral Development Cooperation Framework, wherein India and UK will co-finance equally a fund over 14 years to support the transfer and scale up of climate-smart inclusive innovations from India to third countries. Progress of the UK-India strategic partnership on GIFT City (Gujarat International Finance Tec-City), India’s first International Financial Services Centre (IFSC), to promote links between GIFT City and the UK financial services ecosystem was also highlighted in the EFD joint statement. “Both countries welcome that UK banks are the first international banks to set up in GIFT City, underlining the strength of UK-India cooperation. Both sides agree to explore facilitating the dual listing of green, social and sustainable bonds on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and IFSC exchanges, to enable firms to raise foreign capital,” the statement notes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-agree-on-12-billion-investment-in-green-projects-renewable-energy-1026421.html
03-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Revamped Jallianwala Bagh visionary PR work!||On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 'revamped' memorial to 'honour' the Jallianwala Bagh massacre martyrs. Modi also unveiled a new entrance, and light and sound show at the venue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-revamped-jallianwala-bagh-visionary-pr-work-1026443.html
03-09-2021||National||Shringla, Blinken discuss India-US bilateral ties, Afghanistan||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla called on United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday during which they discussed bilateral ties, regional and global issues including the current situation in Afghanistan. This was the first high-level discussion between the officials of the two countries after the American withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan on August 31. “Discussions touched on bilateral ties and the situation in Afghanistan,” Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet after the meeting. Shringla, who arrived in Washington a day earlier from New York, had a series of meetings throughout Thursday, including with his American counterpart Deputy Secretary Wendy Sherman. “Excellent interaction this morning” with Blinken and Sherman, tweeted India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, who attended the meetings along with Shringla at the Foggy Bottom headquarters of the State Department. Shringla and Sherman discussed a broad range of shared priorities, including continued coordination on Afghanistan, strengthening Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad, addressing the climate crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic, and preparations for upcoming dialogues, such as the 2+2 Ministerial, said State Department Spokesperson Ned Price. The two diplomats agreed to remain closely coordinated on shared goals and priorities to deepen the US-India partnership, Price said in a readout of the meeting. “The US-India relationship is defined by our shared democratic values. I look forward to continuing to coordinate closely on global challenges,” tweeted Uzra Zeya, Under Secretary of State for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights, after the meeting. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shringla-blinken-discuss-india-us-bilateral-ties-afghanistan-1026459.html
03-09-2021||National||India logs 45,352 new Covid-19 cases, 366 fatalities||India on Friday reported 45,352 new Covid-19 cases and 366 fatalities, data from Union Health Ministry showed. Of these, Kerala reported 32,097 new infections and 188 deaths on Thursday. The total death toll mounted to 4,39,895. India's active cases now stand at 3,99,778. Meanwhile, 3,20,63,616 people have so far recovered with 34,791 recoveries over the past 24 hours. The active cases comprised 1.22 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.45 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 10,195 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,66,334  tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 52,65,35,068. The daily positivity rate was recorded  2.72 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 70 days, according to the ministry. A total of 67.09 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 366 new fatalities include 188 from Kerala, and 55 from Maharashtra.A total of 4,39,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,551 from Maharashtra, 37,361 from Karnataka, 34,961 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,841 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,149 from Kerala and 18,472 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-45352-new-covid-19-cases-366-fatalities-1026472.html
03-09-2021||National||Climate crisis triggers spike in lightning strike deaths in India||Faizuddin is still traumatised from the lightning strike that killed his three friends as they took selfies atop a 400-year-old fort in India, where climate change is making lethal strikes more common. Scores of people have met similarly gruesome ends this year in Rajasthan, where deaths caused by thunderstorms used to be uncommon. "I was hit by three thunderbolts, one after the other," said Faizuddin, his voice quivering as he lay wrapped in a blanket at his modest home in Jaipur. He and his trio of childhood friends had climbed hundreds of steps to a watchtower on top of Amer Fort during a July storm that also claimed eight other lives. "The sound was deafening, it felt like a huge bomb blast. My trousers and shoes caught fire, my limbs became stiff and I couldn't move," the 21-year-old told AFP, a deep gash still on his head. Around 2,500 people die in lightning strikes around India each year, according to government figures, compared to just 45 in the United States. Cattle and other animals are often killed or maimed during severe thunderstorms, with one burst of lightning in Assam wiping out a herd of 18 elephants in May. Thunderbolts contain as much as a billion volts of electricity and can cause immense damage to buildings when they hit. Earlier this year at another fort in Chittorgarh, a few hours south of where Faizuddin's friends died, a bolt struck a tower and sent a huge chunk of stone plummeting to the ground. The site was fitted with a rod to draw lightning away from the centuries-old structure "but it proved to be ineffective," said Ratan Jitarwal, a conservator supervising the fort's painstaking repair work. Lightning is also becoming more frequent, with nearly 19 million recorded strikes in the 12 months to March -- up by a third from the previous year. Global warming is driving the increase, says Sanjay Srivastava of the Lightning Resilient India Campaign, one of the few organisations collecting data on thunderstorms. "Because of climate change and localised heating of the Earth's surface, and more moisture, there is a sudden surge of huge lightning," he told AFP. The problem is worldwide, with research this year forecasting a possible doubling of the average number of lightning strikes inside the Arctic Circle over this century. This could spark widespread tundra fires and trigger massive amounts of carbon stored within the permafrost escaping into the atmosphere, exacerbating global warming. Evidence suggests lightning strikes are also becoming more common in urban areas -- a particular concern in India, where the city population is forecast to rise dramatically in the coming years. Srivastava said the results could be catastrophic if, for example, a strike hit a hospital and shorted out equipment used to keep patients on life support in intensive care. As with rising sea levels, the growing frequency of deadly heatwaves and other consequences of climate change, the country of 1.3 billion people is struggling to adapt to the threat of worse lightning strikes. Most human deaths in thunderstorms are preventable but almost no buildings have lightning rods to protect their inhabitants, Srivastava said. Forecasting is also tricky and warning people of approaching storms is difficult. Indian scientists recently developed a mobile app that seeks to provide real-time warnings about imminent strikes and precautions to be taken. But this has limited use in a country where only half the population has access to a smartphone, and even fewer in rural areas where strikes are more common. Many people are also unaware of the dangers and what to do -- like not to shelter under a tree and avoiding open areas -- in a thunderstorm. "Had we known that lightning strikes... can kill and maim, we would have never allowed our son to step out of the house," said Mohammed Shamim, whose 20-year-old son died in the Amer Fort incident. "He had worn a new shirt that day and all he wanted was to take some nice shots on his phone. But it feels as if some devil came from the sky and took our son away."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/climate-crisis-triggers-spike-in-lightning-strike-deaths-in-india-1026486.html
03-09-2021||National||Over 200 corruption complaints pending with CVOs, 105 for more than three years: CVC||A total of 219 corruption complaints were pending investigation with the chief vigilance officers (CVOs), 105 of those for over three years, of different government organisations as of December 31, 2020, probity watchdog CVC has said in its latest report. It is expected of the CVOs, who act as a distant arm of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), that they would check corruption in a government department and conclude an investigation ideally within three months or as soon as possible thereafter, it said. "At the end of the year 2020, in respect of such complaints that were referred by the commission to the CVOs for investigation, reports were awaited in 219 complaints out of which 58 were pending for up to one year, 56 were pending for a period between one to three years and 105 were pending for a period of over three years," said the CVC's annual report 2020. The maximum number of 22 complaints were pending each with the Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) and the Department of Secondary and Higher Education and Department of Elementary Education and Literacy, it said. Of the complaints with the Delhi government, eight were pending for more than three years, nine for one to three years and five for up to a year, the report said. Fourteen complaints were pending investigation and report for over three years at the Department of Secondary and Higher Education and Department of Elementary Education and Literacy, seven for one to three years and one for up to a year, it added. The CVC’s annual report 2020 was tabled in Parliament during the recently concluded Monsoon Session and uploaded on its website on Tuesday. According to the report, a total of 14 complaints sent to the CVO of the Department of Health by the CVC were pending investigation. Of these, four were pending for more than three years, six for one to three years and four for up to a year, it said. A total of eight complaints were pending investigation with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Of those, three were pending for more than three years, the report said. There were six complaints pending investigation each by the Department of Revenue (two for more than three years), the Municipal Corporation of Delhi North (all for more than three years) and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (all six for over three years), according to the report. Five complaints were pending investigation with the Ministry of Defence. One of those was pending for more than three years, it said. Two complaints each were pending with the Directorate of Enforcement (all for up to a year), MCD East Delhi (one for more than three years) and MCD South Delhi (one for more than three years), the report said. The CVC has mentioned a list of 94 government departments or organisations that had not concluded the investigation of the complaints sent to their CVOs by it. The report said the CVC got 27,035 complaints in 2020, down from 32,579 in 2019. Of these, 25,312 and 34,813 complaints were disposed of in 2020 and 2019 respectively. "After scrutiny of complaints received, the commission calls for inquiry or investigation reports from the appropriate agencies only in those complaints which contain serious and verifiable allegations and there is a clear vigilance angle," the report said. According to the laid down procedure, the inquiry or investigation reports are required to be sent to the commission within a period of three months. However, it is observed that in a majority of cases, there is a considerable delay in finalising and submission of reports to the commission, it said. "Inordinate delays in submission of inquiry/investigation reports to the commission are a matter of serious concern," the report noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-200-corruption-complaints-pending-with-cvos-105-for-more-than-three-years-cvc-1026508.html
03-09-2021||National||Senegalese onion farmers in tears over glut||In a satellite town of Senegal's capital Dakar, 25-kilo sacks of onions are piled up on pavements, ignored by passers-by. The West African country is in middle of a supply glut, with prices plummeting and heaps of the pungent vegetables left to rot by the roadside. Farmers are in despair. "I'm going to give some to the local women," says farmer Diongue Masseye, 71, gazing despondently at his onions. He is standing inside a 450 square metre (5,000 square foot) warehouse in Bambilor, an onion-producing town about 30 kilometres (20 miles) northeast of the capital Dakar, where his unsold produce has started to sprout. Gloomy farmers -- who produce about 450,000 tonnes of onions a year -- blame the problem on increased foreign competition and a lack of storage capacity. But the government also argues that farmers have overproduced this year, flooding the market with onions and depressing prices. Masseye said prices had nearly halved. A 25-kilo sack of onions fetched the equivalent of about 13 euros ($15) a few months ago, he said, but are now worth about seven euros ($8). The bulbous vegetable is a lifeline to many in the nation of 16 million people, where it is a key ingredient in the national fish-and-rice dish, Thieboudienne, as well as Yassa chicken. Amadou Abdoul Sy, the director of Senegal's market regulation agency, said some 200,000 farmers are employed in the onion sector. "Everyone is producing at the same time," he told AFP, explaining the glut. Senegal's onion sector has long been plagued by problems. Almost a third of the crop is lost every year, Sy said. The UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation noted in a 2018 report that the use of low-quality seeds by Senegalese farmers contributes to the problem. Often, producers also harvest their onions too early to try to get ahead of the competition, leaving the vegetables wet. This leads to significant losses and makes onions difficult to store, the FAO said. Consumers are shying away from the damaged goods. Trader Daouda Mbaye, in a market in village in western Senegal, demonstrated sacks of poor-quality onions and said buyers were more interested in other vegetables. But to the dismay of local farmers, many people will buy imported onions. The president of Senegal's onion producers association, Boubacar Sall, said the government suspended onion imports in January in a bid to help struggling locals. But foreign-owned farms in Senegal are still producing onions, he explained. They are often larger than Senegalese farms and have better storage facilities. The onion farmer is calling for legislation that will protect small producers who fall "prey to unfair competition" from larger ones. Lack of storage facilities are a chronic problem in Senegal, according to farmers, where a warm climate means vegetables quickly go bad. For Masseye, the 71-year-old farmer, the government should have provided refrigerated store rooms to ease pressure on producers. But Amadou Abdoul Sy, the director of the market regulation agency, said that producers themselves are partly to blame. He said government authorities had asked farmers to sell their goods at different times in order to stop a supply glut. "They were not listened to," Sy said. While farmers are unhappy, some consumers are pleased. Astou Ndiagne, a housewife in Bambilor, flashed a mischievous smile when asked about the lower prices. "This is allowing us to save money," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senegalese-onion-farmers-in-tears-over-glut-1026515.html
03-09-2021||National||SC refuses to grant interim bail on health grounds to 1984 anti-Sikh riots accused Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea filed by 1984 anti-Sikh riots convict and former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar for bail in order to get treatment in a big corporate hospital on his own expenses.  “He is accused of heinous crimes. You want him to be treated like some super VIP patient,” a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul told his counsel senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, who claimed that his client’s health was deteriorating and he had also lost a lot of weight.  Kumar’s counsel also referred to a report on his health by a doctor. However, the bench declined to entertain the plea by Kumar to get him transferred to Medanta hospital, for the treatment.   The court took into consideration the report submitted by a medical board, which stated that his health was improving.  Rejecting the plea for interim bail on medical grounds, the top court said it was not keen on passing any order and if medical authorities felt that he was required to be examined at Medanta, then they may go ahead with it.   On August 24, the top court had directed the CBI to verify the medical condition of Kumar. The politician is at present undergoing life imprisonment for his role in a case related to killings of five member of a family in Raj Nagar in Delhi during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case. The Delhi High Court had on December 17, 2018 awarded him life imprisonment for the "remainder of his natural life".  In September, last year, the top court declined to entertain the bail petition filed on health grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-grant-interim-bail-on-health-grounds-to-1984-anti-sikh-riots-accused-sajjan-kumar-1026529.html
03-09-2021||National||212 CBI cases on corruption pending trail, 397 appeals in higher courts for over 20 years: CVC||Over 200 cases registered by the CBI under the Prevention of Corruption Act are pending trial in lower courts and appeals in around 400 such cases are pending for over 20 years in High Courts and the Supreme Court, a new report by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has said. When it comes to pending investigations, there are 30 cases in which investigators are yet to arrive at a conclusion despite probing for over five years. These details are part of the Annual Report 2020 of the CVC, which is statutorily mandated to superintend the work of CBI in respect of investigations conducted under the Prevention of Corruption Act, made public on Tuesday. In 2020, the CVC said the CBI registered a total 676 cases, including 87 preliminary enquiries (PEs), as against 710 (102 PEs) in 2019. Of the 676 cases, 425 were related to PC Act cases – 86 were bribery related and 30 for possession of disproportionate assets. Courts delivered judgement in 266 cases related to CBI last year, of which 191 were related to corruption cases. Of the corruption cases, 128 ended in conviction, 46 in acquittal, four in discharge and 13 otherwise disposed of. A total of 260 people were convicted, 252 acquitted, 66 discharged and 77 people otherwise disposed of in cases. Altogether 9,757 cases were pending in various courts at the end of 2020, which included 6,497 cases registered under Prevention of Corruption Act. Of the 6,497 corruption cases pending trial, 212 cases are in courts for over 20 years while 1,782 are pending in court for 10 to 20 years. Another 2,168 cases are pending trial for 5 to 10 years while 1,031 are yet to see conclusion in courts despite being tried for three to five years. There are 1,304 cases which are pending for less than three years. A total of 11,578 cases are pending appeal or revision petitions in the Supreme Court and various High Courts. A total of 974 cases involving 10,410 accused are pending in High Courts while 61 cases involving 133 accused are pending in Supreme Court. There are 397 appeals and revisions -- 394 appeals and 3 revisions, which are pending for more than 20 years in the higher judiciary. On the pendency in lower courts, the CVC cited reasons, including limited number of hearings, non-availability of witnesses and inadequate strength of prosecution staff due to vacancies, for the delay. It also said dilatory tactics adopted by the accused by way of filing applications for transfer of cases from one court to another court challenging the legality of investigation by CBI and court stay among others also contribute to the rising pendency. When it comes to pendency in investigation, the report said there were 30 cases in which the probe had not been completed for over five years. There are 330 cases pending for less than one year, 155 for one to two years, 76 for two to three years and 92 for three to five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/212-cbi-cases-on-corruption-pending-trail-397-appeals-in-higher-courts-for-over-20-years-cvc-1026539.html
03-09-2021||National||Section of SpiceJet employees go on strike at Delhi airport over salary issues||A section of employees of SpiceJet airline went on strike at the Delhi airport on Friday morning over issues related to reduced salaries, sources said. When asked about the matter, a SpiceJet spokesperson clarified that the carrier's flight operations at the Delhi airport are functioning normally. "A section of employees working at the Delhi airport and having some issues have met senior officials and the matter is being resolved," the spokesperson added. Sources said the employees who went on strike discussed with the management their issues such as reduced salary and its disbursement. SpiceJet has been paying reduced salaries to a significant number of employees since 2020 as its finances have been hit due to Covid-19 pandemic-related travel restrictions. Other airlines in India have cut the salaries too since 2020 for the same reason.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/section-of-spicejet-employees-go-on-strike-at-delhi-airport-over-salary-issues-1026541.html
03-09-2021||National||India has potential to become energy exporter by producing green hydrogen: Jitendra Singh||By producing green hydrogen on a large scale and taking advantage of its geographical location, India has the potential to transform itself from a net importer of fuel to an exporter of clean energy, Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. Addressing the 'International Climate Summit 2021 — Powering India's Hydrogen Ecosystem', Singh said India has a large proportion of the world population and unless it participates in the mission for clean climate, the world would not be able to see optimum results. He said there is a huge requirement of clean fuel and green hydrogen across the world, and India has the potential to step in to fulfil the requirement of the rest of the world as well. "By producing green hydrogen on (a large) scale and taking advantage of the geographical location that India enjoys, we have the potential to transform from (being a) net energy importer to a clean energy exporter," Singh said. He said it is necessary to ensure economic viability of green hydrogen technology and assured all stakeholders of government support. Referring to the National Hydrogen Mission announced by Prime minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech, Singh said this reflects India's commitment to working in mitigating climate change. He said the problem of climate change cannot be resolved unless India reduces its emissions and that the country has taken several initiatives in the area of clean energy. He said in the last seven years, India, under the leadership of PM Modi, has assumed a leading role in the campaign for clean climate. "The problem of climate change in the world cannot be resolved unless India reduces its emissions. For India, it is not only a mission but it is also a responsibility -- to not only its own countrymen but also to mankind as a whole,” Singh said. Referring to the clean climate mission and green hydrogen, Singh said India also has the responsibility and that the entire world is also looking up to it as a country which can play a frontline role in the community of world leaders. "With a huge population we have, we comprise a large proportion of the world population and therefore unless India participates in the mission for clean climate, the world would not be able to see the optimum results,” he said. Singh said as far as India is concerned, its energy demand is increasing exponentially with each passing day. He said 90 per cent of India's energy demand is met by imported fossil fuel. Therefore, the problem of climate change in the world cannot be resolved unless India reduces its emissions. He said India's share of renewable energy is also going up each day and it is expected to be 50 per cent by 2030. Its tariff from renewable energy is less than Rs 2 which is already one of the lowest in the world. Despite this, renewable energy can help in the reduction of only 45 per cent to 50 per cent of carbon dioxide emissions, he said. And therein comes in the role of hydrogen. Green hydrogen can also be produced by using solar energy to split water in electrolyser with oxygen as the only by-product, he said. "The abundance of solar radiation and water in India is an advantage which implies that green hydrogen can help India to become self-reliant. At the same time, it ensures our commitment to mitigate climate change and fulfil our responsibility towards the rest of the world,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-potential-to-become-energy-exporter-by-producing-green-hydrogen-jitendra-singh-1026555.html
03-09-2021||National||Ahead of Ganesh festival, Mumbai cops begin crackdown on people found not wearing mask||With the Ganesh festival just a few days away, the Mumbai police have started taking action against those people who are found roaming on streets and other public places in the city without face mask amid the coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Friday. The ten-day Ganesh festival, which is celebrated with fervour across Maharashtra, will begin on September 10. "Mumbai police are gearing up to provide security across the city during the upcoming festive season. As people come out on streets to celebrate the festival, police have started taking action against people if they are found not wearing masks," the official said. Instructions to this effect were issued by Vishwas Nangre Patil, Joint CP (Law and Order), on Wednesday. All the police stations in the metropolis have been asked to act against the violators, he said. Mumbai reported 441 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the second straight day of more than 400 infections, and three fresh fatalities. The city has been witnessing a steady rise in Covid-19 infections from the day after reporting 190 cases on August 16, which was the lowest daily count since April 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-ganesh-festival-mumbai-cops-begin-crackdown-on-people-found-not-wearing-mask-1026556.html
03-09-2021||National||BJP joins race for Brahmin votes with 'prabuddha varg sammelans' in Uttar Pradesh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh is joining the race for the votes of 'prabuddha varg' (read Brahmins) in the state ahead of the Assembly elections. The Bahujan Samaj Party and Samajwadi Party are already racing ahead with 'prabuddha varg sammelans' and both parties have promised to install statues of Lord Parshuram, the Brahmin sage. The BJP's 'prabuddha varg sammelans' will be organised between September 5 and September 20 across all districts. Party state general secretary and in-charge of the conventions, Subrat Pathak said the sammelan should not be read as the one driven by caste factor only. "It is mainly meant to connect with the intellectual classes who may happen to be from any caste," he explained. Pathak, who is a party MP from Kannauj, accused the Opposition of keeping caste at the core of their conventions. "That is not the case with the BJP. Our aim is to reach out to the intellectual classes and inform them about the ideology and policies of the party," he said. Prominent leaders who will address these sammelans include Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath (Varanasi), Radha Mohan Singh (Prayagraj), Swatantra Dev Singh (Ayodhya), Sunil Bansal (Lucknow) and Keshav Prasad Maurya (Kanpur). These leaders, in their speeches, will underline the fact that the BJP takes care of all castes irrespective of their numbers. They will also attempt to dilute the Opposition campaign that the ruling party and the government is pursuing an anti-Brahmin agenda. The BSP, in particular, has been blaming the BJP for targetting innocent Brahmins. The BJP, on the other hand, has been strengthening its outreach to OBCs and playing the backward caste with a vengeance. It is noteworthy that in 2013 the Allahabad high court while hearing a PIL filed by one Motilal Yadav, had banned events by political parties in the state on the basis of caste. Hence, these conventions are being called 'prabuddha varg sammelans', instead of Brahmin sammelans. Brahmins constitute 13 per cent of the population and are considered as major opinion makers in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-joins-race-for-brahmin-votes-with-prabuddha-varg-sammelans-in-uttar-pradesh-1026565.html
03-09-2021||National||'Alarming situation': Supreme Court puts interim stay on Kerala's decision to hold class 11 exams in person||The Supreme Court Friday stayed for a week Kerala government's decision to conduct offline exams for class 11 commencing from September 6 amid the rising cases of Covid-19. "There is an alarming" situation in the state owing to Covid-19, observed the apex court adding that "cases in Kerala are about 70 per cent cases of the country. Children of this age cannot be exposed to this risk." "Prima facie we find force in submission made by petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before having a physical exam proposed to be conducted in September this year. As we couldn't get a satisfactory response from counsel for the state in this regard, we grant interim relief staying the offline exam for till next date of hearing," said a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar. The apex court posted the matter for next hearing on September 13. The Kerala High Court had earlier observed that conducting examination was a matter of government policy and no interference was warranted.   The apex court bench passed the order on an appeal filed by advocate Rasoolshan A challenging a decision of the High Court refusing to interfere with the decision to hold offline exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alarming-situation-supreme-court-puts-interim-stay-on-keralas-decision-to-hold-class-11-exams-in-person-1026566.html
03-09-2021||National||'Third wave would be over': SC slams Centre for seeking more time on Covid death certificate guidelines||The Supreme Court on Friday expressed displeasure over the delay by the Centre in simplifying the process for issuance of death certificates for people who succumbed to Covid-19. “We passed the order long time back. We have already extended the time once. By the time you frame the guidelines, the third wave will also be over,” a bench presided over by Justice M R Shah told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who submitted that the matter was already under process, and it will be finalised soon. Mehta sought for additional time to file the affidavit. The court directed the Centre to show compliance by September 11 to the directions issued by it on June 30, to frame guidelines to simplify the process of issuance of death certificates. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to Covid-19. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, the petitioner-in-person in the matter, contended before the bench that Centre should respect the court order. On June 30, the top court had directed the Prime Minister-headed National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to frame appropriate guidelines within a period of six weeks. The court, however, had asked the Centre to place on the record by September 3 an affidavit setting out the compliance which has been effected in respect of other guidelines, particularly on issuing of death certificates for Covid-19 victims. Advocate Sumeer Sodhi, who appeared for some of the applicants, said extended time for the first direction passed on June 30 is getting over on September 8. The bench said it is for the Centre to take decision on compensation within that period of time and today it was adjourning the matter only for the purpose of compliance with other directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-wave-would-be-over-sc-slams-centre-for-seeking-more-time-on-covid-death-certificate-guidelines-1026573.html
03-09-2021||National||India, Nepal sign pacts to reconstruct over 100 projects damaged by 2015 earthquake||India and Nepal on Friday signed memorandum of understandings for the reconstruction of 14 cultural heritage and 103 health sector projects damaged by the devastating 2015 earthquake in the country. These projects will be reconstructed at a cost of 420 crore Nepalese Rupees ($36 million), India’s Embassy here said in a statement. The Indian Embassy and the Central Level Project Implementation Unit (Building) of National Reconstruction Authority signed the MoUs for the reconstruction of 14 cultural heritage projects in Lalitpur, Nuwakot, Rasuwa and Dhading districts and 103 health sector projects in Lalitpur, Rasuwa, Nuwakot, Sindhupalchowk, Ramechhap, Dolakha, Gulmi, Gorkha and Kavre districts. They were signed by both sides in the presence of Karun Bansal, First Secretary (Development Partnership and Reconstruction) of the Indian mission and Shyam Kishore Singh, Project Director, CLPIU (Building), Nepal. The CLPIU (Building) is the implementing agency for both health and cultural heritage sector projects. Under the post-earthquake reconstruction package, India has allocated a total grant of $250 million, including $50 million each for education, cultural heritage and health sector, and $100 million for the housing sector, according to the Indian mission. In total, 71 education sector projects, 28 cultural heritage sector projects in seven districts, 147 health facilities in 10 districts and construction of 50,000 houses in Gorkha and Nuwakot are being undertaken with India’s grant assistance, it said, adding that the Government of India is committed to bolster reconstruction efforts of Nepal in all these sectors. The devastating earthquake, which struck the Himalayan nation in April 2015, claimed over 9,000 lives and damaged more than 8,00,000 houses and schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nepal-sign-pacts-to-reconstruct-over-100-projects-damaged-by-2015-earthquake-1026581.html
03-09-2021||National||India-Russia friendship has stood test of time: PM Modi||India’s Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and Russia’s Zvezda Shipbuilding Complex LLC signed an agreement for collaboration in the construction of commercial ships, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the bilateral relations between New Delhi and Moscow has stood the test of time. India-Russia friendship was recently seen in the “robust cooperation during the Covid-19 pandemic including in the area of vaccines”, the Prime Minister said, before adding: “The pandemic highlighted the importance of the health and pharma sectors in our bilateral cooperation. Energy is another major pillar of our strategic partnership.” He was virtually addressing the plenary session of the 6th Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) being held in Vladivostok by the Russian Government. Russian President Vladimir Putin chaired the plenary session of the EEF. Putin had hosted Modi for the last edition of the EEF in 2019. Modi recalled that he and Putin had visited the Zvezda Shipbuilding Complex in 2019. “India and Russia are partners in space exploration through the Gaganyaan program. India and Russia will also be partner in the opening of the Northern Sea Route for international trade and commerce,” the Prime Minister said. He recalled the visit of Chief Ministers of the states of India to EEF-2019. He extended an invitation to the governors of the 11 regions of the Russian Far East to visit India. Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri, is leading a delegation of the oil and gas companies of India to the EEF. “Indian workers are participating in major gas projects in the Amur region, from Yamal to Vladivostok and onward to Chennai. We envisage an energy and trade bridge. I am happy that the Chennai - Vladivostok Maritime Corridor is making headway,” the Prime Minister said. “This connectivity project along with the International North-South Corridor will bring India and Russia physically closer to each other.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-friendship-has-stood-test-of-time-pm-modi-1026588.html
03-09-2021||National||RSS mouthpiece targets Infosys over glitches in I-T, GST portals||Bengaluru-based software company Infosys has come under sharp attack from RSS mouthpiece 'Panchajanya' over the problems faced by taxpayers in accessing the new Income Tax portal. The weekly magazine's cover story for the September 5 edition – 'Saakh Aur Aghaat' (Reputation and Shock) – claims that Infosys' reputation was in danger due to the difficulties faced by taxpayers while filing I-T Returns on the new portal developed by the Indian multinational company. The article also mentions the troubles faced by businessmen in accessing the Goods and Services Tax portal, also developed by the company. “Such difficulties have an impact on peoples' faith in the government. Can Infosys be lax in the services it offers in foreign countries. Questions are aplenty,” read the article. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said the “scurrilous” attack on Infosys in a RSS publication is “outrageous and actually anti-national.” “Companies like Infosys have transformed India and its standing in the world. The article is an attempt to shift the blame from the government and deserves to be wholeheartedly condemned,” Ramesh said. The weekly also had Infosys founder N R Narayana Murthy on its cover page. The magazine said there have also been allegations that the Infosys managment was deliberately making efforts to destabilise the Indian economy. It said that Infosys had won contracts to develop government websites after emerging as the lowest bidder – L-1 – in the tender process. “Since it is the most reputed software company of the country, the government agencies also do not hesitate in awarding contracts,” it said. The article said the glitches in the Income Tax portal and the GST portal has broken the trust of taxpayers. The article also alleged that Infosys has been funding Left wing outfits, fact-checking websites, news portals, and organisations that fuel caste-based hatred. “Should this question not be asked of the promoters of Infosys on the reasons for funding outfits that are anti-national and anarchist,” it asked. Recently, Infosys CEO Salil Parekh had met Finance Minister Nirmala Sithraman, who asked him to fix the glitches in the Income Tax Portal by September 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-mouthpiece-targets-infosys-over-glitches-in-i-t-gst-portals-1026591.html
03-09-2021||National||NIA gets 2 weeks to reply on pleas of Bharadwaj, Navlakha seeking clone copies of all seized devices||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted two weeks' time to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file its reply on the petitions of activists Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha, both accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, seeking clone copies of all the electronic devices seized from them by the central agency. Bharadwaj and Navlakha had approached the high court last month seeking such copies. On August 20, the high court had directed the NIA to file its reply over it. On Friday, however, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that the NIA's reply was "almost ready" and sought an additional two weeks' time to file it. The bench granted the central agency additional time after Singh said that it will continue with its oral statement made on the last date that charges in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case will not be framed before the special NIA court in the city until the next date before the high court on the above pleas. Last month, the NIA had submitted draft charges before the special court and the latter had scheduled the matter for framing of charges on August 23. Bharadwaj, Navlakha and some other co-accused in the case had sought clone copies of the electronic devices before framing of charges. The accused had at the time urged the special court to defer the framing of charges till their applications for clone copies are disposed of. After the special court refused to defer the framing of charges, Bharadwaj and Navlakha approached the high court. On Friday, their counsel, senior advocate Yug Chaudhry, told the bench that there existed some confusion on which electronic devices had been seized by the NIA from the accused and which copies should be handed over to them. He said the NIA must clarify the same in its reply. Singh, however, said the central agency would follow its own discretion in filing the reply and not the suggestion made by the petitioners. The high court accepted Singh's statement on deferring the framing of charges in the case until the next date of hearing on the pleas. It said it would hear the pleas further on September 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-gets-2-weeks-to-reply-on-pleas-of-bharadwaj-navlakha-seeking-clone-copies-of-all-seized-devices-1026592.html
03-09-2021||National||Minor girl missing since July 8 from UP recovered; accused arrested, Delhi Police tells SC||Delhi Police Friday informed the Supreme Court that a 13-year-old girl who was missing since July 8 from Uttar Pradesh, has been recovered and the man who had allegedly abducted her has been arrested from Kolkata. “This is certainly a reflection of the state of Uttar Pradesh Police which could not do it for two months and wanted two-week further time,” a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar said. The apex court was apprised by Additional Solicitor General R S Suri, representing Delhi Police, that as per the court’s direction the Uttar Prdaesh Police had shared the investigation report with them on Thursday. Suri told the bench, also comprising justices Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar, that a team was constituted which went to kolkata, arrested the man and recovered the girl. The top court had on Wednesday pulled up UP Police for its probe into the case and directed it to forthwith share the investigation report with Delhi Police. During the hearing conducted on Friday, the bench told the counsel appearing for UP that without realising the “seriousness” and “urgency involved” in the matter, they should not have made the statement seeking further two weeks' time to trace the girl. Advocate Pai Amit, appearing for the girl’s mother who has filed a petition seeking directions to the UP Police and Delhi Police to trace her daughter, told the bench that he is extremely grateful to the apex court and the Delhi Police that the minor has been recovered. He told the top court that it must lay down guidelines on what the police should do in such cases. The bench asked Delhi Police to submit a compliance report before it. The counsel appearing for UP asked the bench as to whether the state or Delhi Police would conduct further investigation in the matter. “Let Delhi Police file a compliance report and then we will consider the question of who will conduct further investigation,” the bench said, adding the Delhi Police will do what is required as per the law. The bench asked Delhi Police to take follow-up steps and ensure that relevant evidence, including medical reports, if any, are placed before the court along with the compliance report. The bench has posted the matter for further hearing on September 7. While hearing the matter on Wednesday, the bench had observed that it is "a very sensitive matter" and every minute is “precious”. The mother, who works as a domestic help in Delhi, claimed in her petition that her daughter is believed to have been kidnapped from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh by a man when her family members had gone there to attend a marriage ceremony. An FIR was registered in the case at Gorakhpur. The top court had directed the UP Police to forthwith share the entire investigation record with the in-charge of Malviya Nagar Police Station here by Thursday. It had made clear that its direction is "not absolving" the UP police officers from continuing the investigation in the matter in coordination with Delhi Police and to extend full cooperation as and when required. The counsel representing Uttar Pradesh had earlier told the bench that police be given two more weeks as the case involves investigation in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and they have also received information that the girl might be in West Bengal. In her petition, the girl’s mother has sought directions for carrying out investigation into the disappearance and kidnapping of her daughter and take appropriate action against those who may be found involved in this. The habeas corpus petition, seeking to produce the girl before the court, has alleged that despite an FIR being lodged at Gorakhpur and an attempt being made to make a complaint with the Delhi Police, no action has been taken to trace the minor. It said the man, who is suspected to have kidnapped the girl, was constantly luring and coaxing her to accompany him. The mother claimed after an FIR was registered in Gorakhpur, she returned to Delhi and approached a police station where she had complained regarding the man on a previous occasion but the police refused to register or take steps for recording her complaint about kidnapping of her daughter on the grounds that a prior FIR has already been lodged in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minor-girl-missing-since-july-8-from-up-recovered-accused-arrested-delhi-police-tells-sc-1026596.html
03-09-2021||National||Kerala girl's guava sapling to grow in PM Modi's courtyard||A guava sapling, nurtured by a Keralite girl in her village home with dreams to propagate the message of organic farming across the country, will soon spread its leaves in the courtyard of the official residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, if everything goes as planned. Actor-turned-BJP MP, Suresh Gopi handed over the tree sapling, gifted by Jayalakshmi, a 10th standard student in the southern state, to the Prime Minister during his recent meeting with him in New Delhi. The MP shared the photo of Modi accepting the gift by the aspiring girl farmer in his Twitter and Facebook handles on Thursday with a brief note. "Nurtured by a thoughtful young girl in a courtyard of Kulanada, a village in Pathanamthitta, all set to bloom in the residence of the Indian Prime Minister," Suresh Gopi tweeted. Hailing from Pathanamthitta district, Jayalakshmi was a recipient of the state government's 'Karshaka Thilakam' award for the best student (female) for developing and maintaining an organic farm in her home courtyard. The student had handed over the sapling to gift to the Prime Minister during the MP's visit at Gandhi Bhavan in Pathanapuram earlier this week. "The PM accepted it wholeheartedly and assured to have it planted in his official residence," the 'Kaliyattam' actor further said in the FB post. Gopi also said if the plant is reached his hands, we can also expect an Indian Prime Minister to say tomorrow that a sapling sent by a little girl from Kulanad is growing in the yard of my official bungalow. "Anyway, this is a great message... the message of pure democracy," he added. The elated Jayalakshmi later said she had never ever expected that her gift would reach the prime minister and she was so happy to know it from the actor-MP's social media posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-girls-guava-sapling-to-grow-in-pm-modis-courtyard-1026598.html
03-09-2021||National||Vaccine Matters Wrap-up: Could 'Mu' dampen gains made so far?||The Delta-led coronavirus surge and the rampant destruction it caused in the second wave are still afresh in people's minds, amidst this, a new variant of interest could dampen progress registered so far. While reviewing the epidemic situation following the Kerala surge, Mandaviya in a telephonic conversation with the two state ministers discussed strategies that need to be followed in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka – two states bordering Kerala – so that the number of new cases doesn't flare up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-matters-wrap-up-could-mu-dampen-gains-made-so-far-1026610.html
03-09-2021||National||Actor Sidharth Shukla's viscera sent to lab for further probe||The viscera of actor Sidharth Shukla, who died of a heart attack here on Thursday at the age of 40, has been sent to a forensic laboratory for examination though initial reports did not reveal any signs of unnatural death, police and hospital sources said. The autopsy report of the actor did not mention the exact cause of death, said a police officer on Friday. "On the face of it, there were no signs of unnatural death but the opinion has been reserved," he said, adding that the exact cause of death will be known after reports of chemical analysis of the viscera and histopathology tests were received. There were no external injuries on the actor's body, another police official said. The viscera was sent to the Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) while a few other organs were sent to the pathology laboratory of a medical college, said a source at the civic-run R N Cooper Hospital. The actor was rushed to the hospital on Thursday morning after he took ill at home. The doctors declared him brought dead. A forensic expert from the hospital said they sent the viscera to the FSL in suburban Kalina to rule out the possibility of foul play. "The FSL will investigate for the presence of toxicity in the organs along with other details," he said, adding that the pathology lab will examine other body organs and was expected to submit a report within two days. Another hospital official said the initial report indicated that heart attack was the cause of death and there was no internal injury. Shukla became a household name with his role in the long-running TV show “Balika Vadhu” and as the winner of “Bigg Boss 13”. In 2014, he made his Bollywood debut with "Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania". He was cremated at the Oshiwara crematorium here on Friday afternoon in the presence of family members, friends and colleagues from the entertainment industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-sidharth-shuklas-viscera-sent-to-lab-for-further-probe-1026632.html
03-09-2021||National||Enforcement Directorate establishes new office in Karnataka||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has established a new sub-zonal office in Karnataka's Mangaluru district that began functioning from Friday. The office is located at E-7, Central Excise Staff Quarters, Kankanady in Mangaluru and it will function under its existing zonal office in the state that is based in the capital city of Bengaluru, the agency said in a statement. The new office will be headed by a deputy director rank officer and have jurisdiction over 15 districts of the state -- Dakshina Kannada, Bagalkot, Belgaum, Bellary, Bidar, Bijapur, Gadag, Haveri, Davangere, Dharwad, Gulbarga, Uttara Kannada, Koppal, Udupi and Raichur, it said. Two similar sub-zonal offices were recently established by the ED in Shillong (Meghalaya) and Imphal (Manipur). The ED functions under the Union finance ministry and apart from enforcing the criminal anti-money laundering law PMLA, it also implements the civil sections of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and Fugitive Economic Offenders Act that was brought in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-establishes-new-office-in-karnataka-1026662.html
03-09-2021||National||Court allows Honey Singh's wife to collect belongings from matrimonial home||A Delhi court Friday allowed Punjabi singer Yo Yo Honey Singh's wife, who has filed a domestic violence case against him, to gather belongings from her matrimonial home and directed the couple not to indulge in any unhealthy conversation during the visit. Metropolitan Magistrate Tania Singh conducted in-chamber counselling of the couple for more than an hour, following which she allowed Singh's wife Shalini Talwar to collect her belongings from her matrimonial home in the presence of two protection officers on September 5. The judge directed the couple not to indulge in "any unhealthy conversation or exchange of words on that day". Their counsels have been asked to be present there, a list of belongings to be prepared and the whole act to be videographed. "There is normal wear and tear in marriages, but both of them should tone down their expressions," the magistrate directed, asking them to maintain decorum when Talwar visits the matrimonial home to collect her belongings. “May God give us strength to do justice to both the parties,” the judge said after passing the order and kept the matter for further hearing on September 28 when she will hear arguments on Talwar's prayer for interim compensation and residence. The judge has also asked Talwar to submit her bank account statement and income affidavit in the next ten days. Singh has moved an application seeking that the case be heard in-camera. The judge is yet to pass an order on the plea. In the last hearing, the court had pulled up the singer after he failed to appear before it and gave him final warning. No one is above the law, the judge had said. Pursuant to the in-chamber counselling, the judge noted the contrary stand taken by the couple, wherein Talwar alleged that she was thrown out of her matrimonial home in March 2021, while Singh stated that she left it on her own. After coming out of the courtroom, Singh said that the counselling conducted by the judge was good and hoped everything goes well. Hirdesh Singh, professionally known as Yo Yo Honey Singh, and Talwar tied the knot on January 23, 2011. In her plea, Talwar has charted out how she was allegedly physically assaulted by Singh over the last ten years of their marriage. She also alleged that Honey Singh cheated on her. The 38-year-old woman claimed that Singh and his family broke her mentally and emotionally to an extent that she almost started identifying herself as a "farm animal". Advocate Sandeep Kapur from Karanjawala & Co. appeared for Talwar in the case, while advocate Rebecca John represented Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-allows-honey-singhs-wife-to-collect-belongings-from-matrimonial-home-1026665.html
03-09-2021||National||Congress constitutes panel to study matters related to caste census||In the backdrop of the caste-based census turning out to be a battle cry of political parties ahead of Assembly polls in six states, the Congress on Friday set up a special group headed by senior party leader M Veerappa Moily to study the contentious issue. A party communique by AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal said Congress President Sonia Gandhi has constituted the committee to "study the matters related to caste census" with immediate effect. Senior party leaders Salman Khurshid, Mohan Prakash, RPN Singh and P L Puniya (from Uttar Pradesh) and Kuldeep Bishnoi and party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi are members of the committee. In Uttar Pradesh, where polls are expected in March next year, both Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party have already backed caste census while conflicting voices have been heard from the BJP, while the Congress has also been treading cautiously on the issue. Many in the two national parties believe that it could open a Pandora's box with competing claims by different OBC castes for bigger representation in quota than what they are already getting. Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah had on Tuesday made a strong pitch for a nationwide caste-based census and demanded that it should be undertaken once every 10 years to ensure social justice.  Sidddaramaiah, an architect of AHINDA (losely defining minority communities, backward classes and Dalits) politics, had once again raised the issue ahead of the rural local bodies polls in the state. The next Assembly polls in the state are scheduled in 2023. Batting for caste census, the senior Congress leader had flagged concern that the current social and economic policies are being implemented based on 90-year-old caste census data, which is not the true reflection of the present demography. He also pointed out that the Congress government led by him in Karnataka had initiated caste census at a cost of Rs 180 crore, a reference to his government in 2015 having commissioning the Social and Educational Survey, or the caste census in the state whose findings were not made public. For Congress, the issue has ramifications much beyond Karnataka. Ahead of 2022 Assembly polls in six states, five of which are BJP-ruled, the Opposition parties have latched on to the issue of caste census. Even in Bihar, which borders the poll-bound UP, the issue has seen almost a total unanimity. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar from NDA ally JD(U) had led a delegation from the state having parties including arch rival Lalu Prasad's RJD to the national capital and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for caste census. Apart from Opposition parties -- SP, BSP RJD, AAP LJD, NCP, DMK BJD --  three NDA allies -- JD(U), RPI(A) led by Ramdas Athavale and Apna Dal led by Anupriya Patel -- have pitched for the caste census even as the central government had on the floor of Parliament said no to it. Amid the renewed demand for caste census, senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi, himself belonging to the OBC community, chose to highlight that most of the steps for welfare of Other Backward Classes took place whenever the BJP was in power. He also chose to flag that the Prime Minister, himself, hails from the extremely backward classes. The ruling BJP has worries on both counts -- accepting caste census or rejecting it. Hence it has been trying to do a fine balancing act. On July 20, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai in a written reply in Lok Sabha had said, "The government of India has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SCs and STs in census" while noting that the Maharashtra and Odisha governments have requested the Centre to collect caste details in the forthcoming census." The last caste census was carried out in 1931.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-constitutes-panel-to-study-matters-related-to-caste-census-1026677.html
03-09-2021||National||NAL's Hansa-NG aircraft takes to skies in maiden flight||The Hansa Next Generation (NG) trainer aircraft being developed by National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL) in the city, conducted its maiden flight on Friday. The aircraft took off from HAL airport at 2.09 pm and flew at an altitude of 4,000 feet at a speed of 80 knots before it returned to the airport 20 minutes later. Test pilot Captain Amit Dahiya who undertook this sortie said that all flight parameters of the aircraft were normal and in line with expected parameters. The Hansa-NG is an upgraded variant of the two-seater Hansa aircraft. NAL said that the aircraft has a glass cockpit, a high-efficient digitally controlled Rotax 912 ISC engine, electrically operated flaps and long endurance. The aircraft is also touted as having low acquisition and low operating costs.  “CSIR-NAL has already received 72 letters of intents from various flying clubs and the aircraft will be certified within the next four months before it gets inducted into service,” NAL said in a statement. The flight was monitored in telemetry by senior officers and scientists from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the Centre for Military Airworthiness and Certification (Cemilac). Dr Shrkar C Mande, Secretary, DSIR and Director General, CSIR, who was also present, stated that NAL has already identified a private partner for series production of the aircraft. The aircraft had been issued a type certification from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in 2020, the manufacturing of the first aircraft for flight trials was initiated by NAL in September 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nals-hansa-ng-aircraft-takes-to-skies-in-maiden-flight-1026687.html
03-09-2021||National||Paralympics bronze medallist archer Harvinder Singh wants to crack UPSC Exam: Coach||Pursuing Ph.D. in economics, the 31-year-old, whose legs stopped functioning properly due to adverse effect from an injection during his childhood, loves history, is a painter and dreams of cracking the UPSC examination some day, according to his coach Gaurav Sharma. Having taken up archery in the compound section after getting inspired from watching the 2012 London Paralympics, Singh almost quit the sport after he did not make it to the 2014 Incheon Asian Para Games Indian team. "He was completely demoralised and was telling archery was not his domain," his childhood coach Sharma told PTI. Sharma, however, did not want to let his effort go in vain and "wanted to take a risk". In the bronze playoff, Singh was leading 5-3 before Kim Min Su clinched the fifth set, shooting a perfect 10 to force a shoot-off where the Indian responded in style with a perfect 10 against the Korean's 8 for a 6-5 (26-24, 27-29, 28-25, 25-25, 26-27) (10-8) win. Son of a farmer from Guhla Cheeka near Kaithal in Haryana, Singh had a bout of dengue when he was one-and-half-year-old and a local doctor administered him with an injection that had an adverse effect and his legs stopped working properly since then. "He had the hunger to excel and we took a risk and put him into the tougher recurve event which requires precise skills," Sharma said. "There was 100 per cent dedication from him, he would turn up at 6.30am and practice till 8.30 and again come for practice in the afternoon." He went on to top the selection trials for the 2017 Beijing World Championships and has not looked back since then. He went on to win a gold in the 2018 Asian Para Games. "As if he had something to prove... He was so focused and lived up to our expectation, we are so happy that he took the risk." Singh was offered a government job in the state government after his Asian Games feat. "He has not taken it since then. He wants to do something on his own, and his dream is to crack the UPSC," Sharma said. After returning from practice, Singh would study till late into the night. "His favourite subject is history and does some amazing paintings like a true professional. I'm sure he won't stop here," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paralympics-bronze-medallist-archer-harvinder-singh-wants-to-crack-upsc-exam-coach-1026688.html
03-09-2021||National||After dropping below one, India's Covid R-value rises sharply to 1.17 in second half of August||The R-value which reflects how rapidly coronavirus pandemic is spreading, has sharply risen close to 1.2 over the last fortnight, mainly driven by cases in states like Kerala and Maharashtra, say researchers. The rise in the R-value comes after a steady decline in cases in the first half of August in the country. “Up to that date (August 30), the situation looked pretty bad. India's R-value had shot up close to 1.2. Not only is it greater than one, it is much higher than the last time there was a scare of a third wave (it was 1.03 at that time). “This is driven by several states having their R-value go over 1 in the last few days of August -- most notably Kerala and Maharashtra, but also Mizoram and Jammu and Kashmir,” Sitabhra Sinha, who is leading the team of researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, told PTI. The R-value of Kerala stood at 1.33, which is the highest number of active cases in the country. Similarly, the R-value of Mizoram was 1.36, Jammu and Kashmir (1.25), Maharashtra (1.06) and Andhra Pradesh (1.09). The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects, on average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. A smaller R indicates the disease is on a decline. Conversely, if R is greater than 1, the number of infected people is increasing in each round -- this is what is called the epidemic phase. After the devastating second wave that saw hospitals and health infrastructure being overwhelmed by patients infected by SARS-CoV2 coronavirus, the R-value started to decline. During the March-May period, thousands of people died due to the infection while lakhs were infected. When the second wave swept through the country between March to May, the R-value was 1.37 (between March 9 to April 21). From May 15-June 26, the R-value stood at 0.78. However, it slowly started increasing -- it was 0.88 from June 20-July 7, 0.95 from July 3-22, 0.96 from July 24-27. It breached the value of 1.03 for the first time after the second wave during July 27-31. However, since then it has slowly started to decline. The R-value was 0.92 from August 6-9, and rose to 0.99 between August 12-14. But it slipped to 0.89 between August 14-17. With 45,352 people testing positive for coronavirus, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,29,03,289, while active cases registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Friday. `The active cases increased to 3,99,778, comprising 1.22 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.45 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 10,195 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 67.09 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-dropping-below-one-indias-covid-r-value-rises-sharply-to-117-in-second-half-of-august-1026689.html
03-09-2021||National||Manish Tewari, Priyanka Chaturvedi spar on Twitter over Tejpal case||Congress leader Manish Tewari and Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi were involved in a war of words on Twitter on Friday after the former stated that Tehelka magazine founder-editor Tarun Tejpal was "honourably exonerated" in a sexual assault case recently, with Chaturvedi terming the remarks "shameful". It started with Tewari praising Tejpal in a tweet, saying, "My college senior the much maligned, hugely politically persecuted & now honourably exonerated the brilliant & mercurial Tarun Tejpal has written this teaser of his new book Animal Farm. Tarun at his evocative & provocative best. Welcome back friend." This drew a sharp response from Chaturvedi who, on a sarcastic note, said, "Today I got to know that Tarun Tejpal was 'honorably exonerated' and 'politically persecuted'." To rubbish a woman's sexual assault by this cosy club smacks of their sick mindset, the Rajya Sabha MP lashed out at Tewari. "They believe they can behave as they wish around women and laugh off the serious crime. Shameful," she tweeted. Hitting back at Chaturvedi, Tewari said unlike her, as a lawyer, he knows how to read a judgment and respect it. "Tarun Tejpal was tried and found innocent. That is the cold hard fact. Goa Government has gone to High Court. If you have a problem say what you have too in the High Court of Mumbai & Goa," he said. Responding to the Congress MP, Chaturvedi shot back saying, the Goa government has challenged this district court verdict in the high court and so the "celebration" over his 'exoneration' can be on hold. "More power to the young lady who had the courage to take such powerful clique head on," Chaturvedi said. "Unlike you Manish Tewari just being a lawyer and ability to read a judgement does not put you on a higher plain. Also this is a free platform I have a right to opinion as much as you have a right to pat the back of an alleged rapist," she tweeted. Slamming Chaturvedi, Tewari tweeted, "It actually does @priyankac19. It makes me acutely conscious about respecting rule of law & judgments delivered by Courts established under our Constitution." "Please do not cross the line of libel & defamation. I would be anguished to take a fellow MP & former Colleague to Court," he said. Chaturvedi called Tewari's remarks a threat to "silence" her and said that as a lawyer he should realise that her first tweet wasn't even tagged or marked to him, and he "chose to jump in". "Ignorance of the law is bliss, ain't it @priyankac19. The law of libel recognises a slur by implication also Mam," Tewari shot back. Chaturvedi slammed Tewari, saying ignorance of law is better than ignorance of morality as for the former, one can hire lawyers, the latter unfortunately can't be taught and is ingrained. Responding to tweets criticising his praise for Tejpal, the Congress leader put out "facts", stating that the Tehelka founder was charged and tried by a court of law and the case went on from 2013 to 2021. "With multiple appeals to HC & SC. Ultimately a Lady judge found him innocent on all charges & acquitted him. Goa Govt has filed an appeal challenging acquittal," he said. "Tarun Tejpal & Tehelka's political persecution started in 2001 due to Operation West End.... Multiple raids by Law enforcement agencies btwn 2001-04. Bankrupting of Tehelka to silence it forcing it to shut down," he tweeted. The Goa government in late May challenged the acquittal by a sessions court of Tejpal in the sexual assault case in the Bombay High Court. On May 21, a sessions court in Goa had acquitted Tejpal of the charge of sexually assaulting a former woman colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in the state in 2013. The alleged incident had taken place on November 7, 2013. Tejpal stepped down as editor-in-chief of Tehelka in the wake of sexual assault allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manish-tewari-priyanka-chaturvedi-spar-on-twitter-over-tejpal-case-1026710.html
03-09-2021||National||Children of tender age can't be exposed, says SC as it stays Kerala govt's decision to conduct offline exam for class 11||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the Kerala government's decision to conduct an offline exam for Class 11 from September 6, saying children of tender age can't be exposed to risk in view of the alarming Covid-19 situation in the state. "There is an alarming situation in Kerala. It accounts for nearly 70% of cases in the country, with more than 30,000 daily cases. Children of tender age can't be exposed to risk," a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said. The top court passed the order on a plea by one Rasoolshan A, represented by advocate Prashant Padmanabhan, challenging the Kerala High Court order declining to interfere with the state government decision to conduct offline exams. Padmanabhan contended that it was a huge risk to conduct physical exams amid the alarming Covid-19 situation in the state.   He said that children have not been vaccinated and there are lakhs of students who are supposed to take the exam scheduled from September 6 to 27.  The bench wondered if the Kerala government has considered these facts before deciding the schedule for the offline exams.  The bench said that prima facie it found force in the submission made by the petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before having a physical exam.  “As we couldn't get a satisfactory response from counsel for the state in this regard, we grant interim relief staying offline exam for till next date of hearing. List this matter on September 13," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-of-tender-age-cant-be-exposed-says-sc-as-it-stays-kerala-govts-decision-to-conduct-offline-exam-for-class-11-1026716.html
03-09-2021||National||Biological E's Covid-19 vaccine gets regulatory nod for kids trial||The Indian drug regulator has approved a human trial of Biological E’s Covid-19 vaccine for efficacy on kids above 5 years besides permitting the phase-III clinical trial of the same vaccine on adults to check its ability to protect them from serious diseases and death. On September 1, the Hyderabad-based company received the Drugs Controller General of India's approval to initiate the phase II/III trial to evaluate safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity of Corbevax vaccine in children and adolescents. Additionally, the DCGI approved the phase III protective efficacy trial in adults following the Subject Expert Committee’s review of phase I and II clinical trial data. Developed jointly with Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, the BioE shot is a RBD (receptor binding domain) protein sub-unit vaccine that has been found safe and triggered immune response in the phase-I/II of clinical trials involving 360 healthy subjects in the age bracket of 18-65 years. It’s schedule consists of two intramuscular shots 28 days apart. The vaccine candidate has been supported by the Centre from the preclinical stage with the Department of Biotechnology not only providing a financial assistance of more than Rs 100 crore but also partnering with the company to conduct all animal challenge and assay studies at Translational Health Science Technology Institute, Faridabad. “The DBT is committed to the development of safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccines. We look forward to the clinical development of candidate Corbevax for paediatric and adults," DBT Secretary Renu Swarup said in a statement. Earlier, the Union Health Ministry inked a pact with the firm to reserve 30 crore doses for which the government made an advance payment of Rs 1,500 crore. The government’s aim was to procure the doses between August and December in order to meet the target of vaccinating 94.47 crore adults by the year end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biological-es-covid-19-vaccine-gets-regulatory-nod-for-kids-trial-1026719.html
03-09-2021||National||Bangle seller assault-arrest: MP cops get 14 days to file chargesheet||A court in Indore in Madhya Pradesh on Friday granted 14 days to the police to file a charge sheet against a bangle seller who was assaulted by a mob last month for allegedly touching a minor girl inappropriately and also hiding his identity. Taslim Ali (25) was thrashed by a mob in Govind Nagar area here on August 22, a video of which went viral on social media, and he was arrested on August 25 for allegedly sexually harassing a 13-year-old girl as well as for alleged Aadhaar Card forgery. On Friday, Judge Pavas Srivastava of the Special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court granted police 14 days to file a charge sheet after they said they needed more time to complete the probe. The court also extended the judicial remand of Ali till September 19, which has been set as the next date of hearing. Police had also arrested four people for hitting Ali, a resident of Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangle-seller-assault-arrest-mp-cops-get-14-days-to-file-chargesheet-1026722.html
03-09-2021||National||Over 67.65 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 67.65 crore on Friday, the Union health ministry said. As many as 51,88,894 vaccine doses were administered on Friday, it said. This is according to the 7 pm provisional report. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 26,66,03,686 individuals in the 18-44 age group across states and union territories have received their first dose and 3,20,41,597 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, according to health ministry data. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-6765-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-1026723.html
03-09-2021||National||Haryana has become hub of 'paper leak mafia': Randeep Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday alleged that Haryana had become a hub of the "paper leak mafia" under the present BJP-led dispensation as the criminals have no fear of the law. “What is the reason that paper leak mafia, active in different parts of the country, find Haryana a safe haven. Why is there a Haryana connection to every big paper leak?” he said in a statement. “Paper mafia is flourishing under the BJP-JJP rule as it has failed to control the repeated leaks and frauds,” he claimed. The former Haryana minister further said the high unemployment rate and recruitment exams getting cancelled due to paper leaks are pushing the future of the state’s youth into darkness. The CBI had on Thursday carried out searches at 19 locations in connection with the alleged manipulation of the 2021 JEE (Mains) examination by a private institute, and its directors. After registering the case on Wednesday, the agency waited for the examination to get over on Thursday before launching the searches. The prestigious JEE (Mains) examination is a stepping stone for admissions into IITs and NITs. "The searches led to the recovery of 25 laptops, seven PCs, around 30 post-dated cheques along with voluminous incriminating documents/devices, including PDC's marksheet of different students," CBI Spokesperson R C Joshi had earlier said. It is alleged that the directors in conspiracy with other associates and touts were "manipulating the online examination of JEE (Mains) and facilitating aspiring students to get admission in top NITs in consideration of huge amount by solving the question paper of the applicant through remote access from a chosen examination centre in Sonipat (Haryana)", Joshi had said. It was also alleged that the accused used to obtain as security aspiring students' marksheets of classes 10 and 12, user IDs, passwords, and post-dated cheques, and once the admission was done, they used to collect heavy amounts ranging from Rs 12-15 lakh per candidate across the country. Last month, Surjewala had demanded a high-court monitored CBI probe into alleged leak of question papers for male police constable recruitment in Haryana as the opposition had stepped up attack on the BJP-led government in the state over the issue. Amid reports of a paper leak, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) had cancelled the written examination for the recruitment of male police constables. After the exam was cancelled, Surjewala had attacked the state government over the issue, saying it was the 28th paper which got leaked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-has-become-hub-of-paper-leak-mafia-randeep-surjewala-1026724.html
03-09-2021||National||Fill faculty vacancies by October: Dharmendra Pradhan tells central varsity VCs||Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday asked vice chancellors of central universities to fill over 6,000 vacancies in faculty positions in mission mode by October. Forty-five central universities have 6,229 faculty positions vacant – almost one-third of the total sanctioned strength of 18,000 – which was top on agenda of Pradhan's meeting with vice chancellors of 45 central universities. Of the 6,229 vacancies, 1,012 faculty posts are reserved for scheduled castes, 592 (ST), 1,767 (OBC), 806 (EWS) and 350 (divyang), Pradhan said, adding that the rest of the seats were for the general category. The minister asked the vice chancellors to issue advertisement announcing vacancies next week and speed up the recruitment and complete the process by October this year. The Minister exhorted the Universities to come up with the strategies for making India fully literate, as well as to contribute to helping the country to meet its Nutrition Challenge during ‘Poshan Month’ as a mark of 75th anniversary of Independence. Pradhan also asked the vice chancellors to assume pioneering roles in building capacities, initiating frameworks for implementation of Academic Bank of Credit, Multiple Entry & Exit, virtual universities and several other aspects of the National Education Policy from this academic year itself. The vice chancellors were also requested to encourage sports in their Universities, thereby promoting a sporting culture in the country, besides exhorting students to become job creators by promoting innovation and research in their respective campuses. Earlier, the minister lauded the Jawaharlal Nehru University for introducing a course on counter-terrorism for Master of Science dual-degree students specialising in international relations at JNU’s School of Engineering. This course and two others – India's World View in the 21st Century, and Significance of Science and Technology in International relations – were approved by the JNU Academic Council on August 17. The three courses were approved by the Executive Council of the varsity on Thursday. A section of JNU teachers and students had objected to the introduction of the course titled Counter-Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers, alleging it states that 'jihadi terrorism' is the only form of 'fundamentalist-religious terrorism'. The teachers claimed that the course also asserts that communist regimes in the Soviet Union and China were state-sponsors of terrorism that influenced radical Islamic states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fill-faculty-vacancies-by-october-dharmendra-pradhan-tells-central-varsity-vcs-1026727.html
03-09-2021||National||Bonded labourer in Andamans for 35 yrs, Jharkhand septuagenarian reunites with family||Unable to control the tears rolling down his cheeks, Fucha Mahli, 70 reunited with his family in Jharkhand after 35 long years working as a virtual bonded labour across the seas in the former penal colony of Andamans. Some 35 years back Mahli, a resident of Jharkhand's Bishunpur in Gumla district was taken to Andaman & Nicobar islands to work as a labourer. "I was taken to Andamans more than three decades back by a ship from Kolkata to work for a company. However, the company closed down after a year and I was forced to beg alms for livelihood when a local `Mahajan' (money lender) snatched all my papers in North Middle Andaman and for over three decades I have been serving him in lieu of food," Mahli told PTI telephonically in a choked voiced. He said "I had never dreamt of this day when I will come home ... I had abandoned all hopes to see my family. It is all thanks to Chief Minister Hemant Soren and NGO Shubh Sandesh that I am able to see this day in my life," Mahli said. Mahli said his days in Andamans began with cutting wood and caring for the Mahajan named Sudeep, in lieu of food. Before leaving for his village in Bishunpur, Mahli on reaching Ranchi by flight was taken to meet Jharkhand Chief Minister Soren at Jharkhand Assembly. He said it was Soren's and the NGO's intervention that resulted in his rescue from the islands. Soren intervened after coming to know of his plight when Mahli's family members contacted Labour department officials and an NGO Shubh Sandesh Foundation, which has been active for release of migrant workers in various parts of the country. Jharkhand officials then their counterparts in South Andaman to help free Fucha Mahli. Shubh Sandesh Foundation's executive Daniel Ponraj told PTI "Mahli was not given a single penny during all these three decades. His only possession is a radio set." Ponraj added "Mahli went by boat three decades ago and returned by plane. He had lost all hopes to ever see his wife or children. The bonded labourer is a free man now." Soren in a tweet said he has directed officials to provide all support to Mahli. The joy of family members including sons Ramatu and Pradeep Mahli and daughter Chero Devi who had come to Ranchi to take their father home knew no bounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bonded-labourer-in-andamans-for-35-yrs-jharkhand-septuagenarian-reunites-with-family-1026736.html
03-09-2021||National||JEE manipulation: Seven arrested by CBI||The CBI has arrested seven persons including two directors of a Noida-based private institution in connection with alleged manipulation of JEE Mains examination 2021, officials said Friday. The arrests were made after registration of a case against Affinity Education Pvt Ltd and three directors --Siddharth Krishna, Vishwambhar Mani Tripathi and Govind Varshney -- besides other touts and associates. The agency has arrested Krishna and Tripathi besides four employees Ritik Singh, Anjum Dawoodani, Animesh Kumar Singh and Ajinkya Narhari Patil, the officials said. Another person Ranjit Singh Thakur was arrested from Jamshedpur, they said. Varshney, who had recently joined the company, is suspected to be on the run, they said, adding the agency is contemplating issuing a look-out notice against him. The CBI had conducted searches at 19 locations on Thursday during which around 20-30 post-dated cheques were received which were suspected to be the payments for ensuring help in clearing the examination, the officials said. During the searches, it surfaced that the accused had sent the messages to delete the data from their systems. The agency has also stumbled upon leads that show that some payments were allegedly made through hawala channels as well, they said. Senior CBI officials have assured that bona fide candidates need not worry. The prestigious JEE Mains examination which is a stepping stone for IITs and NITs came under shadow of manipulation when the CBI booked Affinity Education Pvt Ltd and its directors for solving questions for candidates from remote access in return for huge payments. It is alleged that the directors in conspiracy with other associates and touts were "manipulating the online examination of JEE (Mains) and facilitating aspiring students to get admission in top NITs in consideration of huge amount by solving the question paper of the applicant through remote access from a chosen examination centre in Sonepat(Haryana)", CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi had said. Several others examination centres and a Bengaluru-based suspected mastermind of the alleged racket is also under scanner and the CBI is carrying out searches, the officials said. It was also alleged that the accused used to obtain class 10 and 12 mark sheets, the user IDs, passwords, and post-dated cheques of aspiring students in different parts of country as security and once admission was done, they used to collect heavy amount ranging from Rs 12-15 lakh (approx) per candidate, Joshi had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-manipulation-seven-arrested-by-cbi-1026748.html
03-09-2021||National||DCGI nod to phase-I clinical trial of Reliance Life Sciences' Covid-19 vaccine||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Friday granted permission to the Mukesh Ambani-owned Reliance Life Sciences to conduct phase-I clinical trial of its indigenous Covid-19 vaccine with certain conditions, sources said. The phase-I clinical trial will be conducted to evaluate safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the SARS-CoV-2 recombinant protein subunit vaccine in healthy volunteers according to protocol, they said. The firm is required to submit the revised clinical trial protocol for immunogenicity to be assessed on Day 42, instead of Day 14, as recommended by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, a source said, citing the conditions set for the trial. The DCGI gave the permission based on the recommendations given by the SEC which deliberated on the company's application on August 26. The trials will be conducted at eight sites in Maharashtra. India's drug regulator has so far issued emergency use authorisation to six Covid-19 vaccines -- Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D, Russian-made Sputnik V and the two made by US firms Moderna and Johnson & Johnson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-nod-to-phase-i-clinical-trial-of-reliance-life-sciences-covid-19-vaccine-1026750.html
03-09-2021||National||Editor of web portal detained over Dutee Chand's complaint of obscene content||The editor of an online news channel was detained in Bhubaneswar on Friday over allegations by noted sprinter Dutee Chand that he had published obscene photos of her, besides attempting extortion, police said. The editor was apprehended from his office in Jharpada area, Deputy Commissioner of Police U S Dash told reporters. He is accused of publishing defamatory and obscene content against the athlete, he said. "Police have detained web channel editor Sudhanshu Sekhar Raut. We have also seized computers and other material from the accused. We are investigating the complaint. The accused editor is being questioned," the officer said. A case was registered under various IPC sections, including 292-2 (obscene and indecent publication), 354-A (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 506 (criminal intimidation), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy), he said. "The false and obscene portrayal of me on social media and web portal have tarnished my image which ultimately impacted my performance in the Olympics. I do not know what harm I have done to these people," Chand, who too recorded her statement with the police, said. The ace sprinter has also accused Pradip Pradhan, an RTI activist, of mental harassment and criminal intimidation. "Pradhan will also be questioned as his name also figured in the FIR," the police officer said. Rout and Pradhan could not immediately be reached for comments. The name of another journalist of the channel was also included in the FIR. In her complaint, Chand alleged that a senior journalist of the channel demanded money from her for not airing an interview in which her family members reportedly spoke about their personal issues with her. Chand also moved court over the matter and filed a defamation case, making eight persons and organisations as parties, including the web portal editor, Facebook and Google. The court of Civil Judge (Senior Division) Bhubaneswar restrained the portal and the editor from circulating defamatory news against her. The next date of hearing is on September 15. The incident came close on the heels of the Supreme Court expressing concern over web portals and YouTube channels. On August 27, a woman journalist of a web portal and four others were arrested by Nandankanan police station on charge of kidnapping and extortion. In Malkangiri district, five persons, including a local journalist, were arrested on July 15 on the charge of extortion of Rs 8 lakh from a government official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editor-of-web-portal-detained-over-dutee-chands-complaint-of-obscene-content-1026751.html
03-09-2021||National||TMC activists attacking Congress men, was greeted with black flags on way to meet victims: Adhir||West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday said that he was greeted with black flags in Murshidabad by TMC activists, who also staged a demonstration before his convoy when he was on his way to meet party workers allegedly attacked by members of the ruling camp. Chowdhury had on Thursday written to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee flagging the "incidents of attack" in Raniganj area of Murshidabad by workers of her party. A senior police officer said that the agitators were dispersed following which the Congress leader went ahead with his visit during the day. Chowdhury, who is also the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, told reporters, "Our men are coming under attack here and in other parts of state. And sadly opposition leaders like me are not being allowed to visit the victims of atrocities by the ruling party. Why should this happen?" The veteran leader met Congress activist Jharu Mondal, whose house was vandalised, and two other activists and said the party would ensure they get justice. In his letter to the CM on Thursday, the Lok Sabha MP from Berhampore claimed that members of the Mamata Banerjee-led party had unleashed violence on Congress workers in Raninagar area, with the police witnessing the episode and not taking any action. Seeking the CM's intervention in the matter, Chowdhury said, "Please take steps to stem the deteriorating law and order situation in the particular area and ensure justice for the victims (sic)." "Under this precarious situation which has been prevailing over that area, it calls for immediate administrative action against those miscreants," he added. A police officer, when approached, said houses of three Congress workers were vandalised and their property looted during clash between two groups at Raninagar on September 2. Denying that the TMC had any role to play in the incident, the party’s district leader, Saoni Singha Roy, said the clash was a fallout of infighting in the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-activists-attacking-congress-men-was-greeted-with-black-flags-on-way-to-meet-victims-adhir-1026752.html
03-09-2021||National||Modi still the best PM candidate in poll-bound states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is still the best prime ministerial candidate in the five states going to the polls in next year -- Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, as per the ABP-CVoter survey.  As per the survey, Modi has maintained his popularity graph and is way ahead of prominent leaders like Rahul Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal. At pan-India level, 41 per cent of the respondents prefer Modi, while 11.3 per cent chose Rahul Gandhi as the best PM candidate. Among others, 7.5 per cent voters have chosen Kejriwal as their PM candidate, followed by Manmohan Singh and Yogi Adiyanath at 5.2 per cent and 2.8 per cent, respectively. In Goa, 48.5 per cent voters prefer Modi, followed by 46.5 per cent in Uttarakhand, 41.5 per cent in Manipur, 40.7 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, and 12.4 per cent in Punjab as the best PM candidate, the survey revealed. A total of 22.2 per cent voters in Goa feel that Kejriwal is the best PM candidate, while 20.7 per cent opted for Rahul Gandhi. Manmohan Singh and Adityanath have marginal support of 5.2 per cent and 2.8 per cent, respectively. Similarly, in Manipur, 41.5 per cent voters prefer Modi as the best PM candidate, followed by Kejriwal at 14.1 per cent while only 7.9 per cent voters have favoured Rahul Gandhi. Manmohan Singh and Adityanath have the support of 6.1 per cent and 0.9 per cent respondents, respectively. In Punjab, 23.4 per cent prefer Kejriwal as the best PM candidate, followed by Manmohan Singh (15.7 per cent), Modi (12.4 per cent) and Rahul Gandhi (4.9 per cent). In Uttar Pradesh, Modi is again popular as the best PM candidate with 40.7 per cent voters preferring him, followed by Rahul Gandhi (8 per cent), Kejriwal (5.1 per cent), Manmohan Singh (4.6 per cent) and Adityanath (4.2 per cent).  In Uttarakhand too, Modi is ahead with 46.5 per cent support, followed by Kejriwal (14.9 per cent), Rahul Gandhi (10.4 per cent), Adiyanath (7.5 per cent) and Manmohan Singh (5.4 per cent). The sample size for the survey was 81,006 in five states covering 690 Assembly seats. This state poll is part of the largest and definitive independent sample survey tracker series carried out in India over the last 22 years, conducted by independent international polling agency CVoter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-still-the-best-pm-candidate-in-poll-bound-states-1026755.html
03-09-2021||National||'Hansa' makes successful maiden flight||National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL) has said its new generation (NG) aircraft Hansa made its maiden flight on Friday. NAL designed and developed the plane under the aegis of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The aircraft took off from the airport of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) at 2:09 PM and flew at an altitude of 4,000 feet. Hansa gained a speed of 80 knots before it made a successful landing after about 20 minutes, said a press release from NAL. Captain Amit Dahiya flew the plane and expressed happiness by saying the flight parameters were found normal and it was a textbook flight, according to the release. The features of Hansa-NG are a glass cockpit with cabin comfort, high efficient digitally controlled engine, electrically operated flaps, long endurance, low acquisition and operating cost. CSIR-NAL has received 72 letters of intents from various flying clubs and the aircraft would be certified within the next four months before it gets inducted into Service, the release said. The flight was monitored in telemetry by senior officers and scientists and engineers from Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), Centre for Military Airworthiness & Certification (CEMILAC) and CSIR-NAL, the release said. Dr Shekhar C Mande, Secretary, DSIR, and Director-General, CSIR, congratulated the NAL team. He said the successful flight was a result of the efforts of the CSIR-NAL design team, flight test crew and DGCA with support from Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment (ASTE). He said CSIR-­NAL has already identified a private partner and series production of Hansa would start soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hansa-makes-successful-maiden-flight-1026764.html
03-09-2021||National||India, US to develop Air-Launched Unmanned Aerial||The Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE) based in Bengaluru, is working with the United States Air Force Research Laboratory, to develop the Air-Launched Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (ALUAV). The ADE of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Aerospace Systems Directorate at the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), which is headquartered at Ohio in the United States, are developing the drone that could be launched from a military cargo aircraft, like C130J or the C17. The collaborative project is a part of the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI), which is aimed at bringing sustained leadership focus to promote collaborative technology exchange and create opportunities for co-production and co-development of future technologies for Indian and US military forces. The Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Defence inked a Project Agreement for co-development of the ALUAV, overseen by the Joint Working Group on Air Systems of the India-US DTTI. The agreement outlines collaboration between the AFRL, ADE, Indian Air Force and the US Air Force for design, development, demonstration, testing and evaluation of systems to co-develop an ALUAV Prototype.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-to-develop-air-launched-unmanned-aerial-1026772.html
03-09-2021||National||100 districts in country most vulnerable to climate change: Study||All 612 districts in India are vulnerable to climate change, but 100 districts, mostly in the eastern part of the country, are most vulnerable, a study said. The study was carried out by the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore along with IIT Mandi and IIT Guwahati and supported by the Department of Science and Technology. Eight states in the country, Jharkhand, Mizoram, Odisha, Chattisgarh, Assam, Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh, and West Bengal, all in eastern India, are found to have higher vulnerability, Akhilesh Gupta, Senior Adviser and Head, Policy Coordination and Programme Management (PCPM) Division, and a climate change expert at the Department of Science and Technology (DST), underlined at a policy dialogue. "All 612 districts in India studied are vulnerable to climate change, but there are 100 districts mostly on eastern parts of the country which are most vulnerable as per a vulnerability assessment study carried out by IISc, Bangalore along with IIT Mandi and IIT Guwahati and supported by the Department of Science and Technology," a statement by the DST said.  Pointing out to an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Gupta said the global temperature which has already increased to 1.1 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial era level is likely to further increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius in next two decades.  India too is expected to experience greater impact of global warming in the time to come and there may be an increase in frequency, severity and duration of heat waves. Monsoon may become more erratic, Gupta said.  There may be more frequent droughts and floods. The Indian seas may witness more sea-level rise. There has already been increase in sea level in last two decades, he added. Tropical cyclones may also increase in number. With the increase of carbon dioxide content in the oceans, the sea water may become more acidic, Gupta pointed out at the programme organised by National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), Ministry of Home Affairs and DST in collaboration with Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. "Next two decades are going to be very crucial. IPCC's working group report gives stark warnings for global climate impacts. The two-degree rise in global temperatures may come earlier than expected. It may have a huge impact on India, especially on agriculture, health and water security. India is confronted with a challenge of addressing such impacts," he added. Maj Gen M K Bindal, Executive Director, NIDM, MHA warned that the danger mark has been reached, rapid access to information is needed to protect lives and livelihood and the use of science, technologu and innovation (STI) is key to fight climate change problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-districts-in-country-most-vulnerable-to-climate-change-study-1026773.html
03-09-2021||National||'Given lassi, now you want malai': Supreme Court asks Amrapali home buyers to clear their dues||The Supreme Court on Friday warned that the flat buyers of Amrapali Group who are not clearing their dues as per the payment plan should not be in any kind of delusion as their units can be cancelled and will be considered as unsold inventory. A special bench of Justice U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi observed that the home buyers are under the impression that the court is facilitating construction of their stalled flats and managing funds and they are at a convenience to pay their dues, whenever they like. “They will have to strictly follow their payment plans else their unit will be cancelled and will be considered as unsold inventory,” the bench said. The bench while referring to home buyers said, “It’s like you have been given lassi (buttermilk) and now you want malai (cream) on top of that”. The top court remarks came after senior advocate R Venkataramani, appointed as court receiver submitted that some mistakes have been noticed in the list of 9,538 flats, which are unclaimed or booked on a fictitious name or are a benami property and is being corrected and the final list will be published in two-three days. Advocate ML Lahoty, assisted by advocate Anchit Sripat appearing for home buyers, said that he had some discussions with officials of the NBCC recently in which they have said that if Rs 200 crores are made available to them, then the company would be in a position to handover around 2000-2500 flats situated in stalled projects of Amrapali Group by December, 2021. Then the bench asked Lahoty, will all the home buyers especially of these 2000-2500 units be able to clear their dues by October 15 as per the payment plan. The bench said that it can direct that if the home buyers fail to make payment of their dues their entitlement to the flats may be cancelled. “Homebuyers want the flats but don't want to pay the money. They just want the NBCC to construct the flats and hand over to them”, the bench observed. The bench asked Venkataramani, that why there was such delay by home buyers to pay their dues and suggested that he should issue notice to the persons, who have not cleared their dues saying that if the payments are not paid, their allotments will be cancelled. Venkataramani said that most of the home buyers are paying their dues as per the payment plan except for those whose payment is through bank loans, which have been stuck for one problem or other. On August 13, the top court had said that there are two categories of home buyers--first category is of 9,538 home buyers who have neither registered so far in the Customer Data maintained by the office of the Receiver, nor have made any payments, subsequent to the judgment of the Court in July-2019. It had noted, in its order, that there is a second category of 6,210 home buyers, who have registered themselves in the Customer Data but have not made any payment since the judgment of this court in July 2019. Senior advocate Siddharth Dave, appearing for NBCC said that despite the implications on account of COVID-19 Pandemic, NBCC is making all efforts towards the successful completion of various projects of the Amrapali group situated in Noida and Greater Noida. He said that at present, 10 projects in Noida and 12 projects in Greater Noida are under execution involving 45,957 units with sanctioned project cost of Rs 8025.78 Crores. Lahoty suggested that sale of unused/permissible FAR (Floor Area Ratio) can fetch an amount of over Rs 1000 crores and therefore, the said issue can be considered by the court on priority. He said that large numbers of home buyers, who have booked the flat in Amrapali projects under the subvention scheme, are suffering due to the default of the developer, as the flat buyers have started receiving demand notices from the Banks and have been threatened with recovery proceedings. The top court asked the banks to respond to the intervention applications filed by such home buyers within a week. Venkataramani told the bench that six banks, which include Bank of Baroda, UCO Bank and Bank of India, have formed a consortium to fund the stalled projects of Amrapali Group and are likely to start funding the stalled Projects within a month. Dave pointed to the top court that a writ petition has been filed in the Delhi High Court by a firm seeking to be appointed as channel partner for sale of housing units and commercial areas of various erstwhile Amrapali Projects at Noida and Greater Noida. The bench directed that the said writ petition be transferred to the top court. On August 14, the top court had initiated a process to cancel bookings of over 9,538 Amrapali project flats, which are unclaimed or booked in the name of fictitious people or are benami property, to fund stalled projects. The apex court in its July 23, 2019 verdict had cracked the whip on errant builders for breaching the trust reposed by home buyers and ordered the cancellation of the registration of the Amrapali Group under real estate law RERA, and ousted it from prime properties in the NCR by nixing the land leases. Amrapali Group directors Anil Kumar Sharma, Shiv Priya and Ajay Kumar are behind bars on the top court's order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/given-lassi-now-you-want-malai-supreme-court-asks-amrapali-home-buyers-to-clear-their-dues-1026774.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||BJP to hold conferences for 'enlightened class' across UP||The ruling BJP will organise a series of conferences for the “enlightened class” in all 403 assembly constituencies of Uttar Pradesh beginning September 5, it said here on Thursday. The announcement comes in wake of the Bahujan Samaj Party holding similar conferences of intellectuals in the state in the run up to next year's assembly elections. The Samajwadi Party too has started its Brahmin outreach programme. Those who will address the “prabudh varg sammelan” include Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP national vice president and state in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh, state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, state joint general secretary (organisation) Karmveer Singh, central ministers, and national and state-level office-bearers, it said. According to Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) state general secretary and in-charge of the “prabudh varg sammelan” Subrata Pathak, intellectuals working in different areas of the society would participate in the conferences. On September 5, conferences will be organised in 17 cities of the state and from September 6 to 20, in all 403 assembly constituencies of the state, he said. Through these conferences, the party will communicate with people working in different areas of the society, including teachers, engineers, doctors, litterateurs and deliberate on the works and schemes of public interest by the BJP governments at the Centre and in state, he said. Pathak said, Adityanath in Varanasi, Radha Mohan Singh in Allahabad, Swatantra Dev Singh in Ayodhya, Sunil Bansal in Lucknow, Keshav Prasad Maurya in Kanpur, and Karmaveer in Saharanpur will start the conferences from September 5. The party's national and state office-bearers would attend the conferences organised in all assembly constituencies from September 6 to 20, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-hold-conferences-for-enlightened-class-across-up-1026422.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Claim of nothing was done in 70 years stands exposed: Chidambaram||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim of “nothing was done in 70 years” stands exposed, former Finance Minister and senior Congressman P Chidambaram said as he lashed out at the BJP-led NDA dispensation over the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP). “The NMP will wash away what has been done in the last 70 years,” said Chidambaram, a Rajya Sabha member. “The NMP was not announced in the Parliament, it was announced after the session ended….there was no consultation paper, no meetings with trade unions, no discussion with political parties,” he said. Chidambaram said that Modi is the only Chief Executive in the world who has never interacted with the press. “The Prime Minister in the last 7 years never interacted with the press and in the next three years he would not do so. The Finance Minister (Nirmala Sitharaman) never responds to questions in press conference….for farm bills they have not allowed a debate, on Pegasus no debate took place…and I am sure that they will not allow a debate on NMP also,” he said. Under the NMP,  the government proposes to "monetize" identified assets and earn revenue of Rs 6,00,000 crore over a four years, said Chidambaram wanting to know: “What are the objectives of the NMP? Is the sole objective of NMP the raising of revenue over a four year period?  Certain assets have been identified by the NMP for monetization. What are the criteria applied for the choice of assets? In the case of roads/highways, there is currently a PPP policy. What is the difference, if any, between the model that is in force for such PPPs and the model that will be adopted under the NMP for monetization?” Chidambaram wanted to know whether the government revealed the total capital investment in the identified assets that are expected to yield the aforesaid revenue. According to him, under the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government, certain criteria were adopted upfront for identifying the PSU that would be disinvested or privatized. “If an asset is 'monetized' for, say, 30 or 50 of years, what is the value of the piece of paper that declares the government to be the 'owner' of the asset? What kind of asset does the government expect will be returned at the end of the period? Will it not be a fully depreciated asset worth practically nothing?” Chidambaram said. “Since the NMP is silent on the subject, will the government stipulate in the contract that the amount of depreciation should be put in a Depreciation Reserve Account which was used only to maintain, upgrade or add to the asset so that at the end of the lease period a valuable asset is returned to the government,” he said. Putting a barrage of questions, he said: “Will there be a provision in the contract to prevent asset-stripping by the lessee?  What provisions will be included in the Invitation to Bid (ITB) to ensure that the 'monetization' process does not create monopolies or duopolies in that  sector? In particular, what provisions will be included to prevent monopolies/duopolies emerging in the ports, airports, telecom and power sectors?” “Will government assure the people that the expected sum of Rs 6 lakh crore will not be merged with general revenues and will be not be used for general expenditure? Will the government clarify and assure that the entire amount of Rs 6 lakh crore, when realized, will not be used for partly financing the fiscal deficit (Rs 5.5 lakh crore in 2021-22) or for retiring old debts?” he wanted to know.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/claim-of-nothing-was-done-in-70-years-stands-exposed-chidambaram-1026538.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Modi government harmful for employment, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre on Friday over the reported rise in the unemployment rate in the country in August, alleging that the Narendra Modi government is "harmful for employment". Taking to Twitter, Gandhi posted the screenshot of a media report that cited data compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) to claim that over 15 lakh people in the country lost their jobs in August. "The Modi government is harmful for employment. It does not promote or support any kind of business or employment not belonging to friends and instead is trying to snatch jobs from those who have them," the former Congress chief alleged. मोदी सरकार रोज़गार के लिए हानिकारक है। वे किसी भी प्रकार के ‘मित्रहीन’ व्यवसाय या रोज़गार को बढ़ावा या सहारा नहीं देते बल्कि जिनके पास नौकरी है उसे भी छीनने में लगे हैं। देशवासियों से आत्मनिर्भरता का ढोंग अपेक्षित है। A pretense of self-reliance is expected from the people of the country, he said in his tweet in Hindi, adding, "issued in public interest". The Congress has been attacking the government over its handling of the country's economy and flagging concerns over job losses, demanding corrective measures to boost employment. The government has dismissed the opposition party's criticism and rebutted all allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-government-harmful-for-employment-says-rahul-gandhi-1026600.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Congress slams Centre over NMP issue, asks govt to 'stop playing with national assets'||The Congress on Friday slammed the BJP government at the Centre over its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) and asked it to stop playing with national assets. The party's national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate claimed the NMP is an "almost bargain garden sale" put up by the government. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on August 23 announced the Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline that looks to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways. She had clarified that asset monetisation does not involve the selling of land and it is about monetising brownfield assets. Congress leader Shrinate, however, claimed, "This whole rhetoric about putting these assets on rent and not on sale is hogwash." "The NMP, that has been launched with much fanfare, is nothing but India on a grand sale. It's almost a bargain garden sale that the government has put up. Roads, railways, power transmission, power generation, gas pipeline, telecom, warehousing, mining, airports, ports, stadiums -- all are being privatised," she told reporters here. "Why is public property is being sold? The government should stop playing with national assets. We urge the government to get off its high horse and stop putting India on sale," the Congress' national spokesperson said. Shrinate claimed the government has not replied to two very basic questions. "What's the criteria that have been adopted to select these (assets) and what is their aim? Anything the government undertakes there has to be a goalpost. We kept asking that during demonetisation and the goalpost kept changing. Even now nobody knows what the aim of government is." "Have they even discussed it with primary stakeholders? We all know who these assets will go to -- one or two of their favourite players," she alleged. Shrinate said the government needs to be in strategic sectors like the railways, ports, roads, mining, power generation and gas pipelines. "You cannot allow monopolies to be created, which is why the government is in these sectors. But this government is hell-bent on creating monopolies which we have seen in the past," the Congress leader alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-slams-centre-over-nmp-issue-asks-govt-to-stop-playing-with-national-assets-1026630.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Voice of nation being crushed with 'authoritarian system': Rahul Gandhi||Asserting that the voice of nation is supreme, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said that this voice has been "crushed with an authoritarian system" and the tragedy of politics today is its suppression. In a video shared on the Congress's social media handles on Friday, Gandhi talked about his father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi's tours and interactions with people from various parts of the country. "What I remember of my tours with my father was, what was driving the tour was not just connecting with people, it was actually trying to understand their needs and it was about listening to what they were trying to tell him," the former Congress chief said in the about two-and-a-half minute video shot at the Rajiv Gandhi Photo Exhibition organised by the Indian Youth Congress recently. He said Rajiv Gandhi's tours were about constantly listening to people and suddenly making a connection with what they were saying to how it can be transformed with an instrument. It was a journey where Rajiv Gandhi would go, listen and then go and look around to find instruments that can transform the voice of this nation that he was hearing, Rahul Gandhi said. "There is this tremendous voice here, but it's struggling to speak. Of course, that's been magnified today, it's not being allowed to speak, and it's being crushed with monopoly capital, it's been crushed with an authoritarian system," he said.. "This voice is, call it God. There's nothing more than this voice. It's not a singular voice. It is millions and millions of voices that speak together, have huge power when they speak and a tremendous amount of nuance," Gandhi said. The Congress leader said the tragedy of politics of today is that, in a world of media, WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook, the voice of the nation is basically suppressed. This is the second such video of Rahul Gandhi where he has talked about his father and his experiences with him. In a video released Thursday, Gandhi had recalled his passion for flying planes just like his father Rajiv Gandhi, and said that he believes that being a pilot helps a lot in public life to be mindful of greater details and of the big picture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/voice-of-nation-being-crushed-with-authoritarian-system-rahul-gandhi-1026649.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Modi government harmful for employment: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the biggest national issue is unemployment and alleged that the Narendra Modi government is "harmful for employment". Taking to Twitter, he posted a screenshot of a media report that cited data compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) to claim that over 15 lakh people in the country lost their jobs in August. "The Modi government is harmful for employment. It does not promote or support any kind of business or employment not belonging to friends and instead is trying to snatch jobs from those who have them," the former Congress chief alleged. A pretence of self-reliance is expected from the people of the country, he said in his tweet in Hindi, adding, "issued in public interest". In another tweet, Gandhi said the biggest national issue is unemployment for which there are "some direct solutions -- Don't sell PSU-PSB, give monetary help to MSME, think about the country not friends". But the central government doesn't want solutions, Gandhi added. Congress has been attacking the government over its handling of the country's economy and flagging concerns over job losses, demanding corrective measures to boost employment. The government has dismissed the opposition party's criticism and rebutted all allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-government-harmful-for-employment-rahul-gandhi-1026669.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Congress' nationwide campaign links NMP with job loss; media blitzkrieg in five cites on Friday||With the poll season closing in, Congress has reoriented its campaign around employment and the economic mess in the country. Senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, P Chidambaram, Ajay Maken, Rajiv Shukla and Shashi Tharoor highlighted the issue through press conferences in Hyderabad, Mumbai, Raipur, Jaipur and Srinagar. After Rahul Gandhi began it in Delhi last week, senior party leader Mukul Wasnik went to Guwahati to raise the issue. Sachin Pilot raised the issue in Bangalore, while Milind Deora, Bhupesh Baghel and Digvijaya Singh will go to Cochin, Lucknow and Patna respectively. "The Modi government is harmful for employment. It does not promote or support any kind of business or employment not belonging to friends and instead is trying to snatch jobs from those who have them," Gandhi alleged in a Hindi tweet on Friday, latching on to reports about the rise in the unemployment rate in the country in August. Gandhi also said the country is talking about "friend-monopoly," with the hashtag "IndiaOnSale" on Twitter. Congress Communication department chief Randeep Surjewala accused the Prime Minister of remaining committed to the welfare of his "crony friends". Congress has been repeatedly accusing the government of allegedly seeking to benefit its few corporate friends. On Friday, Gandhi said acerbically in his Hindi tweet "issued in public interest" that a pretense of self-reliance is expected from the people of the country. Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram hit out at the government over Centre's National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) and asked the government to "reveal" the objectives behind it and posed 20 questions to the government. The BJP has trashed the allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-nationwide-campaign-links-nmp-with-job-loss-media-blitzkrieg-in-five-cites-on-friday-1026684.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Survey predicts bad news for Congress; AAP may be close to power in Punjab, BJP to win UP||A survey in five states headed for Assembly elections early next year predicted bad news for the Congress as it may lose power in Punjab where AAP may emerge as the single-largest party while BJP is likely to win Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand. The ABP-CVoter survey predicted BJP returning power to Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Goa while Punjab could be headed for a hung Assembly but AAP having a huge advantage needing a couple of seats. For Congress, it is likely to be relegated to third position in Goa while falling behind AAP in Punjab, which is the only state it is ruling among the states that are going to polls next year. BJP is predicted to return comfortably in the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh but may lose around 50 seats from the 2017 polls when it baged 312 seats while Samajwadi Party is likely to double its seats from 47. The survey predicted BJP winning 259-267 seats while SP is likely to win 109-117 seats.  The BSP, which won 19 seats, could win only 12-16 seats while Congress may see further decline in the state with just 3-7 seats as against seven won in 2017.  Other parties may win 6-10 seats. In Punjab, AAP appears to have made huge inroads with the survey predicting an increase in seats by more than double -- 51-57 seats -- in an Assembly of 117 seats where the half-way mark is 59. Congress, which is facing an internal fight between Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and party state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, is likely to be relegated to second position with 38-46 seats from 77 seats in 2017 polls while Akali Dal may increase its tally (16-24 seats) from the current 15. Uttarakhand, where the Congress hopes to return to power, may also go the BJP way for the second time though it may lose some seats in the state where it changed two Chief Ministers in a span of tremonths recently. In a House of 70, the BJP is likely to win 44-48 seats (57 in 2017), while Congress may win 19-23 seats (11 in 2017). AAP may win up to four seats while others could bag up to two seats. BJP may return to power with majority in electorally fragile Goa with 22-26 seats in an Assembly of 40. Congress stares at the possibility of being relegated to the third position (3-7 seats) after AAP, which is predicted to win four to eight seats, while others may win 3-7 seats. In the 2017 polls, Congress had emerged as the single largest party but defections helped the saffron party retain power. Manipur could also return BJP to power, this time with absolute majority with 32-36 seats. Like in Goa, Congress had emerged the single largest party but political manouevering helped BJP snatch power. Congress is likely to win 18-22 seats while NPF is predicted to win 2-6 and others 0-4 seats. ABP-CVoter poll survey Uttar Pradesh (403 seats) BJP -- 259-267SP --  109-117BSP -- 12-16Cong -- 3-7Others -- 6-10 Punjab (117 seats) AAP -- 51-57Cong -- 38-46Akali Dal -- 16-24 Uttarakhand (70 seats) BJP -- 44-48Cong -- 19-23AAP -- 0-4Others -- 0-2 Goa (40 seats) BJP -- 22-26AAP -- 4-8Cong -- 3-7Others -- 3-7 Manipur (60 seats) BJP -- 32-36Cong -- 18-22NPL -- 2-6Others -- 0-4||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/survey-predicts-bad-news-for-congress-aap-may-be-close-to-power-in-punjab-bjp-to-win-up-1026705.html
03-09-2021||National Politics||Delhi riots charge sheet reads like web series, says Umar Khalid; refers to Harry Potter villain||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, told the court on Friday that the charge sheet against him reads like a web series or TV news script and referred to Harry Potter villain Voldemort while attacking it. Khalid and several other are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 riots which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case. Senior Advocate Trideep Pais, representing Khalid, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that the charge sheet makes hyperbolic allegations against his client without any factual basis and is a result of the fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it. The lawyer also gave reference of Voldemort, a villain in Harry Potter series of books/movies, to draw parallels between the statements in the charge sheet, among other examples to show that the final report filed by the police was “rubbish”. Pais argued, "The charge sheet is a result of the fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it and the witnesses are procured... He is not writing the script of Family Man [a web-series]. This is a charge sheet.” Referring to a line in the charge sheet which stated that Umar kept a safe distance from Delhi as he knew that it would be thrown into the fire, he said that the only way the police officer could have known this was if “he was inside Khalid's mind”. “The last person who travelled with someone and got into this officer's head was Voldemort from Harry Potter,” the lawyer said. The counsel further called the allegation that Umar was maintaining a “facade of secular politics” a figment of the police imagination, and said that it “reads like a 9 pm TV news channel script.” Pais said that several statements carried in the chargesheet cannot be relied upon while considering his bail. “There is no way these statements are consistent with each other and meet the test under UAPA," he added. He further said that there was nothing in Umar's speeches that led to lawless action, sedition, hatred, or any illegality of any sort. In the last hearing, Pais had argued that the police's case was based on truncated clips of Khalid's speech given at Amaravati telecasted by two TV channels, which were in turn based on an edited video tweeted by BJP leader Amit Malviya. The matter will be heard again on September 6, 2021. Delhi Police had recently said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the chargesheet filed in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-riots-charge-sheet-reads-like-web-series-says-umar-khalid-refers-to-harry-potter-villain-1026718.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||Restrictions continue to be in force across Kashmir following separatist leader's death||Restrictions continued to be in force across the Kashmir valley for the second day on Friday as a precautionary measure following the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, officials said. Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people remained in force across the valley, they added. The officials said the curbs were intensified in downtown (old city) and some uptown parts of the city here in view of the Friday congregational prayers. While the roads leading to Geelani's residence in the Hyderpora locality here remained sealed, barricades were put up in other areas to stop the movement of people, they added. Security forces have been deployed in strength in the city and elsewhere to maintain law and order, the officials said. Mobile phone services except for the postpaid connections of BSNL continued to remain snapped, while mobile internet services also remained barred to avoid rumour-mongering. Internet services are working on fixed lines, but the network speed has been throttled. The officials said a review of the situation will be done after the congregational prayers and a decision will be taken on whether to lift the restrictions or not. Police on Thursday said the situation across the valley was peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere. A police spokesperson said some vested interests tried to spread baseless rumours about a "forcible burial of SAS Geelani by police". "Such baseless reports, which are a part of a false propaganda to incite violence, are totally refuted by the police. As a matter of fact, the police instead facilitated in bringing the body from his (Geelani's) house to the graveyard as there were apprehensions of miscreants taking an undue advantage of the situation. The relatives of the deceased participated in the burial," he said. The police spokesperson said IGP, Kashmir Vijay Kumar appreciated the cooperation of the public in maintaining the peaceful situation throughout Kashmir, "which defeated the ill designs of the inimical elements who are hell-bent on disturbing the otherwise peaceful atmosphere in the valley". Geelani (91), avowedly a pro-Pakistan supporter who spearheaded the separatist movement in Jammu and Kashmir for over three decades, died at his residence here on Wednesday night. The separatist leader was suffering from a kidney disease for over two decades, besides other age-related issues, including dementia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-continue-to-be-in-force-across-kashmir-following-separatist-leaders-death-1026394.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||No one will die of hunger in Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath||No one will be deprived of basic necessities or die of hunger in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath proclaimed on Thursday. The chief minister also expressed his government’s resolve to ensure that “every poor farmer, elderly people and destitute women get the benefits of the government’s welfare schemes without any discrimination”. Yogi made these remarks while transferring Rs 836.55 crore to 55.77 lakh beneficiaries of the National Old Age Pension Scheme. “I am happy to inform you that out of these beneficiaries, there are 4.56 lakh new beneficiaries. The quarterly instalment is being sent to these accounts for the first time,” Adityanath said in a digital event. Describing elderly people as “our guide” due to their “wealth of experience”, the chief minister said, “The elderly people's needs of ration and medical treatment at the time of illness are being looked into.” “Not only this, an Elderly Helpline 14567' (Elderline) has been specially set up and any senior citizen can contact and get the help 24×7,” he added. "The central and state governments are working with a sense of service to manage the life and livelihood of each and every senior citizen," he said. Adityanath also had a digital interaction with the old-age pension beneficiaries of various districts and inquired about their health. He also asked district magistrates to provide the benefits of Ayushman Bharat or the Chief Minister Jan Arogya Yojana to every needy person. Claiming that elderly people were neglected by earlier governments, the chief minister lamented that “No one used to pay attention to them". "But today many efforts are being made for the happy life of old people," he said. He added that over 29 lakh new elderly people have been able to join the old-age pension scheme in the last four years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-one-will-die-of-hunger-in-uttar-pradesh-yogi-adityanath-1026418.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||'Abuse of process of law': Supreme Court pulls up West Bengal government for seeking nod to appoint DGP without UPSC involvement||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the West Bengal government for filing repeated pleas for permission to appoint its own Director General of Police without the involvement of the Union Public Service Commission. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna said such applications are an "abuse of the process of law" and that it is not expected from a state government. The court also pointed out that the state had filed similar application in past too which was rejected. "We will be very frank... don't file repeated applications," the bench told senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the State. In its plea, the Mamata Banerjee government sought to have complete freedom to select DGP and questioned UPSC's role in the process, saying law and order and police fell under the State's domain. Since the bench refused to entertain the application of the West Bengal government, Luthra sought permission to withdraw the application. The apex court allowed his plea and granted him permission to implead in the main case relating to the police reforms. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for retired IPS officer Prakash Singh, said the apex court's judgement passed 15 years ago on police reforms remained unimplemented in most of the States. He asked the court to fix the main matter related to compliance of the apex court's directions. The court agreed to consider the main matter in October. In its application, the West Bengal government contended that involvement of UPSC in selection of DGP of a state was not permissible under the Constitution and was against the federal structure. The UPSC has neither the jurisdiction nor the expertise to consider and appoint the DGP of a state, it said, adding the State has autonomy and ultimate power of superintendence over police officials. It questioned apex court's landmark judgement on police reforms in the Prakash Singh case in 2006, saying the verdict erred legally and constitutionally by assigning the UPSC the task of selecting a panel of three officers for the post of a State DGP. In the judgment, the top court had assigned a key role to the UPSC in selecting DGP to stop the States from selecting a regime sensitive police officer to the top post. It had also granted the DGPs a fixed tenure of two years irrespective of their age of retirement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abuse-of-process-of-law-supreme-court-pulls-up-west-bengal-government-for-seeking-nod-to-appoint-dgp-without-upsc-involvement-1026547.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||No let up in viral fever, dengue in Uttar Pradesh; death toll climbs to 100||Over one hundred people, mostly children, have died from suspected viral fever and dengue in different parts of Uttar Pradesh in the past few days even as the patients displaying symptoms of the diseases continued to flood the hospitals. According to sources, 75 people, mostly children, have died from viral fever and dengue in Firozabad district in the past fortnight. Sources said that the district hospital in Firozabad was flooded with patients straining the already fragile health infrastructure. As many as 17 people have died in Mathura district while deaths were also reported from Mainpuri, Kasganj and Kanpur districts. Ten children have died from dengue and viral fever in Kanpur in the past few days. Around four hundred people were admitted in different hospitals in Kanpur with symptoms of the diseases. Three doctors have been suspended on charges of laxity in Firozabad. Cases of dengue and viral fever were reported from the state capital of Lucknow and Gonda districts also. While the government officials said that all necessary measures were being taken to check the spread of the diseases, the opposition parties slammed the government for what they said not "learning lessons" from the deadly second wave of the Covid 19. "The state government did not learn any lesson from the second wave...Is this your (government) number one medical facilities?" Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-let-up-in-viral-fever-dengue-in-uttar-pradesh-death-toll-climbs-to-100-1026574.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||Scientists believe cow only animal that inhales, exhales oxygen: Allahabad HC||Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav of the Allahabad High Court, who made headlines earlier this week for saying that cow should be declared as India's national animal, has said in the same order that scientists believe that cow is the only animal that inhales and exhales oxygen. In an order dismissing the bail plea of a man accused of cow slaughter, Justice Yadav also said that 'Panchgavya' prepared using cow's milk, curd, ghee, urine and dung helps in treating several incurable diseases. The petitioner, Javed from Sambhal district, allegedly stole and killed the cow of one Khilendra Singh along with his associates. In its judgement on Wednesday, the court noted that this is not the first time that the petitioner has committed cow slaughter and if he is released on bail, he will commit the same offence again. "According to Hinduism, 33 categories of gods and goddesses reside in a cow... Lord Krishna got all his knowledge from cow's feet," the court order said. "Jesus Christ has said that killing a cow or a bull is tantamount to killing a man. Bal Gangadhar Tilak had said that you can kill me but do not hurt a cow. Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya had advocated total prohibition of cow slaughter. "Lord Buddha describes cows as the friend of man, whereas Jains have called cow heaven," it said. "Scientists believe that the cow is the only animal that inhales and exhales oxygen," it added. Claims made in the past on the cow being the only animal that exhales oxygen have generally been contradicted by the scientific community. "At the time of framing of the Indian Constitution, several members of the Constituent Assembly had spoken about the inclusion of cow protection as a fundamental right. "Hindus have been worshipping cows for centuries. Non-Hindus also understand this and this is the reason why non-Hindu leaders strongly opposed cow slaughter during the Mughal period out of respect for Hindu sentiments," the court order further said. "The majority of the country's Muslim leadership has always been in favour of a nationwide ban on cow slaughter. Khwaja Hasan Nizami had started a movement and he wrote a book, 'Tark-e-Gao Kushi', in which he had written about not killing cows. Emperors Akbar, Humayun and Babur had appealed for not killing cows in their sultanate," it said. "Maulana Mahmood Madani of Jamiat-e-Ulema-e-Hind has demanded the introduction of a central law to ban cow slaughter in India. In view of all these circumstances, there is a need to declare the cow as the national animal and include cow protection as a fundamental right of Hindus," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scientists-believe-cow-only-animal-that-inhales-exhales-oxygen-allahabad-hc-1026609.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC says right to protest, dissent occupies fundamental stature, grants bail to 5||The Delhi High Court on Friday said the sole act of protesting should not be employed as a weapon to justify the incarceration of those who exercised their right to express dissent which occupied a fundamental stature in a democratic polity. A single-judge bench of Justice Subramonium Prasad granted bail to a woman and four men allegedly involved in the offences of rioting, murder of Head Constable Ratan Lal and injuring DCP Amit Sharma in Delhi's North East in February, 2020 following their protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act. "It is the constitutional duty of the court to ensure that there is no arbitrary deprivation of personal liberty in the face of excess of State power. Bail is the rule and jail is the exception, and courts must exercise their jurisdiction to uphold the tenets of personal liberty, subject to rightful regulation of the same by validly enacted legislation," the bench said. Allowing bail to Tabassum, a mother of two children, the court said merely being one of the organisers of the protest as well as being in touch with others who participated in the protest was not sufficient enough to justify the contention that she was involved in the pre-planning of the alleged incident.  The court said it would not be prudent to keep the petitioner, who has two minor children, behind bars for an undefined period of time at this stage.  The court also granted relief to 27-year-old computer science graduate from Bijnore, Shadab Ahmad, who was arrested on April 6, 2020, in the case. He was too accused of being one of the main conspirators and has played a vital role in instigating the protestors at Chand Bagh here. Similarly, the court allowed bail to Suvaleen, arrested on May 17, 2020, saying the petitioner, who is merely 18 years of age, can't be behind bars for an undefined period of time as his continued incarceration with hardened criminals will only be detrimental and was thus not justified. In the case of Mohd Arif, arrested on March 10, 2020, the bench said there is no evidence to corroborate the contention that he had damaged CCTV cameras. "Merely being caught staring at a CCTV camera right before its dislocation by a co-accused cannot form the basis of this assumption," the court said, adding his presence in the video footage, hiding a danda also does not justify the continued incarceration. With regard to Furkan, arrested on April 1, 2020, the court his presence in the video footage with a danda in his hand near his residence also does not justify his continued incarceration as the authenticity of the evidence was a matter of trial. In all cases, the court also noted the charge sheets have already been filed and trial was likely to take a long time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-says-right-to-protest-dissent-occupies-fundamental-stature-grants-bail-to-5-1026629.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||Tight curbs in Kashmir a day after separatist leader's burial||India tightened curbs on movement in Kashmir's main city of Srinagar, with scores of armed soldiers fanning out ahead of prayers on Friday, a day after a veteran secessionist leader was laid to rest in the disputed Himalayan region. Syed Ali Shah Geelani, 91, was buried near his home in the city, where soldiers patrolled the streets to forestall any large-scale protests and gatherings at mosques. Public movements were restricted in the city and elsewhere in Kashmir, a government official said. "More troops have been deployed in sensitive areas and more roads have been barricaded," the official told Reuters on condition of anonymity. For a second day, communications were disrupted, with mobile networks and internet services in the Kashmir valley largely shut down. For years, Geelani, one of Kashmir's most senior political leaders, had led a hardline faction of separatist groups that sought to secede from India following an armed revolt against New Delhi. Kashmir has long been a flashpoint between India and arch rival Pakistan, which claim the region in full but rule only parts. Tension between the two nuclear-armed neighbours was renewed in August 2019, when New Delhi scrapped the autonomy of its state of Jammu and Kashmir, splitting it into two federally administered territories. Shops were shut across parts of Srinagar, with many streets deserted and coils of barbed wire strung across them. Soldiers with assault rifles manned checkpoints. Health worker Shakeel Ahmad said he had to navigate more barricades on Friday to get to his hospital than a day ago. "I was stopped at around a dozen places," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tight-curbs-in-kashmir-a-day-after-separatist-leaders-burial-1026631.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools to follow CBSE’s two term pattern for classes 9, 11: DoE||With the introduction of two terms in classes 10 and 12 by CBSE, the Directorate of Education called for the same assessment system for classes 9 and 11 in all public, private and government-aided schools in Delhi for the academic session 2021-22. “Academic session will be of two-term examinations, that is, mid-term examination (Term-1) and annual examination (Term-2) with approximately 50 per cent syllabus in each. “According to the term and subject-wise marks shared with schools, each term will have 50 per cent weightage for the calculation of final results,” an order by the Directorate of Education (DoE) said. The order explained that question papers in the 90-minute Term-1 or mid-term exams that will be conducted in October or November will have multiple-choice questions. The duration of Term-2 will be two hours, and it will be descriptive with short- or long-answer questions. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had in July announced a special assessment scheme for classes 10 and 12 board exams for next year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, splitting the academic session into two terms. The board had also announced plans to rationalise the syllabus for the 2021-22 academic session and make the internal assessment and project work more "credible" and "valid". CBSE had noted that the term one exams would be held in November-December, 2021, and the second term exams in March-April, 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-to-follow-cbse-s-two-term-pattern-for-classes-9-11-doe-1026655.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi Assembly to throw open British-era tunnel, execution room for general public next year||The Delhi Assembly will throw open a British-era tunnel and a renovated execution room for public next year, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said on Friday. Goel said the tunnel was discovered under the floors of the Delhi Assembly "way long back".  He said the tunnel and the execution room both are British-era architecture. "We will open the renovated British-era 'Fansi Ghar' (execution room) of revolutionaries and the tunnel for public by January 26 next year or latest by August 15, 2022.  People will be allowed to visit these two places when the Delhi Assembly is not in session. The tunnel was discovered in 2016," Goel told PTI. He said the historical significance of the tunnel is yet to be established but it is conjectured that the tunnel connects the Legislative Assembly to the Red Fort. "We are not going to renovate the tunnel or dig it further as it will not be possible because lots of construction activities such as Metro Rail would have blocked its way. We will keep it as it is and allow the public to see it," Goel said. He said the work on the project of renovation of the execution room had already started.  "Tenders have been floated and the PWD would soon begin its work. The design on which the execution room will be renovated have also been prepared," Goel said. The building was built in 1911. The Delhi Assembly was used as Central Legislative Assembly after the capital of the country was shifted to Delhi from Kolkata in 1912.  The distance between Delhi Assembly and the Red Fort is about 5-6 kilometres.  The Red Fort was built by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in the mid-17th century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-assembly-to-throw-open-british-era-tunnel-execution-room-for-general-public-next-year-1026668.html
03-09-2021||North and Central||UP: BJP leader booked for duping woman of Rs 1.75 lakh||A BJP leader here has been booked for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 1.75 lakh on the pretext of helping her son get a job in a school, police said on Friday. The matter came to light after a video of the woman, Piyara Devi, a resident of Ruknapur under Loni Katra police station area here, confronting Uttam Verma, president of the BJP's Trideviganj division, went viral on social media. Verma, however, termed the incident a "political conspiracy". BJP's Barabanki district unit has sought an explanation from Verma. In the viral video, Devi is seen stopping the motorcycle-borne Verma at Bhilwal crossing and demanding her money back while holding the BJP leader by the neck. The incident took place on Wednesday. According to a police complaint lodged by Devi, Verma took Rs 1.75 lakh from her about two years ago on the pretext of helping her son, Mukesh, get a job in a school. However, he did not fulfil his promise and when she went to ask him to return her money, the BJP leader slapped and abused her. On Devi's complaint, an FIR has been lodged against Verma under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (threatening) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the matter is being investigated, the police said. Verma said the incident was a "political conspiracy". He alleged some people stopped him near the Bhilwal crossing on Wednesday when he was going to Haidergarh to attend a programme and abused him. He claimed he fell down but somehow managed to escape. He reached Loni Katra police station and filed a complaint. However, police are yet to register a case on the BJP leader's complaint. BJP's Barabanki unit president Awadhesh Srivastava said an explanation has been sought from Verma over the incident. UP BJP spokesperson Harish Chandra Srivastava said, "The district unit will take appropriate action after finding the truth behind the allegations." "If the woman's allegations are found to be true, then action will definitely be taken," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-leader-booked-for-duping-woman-of-rs-175-lakh-1026672.html
03-09-2021||Oasis||The victory in conquering ourselves||We live in an era where anything can be limitless.  From the unlimited buffet to the vast internet, the sky is the limit.  There is just too much that is easily and freely available.  Yet, it is this abundance that poses the greatest danger for modern man. For, in abundance, we face the risk of becoming slaves to various indulgences and addictions.   From the time we start our day to the point we retire to bed we face an abundance of distractions that plague our waking hours.  We log into our Facebook and other social media accounts just to check our connections and in no time have thrown away many empty minutes, even hours of our precious time in meaningless interactions and surfing.  Intending to load the cart for an urgent need of the day, we go online shopping and end up in impulsive and wasteful buying.  We get on our couch for a news update and soon minutes tick away into hours of shallow TV viewing. And so on and so forth, the list is long.   The only way to make sure that we don’t fall into the slavery of addictions and indulgences is to become masters of ourselves. Cato the Younger, the Roman statesman and a follower of the Stoic philosophy knew that there was a greater power in mastering himself than in mastering others. He was affluent enough to dress in exquisite clothing. Yet, he was often found walking around Rome barefoot.  He could have indulged daily in the finest feast.  He chose instead to eat simple fare.  Whether it was raining or intensely hot, he went bareheaded by choice.  This wealthy Roman was thus training himself to be his own master.  In Steven Pressfield’s classic novel on Alexander the Great, ‘The Virtues of War,’ there is a scene where Alexander is challenged by a philosopher at a river crossing.  Both refuse to give way for the other and are seen waiting with authority for the other to move.  “This man has conquered the world! What have you done?” confronts one of Alexander’s men arrogantly.  To this the philosopher responds with a sense of complete serenity, “I have conquered the need to conquer the world!”  Indeed, to conquer ourselves is the greatest of all victories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-victory-in-conquering-ourselves-1026440.html
03-09-2021||Opinion||You are not who you think you are||By David Brooks, You may think you understand the difference between seeing something and imagining it. When you see something it’s really there; when you imagine it, you make it up. That feels very different. The problem is that when researchers ask people to imagine something, like a tomato, and then give some of them a just barely visible image of a tomato, they find that the process of imagining it is hard to totally separate from the process of seeing it. In fact, they use a lot of the same brain areas. And when you stop to think about it, that makes some sense. Your brain is locked in the pitch-black bony vault of your skull, trying to use scraps of information to piece together the world. Even when it’s seeing, it’s partly constructing what’s out there based on experience. “It turns out, reality and imagination are completely intermixed in our brain,” Nadine Dijkstra writes in Nautilus, “which means that the separation between our inner world and the outside world is not as clear as we might like to think.” We grew up believing that “imagining” and “seeing” describe different mental faculties. But as we learn more about what’s going on in the mind, these concepts get really blurry really fast. This is happening all over the place. Over the centuries, humans have come up with all sorts of concepts to describe different thinking activities: memory, perception, emotion, attention, decision-making. But now, as scientists develop greater abilities to look at the brain doing its thing, they often find that the activity they observe does not fit the neat categories our culture has created, and which we rely on to understand ourselves. Let me give you a few more examples: Reason/Emotion: It feels as if the rational brain creates and works with ideas, but that emotions sweep over us. But some neuroscientists, like Lisa Feldman Barrett of Northeastern University, argue that people construct emotions and thoughts, and there is no clear distinction between them. It feels as if we can use our faculty of reason to restrain our passions, but some neuroscientists doubt this is really what’s happening. Furthermore, emotions assign value to things, so they are instrumental to reason, not separate from or opposed to it. Observation/Memory: Observation feels like a transparent process. You open your eyes and take stuff in. In fact, much or most of seeing is making mental predictions about what you expect to see, based on experience, and then using sensory input to check and adjust your predictions. Thus, your memory profoundly influences what you see. “Perceptions come from the inside out just as much, if not more, than from the outside in,” the University of Sussex neuroscientist Anil Seth has observed. The conversation between senses and memory produces what he calls a “controlled hallucination,” which is the closest we can get to registering reality. Understanding/Experiencing: Understanding seems cognitive; you study something and figure it out. Experience seems sensory; you physically live through some event. But Mark Johnson, now a professor emeritus in the University of Oregon’s Department of Philosophy, points out that there is no such thing as disembodied understanding. Your neural, chemical and bodily responses are in continual conversation with one another, so both understanding and experiencing are mental and physical simultaneously. “When faced with a whole person,” Joe Gough, a Ph.D. student in philosophy at the University of Sussex, writes, “we shouldn’t think that they can be divided into a ‘mind’ and a ‘body.’” Self-control: We talk as if there’s a thing called self-control, or self-regulation, or grit. But the Stanford psychology professor Russell Poldrack tells me that when you give people games to measure self-control in a lab, the results do not predict whether they will be able to resist alcohol or drug use in the real world. This suggests, Poldrack says, that what we believe is “self-control” may really be a bunch of different processes. Jordana Cepelewicz recently had an excellent essay on this broad conceptual challenge in Quanta Magazine. “You realise that neither the term ‘decision-making’ nor the term ‘attention’ actually corresponds to a thing in the brain,” the University of Montreal neuroscientist Paul Cisek told her. She also reported that some in the field believe that the concepts at the core of how we think about thinking need to be radically revised. That seems exciting. I’ve long wondered if in 50 years terms like “emotion” or “reason” will be obsolete. Some future genius will have come up with an integrative paradigm that more accurately captures who we are and how we think. I love how holistic the drift of research is. For a while, neuroscientists spent a lot of time trying to figure out what region of the brain did what function. (Fear is in the amygdala!) Today they also look at the ways vast networks across the brain, body and environment work together to create comprehensive mental states. Now there is much more emphasis on how people and groups creatively construct their own realities, and live within their own constructions. I’ve often told young people to study genetics. That will clearly be important. But I’m realising we all need to study this stuff, too. Big, exciting changes are afoot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/you-are-not-who-you-think-you-are-1026479.html
03-09-2021||Opinion||The (un)importance of September 25 for BJP and its rivals||Commemorating historical events and birth and death anniversaries of iconic leaders is imperative for regimes and political ideologies. It helps secure legitimacy, expand influence and appropriate history. Such commemorations are equally essential to discredit and delegitimise events and personalities associated with the glory of competing ideologies. Take, for example, the following dates – August 5 and September 25. August 5 has emerged as the ideological leitmotif of the second tenure of the Narendra Modi government, just as September 25 was the all-important day during its first tenure from 2014 to 19. On August 5, 2019, Parliament watered down Article 370. On August 5, 2020, a year later, the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. This year on August 5, as the Indian men's hockey team won a medal after 40-years at the Olympics, Modi drew the nation's attention to the parallel between the three events in a televised address. Is it a coincidence that August 5, the Modi government's "new India" day, and August 14, its recently proposed "Partition Horrors Remembrance Day", fall in the same fortnight as August 9, the Quit India day, and August 15, the Independence Day? The latter two days are associated with India's freedom movement and recall the Congress party's contribution to that struggle. August 5 and 14 are the sharp edge of the Sangh Parivar's polarising ideology deployed more fervently during the second tenure of the Modi government. However, the challenge before the BJP during the Modi government's first tenure was to push out the Congress from the public memory as the party for the poorest. During the first term of the Modi government, September 25 was an all-important day. September 25 is the birth anniversary of the founder of Jan Sangh, the earlier avatar of the BJP, Deen Dayal Upadhyay. In 2014, the Modi government declared it the "Antyodaya" day to reflect its objective of helping the poorest. The political flak it received on the land bill of 2015 and Rahul Gandhi's jibe of "suit-boot sarkar", or a government of and for moneybags, convinced Modi to jettison the image of a reformer. Fresh from the loss of the Assembly polls in Delhi in February 2015, Modi told the BJP's Bengaluru national executive in April of that year to commit itself to "Garib Kalyan", or welfare of the poor. A little over a year later, at the BJP's Kozhikode national executive in September 2016, with months left for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the PM announced Upadhyay's birth centenary celebrations as his government's "Garib Kalyan" year. Ironically, farmers have announced a Bharat bandh on this year's September 25. Farmers unions and opposition parties will protest the three contentious farm laws, inflation and unemployment. The protests will come in the wake of the latest increase in cooking gas prices and rising prices. Interestingly, the Ujjwala scheme was the Modi government's flagship programme launched five years back in 2016 to commemorate Upadhyay and his vision of "Antyodaya", or helping the poor. And now the opposition parties have prepared an 11-point charter of demands that attacks the Modi government's "anti-poor" policies. Interestingly, September 25 will also see some of the BJP's current and former allies getting together to commemorate the 107th birth anniversary of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal. His son, former Haryana chief minister, Om Prakash Chautala, will host Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, Telugu Desam Party's N Chandrababu Naidu and Shiromani Akali Dal's Sukhbir Singh Badal. Of late, Nitish Kumar, an ally of the BJP, has disagreed with it on a proposed population control law and the Pegasus snooping controversy. He has also been vehement in his demand for an OBC caste census. The rally would also put political pressure on Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala, a coalition partner in the BJP-led government in the state. September 5 and September 17 Meanwhile, farmers will collect at a mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar on September 5 to launch their protests in the run-up to the UP Assembly polls in February-March. It is a coincidence, but the BJP did have a tense September 5 last year as well. Celebrated every year as Teachers' Day, on September 5, 2020, young women and men had taken to social media in significant enough numbers to complain of lack of job opportunities. By evening, the Centre announced it would conduct the first stage of computer-based tests to fill 140,000 vacancies in the Railways. But that isn't all. Some of the BJP's frontal units have announced they will mark September 17, the birthday of Modi, as "Kisan-Jawan Samman Diwas", a day to celebrate the contribution of farmers and soldiers. However, activists have given a call to mark it as "berozgar diwas", or joblessness day. The Congress party has constituted an "agitations committee". But the Modi government and the BJP, who claim to believe in a vibrant democracy and remind us as much every June 25 and 26, the day the Indira Gandhi government imposed Emergency in 1975, should be the last to complain about the opposition marking days that are ideologically important to it. Since 2014, the Modi government has observed October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, assassinated for his efforts to restore communal harmony, merely as Swachhata, or cleanliness, day. In 2014, within seven months of coming to power, the Modi government urged all to observe Christmas as "good governance day" to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. A national holiday, it made Christmas a working day that year. Also, the Modi government came to observe the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhai Patel, which falls on October 31, as the "national unity day", making the "national integration day" marked on November 19, the birth anniversary of former prime minister Indira Gandhi, irrelevant. The previous Congress-led governments observed October 31 as "anti-terrorism day" since it is also Indira Gandhi's martyrdom day. Earlier this year, during Prime Minister Modi's visit to Dhaka, India and Bangladesh agreed to mark December 6 as "Maitri Diwas", or friendship day. India recognised the Bangladesh government on that day 50-years back in 1971. Until 2019, Hindutva outfits had celebrated "shaurya diwas" on December 6 to mark the razing of the Babri Mosque in Ayodhya on that day in 1992. Interestingly, the then RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras had paid his respects, the first for an RSS chief, at BR Ambedkar's memorial in 1987. But since 1992, Dalit intellectuals believe the Hindu right-wing outfits deliberately picked December 6 to raze the Babri Mosque. As we await the events to unfold this month, it is safe to assume that the battle for commemorating events and personalities to earn legitimacy or discredit opponents will only gather pace until 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-unimportance-of-september-25-for-bjp-and-its-rivals-1026512.html
03-09-2021||Opinion||What's wrong between Kohli and Ashwin?||Have India missed a trick by not playing Ravichandran Ashwin in the ongoing India vs England Test series so far? That's the answer every cricket lover has been trying to get as Team India skipper Virat Kohli, for the fourth successive time in the series against England, decided to go without present day's most successful off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin at the Oval. The team management hardly had to apply any mind while picking the pacers after injuries to Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma. But there was a need to deliberate over picking between the world No. 2 Test bowler Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. Though left-arm spinner Axar Patel is also part of the squad, he was not in the scheme of things of Virat Kohli and company. The decision to go with Jadeja one more time was taken with the intent to strengthen the batting. But in purely cricketing terms, the move was highly unfair as Ashwin has a better Test batting record with five tons to his name over Jadeja, who has just one to show before this name. To top it, Ashwin played county cricket before the series and has no comparison with Jadeja when one looks at their respective bowling records. When the entire Team India players enjoyed an extended vacation in the United Kingdom after World Test Championship (WTC) final loss, Ashwin was busy finding and honing the right rhythm for the five-Test series against the hosts. Not to forgot that he was the best Indian bowler in the WTC final by some distance, on a surface where the pacers were supposed to do the job but failed. Ashwin picked up two wickets each in both innings and contributed a few with the bat. In contrast, Jadeja had hardly to show anything in the WTC final with either bat or ball. Undoubtedly, Jadeja has significantly improved batting and is considered a more dependable batsman than Ashwin. But to accommodate him at the cost of Ashwin, primarily a wicket-taker, can never be justified. The 34-year-old Ashwin earlier took 12 wickets in the Test series victory over Australia with an average of 28.83 along with that match-saving unbeaten 39 in Sydney. Not his master's voice The big question then is, "Why Ashwin has failed to find favour with the current team management consisting of skipper Kohli and chief coach Ravi Shastri?" For someone who has taken 413 wickets from 79 Tests, at an average of under 25, what does his captain expect him to do to include him in the playing eleven? To find this answer, one has to go back to 2019 when Ashwin revealed in an interview in West Indies that "either I take fifers or get dropped." It was Ashwin's answer to chief coach Ravi Shastri, who had taken to project Kuldeep Yadav as India's first-choice spinner overseas. At the time, Kuldeep had played six Tests and taken 24 wickets to Ashwin's 350 in 65 Tests. The year 2021 may be different, but the circumstances are almost similar to what they were then. The question now is whether Ashwin is paying the price for speaking his mind at team meetings? The answer is a big Yes. Ashwin is known for his candidness. In the past, Ashwin had never made it any secret that he would want to lead the Indian team one day. That's how Tamil Nadu's star is known for speaking his mind at team meetings where most of his other colleagues "just nod even if they don't agree." The argument here is that even in conditions like England, where the ball swings more than any other part of the world, there is still scope for India to play Ashwin alongside Jadeja and three seam bowlers. But then Kohli went with this exact combination in the WTC finals and lost that plot against New Zealand. The Team India management must understand that putting pressure on the home team by playing four pacers may have its advantage, but not playing your best spinner neutralises this advantage. It happened in Leeds, where English part-time off-spinner is Moeen Ali troubled Indian batters consistently. In the last two years before this series, Jadeja has taken 29 wickets in 13 Tests at a strike rate of 69, while Ashwin has taken 71 wickets in 14 Tests with a much better strike rate of 46 almost during the same period. There is hardly any doubt that Jadeja as a batsman has improved in recent years, but Jadeja as a bowler has faded during the same time. Ashwin has always shown by bowling on different tracks that having a world-class spinner is better than that fourth-choice seamer who otherwise would not have made it to the team's composition. Here at The Oval also, the inclusion of Umesh Yadav has raised eyebrows because of his inconsistent line in recent years. Yadav has proved to be an expensive option for India when he has been preferred over others. And when the England team has been playing with three specialist left-handers like Rory Burns, Dawid Malan and Moeen Ali, Ashwin's record of dismissing lefties more than 200 times should have played in his favour. Under the circumstances, where Kohli is fighting with his slump in Test cricket and has not scored a ton in the last 22 months or 70 innings, his captaincy will come under scrutiny. The best result that Team India has got ever since he became skipper in 2015 was in Australia, where Ajinkya Rahane, the leader, turned the tide in India's favour Down Under after that disgraceful 36 all out and a loss under Kohli in the first game. Who knows, a change in leadership may end Kohli's struggle with the bat, too. (The writer is a sports journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/whats-wrong-between-kohli-and-ashwin-1026516.html
03-09-2021||Panorama||National Monetisation Pipeline a good move if govt can avoid cronyism, make stable rules||The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) is an excellent initiative. In principle, the initiative retains the ownership of public assets in the hands of the government, even as it forks out the operations of such assets to the more efficient private sector. Of course, caveats apply, as we shall see later. The initiative is a tweak on the PPP model – of the airports fame – except that in this case, the ownership will stay with the government, even as the asset is leased or licensed to a private operator for a pre-specified length of time. Variants of such models have also been used in case of highways, railways, bus stands, and power transmission and supply sectors in more recent years. I am particularly enthused about the NMP model for a reason. Each newspaper takes pride in stating that they were the first to bring such and such news to their readers. I may therefore be pardoned if I say that three years ago, I had pointed out in these very columns (PPP Way to Go, Deccan Herald, October 12, 2018), that given the sorry state of Indian national monuments, we needed to lease or license them to private players, while of course retaining the ownership with the State. These monuments, with monumental potential for forex generation, are maintained in such an abysmal state by the State that separating their ownership from their maintenance and operations through a lease or licensing arrangement may bring in the much-needed foreign exchange to the country.  My precise lines in the aforesaid piece were, “…it should be apparent that as long as the ownership and control of the heritage sites vest with the governments, whether central or state, leaving only the maintenance of the monuments and operation of hotels and restaurants attached to them to the private sector, there would be no compromise of the public interest involved in any way.” I have no reason to think any different now. There is no reason why a Taj Mahal, or even a Red Fort, or the Ajanta, Ellora, or Khajuraho, or any number of other national monuments cannot be strictly owned by the State, but operated by private operators like, say, the Taj or Oberoi or other well-regarded hospitality groups. Of course, such arrangements should be governed by the strictest terms and conditions through finite period licensing arrangements, terminable with ease should the private operators violate the agreed terms. Such arrangements should have the potential to increase tourist foot-falls – both Indian and international (making allowance for Covid conditions) – manifold in the shortest time. The fact is, today, even around such well-known tourist places like the Golkonda Fort of Hyderabad, or Mahabalipurum near Chennai, or somewhat lesser known places like the Lepakshi Temple near Bengaluru or Somanathapura Temple, or other monuments -- and for that matter, any number of scenic waterfalls or trek routes around the length and breadth of the country -- do not even have a half way decent cafeteria or a restaurant for the tourists, not to mention wider approach roads and parking facilities. Licensing to reputed hospitality groups could easily improve the attractiveness of such spots, especially if the roads and parking infrastructure to these spots are also licensed to private operators along similar lines.  Perhaps a few half-hearted attempts were indeed made along the above lines, but they were as hastily withdrawn as they were implemented, in the face of some criticism. Bad implementation does not make a strategy bad. Perhaps NMP should be the way forward, with certain caveats of caution. More than any other infrastructure, tourism remains our best bet to earn precious foreign exchange. Changing the context somewhat, we lost an estimated Rs 30,000 crore from the 2010 Commonwealth Games. Much of the loss could have been on account of rampant corruption involved in the development of the infrastructure. But an equally important reason for this was that there was no cogent plan for the use of these assets after the event. As a consequence, after the Games were over, much of the built-up infrastructure, like stadia, swimming pools, tracks, living apartments, et al., went to seed without appropriate usage, supervision and stakeholder interest. Had there been participation of the private players in the development of the infrastructure, this may have been averted, as the lessees or the private players would have retained an abiding interest in the operations of the assets. Had the Government brought in private lessees or licensees to participate in these projects, the private bidders would have factored in post-Games use of these facilities and would have had a continuing skin in the game to maintain the assets in good condition. I did draw attention to this as well in the aforesaid piece, saying “private participation in heritage and sports will give a booster shot to the tourism and sports climate in the country.” There is much enthusiasm in the air today about the medals that our outstanding athletes have won in the recently concluded Olympics. But unless we make our sports infrastructure an integral part of the lives of our youth, we will never achieve the place which may be our due in international events, whether in sports or athletics. That’s why an NMP-like strategy in sports facilities is absolutely important. Of course, for the NMP system to work seamlessly and sustainably, the government will have to be careful that they plug the loopholes of the earlier PPP arrangements, retain full transparency, and not change the rules of the games arbitrarily after the game has commenced. These are not idle worries either. The conditions governing the competition for airports were tweaked (dropping the ‘prior experience’ clause in the original PPP) in the course of the process, which resulted in a particular entity winning an unprecedented number of airports. Such moves lead to public distrust in the PPP prospects – a danger the government must honestly address. The sale of public sector assets has traditionally invited much wrath from several quarters as “selling out the family jewels”. Well, NMP wisely skirts that challenge and takes a sensible approach.  (The writer is an academic and an author)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/national-monetisation-pipeline-a-good-move-if-govt-can-avoid-cronyism-make-stable-rules-1026438.html
03-09-2021||Panorama||Drug threatening vultures||When I first began working on saving vultures in India, I did not know much about these fascinating birds. Over the years, I have observed them in the wild and captivity and found them to be only gentle, calm and cooperative, other than all the great things they do for us – humans. They are nature's most efficient scavengers, halting all the bacteria and fungus from spreading from dead animal carcasses in the environment. What is fascinating is their collective behaviour in their colony. Communicating with each other while soaring high up in the sky to find food, giving each other the space to feed on the carcass, mating for life and sharing the responsibility of nurturing an offspring are a few of the things that have awed me since the past eight years now. Vultures were quite common till the 1980s and are fighting to survive currently. Currently, seven species in Africa and eight species in India are threatened with extinction. India has lost 99% population of the three species, white-backed vulture, long-billed vulture and slender-billed vulture. The red-headed and the Egyptian vulture populations have also crashed by 91% and 80% respectively. This catastrophic decline has been attributed to the use of diclofenac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) in veterinary practice during the 1990s. Vultures are exposed to diclofenac when they feed on the carcass of an animal that has been treated with diclofenac, 72 hours before its death. The drug is extremely toxic to vultures and impacts their kidneys and they die of visceral gout. Despite, placing a ban on the veterinary use of the drug in 2006, human doses were misused for cattle treatments in the country. The prevalence of diclofenac and other toxic drugs have been closely monitored over the past many years. Though the usage of diclofenac in India has reduced considerably now, it is continued to be misused in some places. Vulture populations are still not safe as the populations are still small to recover quickly and will not survive another catastrophic event. This vulnerability is threatened more as vultures are slow breeding birds, laying only one egg a year and having a longer immaturity duration after fledging. The remnant population will only double after 10-15 years without the occurrence of any adverse events. In the revised National Vulture Conservation Action Plan (2020-2025), the government plans to set up eight new captive-breeding centres but without a check on the toxicity of these non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) and their use (misuse of diclofenac), releasing the captive-bred populations in the wild will not be considered feasible. Thus, the government and other stakeholders need to ensure that the environment is free from drugs that are toxic to vultures. Misuse of diclofenac, use of aceclofenac which metabolises into diclofenac and is much more toxic to vultures, and another drug called nimesulide (found toxic to vultures) are being used for veterinary treatment. With more robust policies and enforcement of rules that are immediate, we can safeguard the remnant vulture populations in the country. The use of diclofenac in Europe is threatening remnant vultures. South Asian governments and conservation organisations have taken the necessary steps in protecting and stabilising the critically endangered populations of vultures in the past two decades. A multi-stakeholder approach has given a lease of hope to conservationists on the survival of vultures. But, given that diclofenac is permitted to use in veterinary treatment in Europe and with the alarming new evidence of mortality in Cinereous Vulture due to diclofenac, it could jeopardise the efforts taken in South Asia to conserve these species. When there are alternative drugs available for veterinary treatment that is found safe for vulture species, the use of a killer drug is not a sustainable option. Removal of diclofenac treatment in India has not proven to be a problem for animal husbandry. However, continued usage of diclofenac in other parts of the world pose a threat to species found there and the future conservation of vultures in the Indian subcontinent. (The writer is a wildlife conservationist working with the World Wide Fund for Nature to conserve the remnant populations of vultures in India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/drug-threatening-vultures-1026439.html
03-09-2021||Panorama||Short on money, legal and otherwise, Taliban faces a crisis||By Alexandra Stevenson, As Afghans pay surging prices for eggs and flour and stand in long lines at the bank, money changers like Enayatullah and his underground financial lifeline have found themselves in desperate demand. Enayatullah — his family name withheld — holds down a tiny point in a sprawling global network of informal lenders and backroom bankers called hawala. The Taliban used hawala to help fund their ultimately successful insurgency. Many households use it to get help from relatives in Istanbul, London and Doha, Qatar. Without cash from hawala, economic life in whole swaths of Afghanistan would come to a crashing halt. That is now a very real possibility. Foreign aid has dried up. Prices are surging. The value of the afghani currency is tumbling. The country’s $9.4 billion in reserves have been frozen. And hawala will not be enough, said Enayatullah, adding that people’s need for money has become so desperate in the last week he raised his commission to 4% per transaction, about eight times his usual rate. The system is now struggling with a lack of money, leading the Taliban and dealers themselves to rein in activity to preserve cash. “The demand,” Enayatullah said, “is too much.” The Taliban won the war in Afghanistan and an economic crisis may be their prize. They have been cut off from the international banking system and from the country’s previous funding sources, like the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the US government. Foreign aid makes up nearly half of economic output. Without other sources of money, millions of Afghan people could lose the gains they made, in fits and starts, over the past two decades. Already, drought conditions have created a real risk of hunger. “We have conflict. We have war. This is another misery,” said Shah Mehrabi, a board member of Afghanistan’s central bank. “You will have a financial crisis and it will push families further into poverty.” Long before Afghanistan had formal institutions like banks, it had the hawala system. Millions of Afghans, shut out from formal banking, used it to send and receive remittances, as have migrant workers and others around the world. The system functions on the premise that people want to send equivalent amounts of money between two locations. Loans and transfers are recorded on ledgers, but money does not have to change hands. Those features make it useful for evading taxes, paying bribes and laundering ill-gotten gains. Hawala was a necessity under the Taliban-led Afghanistan of two decades ago, before the US invasion in 2001, when money from illicit sources greased the country’s financial wheels. In addition to hawala, opium from the country’s vast poppy fields and smuggling brought the country money from the rest of the world, offsetting weak trade. As insurgents, the Taliban funded themselves by taxing smuggled goods like televisions and fuel, in transactions often financed through hawala and through the drug trade. But the Afghanistan of 2021 is a country transformed. The economy, though its growth has been unsteady over the past decade, is five times the size it was in the early 2000s. Once scarce in most places, electricity is now widely available. Smartphones and internet access are common. Foreign money helped. Over the two decades, the United States spent more than $145 billion on reconstruction activities in Afghanistan, according to the US government. Much of it was used to build the Afghan security forces, but funds also went toward large-scale infrastructure projects and an economic support fund. More than three quarters of the Afghan government’s $11 billion annual public expenditures was paid for by donor funding. The Taliban will be hard-pressed to make up that shortfall. Since taking over Afghanistan, the Taliban have said they will stop production of opium. But for the hawala system to work, Afghanistan must ultimately find sources of hard currency to lubricate the lines of credit that would snake back into the country. With exports in 2019 of about $870 million — mostly carpets, plus figs, licorice and other agricultural products — Afghanistan has little to offer on a large scale that is as lucrative as opium. The Taliban could see support from governments like Pakistan, Iran and China that might have their own reasons for keeping relations with Afghanistan warm. Trade has already started up again with Iran, said David Mansfield, an independent consultant and an expert on rural Afghanistan, citing satellite imagery of fuel tankers and transit trucks moving across the border. He has estimated that during its insurgency, the Taliban was able to raise more than $100 million a year from informally taxing goods from Iran and southern Afghanistan. Even if the Taliban raised several multiples more than that, it would mean a return to the minimalist state like the 1990s. “Economic crisis, humanitarian disaster, more refugees,” Mansfield said. “The other side of this is we have an Afghan population in the past 20 years who have seen some degree of transformation. Their livelihoods have improved.”  The hawala system, though central to life in Afghanistan, will not be enough on its own. While many hawala transactions exist only on ledgers, they are ultimately backed by cold, hard cash often held by hawala dealers called hawaladars. In Afghanistan, say experts, hawaladars regularly use the local currency, the afghani, to buy American dollars from Afghanistan’s central bank, a transaction that can help stabilise the afghani’s value. But the central bank cannot access its reserves held abroad, and basic financial life in Afghanistan has gone awry. The price of flour has jumped more than 10% over the past week, while sugar and eggs are roughly one-fifth higher, said Mehrabi, citing data from the central bank. Under the Taliban and its new central bank governor, the country’s 12 state-owned and commercial banks were ordered to open their doors Sunday. Since then, lines of people waiting to withdraw money snake around corners, interrupted only by side streets and driveways. Limits have been placed on how much each person is allowed to withdraw. The new banking rules do not allow businesses to withdraw cash from their bank accounts, so salaries and bills are paid by transfers between accounts and also subject to limits. Many civil servants from the previous government have lost their jobs, as have the many people who were employed by the US military and other foreign governments, nonprofit organizations and media companies. When Pashtany Bank opened its doors for the first time in nearly two weeks Sunday, depositors were already waiting at the doors, said Ahmad Javed Wafa, its chief executive, who is currently in Istanbul. His bank will accommodate the daily demands of customers as long as the central bank, which stores much of its cash, can continue to make deliveries, Wafa said. But at some point the central bank will run out of cash. Though the Taliban have kept a wary eye on hawala dealers since taking over, they may reach a deal to secure trade in exchange for new funding channels. “The informal economy,” Wafa said, “is the only source for the Taliban to survive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/short-on-money-legal-and-otherwise-taliban-faces-a-crisis-1026441.html
03-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Insurance woes||When we had to go abroad for six months, the most important thing, after the tickets, was travel insurance. A few years back when I visited the same country, I didn’t opt for travel insurance as my stay was only for 17 days. Unfortunately, I caught the flu on the flight and promptly fell sick a couple of days after landing there. I went to the urgent care facility with a raging fever by 4 o’clock only to be called in at 9 pm! I was sent away with a mild antibiotic and a huge bill from the county after a few weeks. So this time before travel, a top priority was to buy good travel insurance. Asking around helped us to pick out a well-known insurance company. The agent even came home with the necessary documentation. Once this was sorted, we were mentally at peace though we prayed that there would be no occasion to use it. A few months went by and everything was fine. One day, I suddenly developed pain and numbness in my shoulders. I consulted an orthopaedic doctor via video in Bengaluru, which was an ordeal in itself as we had to coordinate due to the difference in time zones. He prescribed medicine that was not available over the counter. The cost of the medicines added up to $ 200.  By some strange stroke of luck, the pharmacy manager was an Indian, who decided that the tablets were eligible for a discount, reducing our bill to $ 62. We were overjoyed and grateful for this gesture.  Then began the ordeal of claiming the amount through insurance. At least 10 emails, 20 harried calls to the agent occurred in the span of six months. The office kept asking for documents, each time a different one, rather than giving a consolidated list. My husband got annoyed and asked me to write it off, clubbing it with the heavy insurance purchase cost. I wasn’t going to give up so easily. I replied to their infrequent emails, patiently providing them with the documents, one after another. We returned to India but there was no sign of insurance money. Finally, one day, I asked the agent to tell me once and for all, if he would help me settle my claim. Out of guilt, perhaps, I got a mail shortly. It said that there was a minimum of $100 dollars in deductibles and since my claim was less than that, I would not be compensated. So much time and energy was wasted as I hadn’t read the document fully and because some inefficient clerk at the insurance office didn’t bother to check the amount in the first mail! Is this called “reading the fine print”?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/insurance-woes-1026432.html
03-09-2021||Second Edit||Phone-tapping: Wake up call for all||The phone-tapping controversy involving two top police officers of Karnataka, Bhaskar Rao and Alok Kumar, which rocked the state some time ago, is again in the news, with Rao questioning in court the closure report filed by the CBI in a case pertaining to ‘illegal leaking’ of audio clips to the media. But the bigger issue here is that of personal liberty of an individual, as police officers continue to unauthorisedly tap phone calls in violation of all guidelines and court orders with impunity. In the instant case, a Kannada TV channel had telecast a clip in which Rao, then ADGP, Karnataka State Reserve Police, was allegedly heard canvassing with a power broker to use his influence with top politicians to get him appointed as Bengaluru police commissioner. On the request of Rao, who had accused Kumar, the then additional police commissioner of tapping his phone, the state government had ordered a CBI inquiry. The government, in fact, asked the CBI to inquire into the entire gamut of the issue as there were allegations that the outgoing government of H D Kumaraswamy had ordered tapping of phones of several politicians, their relatives and public servants. The closure report raises serious concerns although Kumar had earlier claimed that Rao’s phone was not tapped but he had himself waded into a controversy as he was found to be in conversation with an accused in a ponzi scam, whose phone was being tapped. The CBI has not confirmed that the voice in the clip belongs to Rao, but it found that the recording of the conversation was downloaded from a laptop in the police’s technical service centre (TSC) into a pen drive by an inspector and shared with Kumar. CBI has also confirmed that the raw data in the TSC, the pen drive and the CD available with the journalist were identical, showing that it was indeed a police source that had leaked the audio. While police officers may claim that they played the role of whistle-blowers, the right course of action would have been to file a complaint against Rao if any illegality or overstepping of rules was involved. Thus, it is strange that the CBI has filed a closure report. In the 80s, Ramakrishna Hegde had to resign as Chief Minister following charges of phone-tapping. Not much seems to have changed since then, mainly because the guilty are never punished. Considering that the CBI does not appear keen to get to the bottom of the issue, this might be a fit case to be monitored by the High Court, in the interest of individual privacy and liberty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/phone-tapping-wake-up-call-for-all-1026437.html
03-09-2021||South||Rift in family? Without Jagan, mother, sister convene YSR sympathisers meet in Hyderabad||A meeting convened by YS Vijayamma to commemorate her late husband and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy on Thursday was conspicuous by the absence of their son and present Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy. Jagan's non-attendance at the 12th anniversary meet in Hyderabad and his body language earlier at Edupulapaya, analysts say, is indicative of the rift developed within the family over YS Sharmila's plunge into Telangana politics. YSR, as the two time Congress chief minister was popularly known, died in a chopper crash on September 2, 2009. The fateful event caused a political turbulence in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh and formation of the YSR Congress Party in 2011. And since the shaping of Telangana in 2014, Jagan had gradually withdrawn himself from the state. Now, when Jagan is confined to Andhra Pradesh, his sister YS Sharmila has reentered Telangana political space despite her elder brother's disapproval. ఒంటరి దానినైనా విజయం సాధించాలని,అవమానాలెదురైనా ఎదురీదాలని,కష్టాలెన్నైనా ధైర్యంగా ఎదురుకోవాలని,ఎప్పుడూ ప్రేమనే పంచాలని,నా వెన్నంటి నిలిచి, ప్రోత్సహించినన్ను మీ కంటిపాపలా చూసుకొన్నారు.నాకు బాధొస్తే మీ కంట్లోంచి నీరు కారేది.ఈ రోజు నా కన్నీరు ఆగనంటుంది.I Love & Miss U DAD The Thursday evening gathering of YSR sympathizers – politicians including Congress senior MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, industrialists, former bureaucrats etc in a star hotel in Hyderabad is seen by many as Vijayamma's effort to shore up support for her daughter's venture. Two months back, on 8 July – YSR's birth anniversary, Sharmila announced her party's name as YSR Telangana Party (YSRTP), seeking a share of father YSR's political legacy. While a YSRTP functionary told DH that Vijayamma personally invited several of the about 300 attendees, it was not clear if she had also solicited her son's presence in the meeting. The siblings who reportedly did not meet for Rakshabandhan this year, were seen moving aloof during the prayers on Thursday morning at YSR's memorial in Idupulapaya in the family' hometurf Kadapa district. While Jagan returned to Amaravati for his official engagements, the mother and daughter came back to Hyderabad for their meeting with well wishers. With her padayatra Maro-Prajaprasthanam in 2012-13, when Jagan was in jail for over a year in the Disproportionate Assets cases, Sharmila was instrumental in taking her brother headed YSRCP into the people, including in the Telangana region. Her extensive campaigning during the 2019 Andhra Pradesh elections helped her brother become the Chief Minister with an astounding majority. However, Sharmila was not given any post or responsibility by Jagan, believed as the reason for her bold step defying her elder brother's wish. On Thursday morning, after offering prayers at YSR's grave, alongside her brother, Sharmila sent out a tweet in Telugu saying that her father had encouraged her to strive for success even when left alone. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rift-in-family-without-jagan-mother-sister-convene-ysr-sympathisers-meet-in-hyderabad-1026423.html
03-09-2021||South||Ramesh Chennithala slams new Kerala PCC's 'arrogant' style of functioning||The two powerful groups in the state Congress-- one headed by Ramesh Chennithala and another by Oommen Chandy --joined hands on Friday to launch a scathing attack on the new leadership of the KPCC headed by its chief K Sudhakaran and Leader of opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan over their "arrogant" style of functioning. Expressing displeasure over the new leadership for ignoring him and Chandy in organisational matters particularly in the selection of 14 DCC chiefs, Chennithala today described himself as "just a four annas (25 paise)" member of the party but said Chandy was a senior leader and AICC general secretary and all the decisions of the state Congress should be taken after consulting with him. A day after the Congress leadership asserted in Kannur that PCC chief K Sudhakaran will be the "last word" on organisational matters in the state and spoke about bringing discipline in the party, Chennithala took a dig at the new leadership, indicating that many of them had violated discipline in the past and asked what would happen, if it is implemented retrospectively. "I am not saying that matters in the Congress should be discussed with me. I am just a four annas (25 paise) member of the party. But Oommen Chandy is the general secretary of AICC. So (they) have an obligation to discuss the matters with him," the Haripad MLA said at a party function here in which Nattakom Suresh took charge as Kottayam DCC president. Attacking the style of functioning of the current leadership led by Sudhakaran and V D Satheesan, Chennithala said when he and Chandy led the Congress for 17 years, they had never used the language of "arrogance". "When we got the power (in the organisation), we never used the language of arrogance. Instead we carried all the people together. We had put party interest over personal interest," said Chennithala, who is also the former Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly. At this stage, it is the responsibility of the leadership to hold all in the party together, he said. Chennithala also criticised the new leadership for branding him as a senior Congress leader, saying he was not a veteran and was only 64. In an apparent dig at PCC chief Sudhakaran, who is 73, he said those who have crossed the age of 74 or 75 are calling him senior leader. Attacking the new power centre in the state Congress, senior leader K C Joseph said no one came forward to help Chandy when he came under cyber attack recently. Joseph, who is a strong supporter of Chandy, also flayed the KPCC decision to suspend former MLA K Sivadasan Nair from the Congress in the name of party discipline. Nair and former KPCC general secretary K P Anilkumar were suspended temporarily early this week for publicly expressing displeasure over the selection of the party's district chiefs by the All India Congress Committee. Although Chandy was not present at the function held in Kottayam today, it became a venue of joint protest by both the 'A' group headed by Chandy and 'I' group led by Chennithala against the new power centre in the state Congress. The two groups have been active in the state unit since the times of veteran leader K Karunakaran and senior leader AK Antony. The KPCC leadership refused to react to the comments of Chennithala at Kottayam, the stronghold of Chandy. "No comments", Satheesan said when the issues raised by Chennithala were brought to his notice by the media. He, however, asserted that Sudhakaran will have the last word on organisational matters in the state Congress. The development comes even as the central leadership of the party was trying to mollify Chandy and Chennithala describing them as the "pillars of the party" in Kerala. AICC general secretary (in-charge Kerala), Tariq Anwar has said all decisions on organisational matters will be taken after consulting them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ramesh-chennithala-slams-new-kerala-pccs-arrogant-style-of-functioning-1026594.html
03-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu sees rise in Covid-19 cases among children: Report||As per data of the last few months, Tamil Nadu has reported an increase in the number of children who have contracted Covid-19. This comes at a time when India is facing the possibility of a third-wave of the pandemic. Speaking to the publication, Dr Srinivasan, state nodal officer for Neonatal Intensive Care said, “The government of India’s projection for the third wave says 12 per cent of the cases could be of children but only 5 per cent of those affected will need hospitalisation. And not all hospitalised children are going to be critical. Institute of Child Health in Chennai has not seen an increase in the number of children being hospitalised. There are only four to eight kids admitted. And this number has not increased. The increase in cases may be due to increase in asymptomatic or very mild cases who do need treatment at a hospital.” However, he added, that there has been an increase in the number of kids over the age of 10 that are being hospitalised. He said that children below the age of 10 are vaccinated for various diseases unlike those over 10 years, and hence the latter group is likely to have lower immunity. But he also added that there was no scientific evidence to back up this claim. "We see at least one child above 10 years of age coming to the hospital every day in the last one week,” he said. Another member of the state paediatric management task force, Dr Therani Rajan, told the publication that deaths in children occur onluy if they have comoribities such as cancer or have been treated with steroids, and hence have a compromised immune system. In the last eight months, Tamil Nadu has reported 24 deaths among children who contracted Covid-19. There are 1,100 paediatrics in government institutes and 2,300 in private institutes across the state, and a lot of people have been trained in paediatric Covid care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-sees-rise-in-covid-19-cases-among-children-report-1026612.html
03-09-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government to examine need for Covid-19 booster dose||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has asked the state health officials to examine the reports suggesting provision of a Covid-19 booster dose for the public to augment protection against the virus. The state has so far administered vaccines to over 2.18 crore people, with more than 84 lakh individuals having received both doses. Officials expect to complete the full vaccination of the eligible population i.e., 18-years-old and above, by the end of February. In a review meeting on the pandemic on Thursday at his camp-office in Tadepalli, Reddy inquired about the need of a booster dose for a long lasting immunity against Covid-19. The CM then asked the health department to come up with a forward action plan after the completion of two-dose vaccination for everyone across the state. The CM had earlier instructed the officials to study the protection offered by the vaccines and also the reasons why some people are getting infected even after taking the vaccine. There are about 15,000 active cases in the state as of Friday, while at the height of the second wave in May, there were over 2.11 lakh cases. The recovery rate in AP is now at 98.58 per cent, while the positivity rate dropped to 2.11 pe rcent. Officials said that there are zero Covid-19 cases in about 10,000 village secretariats at present. However, keeping the festival season in view, the YSRCP government has decided to extend the night curfew to 6 am. To tackle the cases during a possible third wave, officials informed that 20,964 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D-type oxygen cylinders were made available at the hospitals. Oxygen supply works will be completed in 95 government hospitals by the end of September. The Chief Minister asked for the completion of recruitment in the government hospitals within three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-to-examine-need-for-covid-19-booster-dose-1026666.html
03-09-2021||South||Kerala facing vaccine shortage, asked Centre for more doses: Health Minister||A day after Kerala's overall Covid-19 cases crossed the 41 lakh mark, state Health Minister Veena George on Friday said the state is facing vaccine shortage and the Covishield stock is completely over in at least six districts, following which the government has asked for more vaccine doses from the Centre. The districts- Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Kannur- are facing the shortage of Covishield and only 1.4 lakh doses are remaining in the state's reserve but all districts have limited stock of Covaxin, she said. The southern state is eyeing to complete the vaccination of all those aged above 18 years this month itself, which requires more jabs, the minister said here in a statement. "The state is once again facing vaccine shortage. Almost all districts are suffering the scarcity. The Centre has been asked to provide more vaccine doses for the smooth continuation of the drive," George said. Pointing out that many people are reluctant to take Covaxin, she said there is no need to worry about receiving the country's indigenous jab and both vaccines are effective as well as safe. George said the state has achieved another target in the vaccine drive as 75 per cent of people, aged above 18 years, have been given the first dose. This would comprise 2,15,27,035 people of the total 3.58 crore population of the state, she said, adding that of them, 27.74 per cent people (79,60,935) had received the second dose also. According to the estimated population of 2021, it is 60.81 per cent and 22.49 per cent respectively. With this, a total of 2,94,87,970 people have received either the first dose or both doses of vaccine. Strenuous efforts taken by the state as part of the vaccination drive, had helped achieve this goal so quickly. "Over 86 lakh doses could be given in the month of August alone. The government is aiming to complete the vaccination of those aged above 18 years this month itself. This requires more vaccine doses," the minister added. Kerala's overall Covid cases breached 41 lakh as its consistently high daily numbers showed no signs of a let-up, with the state once again witnessing over 30,000 new infections yesterday. The state, which recorded the country's first coronavirus case in early 2020, reported 32,097 new Covid-19 infections and 188 deaths on Thursday, which pushed the total infection count to 41,22,133 and the fatalities to 21,149.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-facing-vaccine-shortage-asked-centre-for-more-doses-health-minister-1026667.html
03-09-2021||South||DMK’S M M Abdulla elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha||DMK candidate M M Abdulla was on Friday elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha in place of AIADMK’s A Mohammedjan who died in March this year. Abdulla, joint secretary of the DMK’s NRI wing constituted in 2020, hails from Pudukkottai district in the Cauvery Delta region. Abdulla was elected unopposed in the by-election as the DMK, and its allies command a two-thirds majority in the 234-member Tamil Nadu Assembly. “Thiru. M Mohamed Abdulla, sponsored by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, has been duly elected to fill the vacancy caused due to the demise of Thiru. A Mohammedjan, Member of Council of States, elected from Tamil Nadu,” K Srinivasan, Returning Officer and Assembly Secretary, said. Abdulla will remain as a member of the Upper House till 2025. With Abdulla’s election, Stalin has fulfilled the long-time demand that a Muslim be sent to Parliament from DMK’s quota. Already, Stalin has two ministers from his community in the Tamil Nadu cabinet. With Abdulla’s election, DMK’s strength in the Rajya Sabha is now 8 and the party can hope to increase its tally to 10 with by-elections to two seats likely to be held anytime soon. The seats became vacant after AIADMK MPs R Vaithilingam and K P Munusamy – resigned their posts following their election to the Tamil Nadu Assembly. With the by-elections for the two seats likely to be held separately as the tenure of the MPs is different, the DMK has bright chances of bagging both seats. There is also a talk that the DMK might give one seat to its ally Congress with Stalin giving an oral assurance in this regard to Congress President Sonia Gandhi during the seat-sharing talks for assembly polls. Out of the 18 seats from Tamil Nadu, eight are now held by DMK and five by AIADMK, while PMK, Tamil Maanila Congress, and MDMK hold one seat each. Two seats two remain vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-s-m-m-abdulla-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha-1026691.html
03-09-2021||South||Kerala logs 29,322 new Covid-19 cases; TPR is 17.91 per cent||Kerala logged 29,322 new Covid-19 cases on Friday after testing 1.63 lakh samples, pushing the infection count to over 41.51 lakh. With 131 people succumbing to the virus today, the death toll mounted to 21,280. The Covid caseload now stands at 41,51,455 with the addition of fresh cases. The state's overall coronavirus cases had surpassed 41 lakh yesterday with the state recording 32,097 new infections after testing 1,74,307 samples. Meanwhile, 22,938 persons recuperated from the disease on Friday taking the total cured to 38,83,186, leaving 2,46,437 active cases. State Health Minister Veena George said 1,63,691 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 17.91 per cent. Till now, 3,20,65,533 samples were tested. Among the districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of positive cases today - 3,530, followed by Ernakulam with 3,435 and Kozhikode 3,344. "Of those found infected today, 79 reached the state from outside while 27,874 contracted the disease from their contacts. The source of infection of 1,251 is yet to be traced and 118 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said in a release. The minister said there are 296 regions under various local self government bodies with over seven per cent weekly infection population ratio (WIPR). There are 5,78,704 persons under the observation of which 33,458 are in isolation wards of various hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-29322-new-covid-19-cases-tpr-is-1791-per-cent-1026706.html
03-09-2021||South||Quarantine guidelines to be strictly implemented in Kerala, action against violators: Govt||As Covid-19 cases continued its upward spiral in Kerala, the Left government on Friday ordered local self government bodies to strictly implement the quarantine and isolation guidelines and warned of action against those found violating the norms. Kerala has been reporting around 30,000 cases for the last two weeks, accounting for a bulk of the cases reported nationwide. On Friday the state logged 29,322 cases and 131 deaths, taking the total affected to 41,51,455 and the toll to 21,280. "... the quarantine and isolation norms stipulated therein shall be strictly enforced throughout the state by the implementing agencies," the state government order undersigned by Chief Secretary VP Joy said in the Government Order. The G.O directed Rapid Response Teams, ward level committees, neighborhood clusters and the officials concerned of the Police, Revenue, Health and Local self government departments to ensure that the Covid-19 health protocols are strictly followed. The government also said that the agencies would help provide home delivery of essential items to quarantined persons if they faced difficulties. "Action shall be taken against people violating the norms of quarantine, invoking the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Kerala State Epidemic Act and other relevant legal provisions in force," the order said. Meanwhile, Kerala police on Friday registered 1,405 cases for violation of Covid-19 health protocol. There were 8,508 incidents of not wearing masks and 85 cases were registered for violating quarantine guidelines in the state. Health Minister Veena George, while giving out the figures of infections and deaths earlier, said there are 296 regions under various local self government bodies with over seven per cent Weekly Infection Population Ratio (WIPR).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/quarantine-guidelines-to-be-strictly-implemented-in-kerala-action-against-violators-govt-1026712.html
03-09-2021||South||Madras High Court refuses to stay chanting of hymns in Tamil||The Madras High Court on Friday refused to issue a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to withdraw a scheme that allows chanting of hymns by priests in the Tamil language instead of Sanskrit in temples across the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu rejected a PIL filed against Annai Tamil Archanai, the scheme launched by the new DMK government. The scheme allows devotees to opt for hymns being chanted in Tamil instead of Sanskrit as was being practised. Several organisations and priests had taken objection to the scheme and the petitioner went to the court terming the decision to chant hymns in Tamils as “blasphemy” and as an “act to introduce confusion and create unrest in otherwise peaceful religious practices.” The bench, while dismissing the plea by Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam, said it cannot entertain the case as the issue was not res integra (an unsettled question of law) anymore. The judges noted that a division bench of the Madras High Court had in 2008 held that there is no ban on chanting hymns in Tamil in Agama Sastra. “It defeats any logic for the State to think that only Hindus are more devotional to utilise Tamil language and not the Sikhs, Muslims, Christians and so on. One can very much understand that any such attempt by the State in any other religion will result not just in confusion but total unrest to the law and order situation,” Narasimhan had said in his petition. The scheme was introduced by the DMK government in about 45 temples in the first phase. Several decisions of the new government, including handing over orders of appointment as priests to those from non-Brahmin communities, have come under attack from various quarters. The state government has also decided to revive six Archakar Payirchi Palli (Priest Training Schools) to train those interested to work as priests in temples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-refuses-to-stay-chanting-of-hymns-in-tamil-1026714.html
03-09-2021||South||Telangana CM KCR meets PM Modi, invites him for renovated Yadadri temple's inauguration||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Friday and has invited him for the inauguration of the renovated Yadadri Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple. The event would be held in October or November. CMO sources said that the PM “gave assurance of his attendance.” Rao had also requested the PM for allotment of land for the state to construct “Telangana Bhavan” in New Delhi like the other states. The PM is said to have responded positively. Rao had on Thursday laid the foundation for the TRS office building in the capital. In the meeting that lasted for 50 minutes, Rao raised several matters pertaining to the state like the establishment of an integrated textile park, development of the Hyderabad-Nagpur Industrial Corridor. Rao has also submitted requests for the release of additional funds under the PM Garmin Sadak Yojana and sought roads in the Maoists influenced regions. On the education front, the CM has requested the PM to allocate an IIM in Hyderabad, IIIT in Karimnagar, a Tribal University for the state and also Navodaya Schools in the newly created districts. The Telangana CM has sought the appointments of Home Minister Amit Shah and water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Rao's government is in a confrontation with the Jaganmohan Reddy administration in Andhra Pradesh over the sharing of Krishna river waters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-kcr-meets-pm-modi-invites-him-for-renovated-yadadri-temples-inauguration-1026745.html
03-09-2021||State||Schools reopening: SDMC forum wants more buses in Karnataka's rural areas||The coordination forum of the school development and monitoring committees (SDMCs) has requested the Karnataka government to provide transportation facilities for children, from rural areas, in particular, to attend schools. Welcoming the decision by the state government to reopen physical classes for grade 6 to 8 from September 6, the forum said, “The number of buses plying in the rural parts has been reduced due to Covid-19 pandemic. Now, with the government deciding to reopen physical classes, it should deploy more buses in rural areas to ferry students to schools.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/schools-reopening-sdmc-forum-wants-more-buses-in-karnatakas-rural-areas-1026737.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Demonstration on processing saltwater into freshwater on September 3||A demonstration for converting seawater into freshwater using technology in the deep-sea fishing boats will be held in the presence of the Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Water Transport S Angara on September 3. The demonstration will be held near the estuary in the fishing boats by a private firm, said Fisheries department Deputy Director Harish Kumar to DH. The fisheries department officials, representatives of fishermen, bank officials will take part in the demonstration. The fishing boats that venture into the deep sea remain in mid-sea for seven to 10 days. Each boat will have a minimum of 15 fishermen. The fishermen who venture into deep-sea fishing have been facing inconvenience with the shortage of potable water when the water carried by them in the boat gets exhausted. Now, a technology has been developed to process the salt water for drinking purpose. Already, a demonstration was held before the officials from the fisheries department and Fisheries College recently. Fishermen leader Ramachandra Baikampady said that 5000 litre water is carried by fishermen. Here using a potable purifier, the seawater can be converted into potable water. This in turn helps the fishermen and prevents them from spending money on the purchase of potable water, which in turn reduces the weight in the boat as well. The space used for storing water can be in turn used for storing the fish catch. The saltwater is collected in a small pipe when the boat starts its journey. Later with the help of a purifier fixed in the machine, about 2000 litre of water can be purified daily. The purifier machine costs Rs 4.50 lakh. If the government could provide subsidy or financial assistance, then it will be of great help to the fishermen, said Baikampady. “During a recent demonstration held at an estuary in Mangaluru, the fisheries department deputy director and I had even consumed the saltwater which was converted to freshwater. It is as tasty as normal drinking water without any change in taste,” he said. A proposal seeking help from the government for the fishermen was submitted to B S Yediyurappa when he was the chief minister. It is an Australian-based technology that is used widely in Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/demonstration-on-processing-saltwater-into-freshwater-on-september-3-1026381.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY, Shettar will be consulted while taking major decisions in BJP: Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday stated that former chief ministers B S Yediyurappa and Jagadish Shettar are not sidelined in the BJP, and they would be consulted while taking important decisions in the party's core committee meetings. The experience of senior leaders would be utilised by the party. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has rightly said that Yediyurappa voluntarily stepped down from the post of the chief minister. He is replaced with Basavaraj Bommai after consulting all leaders. No senior leader has expressed discontent about this on the party platform, Joshi said. 'Good beginning' "I agree that Bommai government's performance cannot be assessed fully in just one month. But, Bommai has made a good beginning," Joshi opined. Bommai has proved himself as a credible and mature leader. Amit Shah's statement about going to next Assembly elections under Bommai's leadership is not an issue to be discussed much. Facing elections under the leadership of the current chief minister is natural, he said. On HDMP polls Regarding the confusions related to the voters' list in the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) elections, Joshi said, he would urge the election commission to rectify the errors by the officials. He also requested people to check where they have to cast their vote. He also expressed confidence that the BJP would get more than comfortable majority in the HDMP, saying that the people would support it for major development works implemented and reliable leadership of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-shettar-will-be-consulted-while-taking-major-decisions-in-bjp-joshi-1026568.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Horatti to write final letter for official residence in Bengaluru||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti on Friday stated that he is writing eighth letter to the government seeking allotment of official residence for him in Bengaluru, and it would be his last letter in this regard. Horatti is without an official residence in Bengaluru even after six months of his election as the chairman of the Upper House. "I am not begging for official residence. It is my last letter, and let them allot it or not. Basavaraj Bommai tried to get it allotted for me when he was law and parliamentary affairs minister. Now he is the chief minister, and I have confidence in him," Horatti said. Stressing the need for pro-people works by those who would win in local body elections, he lamented that present-day politics has lost ethics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-horatti-to-write-final-letter-for-official-residence-in-bengaluru-1026571.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Man gets two vaccine doses within minutes in Dakshina Kannada district||A 19-year old daily wage worker was administered two doses of Covishield vaccine in a short span of time at a crowded vaccination camp at a school in Sullia taluk in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district. He was kept under observation for three hours at the centre and later sent home. Health officials have been keeping a check on him at his home since Wednesday and no adverse effect has been reported till late Thursday, Sullia Taluk health officer Dr B Nandakumar said. K B Arun, a daily wage worker hailing from Kootelu in the taluk, had gone to the vaccination camp at Duggalakda High School in Sullia taluk on Wednesday, where the health assistant administered the first dose of vaccine to him. He waited in the room for some time when he was given a second dose by the same staff unaware that he had already received the jab. Dr Nandakumar said the confusion occurred as the youth did not leave the room after getting vaccinated. He was under the impression that two doses of vaccine were required for travel. The nurse also could not recognise him in the mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-gets-two-vaccine-doses-within-minutes-in-dakshina-kannada-district-1026625.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to see low-key Dasara celebrations this year too as fear of third Covid-19 wave looms large||Mindful of a fresh wave of Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on Friday decided to keep Dasara festivities minimal like it was last year.  Festivities and cultural events will be restricted to the famous Amba Vilas Palace and Chamundeshwari Temple alone, and the renowned Jamboo Savari will also take place inside the Mysuru Palace premises. “The Dasara festival, which is the Nada Habba, will be celebrated in a traditional, but simple manner just like last year,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said after chairing a high-level committee meeting where the decision was made. The Dasara festival will be flagged off on October 7 from the Chamundi Hills. Last year, the government chose five corona warriors to inaugurate the festival. “We have authorised the CM to choose who should inaugurate the festival this time,” Cooperation Minister ST Somashekar, who is in charge of Covid-19 affairs in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts said.   On October 15, the Jamboo Savari will take place at 2.45 pm, he said.  “Last year, 150 people were permitted for the inaugural, 50 people for cultural activities and 300 people for the Jamboo Savari. We asked the CM to double this. But, experts have warned of a third wave of Covid-19 in September-October. So, after September 20, depending on the situation, a decision will be taken. If cases go up, then last year’s restrictions on the number of people will continue,” Somashekhar said.  Crowd-pullers such as Yuva Dasara, torchlight parade, Dasara film festival, wrestling contest, Food Mela, exhibition and others will not be held this time as well. The committee also decided to clear bill arrears of Rs 8.09 crore from the 2019 Dasara festivities. This time, the government will grant Rs 6 crore for the festival.  Elected representatives who attended the meeting asked the government to do something for traders, hotels and rickshaw drivers whose business is hit because of the muted Dasara celebration. “In the Mysuru town, economic activities took place in a big way during Dasara. However, this is not the case since the last two years. We have noted their plight and we’re thinking of what to do,” Bommai said.  Lawmakers also urged the government to address losses faced by the tourism sector due to Covid-19. “They say tourism development is equally important. They want a Mysuru-Hassan-Chamarajanagar tourism circuit. Our government is thinking on these lines,” Bommai said, adding that he would discuss this with officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-see-low-key-dasara-celebrations-this-year-too-as-fear-of-third-covid-19-wave-looms-large-1026679.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka plans to slash guidance values of properties||The Karnataka government is considering a downward revision of guidance values for immovable assets, Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Friday. The minister has sought a report on how and where guidance values can be slashed across the state. Ashoka believes that a cut in the guidance value would lead to registration of more properties. Guidance value is the base price on which property transactions have to take place. It was last revised in 2018. Usually, guidance values see an upward revision. "Covid-19 has hit the businesses hard. I've been receiving many requests from various stakeholders on reducing the guidance value. So, I've asked the officials to give me a report by December on decreasing the guidance values across the state," Ashoka said after a meeting with revenue officials. The guidance values will go up wherever possible, especially along highways and near economic zones, Ashoka said. "I have also asked officials to look at the possibility of hiking the guidance value along national, state highways and industrial corridors," he said. The government estimates to generate Rs 12,655 crore this financial year through stamp duty and registration fees. Also, the government has decided to hire 820 surveyors to fast-track requests pending for survey of properties. "Currently, there are over two lakh applications pending for survey-related work, which has been affected due to staff shortage," Ashoka said. The pendency has resulted in a waiting period of 8-10 months. "So, we have decided to hire 820 surveyors now and another 600 licensed surveyors by December. When all of them are on board, I'm hopeful that we can complete the entire survey work within a few months," he said. Reacting to questions on road damage caused by rainfall in Bengaluru, Ashoka said that it was normal for potholes to be formed during showers. "Many potholes surface during the rainy season. I will ask officials to fix them", he said, adding that the condition of roads in the city was poor. A meeting with BBMP officials will be held shortly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-plans-to-slash-guidance-values-of-properties-1026703.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1,220 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 1,220 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths on Friday, pushing the total number of infections to 29,53,064 and the toll to 37,380. The day also saw 1,175 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,97,254. Bengaluru Urban accounted for most number of cases (319), as the city saw 202 discharges and eight deaths, the highest in the state. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 18,404, a health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.68 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.55 per cent. Behind Bengaluru Urban in the number of deaths was Dakshina Kannada (4) and Uttara Kannada (2), followed by others. Of the fresh cases in districts, Dakshina Kannada again followed Bengaluru Urban with 232, Udupi had 150, Mysuru 86, Hassan 81, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,38,834, followed by Mysuru 1,76,344 and Tumakuru 1,19,370. Bengaluru Urban was on top among discharges too with 12,15,103, followed by Mysuru 1,72,999 and Tumakuru 1,17,594. Cumulatively a total of 4,39,94,470 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,79,227 were on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1220-new-covid-19-cases-19-deaths-in-karnataka-1026717.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||School admissions at entry level drop by 1 lakh in Karnataka||Enrolment at the entry level in Karnataka's state board schools has fallen sharply this academic year. The final admission data available with the department of public instruction shows that the number of enrolments at state board schools for Class 1 this academic year has dropped by 1,11,852 over the 2020-21 academic year. During the 2020-21 academic year, the number of students admitted to Class 1 was 10,21,105, while this year, it has dropped to 9,09,253. The biggest drop in admissions has been in private unaided schools, while enrolment at government-run schools has gone up. However, there has been no change in numbers in aided institutions. According to private school managements, the drop in admissions was mainly because of the department’s compulsory pass policy. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said, “The figures furnished by the department are not true. According to us, entry level admissions were barely 10% of the normal intake.” “With the department deciding to promote students to the next level without any evaluation, parents saw no point in admitting their children to schools since they would be promoted anyway,” said Shashi Kumar. A representative of a private school management said, “Though there are no admissions for Class 1, there will be a demand for Class 2 next year. This is reality and children’s learning curve will be affected because of this.” The private schools’ management association has requested the department to direct parents to compulsorily enrol children and promote only those children who are enrolled. Meanwhile, child rights activists say this is a violation of children’s rights. Nagasimha G Rao, director Child Rights Trust said, “The government should take an initiative to attract children to schools by giving wide publicity at the local level and educate parents about the need to enrol children to schools. The government should make decisions in the best interest of children.” According to teachers, the uncertainty over reopening schools for primary levels due to Covid-19 and fear among parents is affecting enrolment. Though government-run schools are showing an increase in admissions this year, there is a dip in overall admissions by three lakh for Classes 1 to 10. The data shows that the total admissions (all managements) during 2020-21 was 1,04,56,650 and this year it is 1,01,06,883. According to the circular issued by the department, the last date for admission ended on August 31 and the department has again extended the date by two more months considering the demand from private unaided schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/school-admissions-at-entry-level-drop-by-1-lakh-in-karnataka-1026733.html
03-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Colleges can't hike fee citing NEP, says Ashwath Narayan||Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Friday warned private colleges against hiking fees in the name of National Education Policy (NEP). "Colleges are not allowed to increase the fees in the name of NEP. The intention of the government is to provide quality education at an affordable cost. Running colleges by collecting heavy fees is not justifiable," Narayan told reporters. The minister also warned of initiating action against such colleges if the department receives any complaints. He reiterated that the results of KCET will be announced on September 20. "The government will take a final decision on engineering fees during a meeting with private engineering colleges next week," he said. Reacting to the remarks on National Education Policy by the opposition leader Siddaramaiah, the minister said, "We have responded to his (Siddaramaiah) statements through media and on various platforms. Further, the queries pertaining to NEP will be answered on the floor of the House during the upcoming legislature session." The minister said that last date for admissions into colleges had been extended till October 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/colleges-cant-hike-fee-citing-nep-says-ashwath-narayan-1026747.html
03-09-2021||West||After 13 years, trial in Ahmedabad serial bomb blast case concludes, judgement reserved||Thirteen years after the serial bomb blasts that killed 56 people in Ahmedabad and left hundreds injured, a special court completed the trial against 78 accused persons and reserved the verdict. Except the two accused, who were granted bail for treatment of schizophrenia and after turning an approver, the rest of the 76 suspects have been languishing in jail since their arrest at various points in time during the pendency of the trial, which is said to be one of the longest criminal trials in recent years. The special judge Ambalal Patel designated court for trial of bomb blast cases concluded the final hearings on Thursday and reserved the order. The court is likely to give a date for pronouncement of order on September 13. The final (oral) hearing of the trial lasted for nearly nine months, of which defence lawyers argued for six months while the prosecution took three months to finish. On July 26, 2008 simultaneous blasts had killed 56 persons in Ahmedabad and left over 200 injured. The police registered 20 FIRs in Ahmedabad while 15 other FIRs were registered in Surat, where bombs were recovered from various spots. Both the cases were merged for trial as police investigation claimed that "they were part of same conspiracy" by an outfit, Indian Mujahideen, a breakaway faction of banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). Among the suspects is Safdar Nagori, former head of SIMI. The investigation carried out by Detection of Crime Branch (DCB), Ahmedabad established that the motive behind the terror strikers was avenging atrocities on Muslims during 2002 post the Godhra riots. It was due to numerous litigations that the trial was delayed. It was also affected following the 2014 jailbreak attempt by 24 accused who were lodged at Sabarmati central jail. The DCB investigation claimed that a 213-feet long tunnel was dug to escape. An internal report found that at least two dozen complaints had been filed against jail authorities for stripping in pretext of frisking and denying medical facilities among other basic rights. The delay in the trial also resulted in several other controversies including the changed look of the suspects. The prosecution wanted the accused to be identified in the court by their photographs taken at the time of their arrests. It was argued that over the years many of the suspects' appearances changed due to moustaches and beards. This argument was rejected by the court. After hearing the case from Sabarmati jail premises initially, the trail was conducted through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-13-years-trial-in-ahmedabad-serial-bomb-blast-case-concludes-judgement-reserved-1026533.html
03-09-2021||West||24-year-old woman with tongue cancer sings again after treatment||The patient who was unable to talk, eat or swallow due to a 4.5 cm ulcer located on the right lateral border of the tongue can even sing her favourite songs with ease now. Dr ChandraVeer Singh, a consultant otorhinolaryngologist, and head and neck onco-surgeon at the Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai's suburbs of Mira Road, successfully treated a 24-year-old woman with stage IVA tongue cancer via complex surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. In such cases, patients often lose their tongue, if not treated at the right time.  The patient, an event manager and resident of Mira Road, had an ulcer, mouth pain, inability to talk, eat or swallow for over 4 months during the lockdown.  The patient visited various big hospitals and tried many home remedies like applying honey on the ulcer, having aloe vera juice but nothing seemed to provide her relief.  As time passed, the issue accelerated further, which disrupted her daily routine. However, the patient was referred to Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road wherein she got a new way of life. “On arrival, the patient came with complaints like mouth pain, inability to eat, talk or swallow, and a 4.5 cm ulcer located on the right lateral border of the tongue. Her biopsy of ulcer, MRI, X-ray, and CT scan investigations revealed cancerous growth was on the tongue which extended to the lymph nodes of the right side of the neck. The ulcer infiltrative lesion arising from ventral surface of the tongue to the entire floor of the mouth, involving almost the entire anterolateral two-thirds tongue and not abutting the mandible in the entire length,’ said Dr Singh.  Tongue cancer can be termed as a type of mouth or oral cancer, seen in the cells of the tongue leading to tumours or lesions. It occurs due to tobacco consumption and smoking, alcohol, sharp teeth causing ulcers, an iron deficiency anaemia and other nutritional deficiencies. Moreover, it can spread to the lymph glands of the neck.  In order to halt the spread of cancer, the patient was scheduled to undergo Hemiglossectomy with FRAFF, followed by 35 cycles of radiotherapy and 6 cycles of chemotherapy. The surgery involved the removal of half of the right side of the tongue and adjacent tissues and reconstructive surgery was carried out to restore speech, swallowing and normal appearance. A skin grafting is done to replace the tissue removed during surgery.   “While working from home, I noticed an ulcer that prevented me from eating spicy foods and had to eat bland food.  I was petrified when there was mouth pain, slurred speech, and inability to swallow and eat. My voice changed, and people would not understand what I wanted to say. While attending online meetings I would remain silent as I would think that I may become a butt of a joke. Even my family members couldn’t understand what I wanted to convey. I love singing and couldn’t sing my favourite songs due to the ulcer and pain,” the patient said.  “My world came crashing down after the diagnosis of tongue cancer as it was an unknown entity for me. I thought I would end up losing my entire tongue, and never be able to speak again. I cried and spent some sleepless nights thinking of that. Now, I am alright, able to eat solid foods comfortably and my speech quality has also improved. I have started singing my favourite songs again,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/24-year-old-woman-with-tongue-cancer-sings-again-after-treatment-1026553.html
03-09-2021||West||NIA files charge sheet against Sachin Vaze, others in Antilia bomb scare-Mansukh Hiren murder case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a charge sheet in the sensational twin cases of planting of a gelatin sticks-laden Mahindra Scorpio near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. A total of 10 accused have been chargesheeted including dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and his mentor and former encounter-specialist Pradeep Sharma, a former senior inspector of police. The other accused are Naresh Ramniklal Gor, a bookie, dismissed cop Vinayak Balasaheb Shinde alias Vinu, now dismissed assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Hisamuddin Kazi, inspector Sunil Dharma Mane, Santosh Atmaram Shelar, Anand Pandurang Jadhav, Satish Tirupati Mothkuri alias Tanni alias Vicky Baba, Manish Vasantbhai Soni. “During investigation, incriminating evidences came to fore against the above mentioned 10 arrested accused involved in various stages of conspiracy of placing explosive-laden Mahindra Scorpio vehicle, its theft and commission of murder of Mansukh Hiren,” the NIA stated.  The charge sheet combines three FIRs in the case, which were taken over from the police department of Mumbai and Thane. The FIR no. 35/2021, dated February 25 registered at Gamdevi police station, Mumbai, looks at the planting of 20-odd gelatin sticks in a Mahindra Scorpio on Carmichael Road in  Mumbai during the intervening night of February 24-25 along a threatening letter to the Ambanis. The FIR No. 47/2021 registered at Vikhroli police station subsequently relates to theft of Mahindra Scorpio vehicle. The third FIR deals with the Accidental Death Report ADR No. 39/2021 registered at Mumbra police station in Thane pertains to recovery of dead body of Mansukh Hiren retrieved on 5 March from Mumbra Creek.   The ten accused were chargesheeted under sections 120B, 201, 286, 302, 364, 384, 386, 403, 419, 465, 471, 473 & 506 of Indian Penal Code; sections 3 & 25 of Arms Act, section 4 of the Explosive Substances Act and sections 16, 18 & 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against the 10 arrested persons including Vaze, and Sharma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-sachin-vaze-others-in-antilia-bomb-scare-mansukh-hiren-murder-case-1026583.html
03-09-2021||West||Elgar Parishad case: No NIA action till HC hears Varavara Rao's medical bail extension plea on Sep 6||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday told the Bombay High Court in an oral statement that it will not take any coercive action against poet-activist Varavara Rao till September 6 when his plea for medical bail extension will be heard. Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case and currently on interim medical bail granted by HC in February this year, is supposed to surrender before the Taloja prison authorities on September 5. Rao's counsel, senior advocate Anand Grover, sought an extension of bail before a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar on Friday. However, due to paucity of time, the matter could not be heard. The HC said it will hear Rao's plea on September 6. Grover then urged HC to ensure no coercive action was taken against Rao until then. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA, in an oral statement said, "We will not take any coercive action until the next hearing." On February 22 this year, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale had granted Rao (82) interim medical bail on "humanitarian grounds." At the time, Rao, suffering from multiple ailments, was undergoing treatment at Nanavati hospital in Mumbai after being shifted out of Taloja jail following the court's intervention. The HC had said if it did not grant Rao medical bail, it would be abdicating its duty to protect the principles of human rights, and a citizen's fundamental rights to life and health. The bench had imposed stringent bail conditions, including a direction to Rao to stay within the jurisdiction of the Mumbai NIA court for the period he was out on bail, as well as forbidding him from establishing any contact with his co-accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-no-nia-action-till-hc-hears-varavara-raos-medical-bail-extension-plea-on-sep-6-1026628.html
03-09-2021||West||Mumbai Police launches drive against people moving without masks||With the Ganesh festival just a week away and amid the threat of the Covid-19 pandemic’s third wave, the Mumbai Police has launched a massive drive against people moving without masks.  The Mumbai Police, on its Twitter handle posted that masks are MVP - most valuable protection. The social media post explains - “OP (obey protocol), PoV (precaution over virus), MIA (mask in action) and PVS (first person safety)”. Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale has warned people to use masks several times in the past.  Mumbai’s joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre-Patil is personally monitoring the drive.  The Ganesh festival starts on 10 September, when people will be on the streets in large numbers.  Besides, pre-festival sales are also picking up and families are coming out of purchases. “In many cases, we have seen that people are not wearing masks or are not wearing them properly,” police officials said. Mumbai has been posting 200 to 350 Covid-19 cases daily on an average and deaths below 10.  With more and more travelling on local trains and public transport, the administration and police do not want to take any chances.  The Centre has already asked the Maharashtra government to ensure that people follow norms during the festivals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-launches-drive-against-people-moving-without-masks-1026640.html
03-09-2021||West||2 Gujarat cops suspended for thrashing Army man; video goes viral||Two police constables from Gujarat's Junagadh district were on Friday placed under suspension after a video purportedly showing them thrashing an Army jawan went viral on social media, an official said. Rajesh Bandhia and Chetan Makwana, attached to Bantva police station, were suspended on the order of Junagadh Superintendent of Police Ravi Teja Vasamsetty, he said. In a video shot on the night of August 29 in Padardi village in Manavdar taluka, two policemen can be seen beating Army jawan Kanhabhai Keshwala, who had come to his village on leave a few days back, with a stick as well as punching him in the presence of other policemen and villagers. While Keshwala's mother Kaliben told reporters her son was thrashed without any reason, some villagers said police were angry as they believed the Army jawan was part of a mob that attacked police when it had come to the village on information about commotion following a love marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-gujarat-cops-suspended-for-thrashing-army-man-video-goes-viral-1026749.html
