04-09-2021||First Edit||Omission of Nehru like staging Hamlet without the Prince||The omission by the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) of Jawaharlal Nehru’s picture from the poster published on its website on the occasion of ‘Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ (75th Independence Day celebrations) shows its pettiness, callousness and subservience to the ruling powers. None of these is an ideal attribute of an organisation devoted to historical research. The poster has been brought out in celebration of freedom and to honour important freedom fighters, and has the pictures of eight leaders, including Mahatma Gandhi, Rajendra Prasad and V D Savarkar. Nehru is not the only omission. There is no-one from the south, no woman and no Muslim. The list includes only those whom the BJP accepts and has tried to co-opt into a history and tradition it has tried to create. It includes Savarkar, whose contribution to the freedom struggle is, at best, controversial.    Recording a history of India’s freedom struggle without Nehru is like staging Hamlet without the Prince. He spent nearly 10 years of his life in jail and was a national leader with a charisma that went beyond all classes and categories of people. He also had a vision, rooted in the country’s past, alive to the present and hopeful for its future, which was at once driven by sentiment and reason, and was both realistic and idealistic. It was this vision that shaped the country's policies in the wake of freedom when he was the first Prime Minister and which laid the foundations of the democratic nation. It is this vision that the BJP is at odds with and wants to dismantle, and that is why Nehru is ostracised from history and demonised in memory. The fact that his descendants are at the head of the Congress, the main opposition party, may also be a factor.  History should not be a handmaiden of politics, and the ICHR, which is a professional forum to promote the study of history, has no need to toe the line of the government or the ruling party. It should not try to blacklist or whitewash events and personalities in history in accordance with the government's predilections. It has said there are more posters to be published and Nehru would find a place in them. But by denying Nehru a place among the first and foremost eight leaders of the freedom struggle in its reckoning, a message has already been sent out. It is that the freedom struggle and its leaders would be assessed on the basis of their utility to the ruling party’s politics. This is unfortunate. India’s freedom struggle was a total movement that saw participation by leaders with a wide range ideologies, traditions, attitudes and backgrounds. Celebration of freedom should mean accepting and honouring all of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/omission-of-nehru-like-staging-hamlet-without-the-prince-1026849.html
04-09-2021||First Edit||Like staging Hamlet without the Prince||The omission by the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) of Jawaharlal Nehru’s picture from the poster published on its website on the occasion of ‘Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ (75th Independence Day celebrations) shows its pettiness, callousness and subservience to the ruling powers. None of these is an ideal attribute of an organisation devoted to historical research. The poster has been brought out in celebration of freedom and to honour important freedom fighters, and has the pictures of eight leaders, including Mahatma Gandhi, Rajendra Prasad and V D Savarkar. Nehru is not the only omission. There is no-one from the south, no woman and no Muslim. The list includes only those whom the BJP accepts and has tried to co-opt into a history and tradition it has tried to create. It includes Savarkar, whose contribution to the freedom struggle is, at best, controversial.    Recording a history of India’s freedom struggle without Nehru is like staging Hamlet without the Prince. He spent nearly 10 years of his life in jail and was a national leader with a charisma that went beyond all classes and categories of people. He also had a vision, rooted in the country’s past, alive to the present and hopeful for its future, which was at once driven by sentiment and reason, and was both realistic and idealistic. It was this vision that shaped the country's policies in the wake of freedom when he was the first Prime Minister and which laid the foundations of the democratic nation. It is this vision that the BJP is at odds with and wants to dismantle, and that is why Nehru is ostracised from history and demonised in memory. The fact that his descendants are at the head of the Congress, the main opposition party, may also be a factor.  History should not be a handmaiden of politics, and the ICHR, which is a professional forum to promote the study of history, has no need to toe the line of the government or the ruling party. It should not try to blacklist or whitewash events and personalities in history in accordance with the government's predilections. It has said there are more posters to be published and Nehru would find a place in them. But by denying Nehru a place among the first and foremost eight leaders of the freedom struggle in its reckoning, a message has already been sent out. It is that the freedom struggle and its leaders would be assessed on the basis of their utility to the ruling party’s politics. This is unfortunate. India’s freedom struggle was a total movement that saw participation by leaders with a wide range ideologies, traditions, attitudes and backgrounds. Celebration of freedom should mean accepting and honouring all of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/like-staging-hamlet-without-the-prince-1026958.html
04-09-2021||In Perspective||The Afghan’s reality, the American’s dream||It was recently reported in the press that Afghanistan's former IT and communications minister Syed Ahmad Shah Saadat is now a delivery man in Germany. A local German journalist is said to have captured him on camera while Saadat, dressed in the ubiquitous bright orange uniform of a driver for Lieferando service, was on his way to deliver pizza in Leipzig. It took no time for the photograph and the story to go viral online. Forty-nine-year-old Saadat, who holds two master’s degrees in communications and software engineering from Oxford University, was a cabinet minister in the Ashraf Ghani-led Afghan government. Having served for two years, he resigned in December 2020 following differences with Ghani. He soon left Afghanistan, perhaps with a sense of foreboding of an imminent takeover of the country by the Taliban, and its bloody agenda that would plunge his landlocked country into despair once again. “At present, I am leading a very simple life,” Saadat has reportedly said. “I feel safe in Germany. I am happy to be with my family in Leipzig. I want to save money and do a German course and study further." Before choosing the food delivery company, he apparently applied for many jobs but received no offers. “My dream is to work in a German telecom company.” Saadat’s tale brings to mind Somerset Maugham’s short story, The Fall of Edward Barnard, published exactly a hundred years ago (in The Trembling of a Leaf: Little Stories of the South Sea Islands). In the story, Edward Barnard travels to Tahiti after his respectable father, ruined by a bank failure and rendered penniless, shoots himself in his study. His sojourn in Tahiti is not expected to last more than a couple of years. He hopes to return to his hometown Chicago after gaining experience in varied trades under professional managers and marry his beautiful lover and fiancée, Isabel. Things change, of course, once he settles down on the island and is smitten by its natural charm, abundant leisure and unbridled pleasures (“I never knew I had a soul till I found it here”). He begins to despise Chicago and the ceaseless, meaningless turmoil it represented (“What is the use of all this hustle and this constant striving? … And what does all the activity amount to? Does one get there the best out of life?) Bateman, the final link in the triangular love story, goes to Tahiti, hoping to persuade Barnard to return to the waiting arms of Isabel in Chicago, only to return empty-handed. The tales of Saadat and Barnard do not necessarily follow the same line and curve. The former is a married man with children on a self-imposed exile from a country that is now literally and metaphorically in flames. Unmindful of his seemingly ordinary occupation, he is presently in a safe and comfort zone.  Being a qualified person, he has every right to dream of a bright future in his adopted habitat. One can even visualise – Mashallah! -- in a few years from now, he being part of a rich and prosperous German enterprise, enjoying all the material benefits and status it would bring him.  Barnard, on the other hand, rejects that very notion of richness, prosperity and comfortable living. For him, Chicago is nothing but “a dark, grey city, all stone – it is like a prison.” Having discovered a new worldview, he yearns for a laid-back and carefree existence. He wants to build a nice little home with a garden on a coral island. He wishes to marry a dusky Tahitian girl, have children, and spend the rest of his life in the tropical paradise. “The years will pass insensibly, and when I am an old man, I hope I shall be able to look back on a happy, simple, peaceful life. In my small way, I too shall have lived in beauty.” Saadat and Barnard are separated by a hundred years but share the ‘choice’ of having to leave their respective countries. Both, for different reasons, choose a ‘simple’ life; both want to embrace a new social and cultural environment so vastly different from what they were brought up in. Saadat’s choice is driven by a craving for safety, security, and a better life for himself and his family. Barnard’s choice, on the other hand, seeks freedom: a release from his country, from his past, from his fiancée, and from the accepted notions of money, power, busy-ness of life. He is a willing refugee in a parallel universe that promises “the infinite variety of the sea and the sky, the freshness of the dawn and the beauty of the sunset, and the rich magnificence of the night.” “We are our choices,” said Jean-Paul Sartre. He also said: “Better to die on one's feet than to live on one's knees.” Saadat and Barnard seem to exemplify these in their own ways. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based art critic, curator and columnist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-afghan-s-reality-the-american-s-dream-1026844.html
04-09-2021||In Perspective||The Afghan’s reality, the American’s dream||It was recently reported in the press that Afghanistan's former IT and communications minister Syed Ahmad Shah Saadat is now a delivery man in Germany. A local German journalist is said to have captured him on camera while Saadat, dressed in the ubiquitous bright orange uniform of a driver for Lieferando service, was on his way to deliver pizza in Leipzig. It took no time for the photograph and the story to go viral online. Forty-nine-year-old Saadat, who holds two master’s degrees in communications and software engineering from Oxford University, was a cabinet minister in the Ashraf Ghani-led Afghan government. Having served for two years, he resigned in December 2020 following differences with Ghani. He soon left Afghanistan, perhaps with a sense of foreboding of an imminent takeover of the country by the Taliban, and its bloody agenda that would plunge his landlocked country into despair once again. “At present, I am leading a very simple life,” Saadat has reportedly said. “I feel safe in Germany. I am happy to be with my family in Leipzig. I want to save money and do a German course and study further." Before choosing the food delivery company, he apparently applied for many jobs but received no offers. “My dream is to work in a German telecom company.” Saadat’s tale brings to mind Somerset Maugham’s short story, The Fall of Edward Barnard, published exactly a hundred years ago (in The Trembling of a Leaf: Little Stories of the South Sea Islands). In the story, Edward Barnard travels to Tahiti after his respectable father, ruined by a bank failure and rendered penniless, shoots himself in his study. His sojourn in Tahiti is not expected to last more than a couple of years. He hopes to return to his hometown Chicago after gaining experience in varied trades under professional managers and marry his beautiful lover and fiancée, Isabel. Things change, of course, once he settles down on the island and is smitten by its natural charm, abundant leisure and unbridled pleasures (“I never knew I had a soul till I found it here”). He begins to despise Chicago and the ceaseless, meaningless turmoil it represented (“What is the use of all this hustle and this constant striving? … And what does all the activity amount to? Does one get there the best out of life?) Bateman, the final link in the triangular love story, goes to Tahiti, hoping to persuade Barnard to return to the waiting arms of Isabel in Chicago, only to return empty-handed. The tales of Saadat and Barnard do not necessarily follow the same line and curve. The former is a married man with children on a self-imposed exile from a country that is now literally and metaphorically in flames. Unmindful of his seemingly ordinary occupation, he is presently in a safe and comfort zone.  Being a qualified person, he has every right to dream of a bright future in his adopted habitat. One can even visualise – Mashallah! -- in a few years from now, he being part of a rich and prosperous German enterprise, enjoying all the material benefits and status it would bring him.  Barnard, on the other hand, rejects that very notion of richness, prosperity and comfortable living. For him, Chicago is nothing but “a dark, grey city, all stone – it is like a prison.” Having discovered a new worldview, he yearns for a laid-back and carefree existence. He wants to build a nice little home with a garden on a coral island. He wishes to marry a dusky Tahitian girl, have children, and spend the rest of his life in the tropical paradise. “The years will pass insensibly, and when I am an old man, I hope I shall be able to look back on a happy, simple, peaceful life. In my small way, I too shall have lived in beauty.” Saadat and Barnard are separated by a hundred years but share the ‘choice’ of having to leave their respective countries. Both, for different reasons, choose a ‘simple’ life; both want to embrace a new social and cultural environment so vastly different from what they were brought up in. Saadat’s choice is driven by a craving for safety, security, and a better life for himself and his family. Barnard’s choice, on the other hand, seeks freedom: a release from his country, from his past, from his fiancée, and from the accepted notions of money, power, busy-ness of life. He is a willing refugee in a parallel universe that promises “the infinite variety of the sea and the sky, the freshness of the dawn and the beauty of the sunset, and the rich magnificence of the night.” “We are our choices,” said Jean-Paul Sartre. He also said: “Better to die on one's feet than to live on one's knees.” Saadat and Barnard seem to exemplify these in their own ways. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based art critic, curator and columnist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-afghan-s-reality-the-american-s-dream-1026961.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSE contradicts Amit Shah's remark on Bommai leadership||BJP, which is known for collective leadership mantra appears to be in rough weather after Union Home Minister Amit Shah exuded confidence that that BJP would get a complete majority under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's leadership in the next assembly polls and the party would come back to power in Karnataka, at the inaugural ceremony of police public school, Gandhi Bhavan in Davangere recently. Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister KS Eshwarappa speaking to reporters in Shivamogga on Friday said, "The party believes in collective leadership and it has been our strength for many decades. So we are always in favour of collective leadership. "I don't know under what circumstance, Shah told that the next assembly polls would be fought under the leadership of Bommai. State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel has been striving to strengthen the party at the grass-root level across Karnataka and Bommai would also play a key role. But BJP would face the next assembly polls under collective leadership. We would sit together and discuss the issue." Referring to the restrictions imposed by the government on the celebration of Lord Ganesha festival in public places, he said the party, which believes in Hindutva, is in power in Karnataka. So, the festival would be celebrated in a grand manner and there is no second thought about it. He also made it clear that the chief minister would take a call on how it has to be celebrated and how many people are allowed to participate in the festival celebrations.  He also exuded confidence that BJP would emerge victorious in elections held for three city corporations- Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburgi. He has visited all the cities and people would back BJP in the polls without fail. When questioned on huge gatherings in the Jan Ashirwad yatra programme held in various parts of the state, he said he would not accept it as a minister of state government even as he does not support restrictions imposed on the celebration of Ganesha festival citing Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kse-contradicts-amit-shahs-remark-on-bommai-leadership-1026814.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka floods: Central team on 4-day visit||An Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) will visit Karnataka for four days starting Saturday to assess the damages caused by the July floods. The team will visit Belagavi, Bagalkot, Dharwad, Haveri and Uttara Kannada districts. The state government has estimated losses at Rs 5,690.52 crore. Of this, the state is eligible to receive Rs 765.84 crore as per SDRF norms. The team will meet Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday for a briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-floods-central-team-on-4-day-visit-1026839.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Intermittent rain: Woman suffers injuries||Intermittent rain lashed various parts of Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday. The district has been receiving rain since Friday night and had a break at noon. A woman suffered injuries when the roof of a house collapsed near 10th Thokur Lighthouse in Haleyangadi. The injured is Ummakka, a resident of Omkareshwari 2nd main road. At around 4.30 am, the inmates of the house heard falling roof tiles. On noticing the deplorable condition of the roof, all the inamtes along with the children came out of the house. However, the roof fell on Ummakka (70). The elderly who suffered serious injuries have been shifted to a hospital in Mangaluru. An electricity pole too fell at Kallapu. The Mescom officials rushed to the spot and restored the power supply. Dakshina Kannada district has received 2782.2 mm rainfall since January. A total of 612 houses have been damaged since April. About 1.35 hectare agriculture crops and 65..245 hectare horticulture crops have been damaged. Since April, a total of 4654 electricity poles and 218 transformers have been damaged. In addition, a total of 220.816-km roads too have been damaged so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/intermittent-rain-woman-suffers-injuries-1026951.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Increase Covid-19 tests till positivity rate declines: CM tells Dakshina Kannada DC||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V to increase Covid-19 tests in the district till the positivity rate declines. Speaking during a video conference with four DCs on the Covid-19 control measures in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu and Hassan districts, he said more tests should be conducted in border areas and urban areas. The Covid-19 vaccination drive should be increased. The district administration should take stricter measures to check the Covid-19 cases. Already, weekend curfew and night curfews are in force. The police officials should ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines are followed strictly, he said. The vaccines supplied daily should be used on the same day. The revenue, railway, health and police officials should work in coordination. The CM directed the officials to take strict action against those who violate Covid-19 guidelines. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that 70 per cent of the infected are in home isolation and while 30 per cent are undergoing treatments in hospitals and covid care centres (CCCs). The primary contacts of the infected are being traced. Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Kumar, City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, Dakshina Kannada SP Rishikesh Sonawane and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/increase-covid-19-tests-till-positivity-rate-declines-cm-tells-dakshina-kannada-dc-1027086.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two youths drown in check dam near Bhadravathi||Two youths have reportedly drowned in Gondi check dam in Bhadravathi taluk after they lost balance while swimming, on Saturday. According to police, Shashank and Kiran, both 19-year-old first-year B.Com students of Educare College in Shivamogga, have been identified as the deceased youths. They are natives of Shivamogga taluk. A group of five friends had visited Bhadra dam on two bikes. Later, they went to Gondi check dam for swimming. The duo entered the water and drowned while swimming. Police retrieved the bodies of youths with the help of firefighters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-youths-drown-in-check-dam-near-bhadravathi-1027095.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa not ignored in BJP, claims MLA||Rubbishing media reports that former chief minister B S Yediyurappa had been sidelined by BJP's central leadership, Honnali MLA MP Renukacharya stated that Union Home Minister Amit Shah's remark on Bommai leadership must not be viewed wrongly. He only meant that the next Assembly polls would be fought under the incumbent chief minister, which is quite natural. Speaking to media persons in Nyamathi, on Saturday, he said that Shah's remark does not mean that Yediyurappa had been ignored. It is unfortunate that some media houses are projecting as if former chief ministers Yediyurappa and Jagadish Shettar had been ignored. The MLA said Shah, Modi and Arun Singh, who is in charge of BJP affairs in Karnataka, have hailed Yediyurappa for tackling Covid-19 effectively in the state. Yediyurappa has worked hard for many years to build the party in Karnataka. Slamming Congress M B Patil for his remark on Veerashiva-Lingayat minority status, he said people have already taught a lesson to Congress in the previous Assembly polls. Now, Patil has raised the issue again. "We need a united Veerashaiva-Lingayat community and not separate religion. If he continues his stand, people would teach a lesson to Congress again in the coming days."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-not-ignored-in-bjp-claims-mla-1026930.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Meeting between Shettar, Yediyurappa piques curiosity||Former BJP chief ministers Jagadish Shettar and BS Yediyurappa on Saturday held talks and they are said to have discussed Union Home Minister Amit Shah's declaration that the party would fight the next election with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai as its face. Earlier this week, Shah said Bommai would be the BJP's face going into the 2023 Assembly elections, evoking mixed reactions within the party.  Shettar visited Yediyurappa and they spoke for nearly half-an-hour. The meeting became the subject of theorising as Shettar had maintained distance with Yediyurappa. According to sources, Shettar is said to have told Yediyurappa that Shah's statement was unneeded at a time when party leaders were just beginning to digest the fact that Bommai, who is not a native BJP leader, was made the chief minister. Yediyurappa apparently reciprocated by saying that Shah's statement, coming so early with the election still far away, had demoralised native BJP workers. Sources also said that Shettar discussed with Yediyurappa how he was flooded with phone calls seeking clarity on Shah's statement. "It's not wrong that Bommai was picked as CM due to the sudden political developments. But, if he is going to lead the BJP into the next election, then should the party's hardcore Hindutva ideologues keep quiet? This is the question people are asking me. What should they be told?" Shettar said, according to sources. It is further learnt that Yediyurappa advised Shettar to wait and watch. "We're unable to understand the reason behind Shah's statement. If at all a statement had to be made, Shah could have discussed it with party leaders. There's still time. Let's patiently see how things go," Yediyurappa reportedly said. Following Shah's statement, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister KS Eshwarappa, one of the BJP's architects in Karnataka, contended that the BJP would fight the next election under "collective leadership of which Bommai will be a part".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/meeting-between-shettar-yediyurappa-piques-curiosity-1027099.html
04-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Patil seems to have learnt mistake after Assembly polls defeat: Shamanur Shivashankarappa||Criticising former minister M B Patil, Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha National President Shamanur Shivashankarappa stated that those who used to say Veerashaivas and Linagayats are two different communities are now saying that they are same after Congress lost the 2018 Assembly polls. Speaking to media persons, here on Saturday, Shamanur, who is also MLA of Davangere South, said it is a good development that Patil has decided to take all together. People of the community are not unintelligent and they are observing all developments carefully. Slamming former IAS officer S M Jamadar, who fought for the separate religion status for Lingayats, the MLA said he must be sent to a mental hospital. There are 99 sub-castes in Veerashaiva Lingayat religion. All are same and Jamadar must reveal to which sub-caste he belongs to. When he was in power, he did not help anyone. Now, he is making statements, Shivashankarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/patil-seems-to-have-learnt-mistake-after-assembly-polls-defeat-shamanur-shivashankarappa-1027108.html
04-09-2021||Main Article||Teachers are a country’s wealth||The Government of India celebrates September 5 as Teachers’ Day. Is this a homage to the thousands of teachers in the country, or a reminder to itself that it has failed them miserably? And failed millions of children, too, in the process. In which case, the government would do well to admit that its much-touted new education policy – framed at great expense and released with much fanfare – is nothing but a sham. Like many other similar policies adopted by many other governments, this one, too, will become an empty showpiece unless its authors admit its shortcomings and reform it suitably. When more than 92,000 elementary schools in the country are still functioning with no teachers, and many more secondary schools have teachers who are not qualified or trained, where and how do these reforms begin? It is obvious that the first step towards correcting such deficiencies is to strengthen teacher training programmes. We need to launch a massive drive in this regard at all levels. We need to realise that a school can still exist without benches and desks; or without a blackboard and chalk. It can survive even without playgrounds and classrooms. But it cannot function without teachers. There are schools conducted under trees, in temples and in dilapidated hovels in many parts of rural India. They have survived and their pupils have walked miles on country trails or sailed in makeshift boats to reach them because there is a village teacher teaching in those schools. Even parent-teacher schools in cities where the public took over the management, with parents themselves donning the role of teachers, have done well in this respect. Today’s online classes, where parents supervise their children’s schooling, is a good example of education being imparted without even a school. Did the policymakers care to visit India’s notorious single-teacher schools? While states like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have the maximum number of such institutions, even progressive states like Karnataka have schools where one teacher “manages” elementary, lower primary and even upper primary classes in a single makeshift classroom. At last count in 2019, there were nearly 5,000 single-teacher schools scattered in rural pockets of this state.  Obviously, the teacher barely manages to maintain order in the classroom. Where is the question of teaching various subjects to children at three levels? How does a single teacher hold the attention of children of varying ages with varying degrees of mental and emotional maturity? If the policymakers visited such schools before framing their policies, a completely different picture would have emerged. What looks grand on paper or what is discussed, debated and decided in high-level meetings or glittering assemblies is a far, far cry from that makeshift shed in the country’s rural areas where a single, helpless, unqualified teacher struggles to maintain a scholastic atmosphere in a “class” of kids of varying ages with no books, or teaching aids or even basic necessities like drinking water. Teachers’ Day is a good day to remember and salute these abandoned gurus.    It may be worthwhile in this context to reconsider some of the relevant reforms suggested by earlier commissions. The most significant among them were the recommendations made by the National Commission for Teachers in 1986. An outstanding recommendation was the one linking salary to performance. This, along with merit-based selection, promised a better cadre of teachers in schools. It also offered opportunities for promotions and upward mobility in their careers. If evaluated and found suitable, teachers would be eligible for promotion to the next grade. Such performance-based promotion was meant to put an end to the frustration and discontent of really qualified teachers languishing for years with no recognition of their work. The Commission also advised the government to replace the varying pay scales for teachers in different states by a single running scale. And, in order to implement this mechanism, it also suggested an All-India test at the entry level for teachers. Only those who obtain the prescribed grades would qualify to be appointed as teachers. Their efficiency level was also to be tested after five years, and thereafter every 10 years. Teaching is a craft that must be learnt and polished from time to time for improved results. Teachers can get rusty with the passage of time, unless they keep in touch with the latest methodologies and teaching techniques. These recommendations were meant to put an end to the widespread frustration and discontent among those teachers who were qualified for the job as opposed to the thousands of untrained ones who were absorbed into the system in a haphazard way. If these reforms are put in place today, along with a code of conduct for teachers, teaching standards will certainly improve. Much depends, however, on the method of implementation.                                                                                                  For example, who is to judge a teacher’s performance in class? The head of the institution? Her colleagues? Or, worse, a government inspector? The answer is obvious. A teacher’s pupils are the best judges of her capabilities. Their performance in tests and examinations point to the kind of coaching they received in class. Student evaluation of teachers is an integral part of foreign universities. In India, student performance in tests and exams should be evaluated carefully towards this end. Again, peer evaluation is highly prized in other countries, although it may not work in this milieu. Even merit-based selection of teachers will invite opposition from many quarters, which is why the Commission’s recommendations could not be properly implemented. However commendable, they have been difficult to implement, especially in government or government-aided private schools. If, at least, it is generally agreed to establish a national system of school education with high and uniform standards of excellence in its teachers, that should be the first step in recognising the importance of good teaching. Teachers of merit and competence alone can generate meritorious students. Can there be two opinions on that?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/teachers-are-a-country-s-wealth-1026840.html
04-09-2021||Main Article||Teachers – a country’s wealth||The Government of India celebrates September 5 as Teachers’ Day. Is this a homage to the thousands of teachers in the country, or a reminder to itself that it has failed them miserably? And failed millions of children, too, in the process. In which case, the government would do well to admit that its much-touted new education policy – framed at great expense and released with much fanfare – is nothing but a sham. Like many other similar policies adopted by many other governments, this one, too, will become an empty showpiece unless its authors admit its shortcomings and reform it suitably. When more than 92,000 elementary schools in the country are still functioning with no teachers, and many more secondary schools have teachers who are not qualified or trained, where and how do these reforms begin? It is obvious that the first step towards correcting such deficiencies is to strengthen teacher training programmes. We need to launch a massive drive in this regard at all levels. We need to realise that a school can still exist without benches and desks; or without a blackboard and chalk. It can survive even without playgrounds and classrooms. But it cannot function without teachers. There are schools conducted under trees, in temples and in dilapidated hovels in many parts of rural India. They have survived and their pupils have walked miles on country trails or sailed in makeshift boats to reach them because there is a village teacher teaching in those schools. Even parent-teacher schools in cities where the public took over the management, with parents themselves donning the role of teachers, have done well in this respect. Today’s online classes, where parents supervise their children’s schooling, is a good example of education being imparted without even a school. Did the policymakers care to visit India’s notorious single-teacher schools? While states like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have the maximum number of such institutions, even progressive states like Karnataka have schools where one teacher “manages” elementary, lower primary and even upper primary classes in a single makeshift classroom. At last count in 2019, there were nearly 5,000 single-teacher schools scattered in rural pockets of this state.  Obviously, the teacher barely manages to maintain order in the classroom. Where is the question of teaching various subjects to children at three levels? How does a single teacher hold the attention of children of varying ages with varying degrees of mental and emotional maturity? If the policymakers visited such schools before framing their policies, a completely different picture would have emerged. What looks grand on paper or what is discussed, debated and decided in high-level meetings or glittering assemblies is a far, far cry from that makeshift shed in the country’s rural areas where a single, helpless, unqualified teacher struggles to maintain a scholastic atmosphere in a “class” of kids of varying ages with no books, or teaching aids or even basic necessities like drinking water. Teachers’ Day is a good day to remember and salute these abandoned gurus.    It may be worthwhile in this context to reconsider some of the relevant reforms suggested by earlier commissions. The most significant among them were the recommendations made by the National Commission for Teachers in 1986. An outstanding recommendation was the one linking salary to performance. This, along with merit-based selection, promised a better cadre of teachers in schools. It also offered opportunities for promotions and upward mobility in their careers. If evaluated and found suitable, teachers would be eligible for promotion to the next grade. Such performance-based promotion was meant to put an end to the frustration and discontent of really qualified teachers languishing for years with no recognition of their work. The Commission also advised the government to replace the varying pay scales for teachers in different states by a single running scale. And, in order to implement this mechanism, it also suggested an All-India test at the entry level for teachers. Only those who obtain the prescribed grades would qualify to be appointed as teachers. Their efficiency level was also to be tested after five years, and thereafter every 10 years. Teaching is a craft that must be learnt and polished from time to time for improved results. Teachers can get rusty with the passage of time, unless they keep in touch with the latest methodologies and teaching techniques. These recommendations were meant to put an end to the widespread frustration and discontent among those teachers who were qualified for the job as opposed to the thousands of untrained ones who were absorbed into the system in a haphazard way. If these reforms are put in place today, along with a code of conduct for teachers, teaching standards will certainly improve. Much depends, however, on the method of implementation.                                                                                                  For example, who is to judge a teacher’s performance in class? The head of the institution? Her colleagues? Or, worse, a government inspector? The answer is obvious. A teacher’s pupils are the best judges of her capabilities. Their performance in tests and examinations point to the kind of coaching they received in class. Student evaluation of teachers is an integral part of foreign universities. In India, student performance in tests and exams should be evaluated carefully towards this end. Again, peer evaluation is highly prized in other countries, although it may not work in this milieu. Even merit-based selection of teachers will invite opposition from many quarters, which is why the Commission’s recommendations could not be properly implemented. However commendable, they have been difficult to implement, especially in government or government-aided private schools. If, at least, it is generally agreed to establish a national system of school education with high and uniform standards of excellence in its teachers, that should be the first step in recognising the importance of good teaching. Teachers of merit and competence alone can generate meritorious students. Can there be two opinions on that?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/teachers-a-country-s-wealth-1026960.html
04-09-2021||National||SC collegium recommends 68 names to Centre for appointment as judges in 12 HCs||In an unprecedented decision, the Supreme Court Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana has recommended as many as 68 names in one go for appointment as judges in 12 high courts, including in Allahabad, Rajasthan and Calcutta, that are facing a severe crunch of judges. The three-member Collegium, of which Justices U U Lalit and Justice A M Khanwilkar are also members, has created yet another first as Marli Vankung becomes the first woman judicial officer from Mizoram whose name has been sent to the Centre for judgeship in the Gauhati High Court, sources told PTI. Marli Vankun is also a member of the Scheduled Tribe community, they said, adding that besides her, nine other women candidates have been recommended for judgeship in various high courts. The collegiums, in its meetings held on August 25 and September 1, considered as many as 112 candidates for elevation as judges in high courts. "Among those 68 cleared for twelve high courts, 44 are from the Bar and 24 are from the judicial service," they said. Sixty-eight judges, if cleared by the Centre, will be appointed in high courts at Allahabad, Rajasthan, Calcutta, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Madras, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab and Haryana, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Assam. These names have been recommended close on the heels of the Collegium recommending seven names for the Telangana High Court on August 17 this year. In a historic decision on August 17, the five-member Collegium headed by the CJI had recommended nine names for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court, including three women. The names were cleared with significant pace by the Centre leading to a historic swearing-in ceremony on August 31 when the new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges. They included Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Vikram Nath, Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Hima Kohli and B V Nagarathna. Besides, the CJI also administered oath of office to Justices C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh, Bela M Trivedi and P S Narasimha, who was a senior advocate and former additional solicitor general.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-recommends-68-names-to-centre-for-appointment-as-judges-in-12-hcs-1026801.html
04-09-2021||National||Justice Kaushik Chanda made permanent judge of Calcutta HC||Justice Kaushik Chanda, an additional judge of the Calcutta High Court, who had recused himself from hearing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's petition challenging the election of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, was on Friday elevated as a permanent judge in the same high court. Justice Chanda had on July 7 recused himself from hearing Banerjee's petition challenging the election of Adhikari from Nandigram assembly constituency this year. The Law Ministry also notified the resignation of Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu as a judge of the Bombay High Court with effect from the afternoon of August 18. "Shri Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu has tendered his resignation from the office of Judge, Bombay High Court, in pursuance of proviso (a) to clause (1) of Article 217 of the Constitution, with effect from August 18, 2021 afternoon," the notification read. Seeking Justice Chanda's recusal, the counsel for the chief minister had claimed that the judge was an active member of the BJP till his appointment as the additional solicitor general of India in 2015 and since the election of a BJP candidate had been challenged, there were apprehensions of bias in the adjudication of the election petition. Justice Chanda had said that he was never a convenor of the BJP Legal Cell, but had appeared in cases representing the party before the Calcutta High Court. The three-member collegium, comprising Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar, had last month approved the proposal to appoint Justice Chanda as a permanent judge and he would have tenure till 2036 as judge of the high court. "In exercise of the power conferred by clause (1) of Article 217 of the Constitution of India, the President is pleased to appoint Shri Justice Kausik Chanda, Additional Judge of the Calcutta High Court, to be a Judge of the Calcutta High Court with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office," the notification issued by the Department of Justice in the Law Ministry read. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-kaushik-chanda-made-permanent-judge-of-calcutta-hc-1026806.html
04-09-2021||National||States give varied responses to EC on timing of bypolls, Covid restrictions||At least six of the 16 states where Lok Sabha and assembly bypolls are due are learnt to have responded in writing to the Election Commission on the "timing and manner" of the exercise amid the pandemic, sources aware of the development said on Friday. The Commission received responses from at least six states by Friday evening and submissions from other states were expected either tonight or by Saturday, the sources said. The responses so far on the restrictions to be imposed to avoid spread of Covid-19 and the timing of the bypolls have been varied, the sources said. On Wednesday, top poll panel officials had asked the state governments to send in writing their responses on the "timing and manner" of the exercise. The EC had sought to know about the situation of the coronavirus pandemic, floods, law and order scenario and upcoming festivals from the states. Bypolls are due in three Lok Sabha seats of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh and Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. The assembly seats where bypolls are due include seven in West Bengal, four in Uttar Pradesh, and three each in Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Assam. The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal is keen on an early bypoll schedule. Chief Minister and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee, who lost from Nandigram in the assembly elections, needs to get elected as a member of the state Assembly by November 5 to continue in the post. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-give-varied-responses-to-ec-on-timing-of-bypolls-covid-restrictions-1026816.html
04-09-2021||National||Inordinate, inexplicable delay in prosecution of UPA-era corruption cases: Subramanian Swamy writes to PM Modi||There is an "inordinate and inexplicable" delay in prosecution of many corruption cases that took place during the UPA tenure, Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy has said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Swamy also said that there is an "induced lack of enthusiasm" of prosecutors in these cases. "There is, without doubt, an inordinate and inexplicable delay in prosecution of many corruption cases by the government, which corruption had happened at the UPA tenure at the Centre," he said in the letter. Specifically mentioning 2G scam, Aircel-Maxis and National Herald cases, involving senior Congress leaders P Chidambaram and Sonia Gandhi, he said there has not been a finality or conviction in these cases. "In the past seven years, there has not been a finality or conviction in these cases which is clearly due to the induced lack of enthusiasm of the prosecutors...," Swamy said. He said these delays are hurting the image of the BJP which made fighting corruption a key plank of election campaigns. "I am most respectfully urging you to give immediate directions to agency heads, legal officers and prosecutors to sit together, if necessary, and work in coordination and to monitor the progress of cases at regular intervals," Swamy said. He further suggested that an inter-departmental monitoring body can be formed, which works on a regular basis, comprising agency heads and prosecutors to ensure that the anti-corruption cases are pursued diligently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inordinate-inexplicable-delay-in-prosecution-of-upa-era-corruption-cases-subramanian-swamy-writes-to-pm-modi-1026820.html
04-09-2021||National||Gujarat Congress, BJP spar over cows after Allahabad HC order||The BJP has said its government takes strict action against those who indulge in cow slaughter in Gujarat, while the opposition Congress accused the ruling party of using the animal revered by Hindus to get votes in elections, a verbal duel on Friday coming in the backdrop of a court ruling. The BJP and the Congress engaged in a war of words in context of a recent judgement of the Allahabad High Court that said the cow should be declared as India's national animal. The HC had also said that cow protection should be included as a fundamental right of Hindus. Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani of the Congress traded charges over the issue of cow protection. Patel, when asked about the Allahabad HC judgement, said on Thursday the cow has been worshiped in the country for thousands of years. “We consider cows as our mother. In our Hindu culture and in our country, cows are worshiped as “gau mata” for thousands and thousands of years, we worship them on many occasions during the year,” Patel said. “In line with our belief, the central government and the state government are working for the protection of cows. In Gujarat, we have a law against cow slaughter, if anybody kills cows here we take strict action against them as per law,” Patel told reporters on Thursday. The Congress, however, targeted Patel over his comments, saying the BJP highlights cows and the river Ganga as mothers only to get votes. “The BJP shows its respect for cows and the Ganga (as mothers) only to get votes. People have realised this. Under the BJP government (at the Centre), beef export (from India) is highest so far,” Dhanani said on Friday when asked to react on Patel's statements on cows. After Dhanani's barbs, Patel on Friday evening said in Mehsana that cow protection, just like Ram Temple, is not an election issue for the BJP. This is one of the main issues that the BJP has been taking up since the time of its formation as cows are revered in Hindu culture and are being worshiped for thousands of years, the Deputy Chief Minister said. “Since the time of the Jan Sangh (the BJP's forerunner), we have been demanding a law to ban cow slaughter. We have done many agitations for it when we were not in power even in a single municipality in Gujarat. "Now also we will do whatever is required to be done for the protection of cows. Our government has financially helped 'gaushalas' (cow shelters) three times during the Covid-19 pandemic to save cows as inflow of donations was less during this time,” Patel said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-congress-bjp-spar-over-cows-after-allahabad-hc-order-1026823.html
04-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Oxygen' cow steals headlines!||The BJP has said its government takes strict action against those who indulge in cow slaughter in Gujarat, while the opposition Congress accused the ruling party of using the animal revered by Hindus to get votes in elections, a verbal duel on Friday coming in the backdrop of a court ruling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-oxygen-cow-steals-headlines-1026851.html
04-09-2021||National||Taliban indicated they'd be reasonable in addressing India's concerns: Foreign Secretary Shringla||India and the United States are closely watching Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Friday. In the limited engagement that India has had with the Taliban, the new Afghan rulers have indicated that they would be reasonable in addressing New Delhi’s concerns, the foreign secretary added. “Obviously, like us, they're also watching carefully and we have to watch Pakistan’s actions with a fine tooth comb,” he told a group of Indian reporters at the end of his three-day official visit to Washington DC adding that the US will have a wait-and-watch policy with regard to how the situation evolves in Afghanistan. India also has a similar policy. “That doesn't mean you don't do anything. It simply means that you have to... the situation is very fluid on the ground, you have to allow it to see how it evolves. You have to see whether the assurances that have been made publicly are actually maintained on the ground, and how things work out,” he said. “Our engagement with them (the Taliban) has been limited. It's not that we have (had) a robust conversation. But for whatever conversation we've had so far, they've been sort of. At least, the Taliban seem to indicate that they will be reasonable in the way they handle this,” Shringla said. He was responding to a question about the recent meeting that India’s Ambassador in Qatar had with a senior Taliban leader in Doha. “In our statement, we have said that we have told them that we want them to be cognizant of the fact that there should be no terrorism that emanates from their territory directed against us, or other countries; that we want them to be mindful of the status of women, minorities and so on so forth. And, and I think they have, also, you know, made reassuring... from their side,” he said. The top Indian diplomat was in Washington DC for a series of meetings with his American counterpart and top officials of the Biden administration in addition to interaction with representations from the industry and think-tanks. On Thursday, he had called on the Secretary of State Antony Blinken. Observing that the situation in Afghanistan is very fluid and moving fast, Shringla said that both India and the US are keeping a close watch on it. “Look on 15th of August, you had a situation where (Afghan) President (Ashraf) Ghani suddenly left. You had the Taliban come in. The situation is moving so fast it's so fluid that is difficult to comment at this point of time on anything,” he said. Shringla said the US is watching the situation in Afghanistan very closely. “They will obviously see how different players get engaged in the situation in Afghanistan. Pakistan is a neighbour of Afghanistan. They have supported and nurtured the Taliban. There are various elements there that Pakistan supported,” he said. At the same time, he noted that the UNSC resolution on Afghanistan adopted during India’s presidency makes mention of the proscribed entities in the UN sanctions list, including the Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Lashkar-e-Taiba. “We do have concerns about the free ingress that these two terrorist groups have had in Afghanistan, their role and we will watch that carefully. The role of Pakistan has to be seen in that context,” Shringla said. Responding to a question, the foreign secretary said the Americans have always said the Taliban has committed to them that they will not allow Afghan territory to be used again in any manner that is detrimental to any country outside Afghanistan. The US has made it clear to the Taliban that they would hold them accountable if any terrorist activities are emanating from Afghanistan. The international community is on the same page, he said. “We are obviously very much engaged with US on Afghanistan on the situation there, the role of Pakistan there, and of course looking at how the situation would evolve in that country,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-indicated-theyd-be-reasonable-in-addressing-indias-concerns-foreign-secretary-shringla-1026864.html
04-09-2021||National||India & US 2+2 dialogue to be held in November: Foreign Secretary Shringla||The fourth annual 2+2 dialogue between India and the US would be held in November this year in Washington, according to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. Shringla, who arrived here on a three-day visit on Wednesday following his successful trip to New York, said: “We used this opportunity to have the 2+2 inter-sessional meeting at the joint secretary level. “We're looking at the 2+2 which will happen in November. The exact dates are not yet worked out,” Shringla told a group of Indian reporters on Friday at the conclusion of his visit. During his stay in Washington, Shringla held meetings with top officials of the Biden administration, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken. The 2+2 ministerial dialogue takes place between foreign and defence ministers of both sides. The inaugural '2+2' Indo-US dialogue was held in New Delhi in 2018. The last meeting of the 2+2 was held in New Delhi and the next meeting is to be hosted by the US here. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would be hosted by their American counterparts Secretary of State Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin for the maiden India-US 2+2 meeting under the Biden administration. In addition to being engaged on the issue of Afghanistan, the two countries, during Shringla's visit, had an extensive conversation on regional and multilateral issues including the United Nations and the upcoming Quadrilateral summit here later this year. Quad is a grouping of the United States, India, Australia and Japan. The four countries had in 2017 given shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" or the Quadrilateral coalition to counter China's aggressive behaviour in the Indo-Pacific region. US Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry is also scheduled to visit India soon, Shringla said. India and the US on Friday reaffirmed the strength of their defence relationship underscoring their commitment to strengthen bilateral and multilateral cooperation for a free and open Indo-Pacific region as Shringla met Under Secretary of Defence for Policy Colin H Kahl. They also discussed Afghanistan and a range of regional issues of shared interest, as well as key areas of defence cooperation across the Indo-Pacific and western Indian Ocean region. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-22-dialogue-to-be-held-in-november-foreign-secretary-shringla-1026868.html
04-09-2021||National||Beat constable most important person who makes democracy successful: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the 'beat constable' deployed at the lowest level of the police system is the most important person who makes a democracy successful. Delivering the keynote speech during the 51st foundation day event of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), he said democracy cannot be successful if law and order in a country is not good. The beat constable, the cop in-charge of the smallest unit under a police jurisdiction, is the main and the most important person who makes the democracy successful, The Union home minister said. Addressing officers and personnel from various central, state and Union Territory police forces, Shah said the next decade is going to be very important from the point of internal security as the country under Prime Minister Narendra Modi was taking giant leaps in becoming a strong nation and economy. He added that as many as 3,700 armed cadre of various insurgent groups have surrendered before the Union government in the last two years. Shah said an accord will also be signed with a Karbi Anglong group on Saturday evening. The minister asked the BPRD, a central government think tank, to prepare the police forces as smart and strong units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beat-constable-most-important-person-who-makes-democracy-successful-amit-shah-1026894.html
04-09-2021||National||Don't be content with silver medal, aim for gold next time: Shah to Mirabai Chanu||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday felicitated Olympic medallist Mirabai Chanu here for bringing laurels to the country in weightlifting and exhorted her not to be content with the silver medal and to aim for gold next time. The 27-year-old sportsperson, appointed as an additional superintendent of police in her home state Manipur after the recent win at the summer games, was honoured during the 51st Raising Day celebrations of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), a central government think tank. Shah presented the athlete with a shawl and memento. He said Chanu brought honour for the country by winning a medal at the Tokyo Olympic games and is now a proud member of the police force. "I thank her for her hardwork and dedication," the home minister added. "When I met her on the stage to honour her, I wished her success. Everyone, from the prime minister of the country to the common man, has applauded her and rejoiced in her victory." "I want to tell her that she should not be content with a silver medal but should now aim for a gold. The entire country is waiting for it," Shah said. He acknowledged the "struggles" undertaken by Chanu mentioning that she used to take "lift" in trucks to reach the place where she trained. Shah said much more needed to be done for athletes in terms of providing them facilities. The BPR&D had earlier said that this honour for the Olympic winner was "a small gesture to welcome her to the fraternity on behalf of the Indian police." Chanu had clinched a silver medal in the 49kg category weightlifting that opened India's account at the recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics. India won a total of seven medals at these games. The home minister also gave away trophies and medals for excellence in training to winner states/union territories and central police organisations and forces, and seven authors who wrote on policing subjects in Hindi. The BPR&D, an organisation under the Ministry of Home Affairs, was founded in August 1970.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-be-content-with-silver-medal-aim-for-gold-next-time-shah-to-mirabai-chanu-1026896.html
04-09-2021||National||Mumbai, Delhi lagging behind in Covid-19 vaccination drive with less than 30% fully vaccinated||India's two most populous cities, Mumbai and Delhi, are lagging behind in the country's vaccination drive as they could vaccinate less than 30 per cent of the eligible population amid fears of another wave of coronavirus.  India, as a whole, has administered as many as 67.65 crore Covid-19 vaccine does, with over 50 lakh doses on Friday alone, the Co-WIN data showed.   Delhi, with 1.43 crore eligible persons, has managed to give out 1.39 crore doses, which include 39.89 lakh second doses, protecting about 28 per cent of the population. Chennai, in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, has managed to administer 51.14 lakh doses, including 15.23 lakh second ones, shielding about 35 per cent of its eligible population of 43.62 lakh.  Maharashtra's capital Mumbai has reached 1 crore doses, including 27.73 lakh second doses, covering just around 28 per cent of the population. Kolkata is ahead with 52.71 per cent coverage, however, the West Bengal capital's eligible population is substantially lesser than Mumbai.   Experts suggest that around 60-70 per cent of people need to be protected with jabs in order to keep the pandemic in control and to eventually minimise fatality risk.  Around 16 per cent of Indians are fully vaccinated and 54 per cent have at least received the first dose. States like Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim have completed administering the first dose to 100 per cent of the eligible population.    Meanwhile, UK has moved its focus to booster shots of the vaccine, a third dose to provide additional protection to vulnerable people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-delhi-lagging-behind-in-covid-19-vaccination-drive-with-less-than-30-fully-vaccinated-1026903.html
04-09-2021||National||Caste census: Why the demand and what will the impact be?||More than three decades after the Mandal Commission recommendations granting 27 per cent quota in government service and public sector jobs were implemented, the issue of caste-based reservations has stirred up the political discourse yet again. Politicians across party lines - principally opposition, but some NDA allies as well - have expressed their demand for a census that takes into account India's caste groups. What is a census? When was the last caste census conducted? A census is a process where a body (typically a government) collects and catalogues a population's data. The data may include factors such as family size, religion of family members, their professions, etc. Every census conducted in India after Independence has enumerated the population of the SCs and STs, besides publishing details about religions, languages and socio-economic status of citizens. However, the government has not gathered details about the OBCs, who continue to be clubbed with the general category. The last time an OBC census was conducted in India was during the British Raj in 1931, when it was found that they comprised 52 per cent of the population. India had 25,68,59,787 people in 1931, which put the OBC population at 13,35,67,089. The Congress-led UPA-II had conducted a separate socio-economic and caste census (SECC) in 2011, but refrained from publishing the details amid claim of data being riddled with inaccuracies. Who is batting for the caste census? What is the government's response? RSS is also opposed to a caste-based census, reasoning that it would run counter to the vision of Babasaheb Ambedkar of a casteless society and weaken efforts to achieve social harmony. Who will the caste census impact? Those in favour of the caste-based census claim that it would help gather robust data on which communities have benefitted from the reservation policies so far and also present evidence on those who have been left out. Additionally, the census could also throw some light on educational and economic profile of various caste groups and help the government plan its affirmative action initiatives in a better way. However, naysayers claim that the demand, if acceded to, could open up a Pandora’s Box as the government will have to do a tough job of matching the aspiration for adequate representation of various caste groups. Politically, if the caste-census shows higher number of different castes, the regional parties can step up campaigns for greater representation as part of the affirmative action, triggering a fresh round of mobilisation on caste lines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caste-census-why-the-demand-and-what-will-the-impact-be-1026910.html
04-09-2021||National||Tokyo Paralympics: Haryana announces Rs 6 cr reward for Manish Narwal, Rs 4 cr for Singhraj Adhana||The Haryana government on Saturday announced a reward of Rs 6 crore for Manish Narwal and Rs 4 crore for Singhraj Adhana for bagging gold and silver medals in Mixed 50m Pistol event at the Tokyo Paralympics, respectively. The state also announced government jobs for the medal winners, according to an official statement. Shooter Manish Narwal smashed the Paralympic record to clinch India's third gold in the ongoing Tokyo Games, while compatriot Singhraj Adhana bagged the silver to make it a sensational one-two finish for the country on Saturday. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while extending his congratulations, said both the medal winners are from Faridabad district in the state and that the entire nation is proud of their achievements. He said the state government is giving awards, government jobs and other facilities to Paralympic players on par with other sports persons. The chief minister added that the state government’s sports policy is being appreciated globally and it is a matter of pride that players of Haryana are putting India on the world map. Indian shooters have claimed a haul of five medals, including two gold, in the ongoing Games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tokyo-paralympics-haryana-announces-rs-6-cr-reward-for-manish-narwal-rs-4-cr-for-singhraj-adhana-1026912.html
04-09-2021||National||Chhattisgarh govt orders probe after surgeon operates on 101 women in 7 hours at sterilisation camp||The Chhattisgarh government has ordered a probe into irregularities at a recently-held government-run sterilisation camp in Surguja district, where a surgeon allegedly performed tubectomies on 101 women in seven hours, an official said on Saturday. The sterilisation camp was held on August 27 at Narmadapur community health centre in Mainpat development block of the district, located over 300 km away from the capital Raipur, the official said. Local newspapers had reported alleged irregularities in the camp, following which the department swung into action and issued show-cause notices to the surgeon and a local health official. Following complaints regarding the sterilisation camp, a probe has been ordered, based on which further action will be taken, said Dr Alok Shukla, Principal Secretary of the state's Health and Family Welfare department. “A total of 101 surgeries were performed by a (government) surgeon in the camp. The women who underwent the procedure were reported to be in a normal condition. However, as per the government guidelines, a surgeon can perform a maximum of 30 surgeries in a day and hence, an enquiry has been ordered to ascertain why the guidelines had been violated,” Shukla said. The surgeon has claimed that a large number of women had turned up for the procedure and urged him to perform the operations, citing that they had come from remote villages and cannot travel frequently, he said. Earlier, Surguja Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) P S Sisodiya had on August 29 issued a show-cause notice to surgical specialist Dr Jibnus Ekka, who performed operations in the camp, and Block Medical Officer (BMO) Dr R S Singh seeking their reply in this regard. The CMHO had also constituted a three-member committee to probe the matter. “The surgeries were conducted from 12 pm to 7 pm on August 27. Once the enquiry committee submits its report, further action will be taken. Stern action will be taken against people who are found guilty,” Dr Sisodiya said. In November 2014, at least 83 women had developed complications after undergoing a procedure at a government-held sterilisation camp in Bilaspur district, and 13 of them had died, triggering widespread criticism against the government-run programme offering free sterilisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-govt-orders-probe-after-surgeon-operates-on-101-women-in-7-hours-at-sterilisation-camp-1026929.html
04-09-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Centre not to take coercive steps against trust for non-filing of return under FCRA||The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre not to take any coercive step against a charitable trust, formed for upliftment of destitutes and leprosy patients, for not filing its annual return as mandated under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act due to purported technical glitches on the portal of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Justice Rekha Palli issued a notice to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and asked it to respond to the petition, and listed the matter for further hearing on December 16. “Till the next date, no coercive action be taken by the respondent (MHA) against the petitioner (trust) for non filing of its return for the year 2019-20,” the court said. The petitioner, Destitutes and Leprosy Patients Rehabilitation Trust, sought direction to the authorities to allow it to upload its form FC-4 on the ministry's portal, as mandated under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), 2010, to enable it to file its annual return for the financial year 2019-2020 beyond the prescribed date of June 30, 2021. The trust, represented through advocates Jose Abraham and M P Srivignesh, submitted that the return could not be filed due to a technical glitch in the authorities' portal and contended that the petitioner ought not to be penalised for it. The counsel further said that the same technical problem was faced by a number of other similarly placed parties and the petitioner apprehends that on account of non-filing of return, the ministry is likely to take coercive action against it. The plea sought to restrain the authorities from taking any coercive action against the petitioner and that the trust be permitted to file its annual returns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-centre-not-to-take-coercive-steps-against-trust-for-non-filing-of-return-under-fcra-1026932.html
04-09-2021||National||Meenakashi Lekhi begins official visit to Colombia, New York||Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakashi Lekhi arrived in New York as she begins her official visit to Colombia and New York during which she will participate in a UN Security Council meeting on peacekeeping and interact with members of the Indian diaspora. Lekhi will first travel to Colombia from September 4-6 where she will call on the country’s top leadership and hold bilateral discussions with Vice President and Foreign Minister Marta Lucia Ramirez and exchange views on regional and international issues of mutual interest. During her visit to New York from September 7-9, Lekhi will participate in the Security Council Ministerial Open Debate on 'Transitions' under the agenda item 'United Nations Peacekeeping Operations' that will be convened on September 8 under the Council's Irish Presidency. “During the visit to NY, I will participate in the UNSC Open Debate on 'Transitions' under the agenda item 'United Nations Peacekeeping Operations'. I will also interact with members of the Indian community,” Lekhi tweeted on Friday as she arrived here to begin her first overseas visit as Minister of State to Colombia and New York. She is expected to meet with senior UN leadership and interact with the Indian community in New York, in celebration of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of India's independence. After her arrival on Friday, Lekhi addressed a few members of the Indian community at the ‘Jan Aashirwad Abhar’ event organised by Jaipur Foot USA and Gracious Givers Foundation in the city. In her remarks, Lekhi spoke about the devastation caused around the world by the Covid-19 pandemic, which she said ravaged even the strongest nations in the world. Emphasising that Indians have a "very strong character”, she said India and its citizens bravely faced the challenges and emerged from them. Lauding the contributions of the Indian-American community, she said the diaspora acts as goodwill ambassadors for the country and have contributed significantly towards finding solutions to combat society’s problems. Speaking at the event Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari voiced gratitude for the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola for their support in helping alleviate the difficulties faced by the Indian diaspora due to the lockdowns and travel restrictions put into place during the pandemic. He also spoke about the partnership between the MEA and Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti-BMVSS, the parent organisation of Jaipur Foot USA, for the India for Humanity initiative under which prosthetics fitment camps have been conducted to help differently-abled people around the world. Under this initiative, 13 artificial limb fitment camps have been held by India in 12 countries and more than 6500 artificial limbs have been fitted, mainly in Asia and Africa. These camps were fully sponsored by the Ministry of External Affairs and materialised by Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti. Bhandari said that on August 5 last year, the agreement between MEA and BMVSS was further extended and one camp has already been conducted in Uganda despite the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that Jaipur Foot USA is working under the guidance and mentorship of the Founder and Chief Patron of BMVSS Padma Bhushan Dr DR Mehta to expand outreach of the prosthetic limb within India and abroad. A press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs said that during her visit to Colombia, Lekhi will also be interacting with leading Indian and Colombian companies and the Indian Community residing in the country. In 2019, India and Colombia celebrated 60 years of their diplomatic relations, the MEA statement said, adding that Colombia is an important partner of India in Latin America and "our relations with Colombia have been expanding particularly, in the economic and commercial sphere.” Bilateral trade with Colombia for the year 2020-21 stood at $2.27 billion, which is a significant increase from $1.85 billion over 2019-20 despite disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Lekhi’s visit to Colombia “would provide an opportunity to review progress in our bilateral relations and further expand and strengthen this important partnership,” the MEA statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meenakashi-lekhi-begins-official-visit-to-colombia-new-york-1026933.html
04-09-2021||National||Dabholkar murder: CBI seeks UAPA against five accused for striking 'terror among section of people'||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has argued in a court that the five accused in the 2013 murder case of rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar be tried under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for striking "terror among a section of people". The arguments over framing of charges against the five accused - Dr Virendrasinh Tawde, Sharad Kalaskar, Sachin Andure, advocate Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave - began before additional sessions judge (special court judge) S R Navandar here on Friday. Special public prosecutor Prakash Suryawanshi, while arguing the case on behalf of the CBI, said that the accused have been charged under IPC sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 120 B read with 302 (murder), relevant sections of the Arms Act and section 16 (punishment for the terrorist act ) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He pressed for section 16 of the UAPA and argued how invoking it was justified in the case. "The definition of section 15 of the UAPA is to strike terror in the mind of the society or section of people in the society. So our argument in the present case is that firearms were used to murder Dr Dabholkar to strike terror among a section of people, here a group of people, that is members of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti (founded by Dabholkar), so section 16 of UAPA is attracted in the case," he said. He added that the CBI had received sanction from the state government to invoke section 16 of the UAPA. Defense counsel Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, however, opposed the prosecution's demand to invoke section 16 of the UAPA. "We oppose the pressing of section 16 of the UAPA as the prosecution has been stating since 2016 through their various documents that Dr Tawde used to despise Dabholkar and he had killed him as a fallout of that. So where does the question of terror arise?" he said. He added that they sought exactly what charges the prosecution wants to frame against Tawde as in the initial probe of the CBI, they had claimed that Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar had shot Dabholkar dead and had termed Tawde as the conspirator, but later came up with another theory before the court that Andure and Kalaskar had shot Dabholkar dead, in which they again named Tawde as the conspirator. "How can this be the same? There has to be only one theory," he said. After hearing arguments from both the sides, the court posted the matter for hearing on September 7. Dabholkar, a well-known anti-superstition crusader, was shot dead in Pune on August 20,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dabholkar-murder-cbi-seeks-uapa-against-five-accused-for-striking-terror-among-section-of-people-1026950.html
04-09-2021||National||Amethi has become self-reliant in medical oxygen production: Smriti Irani||Amethi was neglected for 70 years and there was not even one oxygen generation unit, but it has become self-reliant in medical oxygen now with seven plants, Union Minister Smriti Irani said on Saturday, in an apparent swipe at the Congress whose leaders represented the constituency for decades. Irani, on a two-day visit to her parliamentary constituency in Uttar Pradesh, inspected a trauma centre in Jagdishpur. "Amethi was deprived of various facilities for 70 years. There was not a single oxygen plant in Amethi, but today there are seven oxygen plants.... In the area of medical oxygen, Amethi has become self-reliant," she said. "Amethi is my home, my family. I know how to look after the family. I do what I say. You have seen that during the Covid-19 pandemic. Initially samples had to be sent to Lucknow for testing, but the Yogi Adityanath government in UP made such a provision that Covid-19 tests are now being conducted in Amethi," said Irani, who defeated Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the constituency in 2019. "Whether I am in Amethi or outside, I keep a tab of Amethi and am in touch with the administration," the Union Women and Child Development Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amethi-has-become-self-reliant-in-medical-oxygen-production-smriti-irani-1026954.html
04-09-2021||National||India sends 150 tonnes of oxygen to Sri Lanka to help it tackle coronavirus surge||India has sent about 150 tonnes more oxygen to Sri Lanka to help the island nation combat the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sri Lanka on Friday extended its nationwide lockdown till September 13 amidst a surge in the number of Covid-19 deaths and mounting pressure on the healthcare system. “Lifeline from India to Sri Lanka close to 150 tonnes of oxygen from Vizag and Chennai reached the shores of Colombo," the Indian High Commission in Colombo tweeted on Saturday. India since mid last month has been sending urgent supplies of oxygen to Sri Lanka following a personal request for assistance by the Sri Lankan President Rajapaksa, it said. Indian naval ship Shakti in August delivered 100 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to Sri Lanka to help the island nation. India’s assistance to Sri Lanka during the pandemic has been varied and need-based. Close to 26 tonnes of essential medical supplies were gifted in April-May 2020. A currency swap of USD 400 million was provided in July 2020. The first consignment of vaccines, which was donated by India in January 2021, enabled Sri Lanka to roll out its vaccination programme ahead of the schedule, the Indian High Commission said. Sri Lanka is currently experiencing a rapid rise in infections. As of Thursday, over 9,600 people have died due to the coronavirus and the total number of infections stood at 447,757. Sri Lanka, which has witnessed a series of lockdowns and curfews to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country, has been impacted in terms of its economy. The tourism sector, which generates a huge quantum of revenue for the island nation, has seen a drastic fall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-150-tonnes-of-oxygen-to-sri-lanka-to-help-it-tackle-coronavirus-surge-1026966.html
04-09-2021||National||Govt effectively paralysed Central Vigilance Commission by not filling vacancies: Letter to PM Modi||With the posts of Chairperson and a Commissioner remaining vacant for months, a group of former judges, ex-bureaucrats and activists on Saturday said the government has "effectively paralysed" the Central Vigilance Commission and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately fill the vacant posts. The post of Chairperson is vacant since June this year while the government has not yet named the replacement for one of the two Commissioners who retired in October last year. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the group said that the Commission has been functioning with only one Commissioner since June, who has been made the acting Chairperson though no provision exists under the law for such an arrangement, after the retirement of the Chairperson. "Even in the years 2019 and 2020, for nearly 12 months, the commission was without a Chief and an ad-hoc arrangement of appointing an acting Chief was resorted to," said the letter signed by former Delhi High Court Chief Justice A P Shah, former Patna High Court judge Justice Anjana Prakash, former IAS officer Sundar Burra and ex-IPS officer Meeran Borwankar among others.  The others who signed the letter were former Information Commissioner Shailesh Gandhi, lawyer Prashant Bhushan and transparency activist Anjali Bhardwaj of Satark Nagrik Sangathan. "The purpose of setting up autonomous oversight bodies like the CVC is defeated if appointments are not made in a timely manner. The government has effectively paralysed the Central Vigilance Commission by leaving posts of Commissioners vacant," they said. They also demanded that the appointments be made in a transparent manner to maintain the integrity of the decision-making process and cited the posting of a circular dated May 4 inviting applications for the post of the Commissioner on the government website while saying no details about the progress on the appointment are available. The letter said the Supreme Court, in multiple judgments, has given specific directions to ensure transparency in the process of short-listing, selection and appointment of functionaries of various independent bodies like the CVC and Information Commissions to prevent the appointment process being undermined. "It is concerning to note that other than the circular of May 2021, inviting applications for the post of the Central Vigilance Commissioner, no further details are available in the public domain. Even the names of the members of the search committee and details of applications received pursuant to the circular are not disclosed. Timely and transparent appointments are key to ensure the proper functioning of institutions," they said. "Transparency safeguards against arbitrariness in the appointment process and builds public trust. As the Chairperson of the Selection Committee constituted under Section 4 of the CVC Act, we urge you (the Prime Minister) to ensure that vacancies in the CVC are filled without any further delay in a transparent manner," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-effectively-paralysed-central-vigilance-commission-by-not-filling-vacancies-letter-to-pm-modi-1026988.html
04-09-2021||National||Plea filed in SC seeking model police bill||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking constitution of a 'model police bill' to make policing system "transparent, independent, accountable and people friendly". The petition, filed by advocate and former Delhi BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, sought a direction to the Centre to constitute a 'judicial commission' or an expert committee to examine the Police Act of developed countries, particularly the US, Singapore and France and draft the 'model police bill'. The PIL, which is likely to come up for hearing in the coming days, also urged the court to direct the Law Commission of India to examine police acts of these countries for drafting the bill in order to make the police system "efficient, effective, transparent, sensible, accountable and techno-savvy, and to secure 'rule of law' and right to life, liberty and dignity of citizens". The petition, filed by advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, alleged that the 1990 Kashmir killings did not only happen in the dark of the night but in broad daylight as well "because what we have is ruler's police not the people's police". “What happened in 1990 in Kashmir, it happened in 2021 in Bengal as well and that too in broad daylight. But police did nothing as what we have is ruler's police, not people's police," it claimed. The 'Colonial Police Act 1861' is ineffective, outdated, cumbersome, and has completely failed to secure rule of law, right to life liberty dignity and other precious fundamental rights of citizens but executive did nothing to amend it, the petitioner said. The PIL further alleged that many times, police don't lodge FIR without consent of MLAs or MPs of the ruling party. "And even if they lodge FIR on the court's order, the ruling party representatives decide what sections should be used against accused," it said. It further said that politicisation of the police is the biggest threat to rule of law and right to life liberty dignity of citizens. A sizeable percentage of officers m carry an invisible stamp on their foreheads showing their loyalty to particular political party, the PIL said. If police officers had "operational independence", the killing of Sikhs in 1984, Kashmiri Hindus in 1990 and the recent post poll violence in West Bengal "would not have featured in our history", it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-seeking-model-police-bill-1026989.html
04-09-2021||National||Sikander Singh Maluka to contest Punjab polls from Rampura Phul: SAD chief Badal||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said party leader Sikander Singh Maluka will contest the coming Punjab assembly elections from Rampura Phul, days after Maluka said he would leave the constituency for his son to contest. Maluka agreed to fight from Rampura Phul after Badal met him over lunch on Saturday. Badal said he requested Maluka to fight from Rampura Phul. Maluka said that he would go by the party's decision, Badal added. The Shiromani Akali Dal president also appointed Maluka's son Gurpreet Singh Maluka as the party's general secretary. "SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal reiterated that Sikandar S Maluka will himself contest from Rampura Phul assembly constituency. He also appointed his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka as Gen Secretary of the party," senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said in a tweet. Former minister Sikander Singh Maluka on August 29 had refused to contest from Rampura Phul after he was named as candidate. He had then said that his son should be fielded from the constituency. The senior Maluka was keen to contest from Maur. However, the party later fielded Jagmeet Singh Brar from Maur. Assembly elections in Punjab are due in early 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikander-singh-maluka-to-contest-punjab-polls-from-rampura-phul-sad-chief-badal-1026996.html
04-09-2021||National||Over 66.07 crore Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: Centre||More than 66.07 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states and Union territories by the Centre for free and under the direct state procurement category, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. It also said that more than 4.49 crore (4,49,68,620) balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said in a statement.  "More than 66.07 crore (66,07,19,455) vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs so far through (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. Further, more than 85 lakh doses (85,63,780) are in the pipeline," it said. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states/UTs for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the statement said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Government of India has been supporting the states/UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. Under the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government procures and supplies free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to the states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-6607-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-1026998.html
04-09-2021||National||Philippines lifts travel ban on India, 9 other countries amidst rise in Covid-19 cases||The Philippines on Saturday decided to welcome travellers from India and nine other countries from September 6, according to a Presidential Palace announcement. The announcement came even as the country recorded its second highest number of Covid-19 cases with 20,310 infections on Friday, pushing the national tally to 2.04 million, The Manila Times newspaper reported. President Rodrigo Duterte approved the recommendation of the Inter-Agency Task Force (IATF) to lift the current travel restrictions on India and nine other countries starting September 6, Presidential Palace spokesperson Harry Roque was quoted as saying by the newspaper. The other countries are Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, the official said. International travelers coming from the 10 countries shall, however, comply with the appropriate entry, testing and quarantine protocols, depending on their approved 'listing,' Roque said. The Philippine government, in a Covid-19 update on August 13, had extended its travel ban on India and nine other countries until August 31. The presidential spokesperson said the IATF approved the adoption of "Yellow" and "Red" classifications, in addition to the "Green List" countries/jurisdictions/territories. "This is based on their respective incidence rates and case counts as primary criteria, and testing data as secondary criteria. "The incidence rate is the cumulative new cases over the past 28 days per 100,000 population while case counts are cumulative new cases over the past 28 days," Roque added. Positivity rate remained at 27.4 per cent, meaning that out of the 67,759 tests, 18,566 tested positive for the coronavirus, the report added. Meanwhile, India's Covid-19 infection tally rose by 42,618 in a day to reach 3,29,45,907 while the number of active cases touched 4,05,681 following an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,40,225 with 330 more people succumbing to the viral disease, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/philippines-lifts-travel-ban-on-india-9-other-countries-amidst-rise-in-covid-19-cases-1027004.html
04-09-2021||National||Telangana CM KCR meets Amit Shah; seeks more IPS officers and full funding of road works in Naxal-hit areas||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday and requested him to increase the number of IPS officers for the state in view of the creation of more districts and full funding of road works in Naxal-affected areas.         Rao, who is on a five-day visit to the national capital, met Shah at his residence here for about 45 minutes and discussed in detail the need to increase the strength of IPS cadre from 139 to 195 in the state, according to the chief minister's office (CMO).        "It is, therefore, requested to treat the present IPS cadre review as an extraordinary case for approval," Rao said in a representation made to Shah. He also sought complete funding of road works in the Naxal-affected districts         In the meeting, the CM explained that the state government had reorganised and created 33 districts, two years after the formation of a new state for efficient delivery of welfare and development programmes.       The re-organised districts have been recognised by the central government. However, there is an "imminent need" to create territorial posts on account of a new administrative set of police units, he said.         "Hence, a bare minimum increase of 29 senior duty posts, i.e from existing 76 to 105, with the resultant increase in total IPS cadre from 139 to that of 195 is being sought as a special case, keeping in view the administrative requirement of the police department and for discharging as per the Police Act," Rao said in the representation.       This allocation will help in the posting of IPS officers as commissioners, superintendents of police, zonal DIGs and multi zonal IGPs in various territorial units, he said, adding that currently, these territorial units have no sanctioned cadre posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-cm-kcr-meets-amit-shah-seeks-more-ips-officers-and-full-funding-of-road-works-in-naxal-hit-areas-1027007.html
04-09-2021||National||Negative RT-PCR report required for travelling from India to Turkey||People travelling from India to Turkey will be required from Saturday to submit a negative Covid-19 report from RT-PCR test done not more than 72 hours before arrival, the Turkish Embassy here said. The rule will also apply to those passengers who have been in India in the 14 days prior to their travel to Turkey. In the updated rules for travellers from India to Turkey, the embassy said that effective from September 4, passengers who certify that they have had at least two doses (single dose for Johnson & Johnson) of the vaccines approved for emergency use by the World Health Organization or Turkey, provided that at least 14 days have passed since the last dose, will be exempted from mandatory quarantine. Passengers who cannot provide the above mentioned certificate will be quarantined in their residence or the address they will declare, the statement said. On the 10th day of quarantine, they will be subjected to a PCR test and if the result is negative, the quarantine will be terminated, according to the revised rules. If the PCR test result is positive, treatment will be conducted in accordance with the Covid-19 guidelines of the country's Ministry of Health. Quarantine period for those who do not have a PCR test on the 10th day will be extended to 14 days, the statement said. The requirements are not applicable to transit and/or transfer passengers, the embassy said. There will be no PCR requirement and quarantine for the crew, it said. Passengers under the age of 12 will be exempted from PCR test and vaccination certificate applications on entry, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/negative-rt-pcr-report-required-for-travelling-from-india-to-turkey-1027008.html
04-09-2021||National||Legal profession yet to welcome women into its fold: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday said the legal profession is yet to welcome women into its fold as majority of them struggle within the profession, very few find representation at the top and even when they do, they still continue to face significant challenges. "After 75 years of independence, one would expect at least 50% representation for women at all levels, but I must admit, with great difficulty we have now achieved a mere 11% representation of women on the bench of the Supreme Court. Some states, because of reservation policy may reveal higher representation, but the reality remains that that the legal profession still has to welcome women into its fold," he said. Highlighting difficult challenges like deficient infrastructure, shortage of administrative staff and huge vacancies of judges, faced by the judicial system, Justice Ramana said he has a proposal to address the issue of infrastructure in a time-bound manner. "A comprehensive proposal for creation of National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation is under preparation. We have collected the status report from across the country. A proposal in this regard will reach the Law Minister very soon. I expect full cooperation from the government," he said.  The CJI was speaking in a felicitation function here organised by the Bar Council of India in presence of Minister Kiran Rijiju and several top court judges, days after appointment of three women judges, including a future CJI, and six other judges at one go in the top court. Maintaining that his endeavour was to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an urgent basis, Justice Ramana, who was referred to as Sachin Tendulkar by Justice B R Gavai in his speech for having achieved many firsts, said, "I must correct the perception here. Like any game, it is a team effort. Unless all the members of the team perform well, it is difficult to win." Extending his thanks to my colleagues in the Collegium -- Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao - for being active and constructive partners, he said due to the collective efforts, we could reduce the number of vacancies in the apex court to just one.  Pointing out that 82 names to various High Courts have been sent after he took over, the CJI said, he hoped the government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the nine names were cleared for the apex court within a week. "It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling nearly 41% vacancies existing in all the High Courts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legal-profession-yet-to-welcome-women-into-its-fold-cji-ramana-1027012.html
04-09-2021||National||Police don't want to nab real culprits of Delhi riots: Atishi||Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi on Saturday said that police don't want to nab the real culprits of Delhi riots. In a press conference on Saturday, she said that after one-and-a-half year, every court has questioned the police investigation which directly comes under BJP. She said, "Courts repeatedly pulled up the police saying that the investigation 'has gaping holes' and has 'no application of mind'. The question is, who is Delhi Police trying to protect?" Blaming Delhi Police for shoddy investigation, she said that it is clear that Delhi Police does not want to do proper investigation in the cases of Delhi riots. Out of a total 750 cases, charge sheet has been filed in only 35 cases so far and now the court itself has commented that what kind of investigation is this, said the AAP leader. She claimed that even the special prosecutors do not know what the Delhi Police is doing and this is the reason why the central government and the L-G do not want the special prosecutors to be appointed as per the Delhi government. Talking about ongoing investigation, Atishi said, "Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav has said that this investigation of Delhi Police is a blot on the history of the country". "When Justice Muraleedharan had asked why action was not taken on the inflammatory speeches, the Delhi Police replied that they did not even watch the video", she added. All the arrests made by the Delhi Police so far in the case, and those who are not arrested yet are questionable, said Atishi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-dont-want-to-nab-real-culprits-of-delhi-riots-atishi-1027016.html
04-09-2021||National||India for early outcome of TRIPS waiver for Covid vaccines, diagnotics||India has pitched for an early outcome of the TRIPS waiver proposal for Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics in the World Trade Organisation (WTO), an official release said on Saturday. Addressing a meeting, which was attended by trade and economic ministers of BRICS countries on Friday, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal also stressed on finding a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the public stock holding programmes for food security purposes. He also asked for adoption of emerging new technologies in a swiftly changing world while finding solutions to the challenges of data protection and cyber security; and ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns. The minister "emphasized, amongst other things, on the need for a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the Public Stock Holding programmes for food security purposes; early outcome of the TRIPS Waiver proposal for vaccines," the release said. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal, suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organisation) members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPs Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. In May this year, a revised proposal was submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa, and Indonesia. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPs came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. Further the minister has said that the BRICS countries should work together for strengthening the multilateral system, stating that there is a need for a balanced and inclusive outcome in the forthcoming WTO Ministerial Conference. The BRICS countries have endorsed the Framework for Cooperation in Trade in Professional Services with the objectives of enhancing domestic capacity and global competitiveness, promoting participation in intra-BRICS mobility of professionals and enhancing trade in professional services. All BRICS members could for the first time reach a consensus for jointly working towards protection of genetic resources, traditional knowledge, it added. "In this era of exponential jump in the use of ecommerce and online electronic transactions, the convergence to draw a common Action plan amongst BRICS countries will help to promote exploring practical options for ensuring consumer protection," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-for-early-outcome-of-trips-waiver-for-covid-vaccines-diagnotics-1027036.html
04-09-2021||National||Union minister Ramdas Athawale bats for one-child policy||Union social justice minister Ramdas Athawale on Saturday said his party supports one-child policy as the population growth in the country needs to be controlled for ensuring development. Asked about a recent remark of Gujarat deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel that people would be able to talk about Constitution and secularism only so long as Hindus are in majority, he said there was no possibility of Hindu population dwindling. "I do not think there is any question of Hindu population declining. Hindus remain Hindu and Muslims remain Muslim. Hardly one or two Hindus or Muslims convert. The Constitution gives people the right to do what they like, but nobody can force any person to convert," Athawale said, speaking to reporters here. There would not be much change in the proportion of Hindus and Muslims in the population, he said, adding that "it is not the case that the population of Muslims has risen sharply in all these years". "There is a need to control the population for the development of the country, irrespective of whether it is the population of Hindus or Muslims," said the Union minister, who heads the Republican Party of India (Athawale group), a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). "If we adopt one family, one child (policy), we would be able to reduce population. For now we have 'hum do, hamare do'....Our party's stand is that to reduce population, there should be a law for 'hum do, hamara ek, (one family, one child)," Athawale said. He will take up this issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Nitin Patel had recently said at a public event that "those talking about the Constitution, laws, secularism will continue to talk only as long as Hindus are in majority in this country... (if) the number of Hindus decreases, and (number of) people of another religion increase, there will be no courts, Lok Sabha, Constitution, secularism, they will all vanish in thin air." Asked about several instances of Dalits facing intimidation for sporting moustache or riding a horse being reported in Gujarat, Athawale, a prominent Dalit leader from Maharashtra, said he will raise the issue with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. "It is true that the caste system continues to exist not only in Gujarat, but across the country. From the point of view of law it has ended, but it continues to exist in the minds of people," he said. He will ask Rupani to take special measures for the protection of Dalits, he added. Athawale also opined that reservation should be for those whose annual income is below Rs 8 lakh. The BJP will win in four out of five states — Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Goa — where Assembly elections are due in coming months, the RPI chief said, making exception for Punjab where the saffron party's alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal has ended. "RPI will support the BJP in all these four states," he added. His ministry was working towards ending manual scavenging through a scheme to provide Rs 40,000 each to some 60,000 scavengers in the country, he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-ramdas-athawale-bats-for-one-child-policy-1027037.html
04-09-2021||National||PM Modi may visit US in late September||A visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the US later this month is likely to depend on the finality over hosting of the first in-person summit of the Quad leaders by the Biden administration, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. The tentative schedule explored for the visit was between September 22-27 and the preparations were focussed on three segments -- Modi's address at the UN General Assembly in New York, participation at the proposed Quad summit in Washington and a bilateral meeting with President Joe Biden, they said. However, the sudden decision by Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga to step down by the end of September triggered uncertainty over the US hosting of the in-person Quad summit as Tokyo is learnt to have requested for a hybrid format for the talks. The people cited above said there was no final decision yet on the proposed visit to the US by Modi in view of the uncertainty over the holding of the Quad summit among the leaders of the US, India, Japan and Australia in Washington. Suga, who became prime minister of Japan a year ago after Shinzo Abe stepped down, announced on Friday that he will not seek re-election as leader of the Liberal Democrat Party (LDP) at the end of September. His announcement and the political turmoil in Tokyo have also thrown into doubt the holding of the in-person India-Japan summit for the third consecutive year. The annual summit between Modi and his then Japanese counterpart Abe was cancelled in December 2019 in Guwahati in the wake of massive protests rocking the Assam city over the amended citizenship law. In 2020, the summit could not be held due to the coronavirus pandemic. The people cited above said India and the US held a series of meetings as part of preparations for Modi's visit to the US, which if it takes place, will be the first one after Biden took charge of the US in January. It is learnt that the issue figured during Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla's recent meetings in Washington. The Biden administration has put cooperation with India a key aspect of its overall foreign policy priorities on the Indo-Pacific, a region that has witnessed growing Chinese military assertiveness. The US has been looking at convening the in-person summit of the leaders of Quad to boost practical cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region as well as to send a strong signal about Washington's commitment to the grouping. In March, President Biden hosted the first-ever summit of the Quad leaders in the virtual format that vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion, sending an apparent message to China. The last time Modi visited the US was in September 2019 when he and then US President Donald Trump addressed the Howdy Modi event in Houston. If Modi's visit takes place, then it could signal a new phase in the two-way strategic engagement between India and the US. The Afghan crisis as well as developments in the Indo-Pacific region could be the major focus areas for discussion between the two sides. US Secretary of state Antony Blinken paid a two-day visit to India in July. Before that, US Defence Secretary Lloyd J Austin had paid a three-day visit to New Delhi in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-may-visit-us-in-late-september-1027039.html
04-09-2021||National||'What steps have you taken to strengthen prosecution unit, remove deficiencies': SC to CBI||Observing that the "success rate" in cases taken up by the CBI is perceived low, the Supreme Court has asked the premier central investigating agency to identify the bottlenecks and apprise it of the steps that have been taken to strengthen its prosecution unit. A bench comprising justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh directed the CBI director to file an affidavit within six weeks before it stating the number of cases in which the agency was successful in getting the accused convicted in trial courts and high courts. It asked the CBI director to inform it about the steps taken or proposed to be taken to address the inadequacies in manpower, infrastructure facility and the quality of investigation. “There is a common perception that the success rate of the cases taken on file is rather low. Thus, we call upon the petitioners to place the year-wise data on the cases under prosecution, the time period over which they are pending before the trial courts and the percentage of conviction rendered by the courts at different-level,” the bench said. The top court's direction came while hearing an appeal by CBI against advocates Mohammad Altaf Mohand and Sheikh Mubarak challenging a 2018 order of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court in a case of allegedly fabricating/creating false evidence by pressuring, inducing and threatening the eye-witnesses to make false depositions implicating the police/security personnel in the commission of offences of rape and murder of the two women in Shopian. The appeal was filed after an inordinate delay of 542 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-steps-have-you-taken-to-strengthen-prosecution-unit-remove-deficiencies-sc-to-cbi-1027040.html
04-09-2021||National||Yes Bank-DHFL case: Rana Kapoor's wife, daughter get interim bail||A special CBI court here on Saturday granted interim bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor's wife and daughter in a case involving private sector lender DHFL. Kapoor's wife Bindu and daughter Radha were named as accused in the supplementary charge sheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation recently, but the duo was never arrested in the case. The court, after taking cognizance of the charge sheet, had summoned the accused, and the two appeared before court on Saturday. They then moved bail applications through their legal team comprising Vijay Agarwal and Rahul Agarwal, and contended that their arrests were not required as the CBI had filed a charge sheet as well without arresting them during the probe. When the probe agency sought time to file a reply to the pleas, the duo prayed for interim bail, which was allowed by special judge S U Wadgaonkar. As per the CBI, Kapoor, who is in judicial custody after being arrested by Enforcement Directorate in a related case, and his family received kickbacks for Yes Bank's investments to the tune of Rs 3,700 crore in DHFL's debentures. The CBI has claimed Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited, in return, gave Kapoor Rs 600 crore as bribe in the form of loans to a firm controlled by the latter's wife and daughters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yes-bank-dhfl-case-rana-kapoors-wife-daughter-get-interim-bail-1027058.html
04-09-2021||National||Govt asks departments to promote five-minute yoga break among its employees||The Centre has asked all its departments to promote five-minute yoga break or 'Y-break' among employees working under them, with a view to refresh, distress and refocuses them with enhanced efficiency at workplaces, according to a personnel ministry order. The Ministry of Ayush had designed and developed five minutes duration yoga protocol, named Y-break, for work place by an expert committee in 2019 and the module was launched in January 2020 on pilot project basis in six major metro cities (Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata) with the help of various stakeholders. “Feedback of the same was very encouraging,” it said. Consequent to this success, the Ministry of Ayush developed an android based application Y-break and the same was made available recently in Google Play Store for access by public, said the order issued to all central government departments. In order to spread awareness about access and usage of Y-break protocol/app among workforce for all sectors (public/private), all ministries/departments of Government of India are requested to promote the usage of Y-break protocol among the employees, it said. A campaign was launched to spread awareness of the same to provide access and usage of Y-break protocol/app among people at workplaces with a view to refresh, de-stress and refocuses them with enhanced efficiency and productivity at workplaces, the order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-departments-to-promote-five-minute-yoga-break-among-its-employees-1027063.html
04-09-2021||National||3,385 km of national highways constructed so far in current fiscal: MoRTH||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) on Saturday said the ministry has constructed 3,385.02 km of national highways so far in the current financial year 2021-22. The pace of construction stood at 21.8 km per day, and this happened despite the Covid-19 pandemic and rainy season, it added. "MoRTH constructed 3,385.02 km of national highways in the current financial year 2021-22 (till September 2), whereas it awarded projects of 3,068.26 km of NHs during this period. The pace of construction stood at 21.8 km per day," the ministry said in a tweet. Recently, Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said infrastructure development is important for the country, and the government's target is to achieve the pace of 100 km per day in highway construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3385-km-of-national-highways-constructed-so-far-in-current-fiscal-morth-1027069.html
04-09-2021||National||Over 68 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India so far: Centre||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 68 crore with more than 62.25 lakh jabs administered Saturday, the health ministry said. The daily tally is expected to increase further as the 7 pm provisional report gets updated with the compilation of the final numbers for the day by late night, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 26,99,02,315 first doses have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group across states and union territories and 3,35,98,191 second doses in the same age group since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive on May 1, according to the data. The ministry further said that cumulatively 52,38,12,268 first doses have been administered while 15,99,16,790 second doses have been given. On Saturday, 62,25,922 doses were administered, pushing the overall coverage to 68 crore (68, 37, 29,058), the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-68-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-centre-1027070.html
04-09-2021||National||Modi ahead of global leaders with 70% approval rating||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval ratings stand at 70 per cent, ahead of other heads of states tracked by American data intelligence firm Morning Consult. The approval ratings of Modi have dipped slightly from a high of 72 per cent on August 23, but much better than the lowest of 63 per cent reported on June 23. Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ranks second with an approval rating of 64 per cent, followed by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi (63 per cent) and German Chancellor Angela Merkel (52 per cent). US President Joe Biden and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison are tied at fifth position with an approval rating of 48 per cent, followed by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau (45 per cent) and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson (41 per cent). Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro's approval ratings were at 39 per cent, followed by South Korean President Moon Jae-In (38 per cent), Spanish Spain Pedro Sanchez (35 per cent), French President Emmanuel Macron (34 per cent) and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga (25 per cent). MorningConsult tracks national ratings of the elected leaders of 13 countries. According to the firm, approval ratings are based on a seven-day moving average of adult residents in each country, and sample sizes vary by country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-ahead-of-global-leaders-with-70-approval-rating-1027072.html
04-09-2021||National||BSF opens fire at drone along Indo-Pak border in Punjab||The Border Security Force opened fire on a suspected drone along the Indo-Pak border in Punjab's Tarn Taran district, an official said Saturday. The BSF troops heard the humming sound of the drone early on Saturday and then fire upon it, said the BSF official in a statement. A special search operation was carried out but nothing suspicious was recovered from the area, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-opens-fire-at-drone-along-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-1027077.html
04-09-2021||National||C-DOT launches lab to develop pan-India disaster alert system||State-run telecom research and development organisation Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT) has launched a lab to design and develop a pan-India integrated alert system for disaster management. Telecom Secretary Anshu Prakash launched the lab on the occasion of C-DOT's 38th Foundation Day.  "The launch of the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) lab for the design, development and implementation of pan-India integrated alert system to be administered by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) for effective disaster management, public alerting and hazard notification in emergency situations," a C-DOT statement read. C-DOT has been running a pilot for the system to send alerts to people at the time of Cyclone Yaas in affected areas as well as for Covid-19 to manage isolation zones in selected states. During the pilot phase, 340 crore messages were sent to people in local languages to alert them about the disaster, C-DOT said in a statement. "Now we will develop the system as per the requirement of NDMA to save life and properties by alerting people in the affected area during any disaster across India in the affected areas.," C-DoT executive director Rajkumar Upadhyay said during the event. Prakash exhorted the engineers to work towards a successful proof of concept of C-DOT 4G LTE Core in BSNL network. He said that it is a very opportune moment for the indigenous development of 5G technologies by C-DOT to meet the challenging communications requirements of the nation and realising the Prime Minister's vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/c-dot-launches-lab-to-develop-pan-india-disaster-alert-system-1027092.html
04-09-2021||National||FIR registered over draping of Geelani's body in Pakistan flag||Police have registered a case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act over the draping of the body of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani in a Pakistani flag and the alleged raising of "anti-national" slogans after his death Wednesday, officials said. The Budgam Police registered the FIR against unnamed people under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code, they said. Police took cognisance of a video which showed Geelani's body draped in a Pakistani flag. However, as the police moved in to take over the body, the late separatist leader's aides removed the flag. Geelani, 91, died Wednesday night at his residence here after a prolonged illness. The body was laid to rest at a graveyard in a nearby mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-registered-over-draping-of-geelanis-body-in-pakistan-flag-1027094.html
04-09-2021||National||Spell out before country policy on Afghanistan, Taliban: Congress to Centre||The Congress on Saturday expressed concern over the "Afghanistan-Russia-Pakistan triangle" and asked the government to spell out before the country its policy on Afghanistan and the Taliban. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh alleged that the government is indulging in the "lowest level of diplomacy" as it is merely resorting to "disaster management". "Please let us know, what is your policy regarding Afghanistan? What is your policy regarding the Taliban? Please share with the country," he told reporters. Hitting out at the government, Vallabh said, "This is the lowest level of diplomacy because you don't have any diplomacy, you don't have any policy. You are just trying to do with disaster management." He said that every Indian has the right to know about the government's policy on Afghanistan. Expressing concern over the "Afghanistan-Pakistan-Russia triangle", the Congress leader asked how the government intended to deal with it. "How are they are going to play? What is their intention? What is your policy to counter this triangle, which Afghanistan, Pakistan and Russia are forming in Afghanistan?" the leader said. He claimed that neither the External Affairs Minister nor his ministry has spelt out the policy on Afghanistan so far "What is your policy on Afghanistan. The country wants to know, please don't mislead us," he said, noting that India has a major investment in Afghanistan. Training his guns on the prime minister, he said, "He is a Master's in political science and since this is a political issue, he should spell out his views on Afghanistan".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spell-out-before-country-policy-on-afghanistan-taliban-congress-to-centre-1027102.html
04-09-2021||National||Covid-19: Teachers, students scramble to cover lost ground||Standing with his arms crossed at a construction site, 12-year-old Gavi looks straight ahead, as he recites, “four four za sixteen, four five za twenty,” and pauses.  His mother Geetha, a migrant labourer in Bengaluru looks on, concerned. She confesses that this long gap in schooling has left her feeling helpless, “I can’t help him since I did not go to school.”  Gavi is one among 32 crore children in India who have not stepped into school since the pandemic struck. Even though the low budget private school that Gavi attends is conducting online classes, his father needs the only smartphone in the household for his job as a cab driver.  His case is no exception. In fact, it is the norm. In Karnataka alone, out of the 93 lakh students who were surveyed by the Department of Public Instruction, 37.8 lakh students did not have access to digital education; 33 per cent of children did not even have access to digital devices like phones.  As online education remains out of reach, for many children this has meant that their contact with education has been virtually severed for one and a half years, causing unprecedented levels of learning loss. Before the pandemic, Gavi was in the fourth grade. He could recite multiplication tables until 13, add, subtract and multiply and divide easily. “I’ve forgotten everything now,” he said. He hopes that when he goes back to school, he will remember whatever he learnt.  In Karnataka, schools opened for Class 9 and 10 students on August 23. Classes 6 to 8 are scheduled to resume from September 6. This announcement brings trepidation for children, parents and teachers, raising questions about how children will fare academically after sporadic contact with education for a year and a half.  Parents worry that the transition to regular schooling may not be smooth, as they describe the regression in learning they have witnessed over the past year and half. Jaya V, a homemaker, recalls how her daughter Gayathri, a Class 4 student at a private school in L R Nagar, could read English paragraphs fluently. Now, she struggles to read through sentences.  A study by Azim Premji University that looks at the loss of learning in Indian school goers during the pandemic adds substance to this worry.  Close to 92 per cent of students have lost one specific language ability and 82 per cent have lost one specific numerical ability such as identifying two or three digit numbers, problem solving capacities or performing basic arithmetic operations.    This is particularly worrisome, since learning levels have always been low in low-cost private schools and government schools. The Annual Status of Education Report, 2018 stated that 50 per cent of Class 5 and 25 per cent of Class 8 students cannot read a Class 2 level text.  The pandemic has made education inequity even starker.  Since school started on August 23, Rekha T*, an English teacher at a government high school in Davangere has been with foundational knowledge with her Class 9 and Class 10 students.  "Even students who could study well have lost the ability to read," she said. "For some students, I have had to start from teaching them letters. I don't know how I can teach them such basics and also teach them the regular syllabus. It is impossible," she said. In Herur, Koppala, a government primary high school teacher, Anil Kumar is more resigned about the situation: “We must teach according to the requirement of the children, if they don’t know key concepts, that is what we should emphasise,” he said.  Another government teacher at a primary school in North Bengaluru has tried everything — from printing out their own worksheets, teaching on WhatsApp and even tracing students during ration distribution programmes — but knows that her efforts have yielded limited outcomes.  “Our efforts have not even been 50 per cent effective. We can tell from the worksheets,” she said.  Often the worksheets or study material sent on WhatApp would need the aid of adults. Busy with earning a livelihood or not educated themselves, many parents are unable to help their children.  Some teachers have also heard about the series of announcements by Chief Minister Basavarj Bommai about the implementation of the National Education Policy. “It was a sudden announcement. I hope they don’t plan to implement it now. We have too much to do,” said Rekha.  Bridge courses The Karnataka Government had sent out a notification for all schools to conduct at least 15 days of bridge courses. Materials for the bridge courses are even available on the Department of State Education and Research Training.  However, the effectiveness of these courses is up for debate. Sunil H*, a Math teacher at a government school has accessed the materials but the learning levels are so varied that it was difficult to use the material.  “It seems like a revision which is futile if they are not a little familiar with the concept,” he said.  Many teachers depend on material they come up with to get children on the same page. Dr Indira Vijaysimha, a retired professor at Azim Premji University explains that while some teachers may take initiative, the sheer amount of backlog and curriculum to cover can force teachers to “drill” subjects into students and not teach them in a way that helps them retain concepts. To understand learning levels within classrooms, she recommends localised assessments based on which the curriculum can be modified.  Dr S N Gananath, an education expert, explained that in some subjects, several lessons can be skipped and it will not affect future learning. However, he cautions, “Other subjects like Maths, skipped lessons or poorly understood lessons will affect  future learning.”  “Teachers should ideally work with a restricted curriculum that covers key concepts. They should be empowered to innovate their teaching methods with tools and activities so that retention increases,” said Dr Gananath.  One thing is for certain, there must be a concerted effort from all child care officials to coordinate.“DSERT,  Block Resource Centre, Cluster Resource Centre and District Institute of Education and Training and experts should work together to set up a realistic system,” said Niranjan Aradhya, an education expert.  There is also a need to build resilient systems that can withstand the onslaught of the third wave, if and when it comes.  Due to disruptions in the midday meals, a scheme that covers 80 per cent of primary-school-aged children, another area that requires immediate attention and intervention is nutrition loss. A report by Oxfam in 2020 indicates that 35 per cent of government schoolgoing children did not receive midday meals or dry rations. Dr Indira, referring to the government programme Nali Kali, which engaged community volunteers to build alternatives to classroom teaching, explains how these volunteers under the support of teachers can provide alternatives to classroom teaching at the community level in the case of school closures.  Due to disruptions in the midday meals, a scheme that covers 80 per cent of primary-school-aged children, another area that requires immediate attention and intervention is nutrition loss. A report by Oxfam in 2020 indicates that 35 per cent of government schoolgoing children did not receive midday meals or dry rations. Drop out rates  Education experts are also concerned that the academic confidence of children has taken a severe hit after intermittent contact with education. Out of 20 children who talked to DH, 18 confided that going to school felt intimidating and feared that they would not be able to keep up with classmates or the pace of teaching.  If these fears continue, teachers are apprehensive that children may drop out. According to a report by Childfund India in 2020, 64 per cent of children surveyed across India were worried they would have to drop out if they are not provided with additional academic support.  With many schools still yet to reopen, it is difficult to know how many children are out of school presently but loss of academic confidence may just be one factor that will keep children from coming to school.  Rekha said that during the pandemic, some of her students were involved by their parents in labour due to financial constraints and also because parents feared that their children would wander off and “do mischief”. Three girls in classes that Rekha teaches were also married off. “There may be other cases that we have not heard of,” she said.  With children just returning to school, it is difficult to ascertain how many have dropped out and for what reason. However, the very possibility calls for developing a greater support system involving teachers, child protection officers and child welfare committee members.  The way forward Parents, who are important stakeholders, should also be taken into confidence and told that students may display less interest because of sporadic learning.  While the pandemic is a huge setback to the education of lakhs of children, there is also the possibility of overcoming it and ensuring children have the opportunity to exercise their right to education.  “If we don’t take action we may see many, many children discontinuing their education,” said Aradhya.  Education, Geetha hoped, would be a ticket out of poverty for her son Gavi, her tool for his social mobility. “Now, if schools don’t open, I think he’ll be stuck like me,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-teachers-students-scramble-to-cover-lost-ground-1027116.html
04-09-2021||National Politics||Jan Ashirwad Yatra's success left Opposition disturbed, nervous: J P Nadda||BJP President J P Nadda said newly inducted union ministers traversed 24,000 kilometres, taking the message of development to the people and leaving opposition parties “disturbed and nervous”. In a statement, Nadda said the 'Jan Ashirwad Yatras' carried out by union ministers after being denied the opportunity of a formal introduction in Parliament, were hugely successful despite attempts by opposition parties to create hindrances and disrupt the outreach efforts. “The people's support forced all narrow-minded opposition parties and our political adversaries to retreat,” he said, referring to the arrest of Union Minister Narayan Rane by the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition government in Maharashtra. The yatras, which began on Independence Day and lasted till August 28, covered more than 24,000 kilometres in 14 days. The newly elected ministers participated in over 5,000 programmes during the fortnight-long yatras. The yatras passed through 265 districts across 22 states and 212 Lok Sabha seats. Nadda thanked the people for “their support” of the politics of development and growth under the BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP chief claimed that the yatras by the 39 newly appointed Union Ministers have been appreciated widely across the country and the people across the states have “heartily welcomed” the new ministers. “I am thankful and highly indebted to the people of India who have rejected the negative political agenda of the Opposition parties,” Nadda said. The recently expanded council of ministers includes 27 other backward classes (OBC), 12 scheduled castes (SC) and eight scheduled tribes (ST). Castes such as Darzi and Modh Teli have been represented in the council of ministers for the first time. Of the 39 ministers of the BJP who were inducted into the council of ministers, 14 were from the OBC community and nine from the SC community. The BJP used the yatra to highlight this aspect to the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jan-ashirwad-yatras-success-left-opposition-disturbed-nervous-j-p-nadda-1026900.html
04-09-2021||National Politics||AAP to emerge as single largest party in Punjab Assembly polls: Opinion poll||Punjab is likely to witness a hung Assembly, with AAP emerging as the single largest party in the state in the 2022 state polls, as per the ABP-CVoter-IANS opinion poll. The battle for the throne of Punjab is between INC and AAP. Erstwhile NDA composed of BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal is no more in contention for power in 2022. Incumbent Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is facing strong anti-incumbency. In the latest round of opinion poll conducted in the state, while 64.8% of the respondents said they were dissatisfied with the performance of the sitting chief minister, only 12.6% of those interviewed stated that they were very much satisfied and 19.0 said they were satisfied to some extent with his performance. A strong anti-incumbency sentiment is prevalent not only against the sitting Chief Minister but with the overall Congress government in the state as 60.8% of the respondents expressed strong dissatisfaction with the performance of the state government. Similarly, majority of the respondents - 51% expressed dissatisfaction with the sitting MLAs of their constituencies. This anti-incumbency sentiment combined with non-ending feud between Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjyot Singh Sidhu has created an opening for the AAP to rise as the main challenger. As things stand today, while Congress is projected to win a 28.8% vote share in Punjab, AAP is projected to grab 35.1% votes, SAD is projected to secure 21.8% votes and BJP is projected to win 7.3 % vote share which if translated into seats there is a possibility of a hung house in Punjab Assembly 2022. AAP could be the single largest party as the party is projected to grab 51 to 57 seats. Congress may finish a strong second by winning 38 to 46 seats, SADl is likely to grab 16 to 24 seats and BJP may notch 0 to 1 seats. The total strength of the Punjab Assembly is 117 seats. The strong anti-incumbency against sitting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is also reflected in the fact that only 17.9% of the respondents consider him as the most preferred choice for the post of the chief minister. The survey revealed that AAP does not have a credible face from Punjab, who can be projected as chief minister face of the party. While 21.6% of the respondents said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is their preferred choice to be the next chief minister of the state, only 16.1% consider Bhagwant Mann, AAP's face in Punjab as the preferred choice for the top job in the state. 18.8% stated that Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Badal was their most preferred choice for the post of the chief minister. According to the survey data, price rise and farmers' issues are key issues of concern for the electorate of the state.33.5% of the respondents said that spiralling price rise was a major issue of concern, 28.6% of those interviewed during the survey stated that issues related to agriculture/farmers was their top concern. The sample for the poll is 81006 in five states covering 690 assembly seats. This State Poll is part of the largest and definitive independent sample survey tracker series carried out in India over the last 22 years, conducted by independent international polling agency CVoter, a globally renowned name in the field of Socio-Economic research. May 2009 onwards, the CVoter Tracker has been carried out each and every week, 52 waves in a calendar year, in 11 national languages, across all States in UTs in India, with a target sample size of 3000 samples each wave. The average response rate is 55%. Starting 1st January 2019, C Voter is carrying the tracker on a daily basis, using the rollover sample of 7 days (last 6 days + today) for tracker analysis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-to-emerge-as-single-largest-party-in-punjab-assembly-polls-opinion-poll-1026993.html
04-09-2021||National Politics||Kerala's mainstream parties vying to 'support Taliban', alleges State BJP chief||BJP state president K Surendran on Saturday alleged that mainstream political parities in Kerala are vying to extend support to Taliban after the terrorist group took control over Afghanistan. Both the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF and the Congress-headed UDF opposition were playing a different sort of politics after the militants were back in power in the neighbouring country, he charged. He further alleged that those who take a pro-Taliban stand were the ones trying to whitewash the Moplah riots that occurred in the state in 1921. "In Kerala, mainstream political parities are vying with each other to extend support to the Taliban. Political leaders in the state are nurturing religious extremism by giving milk and honey," Surendran said here in a press meet. Attacking the Left government and its police force, the BJP leader said they were taking an "irresponsible" stand as extremist forces were gaining strength in the state. He also termed as "serious", the recent nabbing of a group of Jammu and Kashmir youths with unlicensed firearms in the state. Surendran's statements assume significance in the wake of the raging debate in Kerala over whether the Malabar Rebellion alias "Moplah (Muslim) Rebellion" reported in the northern part of the state in the year 1921 was a revolt against the British or a communal riot. While the CPI(M) has described the rebellion as the most organised agitation against the exploitation by feudal landlords, the Congress has called it a shining movement against the anti-imperialist forces. However, the BJP and the RSS have described the rebellion as one of the first manifestations of the Taliban mindset in India, strongly opposing the move by the Left and Congress to treat it as part of India's freedom struggle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/keralas-mainstream-parties-vying-to-support-taliban-alleges-state-bjp-chief-1027021.html
04-09-2021||National Politics||Drifting away from agitations cause of Left Front’s debacle in Bengal: Forward Bloc||The Left Front’s woes in West Bengal seem to be far from over as a key constituent, the Forward Bloc, has stated in its organisational report that the Front’s drifting away from agitations for the working class is the main reason for its electoral debacle in the state. “The Left Front has drifted away from its class standpoint. This is the reason why it has faced such a disaster (in the Assembly election). In such a situation polarisation politics has raised it’s head in Bengal,” said Forward Bloc State Secretary. According to sources in the Forward Bloc, the party recently conducted a survey in 100 Assembly constituencies, considering them as sample for the Assembly election results. The results showed that in at least 30% of the constituencies the Left Front had no workers at the booth level. “The Forward Bloc leadership is of the opinion that instead of depending on its Left Front allies the CPI(M), excessive dependence on the Indian Secular Front (ISF) and the Congress cost the Left Front dearly,” a senior Forward Bloc leader said. CPI(M) sources said that in terms of organising agitations there is an “overall weakness” in the Left Front and it is not confined to just the CPI(M) or the Forward Bloc. The Forward Bloc has also admitted to its own organisational weakness. Earlier the CPI(M) also admitted to its organisational weakness in organising agitations against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) Government on key issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/drifting-away-from-agitations-cause-of-left-front-s-debacle-in-bengal-forward-bloc-1027034.html
04-09-2021||National Politics||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti attacks Centre, says basic human rights of 'dead or alive' suspended in J&K||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said the Centre's claim that people of Jammu and Kashmir now enjoy equal rights is a "barefaced lie" and the ease with which it imposes a "complete siege" in the valley every time it anticipates a reaction is distressing and deeply insensitive. Her remarks come after authorities snapped mobile telephone services, except on BSNL's postpaid, and internet services, except on BSNL's Broadband and Fiber, on Wednesday night immediately after the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. "GOI's dubious claims that people of J&K now enjoy equal rights is a barefaced lie as truth is that even their basic human rights dead or alive are suspended with pervasive impunity (sic)," Mehbooba said on Twitter. The former chief minister of the erstwhile state said the ease with which the Government of India imposes a "complete siege", including communications blackout, in Kashmir every time it anticipates a reaction from people is distressing and deeply insensitive. "Their misadventure of creating fear and suppression to eliminate a sentiment is counter productive since feelings and emotions don't dissipate or vanish into thin air. These feelings of betrayal, subjugation and anger are absorbed and passed on from one generation to the next," she tweeted. The PDP chief claimed that instead of reaching out, every successive policy is undertaken to humiliate and collectively punish Jammu and Kashmir. "These punitive actions compound this sense of betrayal and rage," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-attacks-centre-says-basic-human-rights-of-dead-or-alive-suspended-in-jk-1027050.html
04-09-2021||National Politics||'Paper leak government': Cong targets BJP over JEE-Mains exam 'scam', NSUI to hold nationwide protest on Monday||Terming the BJP-led Centre as 'Bechte Jao Paper' and 'Paper Leak' government, Congress on Saturday raked up the issue of an exam scam after CBI arrested seven persons for the alleged manipulation of JEE Mains examination and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter. Congress also sought to draw parallel of the arrest of seven persons, including two directors of a Noida-based private institution, in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh to similar exam irregularities issues in other BJP-ruled states, including the massive exam controversy surrounding Vyapam — which was repeatedly raked up by the Opposition party to corner the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-helmed Madhya Pradesh government in last one decade — besides the 2018 CBSE Class X and XII exams, and entrance exams in Haryana. "JEE (Main) exam has been breached. Students appearing for such competitive exams prepare very hard, battling difficulties of various kinds. We, as a nation, owe them a fair exam. The Government of India is better at providing cover ups," Rahul Gandhi tweeted. We, as a nation, owe them a fair exam. GOI is better at providing cover-ups. The Congress' student wing, NSUI, will carry out protests against the alleged scam across the country on Monday. "Last year during NEET counselling, the NSUI raised the scam issue but at that time officials and government were sleeping. After SSC-CGL, NEET and CA exam scams, this JEE exam scam is exposing Modi government's corrupted system in competitive exams," said NSUI President Neeraj Kundan. In the AICC briefing, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, Delhi Congress leader Alka Lamba and NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan also cited similar instances during SSC-2017 and the 2020 JEE-Main exams and sought answers from the BJP government, asking why the Education Ministry and the National Testing Agency (NTA) under the central government, which are responsible for conducting examinations in a transparent manner, are not held accountable for such irregularities. "When one of the most prestigious entrance examinations of the country (JEE) is not spared by these frauds, how can students be assured that such scams have not happened in other exams conducted by the NTA," the Opposition party asked. "We demand an inquiry into the entire fraud under the supervision of a sitting Supreme Court judge as this is an issue related to the future of our country. Is it not the responsibility of the government to ensure that every student out of 22 lakh applicants who appeared for the 2021 JEE-Main exams gets a fair chance as their future is at stake?" Vallabh said. "The only one thing that is common in all these examinations is that they have messed up the future of students of our country. The 'Paper Leak Government' is answerable to every youth of our country who is not able to get a deserving job or seat in a reputed institute due to endless paper leaks. Paper leaks are happening under BJP governments and the 'Bechte Jao Paper' party has put the future of students and the country at stake," the Opposition said. Lamba cited previous instances of paper leaks in BJP-ruled states of Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/paper-leak-government-cong-targets-bjp-over-jee-mains-exam-scam-nsui-to-hold-nationwide-protest-on-monday-1027054.html
04-09-2021||National Politics||EC throws a lifeline to Mamata Banerjee||The Election Commission on Saturday threw a lifeline to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and announced the schedule for the bypoll in Bhabanipur, thus giving the Trinamool Congress supremo an opportunity to get herself elected to the Legislative Assembly of the state. The polling for the by-election in Bhabanipur Assembly Constituency of West Bengal will be held on September 30. The votes will be counted and the result will be declared on October 3 – just about four weeks before the deadline for Banerjee to get elected to the State Assembly will end. Though by-elections were expected to be held in altogether five assembly constituencies in West Bengal and 27 in other states, the EC decided to hold bypoll only in Bhabanipur, citing “constitutional exigency”. The EC quoted the Chief Secretary of West Bengal conveying to it that the Covid-19 situation was under control in the state and the by-election in Bhabanipur should be held immediately in view of the administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid a constitutional crisis and a vacuum in the top executive posts in the state government. The commission had similarly come to the rescue of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena supremo Uddhav Thackeray and held bypolls to fill up nine vacancies in the state legislative council on May 21 last year amid the nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The EC will also hold polling in Samserganj and Jangipur assembly constituencies of West Bengal and the Pipli assembly constituency in Odisha on September 30. The polling in the three constituencies during the assembly elections in West Bengal and Odisha in March-April this year were adjourned due to death of the candidates. It, however, did not announce by-elections to fill up three vacancies in the Lok Sabha too. Banerjee led her party to a landslide victory in the assembly polls, but lost to her protege-turned-foe Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in Nandigram. She commenced her third term as the Chief Minister of West Bengal on May 5 last. She had time till the first week of November to get elected to the legislative assembly in order to continue at the helm of the State Government. Sovandeb Chattopadhyay of the Trinamool Congress was elected to the legislative assembly from Bhabanipur during the recent elections in West Bengal. He, however, resigned from the membership of the State Assembly, apparently to make way for the Trinamool Congress supremo to contest from the constituency, which she was representing in the House since 2011. The Trinamool Congress over the past few months repeatedly submitted memorandums to the EC, asking it to hold the by-elections to fill the vacancies in the legislative assembly of West Bengal. The EC stated that it had decided against holding by-elections to fill up the 31 assembly seats and the three Lok Sabha seats, as the Chief Secretaries of the states, except West Bengal and Odisha, conveyed to it that it would be advisable to hold the bypolls after the upcoming festival season. They also brought to the EC’s notice the constraints like flood and the Covid-19 situation, including the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic. Not only Thackeray and Banerjee, the EC had in the past similarly come to the rescue of others too – former prime ministers P V Narasimha Rao and H D Deve Gowda in 1991 and 1996 respectively, several chief ministers, including Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) in 1991, Rabri Devi (Bihar) in 1997 and Vijay Bhaskar Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) in 1993.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-throws-a-lifeline-to-mamata-banerjee-1027109.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||India reports 42,618 new Covid-19 cases, 330 deaths||India's Covid-19 infection tally rose by 42,618 in a day to reach 3,29,45,907 while the number of active cases touched 4,05,681 following an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. Of these, Kerala reported 29,322 new infections and 131 deaths on Friday. The total death toll mounted to 4,40,225. India's active cases now stand at 4,05,681. Meanwhile, 3,21,00,001 people have so far recovered with 36,385 recoveries over the past 24 hours. In a span of 24 hours, the active caseload rose by 5,903, and now comprises of 1.23 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.43 per cent, the ministry said.  The daily positivity rate was recorded  2.50 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.63 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 71 days, according to the ministry. A total of 67.72 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.   (With inputs from wire agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-42618-new-covid-19-cases-330-deaths-1026881.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Restrictions on assembly of people continue in most of Kashmir Valley, mobile internet snapped again||Restrictions on assembly of people remained in force in most parts of Kashmir Valley after the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani while mobile Internet services were suspended on Saturday morning after being restored the previous night, officials said. Geelani, 91, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday night after a prolonged illness. The pro-Pakistan separatist leader, who spearheaded separatist politics for over three decades in Jammu and Kashmir, was buried at a mosque near his residence. Following his death, restrictions were imposed in the Valley as a precautionary measure. Restrictions on assembly of people remained in force in most parts of the valley but curbs on movement have been eased in some parts, the officials said, adding the curbs were in place in Srinagar's Downtown (old city) and Hyderpora, the native area of Geelani. Roads leading to Geelani's residence here remained sealed with barricades put up to stop the movement of people, the officials said. Security forces have been deployed in strength in the city and elsewhere to maintain law and order, they added. Internet services and mobile telephony services across all operators were restored on Friday night after remaining suspended for two days. However, Internet services on mobile devices were suspended again on Saturday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-on-assembly-of-people-continue-in-most-of-kashmir-valley-mobile-internet-snapped-again-1026893.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Muzaffarnagar 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' to decide electoral equations in UP's 'Jatland'||Both the BJP and the opposition parties would be closely monitoring the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) sponsored 'Kisan Mahapacnahat' scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district on Sunday in protest against the new farm laws as it could decide the electoral equations in the 'Jatland' in the state.  Nurturing dreams to counter the BJP in the 'Jat' dominated western Uttar Pradesh region, the major opposition players would be hoping that the 'mahapanchayat' proved to be a ''grand success''. The BJP, however, will be praying for poor attendance at the congregation. The 'mahapanchayat' assumes greater electoral significance as for the first time since the 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal riots, which claimed over 60 lives and left thousands homeless, that farmer leaders from both Hindus and Muslim communities will be sharing the stage. A sharp communal polarisation following the communal riots had proved to be a huge boon for the saffron party.  The BJP had swept the western UP region in the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 and 2019 and in the state assembly elections in 2017 riding on the division between the 'Jats' and the Muslims, who together have decided the outcome of the polls in the past.  The two communities are influential in over one hundred assembly constituencies in Meerut, Baghpat, Shamli, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Moradabad, Agra, Mathura, Aligarh and few other districts. While the BKU leaders claimed that around five lakh farmers from across the country were expected to attend the 'mahapanchayat', the police officials remained tightlipped on the numbers. The massive deployment of the security personnel in Muzaffarnagar and also on the roads leading to the venue of the meeting, however, indicates that the number could be sizable. ''We intend to send a message to the farmers and others across the country through this mahapanchayat....this government has been humiliating us...we are branded as criminals...so many of our colleagues have died during our ongoing agitation against the farm laws but the government did not take notice of our demands,'' senior BKU leader Yuddhveer Singh said in Muzaffarnagar. BKU leaders from different 'khaps' (caste panchayats) have been visiting the villages and towns in different parts of the state to make the 'mahapanchayat' a success. All the opposition parties have extended support to the 'mahapanchayat' though it is not yet clear their representatives will be allowed to attend or address the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarnagar-kisan-mahapanchayat-to-decide-electoral-equations-in-ups-jatland-1026923.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||5 devotees run over by truck as their tempo turns turtle after hitting tractor trolley in Uttar Pradesh||Five devotees, including four women, were run over by a truck when their tempo turned turtle after hitting a brick-laden tractor trolley at Buddha Circuit area in the district, police said on Saturday. Superintendent of Police Arvind Kumar Maurya said the accident occurred late on Friday night when 9 people of Utraula in Balrampur district were returning from Dargahm Sharif in Bahraich. In Narayanpur village, the tempo rammed into the stationary tractor-trolley and it overturned. All the passengers of the tempo fell on the ground and they were run over by a truck. "Five passengers died while three others got seriously injured," Maurya said. The deceased were Nizamu (35), Kitabulnisha (71), Parveen (25), Rubina (25) and a 50-year-old woman, the police officer said. The injured, Saira Bano (40), Aasma (25) and Basyauddin (25), have been sent to the medical college in Bahraich for treatment. According to a statement issued by the Uttar Pradesh government in Lucknow, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the loss of lives. He also directed the local administration to provide immediate medical treatment to the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-devotees-run-over-by-truck-as-their-tempo-turns-turtle-after-hitting-tractor-trolley-in-uttar-pradesh-1026931.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||8 years on, only 5% houses covered by Delhi government's 24x7 water supply pilot project||Eight years after the Delhi government started a pilot project to ensure 24x7 water supply in Malviya Nagar and Vasant Vihar, only five per cent of the households in the two areas have been covered, according to official data. The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) had started the project in partnership with private companies in January 2013. The deadline for completing the work was December 2014, officials said. There are 50,000 households in Malviya Nagar and 8,000 in Vasant Vihar. Around eight-and-a-half years later, the pilot project has covered 783 houses in two small pockets -- Navjeevan Vihar and Geetanjali Enclave -- in Malviya Nagar, and 2,156 houses in West End Colony, Anand Niketan and Shanti Niketan of Vasant Vihar, according to the data accessed by PTI. Officials said there isn't enough water available to ensure 24x7 supply in the entire project area. "The infrastructure for 24x7 water supply is ready in most of the areas, but more water is required for implementation," an official said. On an average, each household in Delhi gets around four hours of water supply per day. The DJB supplies around 935 million gallons of water per day (MGD) against the demand of 1,140 MGD. The utility has been simultaneously working on multiple water augmentation projects which will yield results in the next few years, another official told PTI. The DJB plans to discharge treated effluent of high quality at Palla and lift it at Wazirabad for further treatment. This project, the first-ever of its kind in India, will give an additional 95 MGD of water by December 2024. The capital will get another 50 MGD of water from Himachal Pradesh by December 2022. By October next year, the utility will start drawing 25 MGD from the reservoirs created in the Yamuna floodplains to retain excess water in the monsoon season. Around 200 MGD of groundwater will be extracted from areas with high water tables such as Roata in Najafgarh in southwest Delhi. According to estimates, Delhi will have 1,305 MGD of water available to meet the demand of its residents by March 2025. "The ongoing water augmentation projects will culminate in phases over the next three years. The infrastructure for 24x7 water supply will also be ready by that time," an official explained. "The projects have been expedited under the Arvind Kejriwal government. Not much had been done earlier on this front," he added. Besides Malviya Nagar and Vasant Vihar, the DJB has been providing 24x7 water supply to two colonies – Ranaji Enclave and Vipin Garden – in Nangloi area. The trial in Nangloi started in October last year. The 24x7 water supply projects in the three areas will cover 12 per cent of the city's population. Another such project is being implemented in the command areas of Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants. It will cover 11 per cent of the capital's population and will be completed in 2024. The pilot has succeeded in bringing down non-revenue water (NRW) from 62 per cent initially to 10 per cent and water consumption from around 600 litres per capita per day (LPCD) to around 220 LPCD in Shanti Niketan and Anand Niketan in Vasant Vihar. But per person consumption remains high (323 LPCD) in Westend Colony where consumers have big houses and gardens. In some cases, per person consumption is as high as 1,400-1,500 litres per day, the officials said. On an average, a person needs 240 litres of water per day in Delhi. NRW means water lost due to leakages or theft before it reaches the consumer. The officials also said that the losses in the distribution network in Malviya Nagar are still "very high" and one of the main reasons is "frequent damage to water pipelines by other utility providers", such as during the laying of gas pipelines. Experts said to ensure 24x7 supply, a leakage-proof pipeline network, constant water pressure, sensors and metered connections are a must to prevent leakages and theft. In the existing infrastructure, the DJB supplies water at high pressure. So, whenever the supply exceeds the demand, say on rainy days, the pipelines burst at weak points. As part of the pilot project, the DJB replaced 30-35 years old pipelines. Around 60 per cent of the network in Malviya Nagar and 80 per cent in Vasant Vihar had to be changed. Most of the leakages are found in house-service connections. These pipes have a life of eight to 15 years. So, all the household connections have been changed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-years-on-only-5-houses-covered-by-delhi-governments-24x7-water-supply-pilot-project-1026935.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||6 companies of PAC, 2 companies of RAF to be deployed for Kisan Mahapanchayat in UP||Six companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and two companies of rapid action force (RAF) will be deployed for the 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' to be held on Sunday on issues concerning farmers, including the contentious Central farm laws. DIG of Saharanpur range Preetinder Singh said on Saturday that the event will be videographed while five SSPs, seven ASPs and 40 police inspectors will be posted on security duty. Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary and member of Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the anti-agriculture law stir, Yudhvir Singh said that issues such as the Central farm laws, sugarcane support price and power supply would be discussed in the Kisan mahapanchayat. Farmers from across the country, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Maharashtra will take part in the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-companies-of-pac-2-companies-of-raf-to-be-deployed-for-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-up-1026942.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at factory in Lal Tapper Industrial Area in Dehradun||A fire broke out at a factory in Lal Tapper Industrial Area in Dehradun, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-lal-tapper-industrial-area-in-dehradun-1026945.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Ladakh admin signs 'historic' MoU with BRO for upgradation of road network||The Ladakh administration and the Border Roads Organisation signed an MoU for upgradation and improvement of road network in the Union territory, officials said on Saturday. Calling the MoU a “historic” move, they said the Union territory (UT) administration also assigned seven projects to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) considering their expertise in hilly areas to construct tunnels and roads. “This initiative will ensure the overall development of Ladakh in the long run. It will further enrich the relationship and coordination between BRO and UT Ladakh,” an official spokesman said. He said the memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed by Chief Engineer, Project HIMANK, Brig Arvinder Singh, Chief Engineer Project VIJAYAK Brig Ashish Gambhir; and Chief Engineer, Public Works (Roads and Buildings) Ladakh P C Tanoch at the UT secretariat here on Friday in the presence of Principal Secretary Pawan Kotwal and Director General BRO Lt General Rajeev Chaudhary. Commissioner Secretary, PW(R&B), Ajeet Kumar Sahu, who was also present, said the BRO has agreed to upgrade the roads on fast track mode for which funding would be provided by the UT administration. With the completion of road construction projects, the overall economy of the region would get a boost, especially in the tourism industry, the spokesman said, adding that it would also ensure safety of local people as well as tourists besides reducing distance and increasing tourist influx.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-admin-signs-historic-mou-with-bro-for-upgradation-of-road-network-1026957.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi government to celebrate Teachers Day as 'Abhar Diwas', award 122 teachers||The Delhi government will celebrate Teachers Day on Sunday as 'Abhar Diwas' and award 122 teachers who discharged their duties diligently during the Covid pandemic, Deputy Manish Sisodia said on Saturday. Besides, the new 'Face of DoE' (Directorate of Education) awards will be given to two teachers -- Raj Kumar and Suman Arora. Also, two special awards will be given to Bharti Kalra and Rani Bhardwaj who during the pandemic provided tablet devices to the students and supported them in various ways so that they can continue with their studies, the deputy CM said. He said that of the 1,108 applications received for the Delhi government's teachers' awards, 122 have been finalised by a panel. Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said earlier the number of awards were 103 and this year it has been increased. The eligibility criteria have been relaxed to bring guest teachers and private tutors under consideration for the award. The norm of 15 years of teaching experience to be considered for the award has been relaxed to three years, he added. The recipients will be presented with the awards at a ceremony on Teachers Day on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-to-celebrate-teachers-day-as-abhar-diwas-award-122-teachers-1026964.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Over 7 acres of encroached prime land retrieved in J&K's Samba||Over seven acres of prime land was retrieved during a major anti-encroachment drive in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said on Saturday. The anti-encroachment drive was conducted on Friday in Ramgarh's Dabuz Kaka village by a special team constituted by the Deputy Commissioner of Samba Anuradha Gupta. The official said that the anti-encroachment team pressed multiple earth mover machines to remove several temporary and permanent structures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-7-acres-of-encroached-prime-land-retrieved-in-jks-samba-1026965.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||MP: 107 dengue cases in Bhopal district so far this year, no death||As six persons were found infected with dengue in Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh in the last 24 hours, the number of such cases recorded there has gone up to 107 so far this year, an official said on Saturday. However, no death has been reported due to the infection this year, he said. "Since January 1 this year, a total of 107 people have been found infected with dengue, a mosquito-borne viral infection," district malaria officer (DMO) Dr Akhilesh Dubey told PTI. Most of the cases were reported in Bhopal city. "Out of the 85 wards in the city, 10 wards account for 85 per cent of these dengue cases. These places are Teela Jamalpura, Halalpura, Peergate, Budhwara, Kamla Nagar, Saket Nagar, AIIMS hostel, Katara Hill, Berkheda Pathani and Harshvardhan Nagar," he said, adding that these areas were closely being monitored. A total of 39 teams, each comprising two to three doctors, have been formed to check the areas where more number of such cases were reported, he said. Dr Dubey said that the mosquitoes that cause dengue primarily bite during the day and they typically live in and around houses, breeding in stagnant water. This viral infection is mainly reported from urban areas, but now it is being detected in rural areas too, he said. "In urban areas, these mosquitoes thrive in standing water accumulated in objects like coolers, money-plant pots and trays. But now since people in rural areas also have these appliances, this infection is being reported from there as well," the DMO said. Dr Dubey advised people to take a number of measures to prevent dengue, like using mosquito nets while sleeping, wearing full-sleeved clothes, changing water lying in containers at homes after every seven days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-107-dengue-cases-in-bhopal-district-so-far-this-year-no-death-1026974.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Five stray dogs killed in acid attack in Ujjain||At least five stray dogs died after some unidentified persons poured acid on them in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain, prompting the police to register a case after animal lovers raised concerns over the barbaric act, an official said on Saturday. An offence under section 428 (commits mischief by killing animals) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Nagjhiri police station on Friday, the official said. The matter came to light when an animal rights group in Indore received a call on its helpline that some strays had been brutally attacked with acid, it was stated. “We got information on our helpline that unidentified persons had poured acid on the mouths of five stray dogs in Nagjhiri police station area of Ujjain on Wednesday," said Priyanshu Jain, Indore unit president of People for Animals. Some locals had rushed the dogs, aged between four and eight years, to a veterinary hospital, where they died during treatment, she said. Members of the organisation petitioned to senior police officers about the incident, following which a case was registered, Jain said. Meanwhile, sub-inspector Livan Kujur of Nagjhiri police station said, “We are going through the CCTV footage of the area to zero in on persons responsible for the attack.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-stray-dogs-killed-in-acid-attack-in-ujjain-1026978.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Rains lash parts of Delhi, lowering temperature||Rains lashed parts of the national capital on Saturday afternoon bringing the mercury down. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a yellow alert for Delhi for Saturday, predicting light rain or thundershowers. Rains were witnessed in the northeast, north and central parts of Delhi. The city on Saturday recorded a minimum temperature of 26.1 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the IMD said. The city recorded 0.7 mm of rain in the last 24 hours. The relative humidity was 88 per cent, it said. The weather department has predicted a generally cloudy sky with light rain during the day. The maximum temperature is expected to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. With an AQI of 67, the air quality was in the 'satisfactory' category, the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board at 9.05 am showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-lash-parts-of-delhi-lowering-temperature-1026979.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||UP floods: Adityanath says state govt stands with all citizens||With parts of Uttar Pradesh grappling with floods, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the life of every citizen is very valuable and his government stands with all people of the state. Addressing a gathering at Shahpur Mandi Parishad in Domariyaganj tehsil here, the CM said the flood-affected people are being provided with ration. He also asked officials to prepare a list of farmers whose crops were destroyed due to the deluge so that they can be provided financial assistance. Adityanath had said on Friday that a total of 15 districts in the state have been affected by the deluge -- the third witnessed by the state this year. He had also conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas in Gonda, Bahraich and Balrampur districts. The CM said on Saturday that for the past two weeks, owing to heavy rains in Nepal, the water levels in rivers Rapti and Burhi Rapti have increased, leading to the flooding of nearby areas. Every effort is being made to provide help to the people of Domariyaganj and Naugarh tehsil. "The life of every citizen is very valuable and the government stands with all citizens. The flood-affected people are being given 10 kg rice, 2 kg pulses, salt, wheat flour, spices, edible oil and other necessary things. The provision of fodder has also been made for animals," Adityanath said. He said the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and other forces have been deployed for carrying out relief and rescue operations. Instructions have been given that people should be provided nutritious food. Adityanath directed officials to prepare a list of farmers whose crops were destroyed due to the floods and provide them financial assistance. He said people whose houses were damaged in the floods would be provided new ones under the 'Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana'. "The flood-affected families are being provided ration and oral rehydration solutions (ORS) as they are vulnerable to ailments such as dehydration and diarrhoea due to flooding. Dry ration is being given and meals are being provided through community kitchens," he said. Snake venom antidote and anti-rabies vaccines are being supplied to the flooded areas, he also said. The chief minister cautioned the people against spread of vector-borne and water-borne diseases once flood water recedes and appealed to them to join the state government's special sanitation drive from September 5 to 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-floods-adityanath-says-state-govt-stands-with-all-citizens-1026985.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi court restrains manufacturer from using Gucci's logo on products||A Delhi court has restrained a city-based manufacturer from using the logo of international luxury brand Gucci on its products and directed it to pay damages to the tune of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 1.66 lakh as costs. The Italian luxury fashion house based in Florence had moved the court seeking to restrain Shipra Overseas owned by Intiyaz Sheikh from infringing its trademark and copyright with regard to "socks". District judge Bharat Parashar said that there is no reason to disbelieve Gucci's claim and noted that the company has acquired very high goodwill, exclusivity, distinctiveness and unique identity with respect to its products. "I am left with no doubts whatsoever that the plaintiff (Gucci) has been successful in establishing its case entitling him for grant of a decree of permanent injunction in its favour and against the defendant," the court said in its order dated August 27. The judge further directed that all the infringing goods from the premises of the Delhi-based manufacturer be handed over to Gucci and destroyed. He also said that the company is liable to pay damages to Gucci and awarded Rs 2 lakh in the latter's favour, in addition to Rs 1.66 lakh as costs of litigation. Gucci alleged that in 2019, its field representatives found that Sheikh's company was manufacturing, stocking and offering large quantities of counterfeit products including socks and packaging material under their well-­known "green and red stripes" logo and mark "GUCCI". It sought an injunction against the company from manufacturing, trading, selling, supplying, marketing, offering for sale or deal in any other way under the mark "GUCCI".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-restrains-manufacturer-from-using-guccis-logo-on-products-1026986.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Cross-examination begins in 1990 case of IAF personnel killing, Rubaiya Sayeed abduction||The cross-examination of witnesses in the three-decade-old cases of the gunning down of four IAF personnel and the abduction of then Union Home Minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed's daughter Rubaiya Sayeed in Jammu and Kashmir began at a special court here on Saturday. Abdul Rehman Sofi, a prosecution witness in both the cases, and Saleem alias 'Nanaji', an accused in the killing of IAF personnel, were present in the court, officials said. Yasin Malik of the proscribed Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front, who has been charged in both cases separately along with other accused, joined the proceedings through video-conferencing from Delhi's Tihar Jail where he is lodged. Officials said the cross-examination was deferred after some time as many other accused could not appear in the court for what their counsels termed "disturbance" in the Kashmir Valley. Senior counsel Monika Kohli, who has been appointed as the CBI chief prosecutor in these cases, led the examination on behalf of the agency. Kohli has been representing the CBI as a retainer counsel in the high court for the last seven years and had successfully opened trial against Malik in the two sensational cases which had taken place in 1989-90 when militancy erupted in the Kashmir Valley. Malik, currently lodged in the Tihar Jail after he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in April 2019 in connection with a terror funding case, informed the court that he would like to cross-examine the witnesses himself and would not take any help from any lawyer, the officials said. The charges were framed against Malik and six others on March 16 last year in the killing of four IAF personnel on the outskirts of Srinagar on January 25, 1990. Besides Malik, others accused charged in the killing of IAF personnel are Ali Mohammed Mir, Manzoor Ahmed Sofi alias Mustafa, Javed Ahmed Mir alias 'Nalka', Showkat Ahmed Bakshi, Javed Ahmed Zargar and Nanaji. The had CBI filed the charge sheet in the killing of the IAF personnel in August 1990. According to the CBI, Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel were fired upon by terrorists in which 40 of them, including a woman, received serious injuries and four of them died on the spot. In the 1989 abduction of Rubaiya Sayeed, the court had framed the charges against Malik and nine others on January 11 this year. They all have been charged with murder, attempt to murder and under sections of the now-defunct Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, or TADA Act. Decks for the trial of Malik and others in the case were cleared in April 2019 when the Jammu and Kashmir High Court struck down a 2008 order that had transferred the hearing to Srinagar. In the abduction case, the court framed charges against Malik and nine others -- Ali Mohd Mir, Mohd Zaman Mir, Iqbal Ahmad Gandroo, Javed Ahmad Mir, Mohd Rafiq Pahloo, Manzoor Ahmed Sofi, Wajahat Bashir, Mehraj-ud-Din Sheikh and Showkat Ahmad Bakshi. The 10 are among two dozen accused named by the CBI in its charge-sheet filed before the TADA court. Of the remaining accused, Mohammad Rafiq Dar and Mushtaq Ahmad Lone -- both top commanders of JKLF — are dead and 12 are absconding. The absconding accused are Halima, Javed Iqbal Mir, Mohammad Yaqub Pandit, Riyaz Ahmad Bhat, Khursheed Ahmad Dar, Basharat Rehman Noori, Tariq Ashraf, Shafat Ahmad Shangloo, Manzoor Ahmad, Gulam Mohammad Taploo, Abdul Majeed Bhat and Nissar Ahmad Bhat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cross-examination-begins-in-1990-case-of-iaf-personnel-killing-rubaiya-sayeed-abduction-1027024.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Restrictions imposed in Kashmir after Geelani's death: IGP||Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday said that restrictions have been imposed in the valley, including suspension of internet services, in the wake of senior separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani's death. As per reports, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that the restrictions were imposed in view of the death of Geelani. Notably, nonagenarian Geelani passed away on Wednesday evening at his uptown Hyderpora residence in Srinagar. He was 92. Meanwhile, DIG North Kashmir appealed to the people not to panic and avoid movement towards Srinagar. “In the view of the death of senior Hurriyat leader, the public of North Kashmir is requested not to panic, Please avoid movement towards Srinagar. Appeal public to keep calm, and stay inside their houses and pray for the departed soul,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-imposed-in-kashmir-after-geelanis-death-igp-1027026.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Minor beaten up in presence of police on suspicion of 'love jihad'||A 16-year-old Hindu boy who had allegedly run away with a girl was beaten up by a group of men in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas district allegedly on suspicion that it was a case of so-called ‘love jihad’, police said on Saturday. No arrest has been made so far in connection with the incident which took place four days ago. Both the girl and the boy hail from Uttar Pradesh, police said. A video of the incident also went viral on social media. The boy had reportedly run away with the 12-year-old girl from Balia in Uttar Pradesh and police in Dewas had been alerted to look out for them, said an official. A team of police personnel spotted them in a bus at Bhunsara toll booth, 17 km from Dewas city, said Sonkach area sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP) Prashant Singh Bhadoria. Just as the police was taking them away, over a dozen men, who were apparently following the bus in two cars, appeared on the spot and set upon the boy, he said. The video showed several men slapping, hitting and punching the boy even as the policemen tried to stop them. The accused apparently thought that the boy was Muslim and had run away with a Hindu girl, said another police official. Both are in fact Hindu, he said. “They thought it was a case of `love jihad'. We were telling them that both were from the same community, but they didn't listen," he said, adding that if the boy had not been rescued by the police in time, he might not have survived. 'Love jihad' is a term used by some right-wing leaders who claim that there is a `conspiracy' to lure Hindu girls and convert them to Islam through marriage. The girl and the boy were taken to a safe place and later handed over to the Uttar Pradesh police, the SDOP said. On Friday, Dewas district police registered a case against four men who were identified from the video, and 15 other unidentified persons under IPC sections 353 (use of criminal force on any person with a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant), 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 294 (use of obscene word). “We are trying to identify the other accused. As the charges against the accused are bailable and do not invite punishment of more than seven years, we are going to serve notice to them (before deciding on arrest),” SDOP Bhadoria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-beaten-up-in-presence-of-police-on-suspicion-of-love-jihad-1027059.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Harish Rawat fearful over about threat of acid attack on party campaign||Former chief minister Harish Rawat has expressed apprehensions about the threat of an acid attack on the Congress's Parivartan Yatra in Uttarakhand as part of a conspiracy to disrupt the party's campaign for Assembly polls in 2022. In a tweet on Thursday, a day ahead of launching the party's Parivartan Yatra from Khatima, Rawat said he received a "worrying piece of information" from two sources. "Political or ideological rivalry is alright, healthy competition in terms of performance is okay. But if you single out a political rival and instigate some students or motivate them to throw ink laced with acid on them, it would be a blot on the politics of Uttarakhand," Rawat said. "If it does happen, it can be easily guessed which party is behind this," he said without naming any party. However, Rawat who is the party's campaign committee head in Uttarakhand, did not say anything in the tweet about the party leaders who could be targeted if such an attack took place. Alerting every one including the administrative agencies about the threat, he said he prays to Goddess Purnagiri that nothing of the sort happens during the party's poll campaign and it turns out to be just an apprehension. Accompanied by Pradesh Congress President Ganesh Godiyal and Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand Assembly Pritam Singh, Rawat launched the party's Parivartan Yatra from Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar district on Friday. The yatra, which has to be carried out in phases, has so far crossed through Khatima, Sitarganj, Kichcha and Lalkuan in Udham Singh Nagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/harish-rawat-fearful-over-about-threat-of-acid-attack-on-party-campaign-1027060.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Kashmir remains under lockdown for third consecutive day over Geelani's death||Kashmir valley continued to remain under a strict lockdown for the third consecutive day on Saturday with internet services blocked to prevent any protest over the death of hardline Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Geelani. Reports said large contingents of police, paramilitary and army personnel manned the roads which were blocked by barricades and concertina wire throughout the valley. Though voice calling and broadband internet services were restored late on Friday night after remaining suspended for two days, internet services on mobile remain suspended. An official said mobile internet services are likely to be restored on Sunday evening. Nonagenarian Geelani passed away on Wednesday evening at his uptown Hyderpora residence after a prolonged illness. Authorities immediately deployed a heavy contingent of security personnel across the Valley to avoid any law and order problem. He was laid to rest at a graveyard barely 500 metres from his house. A local news gathering agency, KNO, quoting his family members, alleged that police snatched the body of Geelani and didn’t allow his two sons to even participate in the burial. Eyewitnesses said heavy deployment of police, CRPF and mobile vehicles remained stationed outside the Geelani's residence for the third consecutive day and no one was allowed to visit his house. Roads leading to his residence were sealed with barbed wires, they said. For the third consecutive day, shops and commercial establishments remained shut across the valley. Public transport was off the roads due to the strict restrictions in place. A police spokesperson said that the situation across Kashmir was under control and no untoward incident was reported from any part of the valley in the past two days. Meanwhile, moderate Hurriyat Conference chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, while paying glowing tributes to Geelani “for his immense contribution and sacrifices on political and resistance fronts” said, “The demise of Geelani Sahib has not only created a big void in the political corridors of Jammu and Kashmir but also marked the completion of an era.” In a statement, he paid homage to “veteran resistance leader for his consistency, steadfastness and courage and enduring time and again imprisonments and tortures in interrogation centres.” “The continuous house imprisonment of Geelani Sahib despite his old age and various ailments became reasons for his ill health which ultimately led to his demise,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-remains-under-lockdown-for-third-consecutive-day-over-geelanis-death-1027061.html
04-09-2021||North and Central||Seers express displeasure over AIMIM referring to Ayodhya by its old name 'Faizabad'||Ahead of AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi's visit here, seers have raised objections to Ayodhya's former name, Faizabad, being used in the party's posters put up in the district and termed it an "anti-Hindutva" move. They have warned that if Ayodhya is not mentioned in the posters, then Owaisi's public meeting in the district will not be allowed. Owaisi will visit the mausoleum of 18th century Sufi Saint Sheikh Aalam Makhdoom Zada in Rudauli in Ayodhya district and hold a public meeting in the vicinity of the shrine on September 7. "Ayodhya should not be called Faizabad The district's new name 'Ayodhya' is registered in government records," Mahant Raju Das of Hanuman Garhi temple told the media. Mahant Paramhans Das of Tapasvi temple termed it an "anti-Hindutva" move of the All India Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). He said if the posters bearing the name Faizabad are not removed, then the party will not be allowed to hold a public meeting in the district. The Uttar Pradesh government had renamed Faizabad division as Ayodhya in November 2018. Reacting to the objections raised by the seers, the AIMIM's district president Shahnawaz Siddiqui said the district was earlier called Faizabad and people would take time to get used to the change. "Both names are mentioned in the poster. It doesn't matter what name we write, this is not the subject to make an issue," Siddiqui said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seers-express-displeasure-over-aimim-referring-to-ayodhya-by-its-old-name-faizabad-1027098.html
04-09-2021||Opinion||New Delhi's maritime security pivot||Strategic analysts usually divide the orientation of states' geopolitical strategies and military capabilities between states that prioritise naval power and those that give priority to land power. Britain and America are primarily maritime powers, whereas Russia is a land power. China is also a land power and is taking steps to channelize its energies towards the seas. For India, the option of choosing between land and naval power does not exist. Its geography compels it to pursue both. India has extended land boundaries and an equally long coastline. Since independence, India was forced to focus more on building up its land power as the primary challenges to security, namely, China and Pakistan, were on the land.  However, India's peninsular geography, jutting out in the Indian Ocean, has distinct advantages in building maritime power. With the victory of the Taliban in Afghanistan and consequently growing geopolitical leverage of China and Pakistan, the latest developments in India's neighbourhood have reignited the debate between building up of land and naval power. The continuing border standoff with China and the developments in the Af-Pak region underscore the need to train strategic focus seawards more sharply. Some commentators have even made a strong case for prioritizing maritime power.  Interestingly, in August, India undertook a flurry of activities in the maritime realm whose significance goes beyond the "here and now" strategic concerns. These ranged from shaping the debate by engaging international institutions and like-minded countries, augmenting capabilities to project growing naval power and finally and conducting naval exercises with key strategic partners. These activities point towards the growing salience of the maritime dimension in India's foreign policy.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the way with his address to the UN Security Council on August 9. The UNSC meeting on maritime security was attended, among others, by US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian President Vladimir Putin. The purpose of organizing such a debate was to position India as a key global actor in international maritime security.  Towards the end of August, India hosted the National Security Advisers (NSA) meeting of IBSA (India, Brazil and South Africa) countries. This was also the first such meeting between IBSA NSAs and underscored the growing role of maritime security in these three countries' foreign policy.  All three countries face similar developmental challenges, are maritime democracies and depend on secure sea-lanes of communications for their economic and energy security. They agreed to intensify their co-operation in the domain of maritime security in future. India invited Brazil and South Africa for the Milan Naval Exercises of 2022, and it was also decided to hold trilateral naval exercises known as IBSAMAR at the earliest. In the second set of activities, the beginning of the sea trials of INS Vikrant, an indigenously built aircraft carrier, is the most important. Aircraft carriers are a crucial component of naval power, and the capability to make one sends a strong signal about the industrial as well as technological base of the country. It is also a critical node in making a blue water navy capable of operating far away from the home shores for a long duration. As per the Navy, INS Vikrant has been built with about 76 per cent indigenous content. The Navy's statement also noted that India is now part of a "select group of nations with the capability to indigenously design and build an Aircraft Carrier." The aircraft carrier is expected to join the service next year after the completion of the sea trials. Finally, August was a busy month for the Indian Navy as its multiple warships were engaged in the naval exercises across the Indo-Pacific region. The choice of partners for maritime exercises reflects the strategic convergence and shared interests between the participating countries. Indian Navy conducted exercises with the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Vietnam, Britain, the Philippines and the Quad partners (US, Japan and Australia). India, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Qatar have stakes in the security and stability of the Persian Gulf. Therefore, India's naval exercises with these three Gulf players are significant. Naval exercises improve the understanding and interoperability between the naval forces and contribute to the overall strengthening of defence partnership between the participating nations.  It was the first time that India held exercises with Saudi Arabia's Navy. Along with Operation Sankalp, launched in 2019 to provide security to the naval vessels in the Persian Gulf, these exercises position India as an important stakeholder in the security dynamics of the maritime space of the Gulf and the Arabian Sea. The Quad countries and other like-minded strategic partners in the Western Pacific, like Vietnam, are increasingly important in India's foreign policy in the last few years. The naval exercise Malabar between the Quad navies off the coast of Guam in the Western Pacific witnessed "complex exercises including anti-surface, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drill, and other manoeuvres and tactical exercises." This is the 25th edition of Exercise Malabar. In the context of China's increasingly assertive behaviour, these exercises serve the purpose of demonstrating a shared vision and resolve of the Free and Open Indo-Pacific. Strengthening bilateral relations between the Quad partners also feeds into the overall quadrilateral strategic dynamics. Therefore, the "Joint Guidance for Australia-India Navy to Navy Relationship" signed in August between Indian and Australian Navies is a welcome step. The Guidance focuses on developing mutual understanding, cooperating for regional security, collaborating in mutually beneficial activities, and developing interoperability. Overall, India faces grave challenges on its northern peripheries with the continuing standoff with China and the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. It serves to restrict the geopolitical space for India in Eurasia. As India's difficulties in the northern peripheries go up, the maritime dimension will likely assume increasing importance in the foreign policy matrix. The month of August gave us indications in that direction. (The writer is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-delhis-maritime-security-pivot-1026885.html
04-09-2021||Opinion||India should reject a blanket vaccine mandate, adopt a decentralised policy||The recent wave of Covid-19 infections across the United States has been a setback for employers, schools and universities who were readying to open their offices and campuses From a "no mask needed for the fully vaccinated" policy 50 days back to vaccines being made compulsory by both state administrations and private companies alike, the Covid-19 vaccine has become imperative for the recovery process from the pandemic. Given the population size of India and the current pace of vaccinations in the country, the threat of future waves of Covid-19 infections still looms large. Recently, employer institutions (both government as well as private) along with public service provider businesses in the country have mandated the Covid-19 vaccine for their employees and customers, respectively. But if there is a vaccine mandate issued in India, what would be the ideal strategy for implementing it? When does a vaccine mandate make sense?  There is sufficient data to demonstrate that government-sponsored immunisation drives, such as the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) and Mission Indradhanush, have successfully increased vaccine coverage across India, resulting in the loss of fewer lives due to these infectious diseases. There is also documented evidence on how vaccine hesitancy among the Indian masses has stymied the efficient distribution and adoption of vaccines. A vaccine mandate has to balance potential global health risks against a possible violation of personal autonomy. Covid-19 remains a persistent major threat to public health, especially in India, where less than 10 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated. The economic fallout of the lockdowns and millions of Covid-19 infections have had severe repercussions on millions of families across the country. Hence, it makes sense for institutions to demand their employees to be fully vaccinated, particularly in roles that require human interaction. However, there must be certain checks and balances in place when issuing a vaccine mandate. Authorities must consider the legal framework and other factors before going ahead with the process. The legal aspect There has never been a vaccine mandate ever issued either by the government or any private entity in the history of independent India. This raises the question, "Is making the vaccine compulsory allowed as per Indian law?" Though no law explicitly mentions the concept of vaccine mandates, specific provisions have been provided to the state to tackle public health crises, such as the one right now. The Disaster Management Act of 2005 paved the way for creating the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) by the Union government. Section 6 of the Act empowers the NDMA to formulate any policy to tackle disasters. Section 35 of the Act empowers the Union government to take necessary measures concerning disaster management, including issuing guidelines to state governments and non-governmental organisations. Hence, the current laws do provide the NDMA and Union government with the power to mandate vaccinations to tackle Covid-19. What should be the contours of the vaccine mandate? The first and foremost recommendation would be not to issue a blanket mandate covering all sections of society. For such a mandate could lead to unintended consequences like increasing vaccine hesitancy. The mandate should restrict itself to employer institutions (Union, states and local governments and private sector), educational institutions (both government and private), and public service provider businesses (restaurants, gyms, etc.). Though the power of mandating the vaccine rests with the Union government, the decision must be decentralised to the local level, giving local authorities and private entities the freedom to mandate the vaccine when required. Institutions may be recommended to issue vaccine mandates before commencing work from offices for companies and offline classes for schools and universities. This can help reduce the risk factor for those stepping out of their homes for their work or studies. There must also be mechanisms set in place by the government to promote and provide vaccines, especially to the informal sector. This will help in addressing any inequity that exists in the vaccination process. Factors to consider While the issuance of mandates is just the first step, various caveats need attention when doing so. Mandates should be allowed if the authority issuing them can produce proof of a sufficient supply of reliable and approved vaccines and have the capacity to arrange the vaccination drive for all those covered under the mandate. This would also mean that the authority issuing the mandate is solely responsible for the entire vaccination process, including covering all the costs incurred during procurement and inoculation. The side effects of the Covid-19 vaccine can make some individuals unavailable for work for a few days post-vaccination. The mandate issuing authority should be responsible for putting in place a leave policy providing the necessary time for recovery for all those who take the vaccine post the mandate. Though compulsory vaccination is a must as per the mandate, there must be an alternative for those who develop an allergy or a life-threatening response to the vaccine. The mandate, therefore, must be considerate to allow exemptions to those who cannot take the shot for health reasons. A regular and timely testing process can be made available for those exempted from the mandate instead of getting vaccinated. There might also be instances of refusal to comply with the mandate. Though the concept of compulsory vaccinations might be harsh, the threat to public health by Covid-19 takes precedence in this case. The mandate must explicitly mention the implications of disregarding it. In cases of non-compliance post the declaration of the mandate, despite all the above provisions being instituted, the authority issuing the vaccine may be allowed to initiate action against those rejecting the mandate. As the pandemic rages on into its second year, the concept of making the Covid-19 vaccine compulsory is gathering steam around the globe, with several countries issuing blanket mandates for accessing any public services. India, which has been one of the worst-hit nations by the pandemic, must focus on equitable distribution of the vaccine and rapidly increasing the vaccine coverage keeping in mind the possibility of future outbreaks. In India, a targetted vaccine mandate policy, instead of a blanket one, will ensure both of the above and face minimum resistance from the general public. It will eventually expedite the vaccination process, especially for those who currently don't have access to or cannot afford it. (Arjun Gargeyas is a research analyst for Takshashila Institution, and Shambhavi Naik is Head of Research, Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-should-reject-a-blanket-vaccine-mandate-adopt-a-decentralised-policy-1026946.html
04-09-2021||Right in the Middle||A salute to teachers||A little over a year ago, the Covid-19 pandemic affected the whole world. Lockdown was imposed in the country, schools closed and exams cancelled. Teachers and the management staff were worried about what they are going to do about the exams and classes for the following year. Later, the government allowed classes to commence online which was quite hard to adapt to at first. We students thought that it is easier for the teachers as now they only have to prepare presentations.  After nearly a year of online learning, I have realized that online classes are also hard for teachers. In offline classes, teachers could explain lessons in a way that students could understand and they could pay individual attention to students who need it. Teachers would also have control over the class and ensured that each student paid attention to what was being taught. Teaching offline classes is hard enough already but now in the online mode of education, teachers had to learn how to teach on a new medium, face cameras, oversee students and make sure that every student understands what is being taught. They also need to prepare presentations, explanations and have to make sure that every student attends all the classes. Students are also coming to terms with the digital mode of education, I have noticed many a time when a teacher is conducting a class, some students don’t mute and they are also unaware that they are disrupting the flow of classes. Often students, while asking doubts, seem to forget that there are other students present too and start voicing their doubts at the same time, with no one being heard and the teacher not knowing who needs to be guided and answered. I am also trying to understand the anxiety that a teacher goes through before a class. After understanding all the efforts that teachers put in, I am more in awe of the patience and understanding that they bring to their work. They are striving hard so that our futures are bright. It also saddened me that teachers were not paid in full and that they suffered just like so many others. It also pains me that the people responsible for our foundation, instilling discipline, imbibing good values, imparting knowledge and moulding us into the best versions of ourselves also had to bear the economic brunt of pay cuts. Having known that regardless of the pandemic the teachers are still so motivated, energetic and encouraging students to be the best and to work hard for what we want, the least we as students can do is pay attention, give our 100% and improve our punctuality in every class.  (The writer is an eighth grade student)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-salute-to-teachers-1026841.html
04-09-2021||Right in the Middle||A salute to teachers||A little over a year ago, the Covid-19 pandemic affected the whole world. Lockdown was imposed in the country, schools closed and exams cancelled. Teachers and the management staff were worried about what they are going to do about the exams and classes for the following year. Later, the government allowed classes to commence online which was quite hard to adapt to at first. We students thought that it is easier for the teachers as now they only have to prepare presentations.  After nearly a year of online learning, I have realized that online classes are also hard for teachers. In offline classes, teachers could explain lessons in a way that students could understand and they could pay individual attention to students who need it. Teachers would also have control over the class and ensured that each student paid attention to what was being taught. Teaching offline classes is hard enough already but now in the online mode of education, teachers had to learn how to teach on a new medium, face cameras, oversee students and make sure that every student understands what is being taught. They also need to prepare presentations, explanations and have to make sure that every student attends all the classes. Students are also coming to terms with the digital mode of education, I have noticed many a time when a teacher is conducting a class, some students don’t mute and they are also unaware that they are disrupting the flow of classes. Often students, while asking doubts, seem to forget that there are other students present too and start voicing their doubts at the same time, with no one being heard and the teacher not knowing who needs to be guided and answered. I am also trying to understand the anxiety that a teacher goes through before a class. After understanding all the efforts that teachers put in, I am more in awe of the patience and understanding that they bring to their work. They are striving hard so that our futures are bright. It also saddened me that teachers were not paid in full and that they suffered just like so many others. It also pains me that the people responsible for our foundation, instilling discipline, imbibing good values, imparting knowledge and moulding us into the best versions of ourselves also had to bear the economic brunt of pay cuts. Having known that regardless of the pandemic the teachers are still so motivated, energetic and encouraging students to be the best and to work hard for what we want, the least we as students can do is pay attention, give our 100% and improve our punctuality in every class.  (The writer is an eighth grade student)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-salute-to-teachers-1026962.html
04-09-2021||Second Edit||Covid-19: No one will be safe until all are safe||World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Ghebreyesus’ call to the world to enhance supplies of Covid-19 vaccines to poorer countries should receive greater attention and response. The Organization has made this point earlier, too, and it needed reiteration because vaccine-producing countries, especially the rich nations, do not seem to have taken that seriously. It has gained special significance in the context of rich countries taking steps to give booster doses of vaccines to their citizens who have already received vaccinations. WHO has called for a moratorium on booster shots at least until the end of September to allow counties that have not vaccinated even a small percentage of their people to get some vaccination coverage. The US government has announced that all eligible people can receive a third booster dose. The UK, France, Germany and Israel are planning to do so, too.  Vaccine inequity is a problem in the global fight against the pandemic. While the developed countries have vaccinated most of their citizens, the poor countries have been left behind. It is estimated that the richer nations are vaccinating their people 30 times faster than poor nations, and the poorest 50 countries have not vaccinated even 3% of their populations. At the present pace, some African countries will take many years to cover their populations. The reasons are many. Lack of production facilities, financial constraints that make imports difficult, inadequate distribution infrastructure and vaccination facilities and lack of early planning are some reasons. The situation is different from that in India, which has well-established manufacturing facilities and a better delivery system than many other poor countries. India may have learnt lessons from its early mismanagement, and is trying to make up for the lost time, but most poor countries will not be able to help themselves even if they want to.  Since the pandemic respects no geographical, economic or other borders, it should be clear that no-one will be safe from it till everyone is safe in the world. Low coverage in some parts of the world will not only pose dangers to life and health of people in those areas but lead to the emergence of new variants of the virus and the rendering of existing vaccines ineffective elsewhere. So, providing more vaccines to the poorer world is not just a moral and humanitarian imperative, it is in the interest of the rich nations to do so. The WHO-led Covax programme, which seeks to provide vaccines to over 90 countries, is flagging due to lack of support and resources. It needs greater support from all better-placed countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-no-one-will-be-safe-until-all-are-safe-1026847.html
04-09-2021||Second Edit||No-one will be safe until all are safe||World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Tedros Ghebreyesus’ call to the world to enhance supplies of Covid-19 vaccines to poorer countries should receive greater attention and response. The organisation has made this point earlier, too, and it needed reiteration because vaccine-producing countries, especially the rich nations, do not seem to have taken that seriously. It has gained special significance in the context of rich countries taking steps to give booster doses of vaccines to their citizens who have already received vaccinations. WHO has called for a moratorium on booster shots at least until the end of September to allow counties that have not vaccinated even a small percentage of their people to get some vaccination coverage. The US government has announced that all eligible people can receive a third booster dose. The UK, France, Germany and Israel are planning to do so, too.  Vaccine inequity is a problem in the global fight against the pandemic. While the developed countries have vaccinated most of their citizens, the poor countries have been left behind. It is estimated that the richer nations are vaccinating their people 30 times faster than poor nations, and the poorest 50 countries have not vaccinated even 3% of their populations. At the present pace, some African countries will take many years to cover their populations. The reasons are many. Lack of production facilities, financial constraints that make imports difficult, inadequate distribution infrastructure and vaccination facilities and lack of early planning are some reasons. The situation is different from that in India, which has well-established manufacturing facilities and a better delivery system than many other poor countries. India may have learnt lessons from its early mismanagement, and is trying to make up for the lost time, but most poor countries will not be able to help themselves even if they want to.  Since the pandemic respects no geographical, economic or other borders, it should be clear that no-one will be safe from it till everyone is safe in the world. Low coverage in some parts of the world will not only pose dangers to life and health of people in those areas but lead to the emergence of new variants of the virus and the rendering of existing vaccines ineffective elsewhere. So, providing more vaccines to the poorer world is not just a moral and humanitarian imperative, it is in the interest of the rich nations to do so. The WHO-led Covax programme, which seeks to provide vaccines to over 90 countries, is flagging due to lack of support and resources. It needs greater support from all better-placed countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/no-one-will-be-safe-until-all-are-safe-1026959.html
04-09-2021||South||HC orders notice on plea to examine Palaniswami, Sasikala||The Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the Sholurmattam police in the Nilgiris on a plea to examine former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami and expelled AIADMK leader and close aide of late CM J Jayalalithaa, V K Sasikala, in connection with the 2017 Kodanadu heist and murder case. Justice M Nirmal Kumar later adjourned the matter for September 27. Though the prayer in the criminal revision petition from Deepu, M S Satheesan and A Santosh Samy of Kerala, all accused persons in the case, was to set aside a partially dismissed portion of the April 30 order this year of the Sessions Judge at The Nilgiris, they had contended that the judge had passed the order in a hurried manner without considering their pleas in their original petition. The April order allowed estate manager Natarajan alone to depose in the case. It was rejected in respect to the other witnesses. The petitioners contended that the impugned order of the trial court was not maintainable in law and lacked merit. The Sessions judge had failed to note that police had not recorded the statements of material witnesses, who would be able to talk about the ins and outs of the scene of crime at the Estate bungalow, after the death of Jayalalithaa. The premises was under the control of Sasikala and her close relative J Elavarasi, who would be in a position to depose about the valuables which were missing after the crime took place. Hence, the Trial Court has erred in passing the impugned order, they contended. The judge had failed to note that it was the right of the accused to lead witnesses on his side to substantiate his case. He had failed to consider the sensitivity of the case and dismissed the petition in a mechanical manner. He had failed to note that the Investigation Officer (IO) had deposed that the prime accused in the above case is late Kanagaraj, who was the driver of Palaniswami, they said. Within three days from the date of crime, Kanagaraj was killed in a road accident wherein the IO had conducted the probe "in a lethargic manner" and let the culprits go scot free. Hence, the impugned order is liable to be quashed and to set the law in motion. The judge had been a "mute spectator" to the proceedings and "miserably failed" to infer the seriousness of the case where the police had filed their final report in a hurried manner for the best reasons known to them, the petitioners submitted. He had failed to note that it is obligatory on his part to issue process when the accused seeks summoning of any witnesses and production of any document in his defense. Hence, the impugned order is liable to be set aside, they said. Late chief minister Jayalalithaa used the Kodanad estate property as a retreat and after her death in December 2016, the accused allegedly murdered a security guard there, injured another and decamped with valuables, including watches.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-orders-notice-on-plea-to-examine-palaniswami-sasikala-1026812.html
04-09-2021||South||Kerala special schools to be 'smart' soon||Special schools in Kerala will soon have smart classrooms with advanced study equipment and facilities, General Education Minister V Sivankutty has said. Smart room facilities would be made available to to the students of special schools also, he said on Friday after inaugurating the department's 'Jyothirmayi' project, an initiative via YouTube channel to support the educational needs of the special students including those who are hearing impaired and visually and intellectually challenged. As part of the programme, the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) would publish videos, based on various subjects, exclusively for the special kids. "The differently-abled children will also be given top priority in the online classes. Smart classrooms will be made available to them also," Sivankutty said. Stating that 'Jyothirmaryi' is designed in such a way that students, teachers and parents can make use of it alike, he said orientation would be given to parents via the YouTube channel on how to help special children with disabilities in their studies, the way of using educational materials and so on. It would also provide guidance on how to train such children in orientation and mobility and everyday skills, the minister said, adding that trained special school teachers are the resource persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-special-schools-to-be-smart-soon-1026938.html
04-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin announces cancellation of market levy on cotton||A one per cent market levy on cotton and cotton waste would be withdrawn and the relevant legislation shall be suitably amended to give effect to it, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced in the Assembly on Saturday. Citing representations from weavers and entrepreneurs, Stalin said the levy of one per cent fee by the market committee "is cancelled," and an amendment Bill would be passed in the ongoing Assembly session. Under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act 1987, one per cent fee is levied on cotton and cotton waste -based on the sale value- by the market committee. While such a fee should be levied only on cotton bales, cotton and cotton waste also face the one per cent fee, the Chief Minister said. Due to this, small mills faced huge difficulties and withdrawal of levy on cotton has been a long time demand of weavers and entrepreneurs, he said. During a consultation after his government assumed office on May 7 this request was reiterated. Considering such requests, the one per cent market levy is cancelled, he added. According to the TNAPM Act, the market committee shall levy a fee on any notified agricultural produce bought or sold in the notified market area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-announces-cancellation-of-market-levy-on-cotton-1026995.html
04-09-2021||South||Statewide lockdown not an option as it would adversely affect economy: Kerala CM Vijayan||With the coronavirus caseload crossing 41.51 lakh, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday asked the local self government bodies in the state to intervene effectively in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and said neighbourhood committees would be formed to check the spread of the virus. Vijayan said a statewide lockdown was not an option as it would adversely affect the economy and the livelihood of the people and asked everyone to strictly follow the quarantine protocol or else fine will be levied. Vijayan, who was speaking at a virtual meeting of statewide local self-government body representatives and officials, said the state was able to keep the case fatality rate at around 0.5 per cent even when the test positivity rate was around 18-20 per cent. "Neighbourhood committees, comprising government officials, volunteers, resident associations, would be set up for Covid-19 mitigation. Intervention should be made to reduce the spread in the state. The neighbourhood committees, rapid response team, ward-level committees, police and sectoral magistrates should implement the restrictions and control the spread," Vijayan said. He said those who come in contact with a positive patient should be kept under observation and asked the local self government bodies, leaders, and officials to work together as they have done in the initial phase of the pandemic. "We have already given the first dose of vaccine to 74 per cent of the people and second dose to 27 per cent of the population. All health workers and frontline workers have been administered with the first dose of vaccine and 86 per cent of them received the second jab," he said. "Nobody wants another state-wide lockdown because its implementation will adversely affect the economy and the livelihood of the people. Those who are in quarantine should not venture out or else fine will be levied from them. They will be moved to quarantine centres at their own expense. Those who do not have facilities at their residence, should move to Covid first line treatment centres (CFLTCs)," Vijayan said at the meeting which was also attended by Ministers M V Govindan and Veena George among other officials. Kerala has been reporting around 30,000 cases for the last two weeks and on Friday recorded 29,322 new infections and 131 Covid-19 related deaths, taking the infection count to 41,51,455 and the death toll to 21,280.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/statewide-lockdown-not-an-option-as-it-would-adversely-affect-economy-kerala-cm-vijayan-1027025.html
04-09-2021||South||Kerala to enhance vigil against home quarantine violation||The Kerala government has decided to resume measures to ensure strict compliance of home quarantine by Covid-infected people as studies indicated that a good chunk of fresh Covid infection in Kerala were spreading from homes. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that various agencies like police, local bodies and health officials would constantly monitor compliance of home quarantine and facilities to extend assistance to households of people in quarantine would be initiated. Stringent legal measures would be taken against those flouting quarantine norms, and infected persons who flout home quarantine would be shifted to institutional quarantine facilities. Though the state earlier used to strictly enforce home quarantine, laxity crept in on the part of authorities and this was considered to be one reasons for Covid surge in Kerala. Meanwhile, 29,682 more persons were tested Covid positive on Saturday with TPR of 17.54 per cent. The total Covid active cases in Kerala have now reached 2.50 lakh. Vijayan said that international experts who attended a recent meeting convened by the state government expressed satisfaction over state's Covid situation and hence the state would consider further restoring normal life in the state like reopening of schools and withdrawing the night curfew and lockdown on Sundays. A meeting on Tuesday would review the situation. Vijayan said that Kerala was making much progress in vaccination with nearly 75 per cent receiving at least first dose. The state may soon achieve herd immunity. The average hospitalisation of Covid patients in Kerala was also coming down. Experts hailed Kerala's strategies especially by highlighting the low seroprevalence and low death rate of Covid in the state. Experts also pointed out that excess mortality in Kerala was low compared to other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-enhance-vigil-against-home-quarantine-violation-1027044.html
04-09-2021||South||Don't engage PG medical, CRRI students beyond 8 hours duty: Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the authorities concerned not to engage post-graduate medical students and the students undergoing compulsory rotatory residential internship (CRRI) in medical colleges beyond eight hours of duty. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesdavalu gave a direction to this effect, while disposing of a public interest writ petition from Dr G R Ravindranath, general secretary of the Doctors Association for Social Equality. The petitioner sought the strict implementation of a July 2015 notification of the Directorate of Medical Education to provide eight hours duty per day on shift basis to PG medical students and under-graduate CRRI candidates at state-run hospitals and medical colleges. "It was true that the doctors were engaged beyond eight hours duty due to the Covi-19 pandemic. But this practice is no longer prevalent since February this year and there has been no violation. Moreover, committees have been constituted to check this and any individual can make use of this in case of the person being subjected to more work," Government Pleader P Muthukumar told the bench. Satisfied, the bench said there is no doubt that the provisions of the notification may have been breached during the emergency situation that arose both during the first surge of the pandemic and the deadlier second wave. However, the official respondents say that from or about February, there has been no violation and committees had been set up for individual complaints to be lodged before such committees in case a particular student has had to devote more than eight hours per day. "In the light of the above, the petition appears to have served its purpose. Merely because government hospitals and medical colleges may not be appropriately or adequately staffed, will not entail that post-graduate medical students or under-graduate interns would be subjected to additional hours" and the situation should be monitored on a continuous basis, the bench said and disposed of the PIL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-engage-pg-medical-crri-students-beyond-8-hours-duty-madras-hc-1027051.html
04-09-2021||South||CM Vijayan says crisis in Kerala Congress will deepen||Senior CPI(M) leader and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that the crisis in the Congress party in the state is set to intensify, even as the KPCC leadership today appeared to strike a truce with its warring leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. A day after the two factions in the Congress in Kerala, led by the two leaders, lashed out at the new leadership over their "arrogant style" of functioning, KPCC chief K Sudhakaran and Opposition leader V D Satheesan on Saturday reached out to them, expressing their willingness to discuss all matters. Sudhakaran, however, warned the leaders engaging in a public spat, saying such practice would be stopped and a semi-cadre system would be introduced in the party. "The issues within the Congress will intensify, but I am not commenting on their internal matters," Vijayan told a press conference here when asked about the rift in the Congress. He said that if the Congress could carry forward the secular mentality, then it would be good for the country. Chandy and Chennithala, the two titans of Congress in Kerala, recently expressed their displeasure over being sidelined in the selection of district Congress chiefs. When the new PCC leadership started wielding the sword of discipline against their protesting supporters, Chennithala on Friday lashed out at a new power centre in the party, indicating that many of them had violated discipline in the past and asked what would happen if it was implemented retrospectively. "We are ready for talks. I have already spoken to Oommen Chandy. We are not fighting each other. We are on talking terms with everyone. But some people are spreading false information," Sudhakaran told reporters here. Sources close to the senior leadership of the Congress said Satheesan had spoken to Chennithala and offered a truce. Meanwhile, Satheesan, speaking at a party event in (northern Kerala) said Chennithala and Chandy are two senior party leaders and cannot be ignored. "If any party workers are upset over the functioning of the Congress or if any leader is upset over the party decisions, we will talk to them, listen to their grievances and solve it," Satheesan said. Chandy had earlier in the day told the media that he would co-operate if someone takes the initiative to solve the issue. Meanwhile, ousted KPCC general secretary P S Prasanth, who joined the CPI(M) on Friday, met the Chief Minister today. "He (Prasanth) agreed to join and work with CPI(M). He said he wanted to side with secularism," Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-vijayan-says-crisis-in-kerala-congress-will-deepen-1027085.html
04-09-2021||State||Karnataka Cabinet decides to ban online gambling||The Karnataka Cabinet on Saturday decided to impose a ban on online gambling or betting, but lottery and horse racing are not prohibited. The Cabinet decision comes after the High Court of Karnataka repeatedly nudged the state government to take a stand on online betting. “We have decided to ban online gambling,” Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters. The Cabinet approved a draft Bill to amend the Karnataka Police Act to this effect. “We want to put an end to online gambling and the amendment was approved based on the HC directive,” he added. The ban will not include “lottery or wagering or betting on horse races done on any race course within or outside the state,” Madhuswamy specified. The draft Bill defines online games as “involving all forms of wagering or betting including in the form of tokens valued in terms of money paid before or after the issue of it, or electronic means and virtual currency, electronic transfer of funds in connection with any game of chance.” In July, the state government informed the High Court, which is hearing a petition seeking a ban on all forms of online betting and gambling, that it had drafted a Bill. Madhuswamy said the draft Bill will be tabled in the upcoming session of the legislature starting September 13. Earlier this year, Kerala imposed a ban on online rummy games. Last November, Tamil Nadu banned online gambling by promulgating an ordinance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cabinet-decides-to-ban-online-gambling-1026944.html
04-09-2021||State||Mekedatu project: Tamil Nadu creating unnecessary hindrance, says Karjol||Water Resource Minister Govind Karjol said Tamil Nadu is creating unnecessary hindrance against implementing the Mekedatu project. Speaking to media persons after inaugurating Schneider Electric, a smart home solution store in Hubballi on Saturday, he said Karnataka through the Mekedatu project intends to utilise only its share of water for providing drinking water in Bengaluru and surrounding areas. “Tamil Nadu is unnecessarily projecting it as an irrigation project. A few days ago Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and myself held a meeting with our legal team, technical team and others in Delhi and have asked the legal team to defend Karnataka’s case strongly in Supreme Court,” he said and added that the state has also conveyed its position to Central Water Commission (CWC) and are hopeful of receiving a favourable verdict in this regard as Supreme Court has earlier too given favourable verdict in favour of drinking water projects. However, the minister did not respond when asked about the Cauvery River Water Management Authority not taking up the issue of discussing the Mekedatu project during its recent meeting held in Delhi, though it was listed for discussion. The matter was not discussed as Tamil Nadu strongly opposed the project. “We were asked to release 27.987 TMC ft of water to Tamil Nadu under the annual quota. However, due to scanty rainfall in the catchment areas of the Cauvery basin the State could not release the required amount of water. We will release water once there is sufficient water stored,” he said. Kalasa Banduri Replying to a query on farmers giving an ultimatum for implementing of Kalasa Banduri project, Karjol said the State government has approached the Union government to give no objection certificate for the implementation of the project based on the environment and forest clearance certificate issued for the project in 2015. “Goa and Maharashtra have filled a PIL in court. Our legal team is working on it,” he said. On shortage of funds for his department, the minister said the entire country is facing a shortage of funds for implementing projects, but the State government is prepared to implement all the important projects without compromising.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mekedatu-project-tamil-nadu-creating-unnecessary-hindrance-says-karjol-1027046.html
04-09-2021||State||Photography sans flash allowed inside Mysuru Palace: JC Madhuswamy||The Karnataka Cabinet on Saturday decided to close the Lokayukta investigation against Mysuru Palace Board deputy director TS Subramanya on charges that he allowed a pre-wedding photoshoot inside the palace premises five years ago.  In 2016, the son of retired IAS officer Nandakumar B N Aditya, his fiance Navyatha and photographer of ‘Photriya Photography’ Venkatesh were accused of illegal photography inside the Mysuru Palace. "There were two Lokayukta cases, one related to painting work and another on photography, both inside the palace. We did not find any seriousness in the cases, so it was decided to drop them," Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said. "At one time, photography was not allowed inside the Mysuru Palace. Later, the palace board decided that photography without flash will be allowed. In this case, permission had been granted. On this technical ground, we decided not to hold the official responsible," Madhuswamy said. "Even now people are doing photography without flash inside the palace," he said. Asked if wedding photography without flash will be inside the palace, Madhuswamy said: "I'm not saying that. What I am saying is photography is permitted, but without flash. Anybody can do that."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/photography-sans-flash-allowed-inside-mysuru-palace-jc-madhuswamy-1027067.html
04-09-2021||State||Coal ash: Karnataka draws up plan to avoid penalty||Faced with the challenge of clearing more than 40 lakh tonnes of legacy ash in its thermal plants within the 10-year deadline set by the Union environment ministry, the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) is drawing up plans to ensure compliance and avoid penalties. Of the two types of ash generated during the burning of coal in the power plants, fly ash, which is made of fine particles, is purchased at around Rs 400 per tonne by cement and brick industries. However, officials have struggled to dispose of pond ash which contains coarse materials and has very low demand. The pollution caused by coal ash, which contains heavy metals, has drawn the attention of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The tribunal had imposed penalty of up to Rs 5 crore on some private plants failing to dispose of the ash. In 2018, the tribunal had told the state governments and the Centre to ensure that the ash generated everyday is scientifically disposed. Ever since, the three state-owned thermal plants in Karnataka have been making efforts to clear the ash generated on a daily basis. The Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change issued a draft notification in April directing “unutilised accumulated ash shall be utilised progressively within 10 years.” after the states expressed concern over meeting the deadline of five years set in the previous draft. For KPCL officials, the challenge lies in disposing about 41 lakh metric tonne of pond ash that has accumulated over the years. Besides the coarse particles, pond ash is wet and requires a drying process and therefore not preferred by many industries. “At the present rate of disposal, it will require over 32 years to clear the accumulated mounds. We are now calling expression of interest from companies for grinding and drying the pond ash, following which we anticipate more demand and hope to sell about 2.1 lakh tonne per month,” a senior official in KPCL told DH. He said an upcoming cement plant near the Raichur Thermal Power Station is expected to buy an additional one lakh tonne. “We are exploring additional sectors including road construction, to meet the deadline set by the Centre,” the official said. The countdown will begin after the final notification from the Union ministry, which is expected to come in the next few months. “For us, the clock has already begun ticking. We hope to award the tender to grind and dry the pond ash before the final notification,” he added. While the pond ash is sold at Rs 40 per tonne, officials expect the grinding to boost the price thereby avoiding the need for the government to make large investment. “The higher price will compensate the company which sets up the grinding plant,” a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coal-ash-karnataka-draws-up-plan-to-avoid-penalty-1027071.html
04-09-2021||State||‘Caste census is politically-motivated’||A new joint forum of the dominant Vokkaliga and Veerashaiva-Lingayat communities on Saturday alleged that caste census commissioned by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government was “politically-motivated” and had no legal sanctity. The forum claimed that it had the backing of pontiffs Nirmalanandanath Swami of Adichunchungiri Mutt and Nanjavadhuta Swami. “The H Kantharaj Commission was given the task of carrying out the survey and was misused by the then chief minister to reap the political benefits by indulging in caste-based politics,” High Court lawyer and state law association member S Harish said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/caste-census-is-politically-motivated-1027073.html
04-09-2021||State||Karnataka govt approves Rs 38 cr crop loss compensation||The Karnataka government on Saturday approved Rs 38.64 crore to more than 45,000 farmers who have suffered crop losses due to floods.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka told this to reporters while speaking after a briefing session with an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), headed by Ministry of Home Affairs Joint Secretary Sushil Pal, which arrived Saturday for a four-day tour of flood-hit areas.  The state government has estimated losses worth Rs 5,690.52 crore. Of this, the government is eligible to receive Rs 765.84 crore as per NDRF norms, Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-approves-rs-38-cr-crop-loss-compensation-1027074.html
04-09-2021||State||It’s a tightrope walk for BJP over Yediyurappa’s planned yatra||His political opponents will vouch for B S Yediyurappa’s never-say-die attitude. The senior BJP leader is determined to stay mighty with his much-anticipated tour of the state to strengthen the party cadre for the 2023 Assembly elections, a plan he announced soon after stepping down as chief minister. Yediyurappa’s tour plan coincides with the BJP actively trying to slide out of the shadows of its tallest leader in Karnataka. Also, with Union Home Minister Amit Shah announcing that the BJP will fight the next election under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s stewardship, there is speculation surrounding Yediyurappa’s tour plans: what is the former CM up to?  Several BJP leaders talk about the possibility of Yediyurappa cancelling his ‘yatra,’ even as those close to the Lingayat strongman insist it is very much on.  Yediyurappa, 78, who quit in a tearful adieu on July 26, has kept a low profile without revealing much about his ‘yatra’. However, what appeared to be a solo tour is now projected as a full-fledged campaign. “After Ganesha Chathurthi, I will sit with the state BJP president, Cabinet ministers and discuss on the districts I have to travel for party organisation. We will go together. I won’t go alone,” Yediyurappa says. With this, the Yediyurappa camp has put the ball in the BJP’s court to chalk out a tour plan for the 4-time CM. All eyes will be on the next state BJP core committee meeting, where the ‘yatra’ issue is likely to come up for discussion. Given the stature of the Shikaripura MLA, the BJP is expected to remain cautious about rubbing him the wrong way. Political analyst Sandeep Shastri sees Yediyurappa’s role being limited to a senior mentor and guide for the party. “He has made it clear that he is not retiring from active politics and has a job of securing victory for the BJP in the next elections,” Shastri observes. Though the former CM is keen on a statewide tour, it is important to understand that Yediyurappa has not been able to do what he wanted when he was in power for two years. The Central leadership holds more sway over the affairs of the state unit now than before, Shastri says. Bommai is seen as a reconciler with the ability to address any conflicts emerging out of a possible Yediyurappa ‘yatra’. There’s no opposition to Yediyurappa’s ‘yatra,’ BJP general secretary N Ravikumar maintains. “We will sit, talk and chalk out the details in the next core committee meeting,” he says. Also, the ‘yatra’ won’t affect Bommai in any way, he adds. Sources told DH that among the prime objectives of the now re-programmed ‘yatra’ is to project and promote Yediyurappa’s son and BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra as his political heir. “Moreover, the yatra is also a pretext to consolidate his base among the Lingayat community. Yediyurappa still has the wherewithal to swing the votes of the community. There are apprehensions that if the tour succeeds, he will have more say in selecting candidates for the 2023 elections,” a source says. “It is well known that he wants to promote his son,” the source says, hinting that the BJP might not entirely be averse to the proposition. In the BJP, there are already several leaders whose children have fought elections or are aspirants for the party ticket in the next elections, the legislator points out. There is a very slim chance that the party will give a go-ahead for the ‘yatra’ or will allow Yediyurappa room to wield any significant influence in the run-up to the elections, the legislator adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/it-s-a-tightrope-walk-for-bjp-over-yediyurappa-s-planned-yatra-1027075.html
04-09-2021||State||'Good to see M B Patil taking everyone along'||Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha national president Shamanur Shivashankarappa said on Saturday that those who used to say that Veerashaivas and Lingayats are different communities are now saying they are same, after the Congress lost the polls. This, he said, in reference to former minister M B Patil.  Speaking to media persons here, Shivashankarappa, who is also the MLA from Davangere South, said it is a good development that Patil has decided to take everyone along. “People of the community are intelligent and they are observing all developments carefully,” Shivashankarappa said. Slamming former IAS officer S M Jamadar, who fought for a separate religion status for Lingayats, the MLA said he must be sent to the mental hospital. There are 99 sub castes in the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community. “All are same and Jamadar must reveal as to which sub-caste he belongs to. When he was in power, he did not help anyone. Now, he is making statements,” Shivashankarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/good-to-see-m-b-patil-taking-everyone-along-1027106.html
04-09-2021||State||District, taluk courts need hybrid hearing facility: Justice Oka||Supreme Court judge Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka on Saturday said that infrastructure upgradation at district and taluk courts can help dispose five-year-old cases as well as helping poor litigants in the state. Speaking at the felicitation ceremony organised by the Advocates Association of Bangalore, Justice Oka said that if the fresh guidelines for the disposal of old cases are strictly adhered to, then the aim to make Karnataka arrears-free can be achieved by June 2022. “During the pandemic the worst-suffered was the common man. Large number of litigants, who do not have high-stake cases, come to the court for a simple relief like maintenance or a small share in agriculture land. This class of litigants, for which really the judiciary exists, has suffered the most in the pandemic and therefore now our first priority should be to give justice to this class of litigants waiting for justice for a long time,” he said. Referring to the increasing number of cases being filed in family courts in Bengaluru, Justice Oka said that the city needs an ultra modern family court complex, on the lines of Saketh in Delhi. He called upon Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to consider the requirement of hybrid video conferencing in district and taluk courts.   “I am saying this in presence of the honourable chief minister that if we are able to provide hybrid system enabled video conferencing in each court in Karnataka, the state will be the best in terms of judicial infrastructure,” Justice Oka said. Justice B V Nagarathna thanked the members of the bar for shaping her career as an advocate as well as a judge. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and judges of the High Court were present at the ceremony held at Vidhana Soudha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/district-taluk-courts-need-hybrid-hearing-facility-justice-oka-1027112.html
04-09-2021||State||'If there is a third wave, we will have to revise the curriculum'||In an interview with DH’s Varsha Gowda, Karnataka Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and Sakala B C Nagesh says the government is not in a hurry to implement NEP, rather, this is the first step. Excerpts: Classes 9 and 10 have been opened for more than a week now. What are some of the challenges? We don’t want to crowd classrooms. We have made arrangements to see that children maintained social distancing. In some schools, this is challenging as the infrastructure does not allow for it.  The first day saw a combined attendance of just 30 per cent... Initially, some parents might have hesitated to send children to school but we have seen an increase in attendance since then. Currently, the average school attendance is around 60% and this will go up as people gain more confidence about safety norms being followed. Teachers are also calling children up and asking them to come back to school.  What kind of bridge courses are available for children? We have had various programmes, such as the Vidyagama programme, classes telecast on Doordarshan and All India Radio, to engage children when schools were shut. Teachers have also taken immense initiative. They have been sending study materials via WhatsApp, even photocopied worksheets through parents so that students continue to learn. In my experience of visiting schools, the situation is not so bad. There has definitely been some loss, which is why we have asked teachers to conduct 15 days of bridge courses.  Are there any plans to cut down the curriculum?  As of yet, there are no plans to cut the syllabus. But the situation may change tomorrow. If there is a third wave of Covid, we will have to revise the curriculum then.  What is the government doing to reduce the dropout rates? Currently, we are comparing enrollment data in each class to the attendance and if children are absent for a prolonged period of time, we will consider them as dropouts. We have also planned to conduct a survey to get a better understanding. Once we have this data, teachers will engage with parents and persuade them to send their children to school. We have also instructed the Child Development Project Officers to keep track of dropout children so sensitisation programmes can happen.  What will the government do in case there is a third wave?  We are coordinating with the health department to ensure that schools remain safe. Doctors and nurses are involved at the school level, and all safety norms are being followed. We have asked schools to split children into batches if classes are getting too crowded.  Why is the government in a hurry to push through NEP?  There is no urgency to implement NEP. It requires extensive ground work. Our intention is to begin the preparation for it — we need to set up task forces, develop modules, instruct teachers and train them. The window for implementation of the NEP is 10 years from now. This is just the first step, we will give schools and colleges enough time to adapt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/if-there-is-a-third-wave-we-will-have-to-revise-the-curriculum-1027121.html
04-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi civic bodies sees 'peaceful' voting||Voting for the city corporations elections of Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi, along with bypolls to a few other urban local bodies ended "peacefully", poll officials said on Friday. The elections were held strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocols and guidelines, they said. Voting began at 7 am for 252 wards across seven urban local bodies, including the city corporations of Belagavi (58 wards), Hubballi-Dharwad (82), Kalaburagi (55), along with the Doddaballapur City Municipal Council (31), Tarikere Town Municipal Council (23), Bidar City Municipal Council (2) and Bhadravathi City Municipal Council (1), and ended at 5 pm. Also, 21 wards of various urban local bodies in the state that had fallen vacant due to various reasons, went for the by-polls today. The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation saw the highest polling with a voter turnout of 53.81%, followed by the city corporations of Belagavi (50.41%) and Kalaburagi (49.40%), the State Election Commission said on Friday. The smaller local bodies saw a higher turnout. It was 75.80% in the Doddaballapur CMC, followed by 74.22% in the Tarikere Town Municipal Council, 68.13% in the Bidar CMC and 64.27% in the Bhadravathi CMC.  The counting of votes will start 8 am on September 6, the SEC said. The counting of votes will take place on September 6. There were a total of 1,318 candidates in the fray from various political parties for 252 wards across seven urban local bodies and 59 for the 21 wards that are going for bypolls. According to the commission, there were over 14.01 lakh eligible voters in 252 wards, with the highest being in Hubballi-Dharwad - 8.11 lakh. Elections were being held as the term of some of these local bodies had ended and due to orders of the High Court, the Commission had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-hubballi-dharwad-kalaburagi-civic-bodies-sees-peaceful-voting-1026813.html
04-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not considering opening classes 1-5 in Karnataka: Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Saturday that his government had no plans to restart physical classes for grades 1-5 for now. “We still haven’t considered that,” he said. “Based on how classes 6-8 go, we will decide.” Last week, the government decided to resume physical classes for grades 6-8 from September 6. Bommai also said that the government would reissue guidelines for public gatherings and large-scale meetings following recent instances of Covid-19 protocol being violated, especially during the recent BJP Jan Ashirwad Yatra. “We are seriously examining this...there have been a few incidents. We will reissue guidelines for public gatherings,” he said. As per the existing Covid-19 guidelines, large-scale gatherings and political rallies are prohibited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-considering-opening-classes-1-5-in-karnataka-basavaraj-bommai-1026928.html
04-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's daily Covid-19 cases dip below 1,000; 21 deaths reported||Karnataka on Saturday reported less than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases with 983 infections and logged 21 deaths, taking the total caseload to 29,54,047 and the toll to 37,401. The state had on August 30 reported less than 1,000 fresh cases, with 973 that day. Saturday also saw 1,620 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,98,874. Out of 983 cases reported on Saturday, 289 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 618 discharges and seven deaths. The active cases in the state stood at 17,746. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.61 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.13 per cent. Dakshina Kannada followed Bengaluru Urban in the fatality count with five deaths, Hassan and Mysuru logged two each, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 289, Dakshina Kannada 162, Udupi 97, Mysuru 89, Hassan 62, while the rest were scattered in other areas. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,39,123, followed by Mysuru 1,76,433 and Tumakuru 1,19,411. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,15,721, followed by Mysuru 1,73,135 and Tumakuru 1,17,638. Cumulatively a total of 4,41,53,718 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,59,248 were done on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-daily-covid-19-cases-dip-below-1000-21-deaths-reported-1027066.html
04-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai to decide on Ganesha Festival celebrations: Karnataka Cabinet||The Karnataka Cabinet on Saturday authorised Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to take a decision on relaxing restrictions on Ganesha Festival celebrations across the State. "The Chief Minister has been authorised to call a meeting (of experts and officials) and take a decision regarding Ganesha festival celebrations," Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said.  Speaking to reporters here after the Cabinet meet, he said the Chief Minister would be talking to Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and superintendents of police (SPs) of various districts and get information on the Covid-19 infection rate in the districts. "He (CM) is likely to take a decision either by tomorrow or day-after-tomorrow on the celebration of the festival by following the Covid protocols.... to have a policy for the entire state (for such celebrations) he will seek inputs from experts and district administrations," he added. Several organisations and political leaders, mostly from the BJP and those with Sangh Parivar background, have been mounting pressure on the State government to ease the curbs on the festival. Citing Covid-19, the government had, earlier, banned celebration of the festival in public and said the people can celebrate in their houses. The Minister said expert opinion would be sought on whether to lift the weekend curfew in three or four districts where it is still in force. Also, the Cabinet decided to amend the Panchayat Raj Delimitation Act. "Under this amendment, it is proposed to have a separate delimitation commission for panchayat raj, with a retired ACS (Additional Chief Secretary) as its chairman," he said. The Cabinet gave the green signal to sanction Rs 17,72 crore to buy medicines and equipment to prepare for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Noting that Boston Consulting Group was appointed by the government as a consultant to attract investments in the State, the Minister said the Cabinet has decided to make use of the expertise of the group for another year at a remuneration of Rs 12 crore per year. Among the other decisions of the Cabinet include procurement and distribution of 13,061 toolkits for SC/ST students at ITIs across the State at a cost of Rs 17.18 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-to-decide-on-ganesha-festival-celebrations-karnataka-cabinet-1027068.html
04-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amit Shah's remark on Bommai has not gone down well with party leaders||Union Home Minister Amit Shah's statement on winning the next Karnataka assembly elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has not gone down well with senior party leaders. Former chief minister Jagadish Shettar who refused to join the cabinet of Bommai saying that it hurts his self respect to be under his junior, on Saturday met BS Yediyurappa, who recently stepped down from the CM's post to make way for Bommai. Both leaders discussed for about 30 minutes the developments in the Karnataka BJP. Sources said that both are unhappy with Amit Shah's statement projecting Bommai as the future leader of the party. Those close to them opined that there was no urgency to make such an announcement as there is still time for assembly elections. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj KS Eshwarappa contradicted the statement of Amit Shah in Shivamogga by stating that he is for collective leadership in the state. "Amit Shah has said that BJP will come to power in the next elections under the leadership of Bommai. I don't know under what circumstances Amit Shah issued those statements. The party is for collective leadership. Bommai will also play a key role," he maintained. Bharatiya Janata Party MLA M.P. Renukacharya, from the Yediyurappa camp, said that people should not misunderstand the statement of Amit Shah. His remark does not mean that Yediyurappa and Shettar have been sidelined in the party. It is just not possible to sideline a leader like Yediyurappa. The elections will be fought under his guidance only, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amit-shahs-remark-on-bommai-has-not-gone-down-well-with-party-leaders-1027076.html
04-09-2021||West||One dead, five injured in explosion at textile factory in Maharashtra's Palghar||One person was charred to death and five others were injured, some of them seriously, in an explosion and fire at a textile factory in Tarapur industrial area of Maharashtra's Palghar district early on Saturday, an official said. Palghar district Disaster Management Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said the incident occurred around 6 am. The sound of the explosion was so loud that it was heard four to five kilometers away. The explosion triggered a major fire at the unit located in Tarapur MIDC, Boisar, he said. "One person was killed in the incident, while five others suffered injuries and have been admitted to a local hospital. The deceased is yet to be identified as the body is charred beyond recognition," he said, adding that two factory workers have reportedly gone missing after the incident and efforts were on to find them. The fire brigade personnel and police rushed to the spot on being alerted and launched a rescue operation, Kadam said. As per the information available so far, the explosion occurred in one of the units of the factory, the official added. "The blaze has been brought under control and the cooling operation is underway," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-dead-five-injured-in-explosion-at-textile-factory-in-maharashtras-palghar-1026891.html
04-09-2021||West||Mumbai Police celebrate release of 'Money Heist' finale with a performance of 'Bella Ciao'||As people got on to their screens, hooked to binge-watch the final season, Mumbai Police also had a special way to celebrate the arrival of the show finale. The Police released a video of their band, the Khaki Studio, performing a rendition of the popular song Bella Ciao. Though the song is one of resistance and has its roots in famers' struggles in Italy, it has achieved mainstream popularity in recent years owing to the show. While they released the video yesterday evening, in the morning they had shared a video on their Twitter which showcased their rehearsals for the Bella Ciao performance. Known for their witty social media game, the force wrote, "Always trying not to miss out on detections nor on trends & tractions. We'll be here, never letting the season of safety end,while you race against time to finish this one #KhakiStudio planning to pull a #heist on your heart one more time with #BellaCiao." Always trying not to miss out on detections nor on trends & tractions Netflix, the streaming platform where the show was released, replied to the video on Twitter saying, "We always love a well-coordinated plan." We always love a well-coordinated plan 👌❤️||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-celebrate-release-of-money-heist-finale-with-a-performance-of-bella-ciao-1026898.html
04-09-2021||West||Fire in residential building in Mumbai's Borivali, fireman injured||A fire broke out on the top floor of a seven-storey residential building in suburban Borivali on Saturday and a fireman was injured during the firefighting operation there, an official said. The blaze erupted in Ganjawala Residency building in Borivali west around 7 am, he said. "After being informed about the incident, some fire brigade personnel and police staff rushed to the spot and launched the firefighting operation and started rescuing people. Forty-three-year-old fireman, Nathu Sarjerao Badhak, sustained 8 to 12 per cent burn injuries during it," he said, adding that all the residents of the building were safe. The fire was extinguished by around 9.30 am, the official said, adding that Badhak was admitted to Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali and discharged after treatment. The fire was caused due to an electrical short circuit at an office that was shut, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-residential-building-in-mumbais-borivali-fireman-injured-1026917.html
04-09-2021||West||Mumbai airport conducts mock drill||The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Saturday said it has conducted a simulated mock drill as per scheduled security protocols. The mock drill was held on Saturday morning at Terminal-2 location in collaboration with the multiple stakeholders, the Mumbai airport operator said. After all successful assessments and checks, the Mumbai airport's terminal was continued to be declared safe with the drill completed at 11:48 hours, it added. The airport operator, however, did not disclose for how long the mock drill went on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-conducts-mock-drill-1026984.html
04-09-2021||West||Chidambaram talks about restructuring, reviving Congress in Goa ahead of Assembly polls||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said he has been given the task of restructuring and reviving the party in Goa, where Assembly polls are scheduled next year. The former Union minister, who is back in Goa within a week of his first visit to the coastal state after taking over as election observer, on Saturday held a number of meetings with the local party office-bearers and leaders, including the heads of election committees. When asked, he refused to talk about the possible alliance with the like-minded parties for the next year's Assembly polls, saying that his mandate was only to restructure and revive the state unit of the party ahead of the elections scheduled in February 2022. "My mandate is only on restructuring and reviving the party, reconstituting the block committees and enrolling members," he told reporters at the Congress House here. Chidambaram arrived in the state on Friday on a three-day visit. During his visit last week, he had said that the Congress was getting "battle-ready" to fight all 40 seats of the Goa Assembly, and also claimed that the political atmosphere in the state was "extremely favourable" for the party. Meanwhile, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee President Girish Chodankar said, "The party is planning to chalk out a strategy for the next year's elections. We are reworking all the booths across the state." "Several leaders are joining the Congress in Goa as they look at the party as hope against the BJP. People have decided to defeat the BJP in the next elections in the state and the pulse is in favour of the Congress," he added. The Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But the saffron party had moved swiftly to join hands with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. Over the years, Congress's strength in the Legislative Assembly has dwindled to five after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chidambaram-talks-about-restructuring-reviving-congress-in-goa-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1026990.html
04-09-2021||West||No poll alliance with those who betrayed us: Maharashtra BJP chief on Shiv Sena||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday said his party would henceforth not contest polls in alliance with those who had betrayed it, an apparent reference to the Shiv Sena which walked out of a partnership several decades old and formed a government in the state with the NCP and Congress in 2019. Speaking to reporters in Jalna, some 60 kilometres from here, Patil said the BJP was getting good response from the people of the state, and, therefore, there was no need to ally with people who got votes in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his efficient administration and then switched sides. "We will not ally with those who got the chief minister's post with 56 seats in the Assembly (a reference to the Sena) or a party which got the deputy CM's post (NCP) with 54 seats, or with those who got the revenue minister's post with 44 seats (Congress)," Patil asserted. "Whenever polls take place, we will ally with those who always stood by us, like Ramdas Athawale, Sadabahu Khot, Mahadev Jankar, Vinayak Mete, Vinay Kore etc," he added. He also hit out at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for constantly speaking about a third wave of Covid-19, adding that "as the second wave had declined, there was need to normalise life with precautions".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-poll-alliance-with-those-who-betrayed-us-maharashtra-bjp-chief-on-shiv-sena-1027057.html
04-09-2021||West||MVA is Sena's government: Sanjay Raut||Though the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra is a coalition, it is primarily the Shiv Sena's government, party MP Sanjay Raut said here on Saturday. The government is made up of three parties including the NCP and Congress, but it "belongs to the party who has the chief minister's post," he said, addressing Sena workers. "This is our government because this is Uddhav Thackeray government. Everybody is ours, but Shiv Sena is above all. Every party needs Shiv Sena," Raut added. Sena president Uddhav Thackeray was one of the "top five chief ministers in the country" and not a single BJP chief minister figures in this list, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-is-senas-government-sanjay-raut-1027104.html
