05-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA, minister urge Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai to withdraw weekend curfew from Dakshina Kannada||MLA D Vedavyas Kamath and Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and appealed to him to withdraw the weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada district. The MLA, in his memorandum, stated that the weekend curfew had affected industrialists, daily-wage labourers, autorickshaw drivers, bus employees and small industries. "There is a demand to withdraw the weekend curfew in the district," he said, adding that the CM has promised to look into the issue. The MLA and the minister said that people had been following Covid safety measures. On the other hand, following an assurance from Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor, the traders, who had decided to stage a protest by violating weekend curfew and opening the business establishments on Saturday, postponed their protest. The traders' associations in Puttur and Uppinangady have been demanding withdrawal of the weekend curfew to facilitate trading activities. Puttur Assistant Commissioner Dr Yathish Ullal has warned of acting against those who violate the weekend curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-minister-urge-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-to-withdraw-weekend-curfew-from-dakshina-kannada-1027249.html
05-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||20 Cong workers held for agitation against protocol 'violation' over Shivamogga-Chitradurga national highway||Around 20 workers of Youth Congress were arrested by police on Sunday when they tried to stage a protest at the venue of foundation stone laying ceremony for upgradation of Shivamogga-Chitradurga national highway and rail over bridge against the alleged violation of protocol by BJP leaders with regard to the event. The protestors alleged that BJP leaders did not invite elected representatives of Congress including MLC R Prasanna Kumar for the event and thus, violated the protocol. "We strongly condemn this," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/20-cong-workers-held-for-agitation-against-protocol-violation-over-shivamogga-chitradurga-national-highway-1027267.html
05-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||21 teachers honoured with district-level best teachers award||Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Water Transport S Angara praising teachers said that they play a pivotal role in the overall development of the students' personality. He was speaking during the district-level Teachers Day celebrations organised by district administration, zilla panchayat and department of public instruction at Prestige School in Jappinamogaru, Mangaluru. "Teachers impart quality and value-based education to children and mould their personality. If all the teachers work for the betterment of their students, then students will have a bright future. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the teachers have discharged their duties effectively in imparting education to their students. Despite no physical classes, the teachers have prepared the students by conducting online classes for the board exam," he said. In his presidential address, MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath said that teachers have ensured that students are not devoid of classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "Former president Dr S Radhakrishnan contributed to the society. All his ideology should be inculcated in life by following his path," the MLA said. Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Kumar said that teaching is one of the noble professions. "Teachers should impart value-based education to the children and help in building a healthy society. Teachers play a role in bringing out the hidden talents in children," Kumar added. A total of 21 teachers were honoured with district-level best teachers award on the occasion. The award winners in lower primary school category: Chethana Kumari P V (Kundrabettu School), P Shivananda Bhandary (Bollukallu School), Surekha K (Basti Garden School), Prathima Hebbar (Bagambila School), Archana (Pencharu School), Shanthakumari (Chennavara School) and Shwetha K (Achrappadi School). The winners in higher primary school category: Suchetha (Kedila School), Amithananda Hegde (Bangadi School), Pavana K (Kapikadu School), Suresh Rao (Nalyapadavu School), Rajeev Shetty (Aliyoor School), Sheenappa Naik N (Golithattu School), Sunanda G (Peralu School). In the high school category, the winners are Venkataramana Acharya (Sajipamooda School), Ajithkumar (Geurukatte School), Sundar (Nadugodu School), Evarest Felix Crasta (Jeppu School), Shankara Naik (Kallamandnoor School), Geethamani S (Kombettu School) and Kenchaveerappa (Markanja School).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/21-teachers-honoured-with-district-level-best-teachers-award-1027270.html
05-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||West Bengal police arrest youth from Kadaba||The West Bengal police arrested a youth from Kadaba on the charges of misuse of the Facebook account of a young woman. The arrested is Sanjay Krishna, a resident of Balleri in Noojibalthila of Kadaba. The young woman from West Bengal, who was studying in a college in Bengaluru, had filed a complaint with the West Bengal police. Following the complaint, the West Bengal police with the help of Kadaba police arrested Sanjay Krishna. The arrested was produced before a court in Puttur. The court has remanded him in police custody for investigation. The police have taken the arrested to West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/west-bengal-police-arrest-youth-from-kadaba-1027300.html
05-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Go for eco friendly turmeric Ganesha, Udupi DC urges public||Deputy Commissioner Kurma Rao has appealed to the people to shun away Ganesha idols made of plaster of Paris (POP), harmful colours and install Ganesha idols made of turmeric to celebrate the festival in an eco-friendly manner. He said the immersion of the Ganesha idol made of plaster of Paris pollutes the rivers and other sources of water. The use of plaster of Paris and harmful colours for Ganesha idols is banned. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the celebrations of Gauri Ganesha festival should be within the guidelines. Instead of Ganesha idols made of plaster of Paris, it is better to use the idols made of turmeric mixed with wheat flour or ragi flour. Instead of plastic decoratives, flowers can be used for offering prayers to the Lord Ganesha, he said. To create an awareness on eco-friendly Ganesha festival, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has initiated a 10 lakh turmeric Ganesha campaign across the state. Students and the public can prepare a turmeric Ganesha at home, offer pooja, click a selfie and upload the same to the KSPCB's website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/go-for-eco-friendly-turmeric-ganesha-udupi-dc-urges-public-1027373.html
05-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister questions resurvey of lands, officer clarifies||Munish Moudgil, commissioner for survey, settlement and land records, has given a clarification after district incharge Minister S T Somashekar questioned the need for resurvey of encroachments of government lands in Mysuru, when the regional commissioner has already given a report.  Speaking to reporters, Somashekar, who came out in support of MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, said, "Who gave the authority to Munish Moudgil to order for a resurvey when a competent authority has done the same?" during the Teachers' Day programme on Sunday. Replying to this, Munish clarified that the survey ordered for Mysuru is not a resurvey. "Allegations of multiple irregularities were made previously in writing. But the enquiry ordered by the regional commissioner was on a single specific issue, whether the 'rajakaluve' is encroached or not. All other allegations like encroachment of MUDA land and irregularities in resort approval in lake buffer zone were not enquired into". "The petitioner has been specifically asking for enquiry on all points and not only the single point at the behest of one person. Hence, a comprehensive fact-finding survey as regards allegations of encroachment has been ordered. It's a falsehood that the survey enquiry already completed under the directions of the RC are being repeated," he clarified. Based on a petition filed by an activist, demanding a comprehensive survey of government lands, the commissioner of land records has formed a team for the resurvey of land coming under different survey numbers in Mysuru taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-questions-resurvey-of-lands-officer-clarifies-1027390.html
05-09-2021||National||Police complaint against hockey coach for offering namaz inside stadium||Right wing activists on Saturday gave a police complaint, raising objection to offering of 'namaz' by a hockey coach inside Gandhi stadium. A senior police officer has assured that no one will be allowed to offer namaz in the stadium nor will a new tradition be allowed in the district. Office bearers of Hindu organisations reached Kotwali police station and gave a complaint against the hockey coach, who they said, offers namaz at the Gandhi Stadium located in the Kotwali area, police said. They alleged that there was anger among people and demanded registration of FIR. They said that they also have a video of the namaz in the stadium. Circle Officer (City) Sunil Dutt Sharma told media that the matter was being looked into and a watch was being maintained so no such activity takes place in a public place. On receiving the information, senior officials reached the Kotwali police station and assured of proper investigation into the case. They also assured that namaz will not be allowed in the stadium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-complaint-against-hockey-coach-for-offering-namaz-inside-stadium-1027146.html
05-09-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee’s TMC opens account on microblogging site Koo||In a bid to expand its reach on social media, the Trinamool Congress on Saturday created its official account on Koo, the Indian microblogging site. The party will use the Koo platform to share information, updates and developments with the people of West Bengal and Tripura, a senior TMC leader said. Along with the All India Trinamool Congress, the party's Tripura unit and its students' wing also opened accounts on the social networking site. In its first post on the site in both Bengali and English, the TMC said, “We are elated to be on Koo”. The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC will broaden its connection with people in Bangla, Hindi, English and other languages, the party leader said. Koo co-founder and CEO Aprameya Radhakrishna welcomed West Bengal's ruling party on the platform. "We believe that this will enable people to listen to the party's developments and plans," he said. In a short period of time, Koo has crossed 10 million downloads, he claimed, adding that the platform is available in eight languages and gives people the opportunity to interact with multiple users in their mother tongue. The TMC and its several wings have already their accounts on other social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter, while several top party functionaries, including Banerjee, national general secretary Abhisek Banerjee, MPs Mahua Moitra, Derek O'Brien apart from state ministers Bratya Basu, Partha Chatterjee, spokesperson Kunal Ghosh are active on these online sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-s-tmc-opens-account-on-microblogging-site-koo-1027163.html
05-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Uniformity, not unity in diversity'||The Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of Karnal ordered that the police should “break the heads” of agitating farmers last week who trespassed the security cordon set up by the force on Saturday, inviting the irk of farmers' leaders and politicians across the country. Chautala’s remarks were contrary to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who defended the police action contending that the law enforcers responded only after the farmers started throwing stones at them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-uniformity-not-unity-in-diversity-1027165.html
05-09-2021||National||DH Toon | What will the National Monetisation Pipeline power?||The Centre recently unveiled its asset monetisation pipeline (NMP), aiming at long-term lease out of core infrastructure assets to private players and generating Rs 6 lakh crore over a period of four years and help fund new and ongoing capital projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-will-the-national-monetisation-pipeline-power-1027166.html
05-09-2021||National||Controversy erupts after Javed Akhtar likens RSS, VHP, Bajrang Dal to Taliban||Poet-lyricist Javed Akhtar landed himself in a controversy after he said that the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Bajrang Dal and the Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh (RSS) were similar to the Taliban. Akhtar also said that much like Taliban, the right-wing organisations think that "no law is superior to their religious faith." "Just like the Taliban want an Islamic State, there are those who want a Hindu Rashtra. These people are of the same mindset -- be it Muslim, Christian, Jews or Hindus. Of course, the Taliban is barbaric, and their actions are reprehensible, but those supporting the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal are all the same." This statement sparked outrage from the ruling BJP. Maharashtra BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Kadam said that no film of Javed Akhtar's or his family's would be screened in the country till he issues an apology to the members of the Sangh. In a video message on Twitter, the politician said, "Till he doesn't fold his hands and apologise to the functionaries of the Sangh and VHP, his films will not be screened." He added that the statement was shameful, painful and humiliating for crores of functionaries of these organisations who have served the poorest of the poor.  The BJP MLA also urged the Maharashtra government to file a case against Akhtar, and that today at 12 noon they would go to Ghatkopar Chiragnagar police station and protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/controversy-erupts-after-javed-akhtar-likens-rss-vhp-bajrang-dal-to-taliban-1027201.html
05-09-2021||National||42,766 single-day coronavirus cases, nearly 30K from Kerala alone||With 42,766 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection in a day, India's infection tally rose to 3,29,88,673. Of these, Kerala alone accounted for 29,682 Covid-19 positive cases and 142 deaths. The active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The Covid-19 death toll has climbed to 4,40,533, with 308 new fatalities, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am on Sunday. The active cases have increased to 4,10,048, comprising 1.24 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.42 per cent, the health ministry said.  An increase of 4,367 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily new cases are being reported for 70 consecutive days, the ministry said. It said 17,47,476 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of the infection in the country to 53,00,58,218. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.45 per cent. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.62 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 72 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,21,38,092 in the country, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated.  The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 68.46 crore, it said. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The 308 new fatalities include 142 deaths from Kerala, and 64 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,40,533 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,707 from Maharashtra, 37,401 from Karnataka, 35,000 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,854 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,422 from Kerala and 18,491 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/42766-single-day-coronavirus-cases-nearly-30k-from-kerala-alone-1027202.html
05-09-2021||National||Purging Nehru from Indian history like skipping Ronaldo from football records: Chidambaram||Wiping out the name of the country's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru from Indian history is akin to skipping Cristiano Ronaldo from the history of football or the Wright brothers from the history of aviation, former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Saturday. Speaking at a Congress meeting in South Goa's Margao town, Chidambaram also said that homogenisation efforts by the BJP-led Central government is the "biggest enemy of India". "Imagine if the history of football is written, Cristiano Ronaldo will not be there? If the history of motor car is written, Henry Ford will not be there? If the history of aircraft is written, the Wright brothers will not be there? The BJP is attempting to rewrite history. We must stand up against this. And the party which can stand up against this can only be the Congress," Chidambaram said. The former Union minister said this while referring to a poster released by the Indian Council for Historical Research on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of India's Independence, in which, Chidambaram said, Nehru was missing. "And let me warn you. If you allow this trend to continue, they will remove Jawaharlal Nehru chapters from history books. Yes, Sardar Patel is there, and we are happy with that. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad is there, we are happy. But why is Jawaharlal Nehru not there," Chidambaram asked. The senior Congress leader is currently on a three-day visit to Goa in his capacity as the All India Congress Committee's senior observer in-charge of the 2022 Goa Assembly polls. Chidambaram also singled out the 'attempts to create a homogenised culture in the country' as one of the biggest threats facing India. "There are forces in this country who want to homogenise India. One language, one religion, one culture, one food habit. How can we accept that? Not only how should I accept it, but why should I accept it? Why should you accept it? Each state has its own language, culture, way of life, habit, way of dressing, way of family life, way of living together with other people etc. Why should we accept this homogenisation," Chidambaram asked. "India is one country. There is no doubt about it. But this one country is made of many many states, many many cultures, many many ways of life, many languages, many religions, many food habits and each one of us is proud of what we have. Homogenisation is the worst thing that can happen," he said, adding that the price of homogenisation was lynching of persons from specific communities over religion and food-eating habits. "All this is because a small section believes that India must be homogenised. Where will this lead us to? It will lead us to one party, one leader. It will lead to India ceasing to be a democracy and becoming an elected dictatorship. There are many think-tanks and research groups in the world which point that India is no longer an electoral democracy, but it is an electoral authoritarian state," Chidambaram said. "We do not want to live under an authoritarian state. I do not want to fear the police. I do not want to fear the government. I was born free, I want to live free and I want to die free. Homogenisation is the greatest enemy of India and the political party which is propagating this is the BJP. This attempt to homogenise India is the biggest enemy of the country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/purging-nehru-from-indian-history-like-skipping-ronaldo-from-football-records-chidambaram-1027212.html
05-09-2021||National||PM Modi congratulates IAS officer on medal win at Paralympics||Yathiraj ended his campaign with a historic silver after going down fighting against top seed Lucas Mazur of France in the men's singles SL4 class final at the Tokyo Paralympics here on Sunday. The 38-year-old Noida district magistrate, who has an impairment in one of his ankles, produced an entertaining performance before narrowly going down 21-15 17-21 15-21 to two-time world champion Mazur in a 62-minute summit clash. Modi tweeted, "A fantastic confluence of service and sports! @dmgbnagar Suhas Yathiraj has captured the imagination of our entire nation thanks to his exceptional sporting performance. Congratulations to him on winning the Silver medal in Badminton. Best wishes to him for his future endeavours."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-ias-officer-on-medal-win-at-paralympics-1027213.html
05-09-2021||National||I'm not Tendulkar, the entire team has to work together, says CJI Ramana||The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, on Saturday thanked the Centre for clearing the names of nine judges in record six days after they were recommended for elevation to the top court by the collegium, and emphasised that he expects the names of judges for appointment at various high courts are also cleared in the same speed. "You all gave credit to me for the appointments. But this is not my credit... I am not (Sachin) Tendulkar, the entire team has to work together, only then we will win the match," Ramana said. The CJI was speaking at a felicitation function organised by the Bar Council of India. It was attended by Law Minister Kiran Rijiju and several top court judges, days after the appointment of three women judges, including a future woman Chief Justice, and six other judges at one go in the top court. Referring to the Law Minister for clearing the names for appointment to the top court, Ramana said: "He cleared (the names) at a jet speed, all the nine names. I think in record six days' time without any murmur or anything. "I must thank the Prime Minister, the Law Minister and the Government of India for clearing the names. I expect the same speed for the appointments in the high courts. In another one month's time, we expect 90 per cent of the vacancies (in high courts) to be filled in the country." According to the latest data, there are 465 vacancies in the high courts across the country against a total strength of 1,098 judges. On Friday night, the Supreme Court collegium sent as many as 68 names -- the highest at one go -- to the Centre for appointment as judges at 12 high courts. Out of the 68, there are 44 lawyers while 24 are judicial officers. Ten out of the 68 are women. The top court collegium has made the recommendations for the high courts of Allahabad, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana, Calcutta, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Gauhati, Karnataka, Madras, Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir. Maximum recommendations have been made for the Allahabad High Court. The top court collegium has sent the name of Marli Vankung, the first woman judicial officer from Mizoram, for elevation to the Gauhati high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/im-not-tendulkar-the-entire-team-has-to-work-together-says-cji-ramana-1027214.html
05-09-2021||National||Commendable how teachers ensured education of students continues during Covid times: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted the teaching fraternity on Teachers' Day, and said it was commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured the education journey of students continues in Covid times. He also paid tributes to former president S Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary which is celebrated as Teacher's Day. "On Teachers' Day, greetings to the entire teaching fraternity, which has always played a pivotal role in nurturing young minds," Modi tweeted It is commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured the education journey of students continues in Covid times, he said. "I pay my respects to Dr S Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished scholarship as well as contributions to our nation," Modi said in another tweet.  On Teachers' Day, greetings to the entire teaching fraternity, which has always played a pivotal role in nurturing young minds. It is commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured the education journey of students continues in the COVID-19 times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commendable-how-teachers-ensured-education-of-students-continues-during-covid-times-pm-1027225.html
05-09-2021||National||Why do you hate Nehru so much? Sanjay Raut asks Centre||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the exclusion of former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru's picture from a poster released by a body of the Union Education Ministry to mark the 75th year of India's independence shows the Centre's "narrow mindset", and asked the Union government why it "hates" Nehru so much. Raut, in his weekly column 'Rokhthok' in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, said the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, has excluded the pictures of Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad from its poster, and alleged that it was an act of "political vindictiveness". "Those who had no participation in the freedom struggle and creating history are keeping out one of the heroes of the independence struggle. This act, done out of political vindictiveness, is not good and shows their narrow mindset. It is an insult of each and every freedom fighter," Raut claimed. One can have differences over Nehru's policies after independence, but no one can deny his contribution to the freedom struggle, said the Rajya Sabha member, who is the executive editor of Saamana. "What has Nehru done to hate him so much? In fact, the institutions he built are now being sold to keep the Indian economy moving," Raut said, while referring to the National Monetization Pipeline (announced recently by the Centre), and claimed it was due to Nehru's "long-term vision" that the country was saved from economic devastation. Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin recently took a decision not to remove pictures of former state CMs Jayalalitha and E K Palaniswami from school bags which were being distributed free to children in the southern state. "If he (Stalin) can show political maturity, why do you hate Nehru so much? You owe an answer to the nation," the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said, without naming the BJP. The Modi government's criticism of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was understandable, he said, claiming that the Centre made its hatred public by changing the name of the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award. "You cannot destroy the immortal contribution of Nehru and (former prime minister) Indira Gandhi in nation-building. Those who deny Nehru's contributions will be called villains of history," Raut further claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-do-you-hate-nehru-so-much-sanjay-raut-asks-centre-1027227.html
05-09-2021||National||Ashok Gehlot congratulates Krishna Nagar for clinching gold at Tokyo Paralympics||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday congratulated badminton player Krishna Nagar for winning gold medal at the Tokyo Paralympics.  Nagar on Sunday secured India's second gold medal in badminton at the paralympics after notching a thrilling three-game win over Hong Kong's Chu Man Kai in the men's singles SH6 class final here. The 22-year-old from Jaipur, seeded second, saw off his rival 21-17 16-21 21-17 in the final to retain his unbeaten run at the Games and join compatriot Pramod Bhagat in the gold medal winning list. In a tweet, Gehlot said, "A Superb Achievement for which we are so very proud! A very Big Congrats to him for his stellar success!! @Krishnanagar99".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-gehlot-congratulates-krishna-nagar-for-clinching-gold-at-tokyo-paralympics-1027233.html
05-09-2021||National||FSSAI asks e-tailers to delist non-dairy products claiming as dairy items||Food safety regulator FSSAI on Saturday directed e-commerce companies to delist immediately the non-dairy and plant-based beverages that have label claiming as 'dairy' products.         The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), in a statement, said it has also directed states to investigate use of dairy terms on the labels of plant-based beverages and food products. "Since a lot of such products are sold through e-commerce Food Business Operators (FBOs), FSSAI has instructed all e-commerce platforms to delist such products, which are reported to be in contravention to the regulatory provisions related to the application of dairy 'terms' from their online platforms, immediately," it said.       The FSSAI has further directed that no such defaulting products listed on the online platforms are allowed for sale in the future as well. A directive has been issued to state food safety departments asking them to identify and investigate for violation of use of dairy terminology for non-dairy or plant-based products by FBOs, it added. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) said 15 days may be given to FPOs to modify their product labels in case of any violation. These steps will ensure an appropriate enforcement action against such defaulting FBOs as per the provisions of the Food Safety and Standards (FSS) Act, 2005, it added. As per the general standards for milk and milk products under the Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulations, 2011, the FSSAI said use of any dairy terms for a product which is not milk/a milk product or a composite milk product (e.g. plant based products / beverages) is prohibited and any such action is in contravention of the said regulations. However, exceptions are permissible for usage of dairy terminology in the nomenclature of certain products like coconut milk, peanut butter etc in reference to the internationally accepted principle that dairy terms were being traditionally used in their nomenclature and such products are not substitutes for milk or milk products, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fssai-asks-e-tailers-to-delist-non-dairy-products-claiming-as-dairy-items-1027239.html
05-09-2021||National||RSS distances itself from article targeting Infosys over I-T glitches||"As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects individual opinion of the author," Sunil Ambekar, the national publicity in-charge of the RSS, wrote on Twitter. He also said: "Panchjanya is not mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS." The weekly magazine's cover story for the September 5 edition – 'Saakh Aur Aghaat' (Reputation and Shock) – claimed that Infosys' reputation was in danger due to the difficulties faced by taxpayers while filing I-T returns on the new portal developed by it. The article also mentioned the troubles faced by businessmen in accessing the Goods and Services Tax portal, also developed by the company. “Such difficulties have an impact on peoples' faith in the government. Can Infosys be lax in the services it offers in foreign countries. Questions are aplenty,” read the article. The article also alleged that Infosys has been funding Left wing outfits, fact-checking websites, news portals, and organisations that fuel caste-based hatred. “Should this question not be asked of the promoters of Infosys on the reasons for funding outfits that are anti-national and anarchist,” it asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-distances-itself-from-article-targeting-infosys-over-i-t-glitches-1027240.html
05-09-2021||National||Several farmers converge for ‘Kisan mahapanchayat’ in Muzaffarnagar||Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states on Sunday gathered at Muzaffarnagar for a ‘Kisan mahapanchayat’ aimed at "saving the country", just months ahead of the crucial UP assembly polls. The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar in protest against the Centre’s controversial farm laws. "These meetings will be held across the country. We have to stop the country from getting sold. Farmers should be saved, the country should be saved; business, employees and youth should be saved--this is the aim of the rally,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said. Popular names like Medha Patkar and Yogendra Yadav were seen on the dais. Yadav was given a yellow robe by Tikait, while the BKU leader was presented a mace at the event. Meanwhile, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday described the protesting farmers as "our own flesh and blood" and suggested that the government should re-engage with them in reaching common ground. BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said farmers belonging to 300 organisations spread across different states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, among others, have gathered for the event. He said over 5,000 'langars' (food stalls), including some mobile stalls, have been set up for the participants. The farmers, including women carrying flags of different organisations and wearing different coloured caps, were seen arriving at the venue in buses, cars and tractors. A woman farmer leader from Karnataka addressed the gathering in Kannada language. One of the participants blew a ‘ransingha’ (trumpet), the photograph of which was posted by the Kisan Ekta Morcha on Twitter. "In old times, when the fight was for honour and respect, this instrument (ransingha) was used. Today, a call has been given for war by all 'kisan majdoor' unions against the BJP's ‘corporate raj',” it tweeted in Hindi. Meanwhile, the Muzaffarnagar administration denied Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhry's request to sprinkle flowers from a helicopter on the venue and participants of the mahapanchayat. City magistrate Abhishek Singh rejected the request, saying it cannot be allowed due to security reasons. The district authorities have posted police personnel at the residences of Union minister Sanjiv Balyan and BJP MLA Umesh Malik here, as a precautionary measure. The SKM on Saturday claimed that thousands of farmers from 15 states had reached Muzaffarnagar to participate in the mahapanchayat. The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws said the event would prove that the agitation had the support of “all castes, religions, states, classes, small traders and other sections of society”. "The mahapanchayat of September 5 will make the Yogi-Modi governments realise the power of farmers, farm labourers and supporters of the farm movement. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat will be the biggest ever in the last nine months," the SKM had said in a statement. It also said that 100 medical camps had been set up for the farmers attending the mahapanchayat. The farmers' protest against the three contentious laws has completed over nine months since they first arrived at Delhi borders. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/several-farmers-converge-for-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-1027244.html
05-09-2021||National||Atal Pension Yojna dominates social security scheme with 66% NPS subscriber base||Atal Pension Yojana has emerged as the most popular social security scheme under the National Pension System with over 2.8 crore subscribers, mainly from the non-metro centres. Out of 4.2 crore National Pension System (NPS) subscribers, over 66 per cent or 2.8 crore opted for the APY at the end of 2020-21, says the annual report of the National Pension Systems Trust (NPS Trust). The State Government Scheme ranks second with 11 per cent share, while the central autonomous bodies (CAB) continued to account for the least number of subscribers of NPS with a share of 1 per cent, followed by state autonomous bodies (SAB) with a share of 2 per cent. "APY is the most subscribed plan among non-metro subscribers. This also reflects the demographic pattern in the country, where more unorganized population segments reside in the non metros, thus accessing the NPS self-initiated plan," the report said. Total assets under management (AUM) for the National Pension System schemes saw a year-on-year growth of over 38 per cent, and stood at Rs 5.78 lakh crore at the end of the year, the report said, adding as of fiscal 2021, NPS had 4.2 crore registered users or popularly known as subscribers. The National Pension System is a defined contribution retirement savings scheme administered and regulated by Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). APY also dominated in terms of growth rate of the subscriber base, with a gain of 33 per cent on-year in fiscal year ending March 2021, followed by the all-citizen model (32 per cent). The Atal Pension Yojana was launched by the Government of India in May 2015. This scheme is open to all citizens who are in the age group of 18-40 years. Under the scheme, a subscriber would receive a guaranteed pension of Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 per month after attaining the age of 60 years, depending upon his contributions. After the death of the subscribers, same pension amount would be paid to his or her spouse. On the demise of both subscriber and spouse, the accumulated pension wealth of the subscriber would be returned to the nominee. Non-metros hade 3.77 crore subscribers or about 89 per cent of the total 4.24 crore NPS subscribers. "Non-metros subscribers have grown by 72.34 lakh in fiscal 2021 (growth of 24 per cent over one-year) compared with metros subscribers which have grown by 4.87 lakh to 35.78 lakh in fiscal 2021 (growth of 16 per cent over one-year)," it said. The report said that age-wise analysis of NPS subscribers show that about 85 per cent were in the 18-40-year age bracket, a jump of 200 basis points (bps) from their share in fiscal 2019-20. Within this young subscriber base, the 18-25-age group represented the largest share at 30 per cent. There were 2.47 crore male subscribers as of end-fiscal 2021, up from 2.02 crore and 1.61 crore, respectively, in fiscals 2020 and 2019. Female subscribers totaled 1.77 crore in fiscal 2021 up from 1.43 crore and 1.12 crore, respectively in fiscals 2020 and 2019. Though the male subscriber continues to dominate the overall subscriber base, female subscriber grew at faster pace at 24 per cent in 2020-21 and 28 per cent in 2019-20 compared to 22 per cent and 25 per cent for males in the respective periods. National Pension System Trust was established by PFRDA as per the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act of 1882 for taking care of the assets and funds under the NPS in the best interest of the subscribers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atal-pension-yojna-dominates-social-security-scheme-with-66-nps-subscriber-base-1027251.html
05-09-2021||National||Innovative teaching methods earn 44 teachers national awards||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday presented National Teachers Awards to 44 educators from across the country for their contribution in developing innovative methods of teaching. "Teachers should keep in mind that every student has different capabilities, talent and psychology, social structure and background. Hence, they should focus on all-round development of each child in accordance with the child’s needs, interests and capabilities," the President said during an online award ceremony held on the occasion on Teachers' Day. During the event, a film detailing all 44 teachers' efforts and achievements was also shown. Nagaraj C M, a science teacher at Government High School, Doddabanahalli in Bengaluru South, was one of the award recipients. He introduced micro-scale chemistry kits for his students to learn the subject.   Devising formula games to make mathematical concepts easy, building a science park, going out of the way for the speedy construction of a school and physically reaching out to students in distant areas of Kargil during the pandemic are among the 44 award-winning efforts.   Mamata Paliwal, who is a mathematics teacher at the Government Girls' Senior Secondary School in Bhiwani, Haryana, got the award for her innovative methods in making the learning of mathematics easier. Kamal Kishor Sharma, the principal of the Government Senior Secondary School in the Kandaghat district of Himachal Pradesh is credited with going out of the way to ensure speedy construction of a school building. "The land on which the school was built had many stakeholders, due to which no construction work was being done. I went door-to-door and convinced the stakeholders and also collected funds for it. During the pandemic, I went door-to-door to discuss the importance of education for children and also to solve students' doubts," he said. Deputy Principal of Delhi's Government Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Vipin Kumar, has bagged the award for providing additional help to students who did not have the means to attend coaching classes for competitive exams. Muhammad Ali, who teaches at the Government Middle School located in Kargil, Ladakh, went the extra mile for his students during the pandemic by physically reaching out to each one of them living in far-flung areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/innovative-teaching-methods-earn-44-teachers-national-awards-1027257.html
05-09-2021||National||Appointment of HC judges made after considering seniority, merit: Supreme Court||The process of appointment of judges to high courts is through a well established process where the HC collegium considers seniority, merit and all inputs received by the government, the Supreme Court has said while imposing a cost of Rs 5 lakh on an advocate for abusing the court proceedings by trying to stop the elevation of a judge. A bench of Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh made the observation while dismissing a plea filed by an advocate seeking directions to consider the representation submitted by him and take necessary action with the proposal of appointment of high court Registrar General A Venkateswar Reddy as a judge of the Telangana High Court. The three-member Supreme Court Collegium in a meeting held on August 17 had approved the proposal for elevation of six judicial officers as judges of the Telangana High Court including Reddy. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate B. Sailesh Saxena seeking directions to the Centre, Telangana and Registrar (Vigilance & Administration) of the High Court of Telangana to consider the representation submitted by him and take necessary action as per law for proceeding further with the proposal of appointment of Reddy as a judge of the Telangana High Court. The petitioner made several allegations against the high court Registrar General and stated that his recommendation should not be processed for his elevation as a judge. The petitioner advocate in his plea claimed that he was a legal advisor for the family of a MP belonging to the Telugu Desam Party and legal counsel for other politically connected persons and alleged that an FIR at the instance of the Registrar was filed on July 31, 2017 in pursuance to a direction issued by high court with a view to harass him. The bench said the high court registrar general, as a responsible officer, only followed the direction passed by the high court judge. The apex court said the high court opined that what the petitioner was attempting to do was to seek an investigation into the allegation that the evidence collected by the investigating officer in criminal complaints filed against him as fabricated and that was found to be nothing but a deflection towards derailing the course of investigation in the complaints lodged against the petitioner. The writ petition was found to be thoroughly misconceived and appears to be an abuse of process of law and a counterblast to the series of criminal complaints in which persons belonging to the 'so-called noble profession got involved'. “We are surprised as the brazenness of the petitioner now filing the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, the aforesaid being the finding against him, to now somehow see that the elevation of respondent No. 4 does not take place on the account of these proceedings initiated by the petitioner. "This is gross abuse of process of law.The process of appointment of judges to the high court is under a well known established process where the collegium of the high court considers recommending the names and in case of judicial officers by seniority and on merits. Thereafter, the proposed IB inputs and other inputs are obtained and the Government processes names. "The collegium of the Supreme Court has the benefit of all the material before taking a call on whether to recommend the name or not. The appointment takes place thereafter by issuance of warrants of appointment. Thus sufficient safeguards exist in the system," the bench said. The top court said the endeavour of the petitioner is to harass respondent No. 4 (high court registrar General) and abuse the court proceedings. "We are of the view that appropriate imposition of costs seems to be the only solution.We thus dismiss the writ petition with costs of Rs 5 lakh to be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates On Record Welfare Fund within four weeks.We also think it appropriate that the Bar Council of Telangana examines the conduct of the petitioner as a member of the 'Noble Profession' and for that purpose a copy of the order be sent to the Bar Council of Telangana," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/appointment-of-hc-judges-made-after-considering-seniority-merit-supreme-court-1027265.html
05-09-2021||National||SC says don't want 'busy bodies' NGOs challenging higher judicial service rules, dismisses PIL||The Supreme Court has said that it does not want "busy bodies" NGOs challenging the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Higher Judicial Services Rules which prescribe minimum qualification for all categories of candidates and that it will rather hear aggrieved candidates. In an order passed on September 3, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said, "We are not inclined to entertain the Special Leave Petition under Article 136 of the Constitution. The Special Leave Petition is accordingly dismissed." During the hearing, senior advocate Ashok Kumar Sharma, appearing for NGO Samvidhan Bachao Trust which has challenged the Allahabad High Court order dismissing the PIL, said that Rule 18 of the UP Higher Judicial Service Rules prescribed one minimum qualification for all General/SC/ST categories candidates and therefore, it defeated the very purpose of reservation. The bench said, "What is this Samvidhan Bachao Trust, an NGO? We don't want any busy bodies challenging the Higher Judicial Services Rules. Let some aggrieved candidates come before us, we will hear them. We cannot have a PIL on this issue." Sharma said that the high court had erred in its finding by treating it as a service matter and dismissing it. He contended that it is a Public Interest Litigation as the provisions affect all sections of people. The bench then asked Sharma if there are any aggrieved candidates arrayed as party in the petition, to which the senior counsel responded in the negative. "Then let the aggrieved candidates come before us, we will hear them, not you," the bench said. The NGO in its appeal said that since 2012, from a total of 75 vacancies advertised for all categories in higher judicial services, 73 posts are still vacant and are being carried forward. It has challenged the advertisement dated January 18, 2021 for direct recruitment to Uttar Pradesh High Judicial Service, 2020 and sought amendment of the rules in accordance with the recommendations of Justice Shetty Commission for recruitment to higher judicial services on the ground that existing provisions are arbitrary and unreasonable. The NGO said that reserved category candidates ought to be given relaxation and priority in the matters of recruitment and promotion as they have been deprived of equal opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-says-dont-want-busy-bodies-ngos-challenging-higher-judicial-service-rules-dismisses-pil-1027281.html
05-09-2021||National||Denmark is India’s ‘very unique partner’ in growing back greener, says S Jaishankar||Denmark is India’s “very unique partner” in its efforts to grow back greener due to the central European nation's strengths, experiences and best practices which are enormously helpful for a country like India at this stage of its development, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said. Jaishankar, who is here on the last leg of his visit to three European nations -- Slovenia, Croatia and Denmark to boost bilateral ties and further strengthen India's cooperation with the European Union (EU), co-chaired the fourth round of the Indo-Danish Joint Commission Meeting (JCM) along with his Danish counterpart Jeppe Kofod on Saturday. In a statement issued after the JCM meeting, the External Affairs Minister said what is unique about India’s relationship with Denmark is that Denmark is the only country with which India has a green strategic partnership. “Everybody says build back better, but we also want to grow back greener. And in growing back greener, we think Denmark is a very, very unique partner, because you have strengths and experiences and best practices which are enormously helpful for a country like India at this stage of its development,” Jaishankar said. It was Jaishankar’s first visit to Denmark and the first by an Indian foreign minister in 20 years, according to the Ministry of External Affairs’ press release issued in New Delhi. The two countries went through the Joint Commission which had devised a joint action plan for the next five years, he said. “We looked at how the joint action plan has delivered even in the middle of Covid,” Jaishankar said as he complimented officials on both sides for their work in the last one-and-a-half year to ease all the travel problems. “We had 10 working groups in our joint commission. We just added an 11th one, on health. Its relevance is obvious given the context of the Covid,” he said. On enhancing the bilateral trade ties, Jaishankar said he met five chief executive officers of “very important” businesses, the key businesses who are in India, who can make a big difference, companies like Grundfos, Vestss, Maersk, Haldor, Topsoe and CIP as well as the major chambers who are concerned with business which includes DIDE, Danish shipping and Agriculture and Food Council. “We have 200 Danish companies operating in India. We have a growing number of Indian companies today here. We also discussed how apart from our own bilateral cooperation, how we could carry forward, our larger trade investment agreements with the European Union and which we have, I believe have Denmark's support. “We have also discussed the Covid situation. How we have each coped with it. What are the lessons and what are the challenges posed by Covid in terms of travel and mobility. Because, in this globalised world, we have tourists, we have students, we have seafarers, we have aircrews and we have to find some way by which their life and their professions are made better than they have been for the last year,” the External Affairs Minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/denmark-is-india-s-very-unique-partner-in-growing-back-greener-says-s-jaishankar-1027289.html
05-09-2021||National||INS Hansa marks diamond jubilee||Indian Navy's premier air station INS Hansa in Goa marked its diamond jubilee on Sunday. The Naval Jet Flight set up at Coimbatore in 1958 with Sea Hawk, Alize and Vampire aircraft, was later commissioned as INS Hansa on 5 September 1961.  After the liberation of Goa, Dabolim airfield was taken over by the Navy in Apr 1962 and INS Hansa shifted to Dabolim in June 1964. Commissioned as a modest air station with only a few aircraft, INS Hansa has increased its prowess over the last six decades and is presently operating over 40 military aircraft, clocking an average yearly flying of over 5000 hours. The air station also supports civil aviation by handling domestic and international flights 24x7, with an average of 29000 flights in a year. INS Hansa is the abode of the Indian Navy's frontline air squadrons - INAS 310 'Cobras' with Dornier-228 aircraft, INAS 315 'Winged Stallions' with the long-range maritime patrol aircraft IL-38SD, INAS 339 'Falcons' with the airborne early warning Kamov-31 helicopter; INAS 303 'Black Panthers' and INAS 300 ' White Tigers' with the supersonic carrier-borne MiG 29K fighters, and INAS 323 ‘Harriers’ with ALH Mk III helicopters.  The air station will soon operate the Boeing P8I long-range maritime reconnaissance aircraft with the commissioning of INAS 316. Cmde Ajay D Theophilus, Commanding Officer, INS Hansa said: "Over the years, the base has represented a crucial segment of the Navy's combat power. Aircraft from Hansa augment the security of the entire western seaboard significantly, including offshore assets, and undertake extensive surveillance to neutralise threats at and from the sea." The base has also provided substantial aid to civil authorities in the form of search and rescue, HADR, flood relief, community activities and numerous Vande Bharat flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-hansa-marks-diamond-jubilee-1027290.html
05-09-2021||National||PM Modi to address 'Shikshak Parv', launch education initiatives on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the inaugural conclave of 'Shikshak Parv' on September 7 via video-conferencing and will also launch multiple key initiatives in the education sector. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said he will launch Indian Sign Language Dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning), Talking Books (audio books for the visually impaired), School Quality Assurance and Assessment Framework of CBSE, NISHTHA teachers' training programme for NIPUN Bharat and Vidyanjali portal (for facilitating education volunteers/ donors/ CSR contributors for school development). The theme of 'Shikshak Parv-2021' is 'Quality and Sustainable Schools: Learnings from Schools in India', it noted. Its celebration will encourage innovative practices to ensure not only continuity of education at all levels but to improve quality, inclusive practices and sustainability in schools across the country as well, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-shikshak-parv-launch-education-initiatives-on-tuesday-1027293.html
05-09-2021||National||Forms for exemption from I-T returns for senior citizens of 75 years and above notified||The income tax department has notified declaration forms to be filed by senior citizens aged 75 years and above with the banks to get exemption from filing I-T return for fiscal year 2021-22. The 2021-22 Budget had introduced a provision for exempting senior citizens of 75 years and above having pension income and interest from fixed deposit in the same bank from filing income tax returns for the financial year beginning April 1. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has now notified rules and declaration forms which senior citizens would have to file with the specified bank who in turn would deduct tax on pension and interest income and deposit with the government. Such exemption from ITR filing would be available only in case where the interest income is earned in the same bank where pension is deposited. The income-tax act requires all individuals having income exceeding the threshold limit to file their income-tax returns. While the threshold for senior citizens (60 years or more) and super senior citizens (80 years or more) is slightly higher, crossing the threshold saddles one to file tax-returns. Non-filing of tax return not only attracts penalties and but one also gets subject to higher rate of TDS. Nangia & Co LLP Director Itesh Dodhi said recognising the compliance burden on senior citizens, this year's budget brought in some relief to the senior citizens above the age of 75. "The CBDT has notified the forms (Form 12BBA) for declaration by the senior citizens to the banks and notified the reporting requirement by the specified banks. With dedicated counters for senior citizens in all major banks and banks providing doorstep banking to senior citizen, this measure is expected to make life easier for senior citizens," Dodhi added. In the Budget Speech 2021-22, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that in the 75th year of Independence of our country, the government shall reduce compliance burden on senior citizens who are 75 years of age and above. "For senior citizens who only have pension and interest income, I propose exemption from filing their income tax returns. The paying bank will deduct the necessary tax on their income," she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forms-for-exemption-from-i-t-returns-for-senior-citizens-of-75-years-and-above-notified-1027295.html
05-09-2021||National||Will hang myself publicly if any corruption allegation is proved: Abhishek Banerjee||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee Sunday said that he would get himself hanged if any central agency can bring to the fore his involvement in any illegal transaction. Speaking to reporters at the Kolkata airport on his way to New Delhi to attend a summon by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with an alleged coal scam case, Banerjee accused the BJP of indulging in political vendetta having lost the state assembly elections. "I reiterate what I had said in November at public meetings that if any central agency can prove my involvement in any illegal transaction of even 10 paise, there will be no need to hold any CBI or ED probe, I will walk up the podium and get myself hanged publicly," he said. He has been summoned to appear before the investigating officer of the case in New Delhi on September 6 for questioning in a money laundering case linked to the alleged coal scam in West Bengal. "I am ready to face any and every kind of investigation," Banerjee said, adding that despite it being a case of Kolkata, he was summoned to New Delhi. "Having lost the elections and failing to tackle Trinamool Congress politically, they (BJP) are now seeking revenge," he claimed. The BJP has no other job than to use the investigating agencies to fulfil their political interests, he said. Banerjee said that he would like to invite any BJP leader to sit face to face with him and discuss what the central agencies have done in the last five years and the fate of the country in the seven-year-rule of the Narendra Modi government. "You (BJP) decide the date, time and venue and I will go; if I cannot expose them then I will not put my feet in the political arena anymore," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-hang-myself-publicly-if-any-corruption-allegation-is-proved-abhishek-banerjee-1027309.html
05-09-2021||National||Develop permanent mechanism for inter-country adoptions under Hindu law, HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court has told the Union government's Ministry of Women and Child Development (WCD) to develop a permanent mechanism to deal with inter-country adoptions under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (HAMA), 1956. A single bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh said a framework would have to be put in place in India as the Hague Convention, 1993, recognises adoptions under HAMA but still stipulates acquiring of a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the central authority in case of inter-country adoptions.  The court pointed out that currently, CARA (Central Adoption Resource Authority) is the only agency dealing with inter-country adoptions. However, there is no existing procedure under it for adoptions under HAMA. It directed CARA to act as the authority for the purposes of enabling inter-country adoptions under HAMA, until a permanent mechanism is established. The court also pointed out that the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Act – 2021, too, does not deal with the category of inter-country adoptions under HAMA.  "The central government would accordingly need to find a permanent solution to the problems being faced by the biological parents, adoptive parents and above all the children who are being adopted under the provisions of HAMA, especially when the said children have to be sent abroad and the requirements under the Hague Convention would have to be fulfilled," the court said. The court directed the Secretary, WCD Ministry, to place a report within two months detailing the manner and mode of creating a permanent mechanism to deal with inter-country adoptions under HAMA, keeping in mind utmost welfare of the children and to avoid any trafficking. The court passed its judgement on a batch of petitions arising out of difficulties faced by couples in inter-country adoptions. Issuing broad guidelines, the court directed that whenever any such adoption takes place under HAMA and a NOC is required for any purpose, including for issuance of a passport or VISA, a special committee would be appointed on an application being filed before CARA, to verify antecedents and consent of the biological parents, details of any religious ceremony conducted, and adoption deed and permission letter from the receiving country. It told the CARA to create a specific form and carry out necessary changes on its portal incorporating the guidelines within four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/develop-permanent-mechanism-for-inter-country-adoptions-under-hindu-law-hc-tells-centre-1027312.html
05-09-2021||National||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu calls for mandatory rural service for doctors before first promotion||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said that serving in rural areas should be made mandatory before granting the first promotion to doctors in the government sector. Speaking at the 11th annual Medical Teachers' Day Awards function here, the Vice President said three to five years service in rural areas for young doctors was essential while pointing out that 60 per cent of the country's population lives in the villages, an official release said. "It (serving in rural area) must be made mandatory. I know that it will not be liked by many. But, I feel that is the need," Naidu said. The Vice President stressed the need to increase the number of medical colleges while referring to the government's efforts to bridge the gap in doctor-patient ratio in the country. He said the doctor-patient ratio was 1:1,456 as against the WHO norm of 1:1,000. Expressing his appreciation at the government's plan to establish at least one medical college in each district, he also pointed out that the urban-rural ratio of doctors was also highly skewed with more medical professionals opting to work in urban areas. Describing the medical profession as a noble mission, he advised doctors not to give any remission or commit omission, but to serve the nation with passion. Asking the doctors to remember the core value of compassion for humanity in all their actions, he said "let that be your moral compass when in dilemma and always adhere to the highest level of ethics. If you can serve with a spirit of selfless dedication, you derive boundless and real happiness." Calling for creating state-of-the-art health infrastructure across the country, particularly in rural areas, the Vice President said the Covid-19 pandemic has accentuated the need for better health infrastructure and advised the state governments to bestow special attention on this aspect. Naidu further emphasised that both medical education and treatment should be affordable and within the reach of the common man. He said that top priority should be accorded to education and health sectors with a greater allocation of budget. Referring to the fast-changing technological world, the Vice President urged medical colleges to ensure that those passing out of their portals stay abreast of the latest diagnostic and treatment systems. "This has become all the more imperative in the wake of the pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 as everything about the novel coronavirus is new learning to all—from scientists to doctors," he said. Naidu also expressed his appreciation to the Association of National Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI), an apex organisation of many leading hospitals and medical institutions in India for partnering with the Government in providing post-graduate medical education, the release said. The Vice President also paid his homage to the former President and statesman-philosopher, the late Shri Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary on Sunday. He also paid his respects to all his teachers, who mould and shaped his career. Earlier, he presented the Life-Time Achievement Award to well-known cardiologist and President of Public Health Foundation of India, Dr K Srinath Reddy and others including Dr Devi Shetty, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-mandatory-rural-service-for-doctors-before-first-promotion-1027314.html
05-09-2021||National||India has no option but to wait and watch, avoid knee-jerk reaction: Ex-diplomats on Afghanistan||With Pakistan's intelligence chief dashing to Afghanistan amidst efforts by the Taliban to finalise a government, former Indian diplomats on Sunday said the situation in the war-torn country was still in a "flux" and India has no other option but to wait and watch, while avoiding any "knee-jerk reaction''. Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Director General (DG) Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed rushed to Kabul on an unannounced visit. Hameed's visit to Afghanistan comes as pressure is mounting on the Taliban to form an inclusive government acceptable to the international community. Anil Wadhwa, who served as Secretary (East) in the Ministry of External Affairs before retiring in 2017, said India should avoid any knee-jerk reaction to the developments in Afghanistan and follow a wait and watch policy. "India should avoid a knee-jerk reaction because it remains to be seen what kind of government is formed by the Taliban, whether it is an inclusive government or not. No knee jerk reaction (India should), just wait and see how the situation emerges," Wadhwa told PTI. On the ISI chief's visit to Kabul, he said the influence of the ISI on the Taliban, especially the Haqqanis, is well known and so they would like to have that influence in the new government. Asked if India should spell out its expectations from the new government, Wadhwa said this needs to be conveyed whenever there is an engagement with the Taliban representatives in Doha. He added that India, in all likelihood, has already conveyed to the Talibani side that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-India activities. T C A Raghavan, who was India's High Commissioner to Pakistan from June 2013-December 2015, also echoed similar views and said the situation in Afghanistan was still in a flux and India should adopt a wait and watch approach. "In my view the situation in Afghanistan is still in a flux, so we should not end up in a situation where we are commenting on our own analysis. Because the Pakistan ISI chief is there, it is easy to start commenting on our own impression that he is forming the government," he told PTI. "Situation (in Afghanistan) is in a flux and we should await developments. The fact that Pakistanis have a certain position in Afghanistan today is undeniable," Raghavan said. Asked if India should spell out its expectations of a government in Afghanistan and set out its preconditions for recognising the regime there, he said, "I don't think we are at a stage where we make our objectives into preconditions." Rakesh Sood, a former Ambassador of India to Afghanistan, said, "I think we have no choice but to wait and watch. I don't think we have any other option." "The situation may be in a flux but I don't think India is that significant. If the DG ISI has to go there to sort out matters, it is quite clear as to what the situation is. He has not gone there to exchange views about the weather," Sood said. G Parthasarathy, who has been India's envoy in several countries including Pakistan, said India should not rush into anything and avoid any knee-jerk reaction to the developments in Afghanistan. "Having dealt with Pakistan and lived there for seven years, I would have been surprised if the Pakistanis did not do what they were doing. It is only sections of Indians that are taken for a ride about Pakistan," he said in reference to the ISI chief's visit. Cautioning against the China-Pakistan alliance, Parthasarathy said, "We will go wrong as long as we underestimate the dangers posed by the China-Pakistan alliance. Pakistan by itself is no threat, it becomes problematic when it acts in alliance with China." On what should be India's approach, the former diplomat told PTI that India should not rush into anything, take time and see the direction in which things are moving as Afghanistan's internal politics will shape the developments. "There are groups like the Haqqani network which are agents of the ISI because the Haqqani family lives in Pakistan. Let us see how it plays out. No need for us to rush into anything. The sensible Afghans have told us that they appreciate Indian assistance," he said, adding that India has done the right thing till now. K C Singh, who has served as India's envoy to the UAE and Iran, said the fact that the formation of the Taliban government has been delayed indicates a struggle between the more moderate elements led by Mullah Barader and the Haqqanis fronting for Pakistan and its army. "Most countries are waiting and watching but also exerting pressure on the Taliban. India should take up a public position on what kind of inclusive government it expects, pending which it would not recognise the Taliban government," he told PTI. ISI DG Hameed's visit to Afghanistan is the first high-level visit of any Pakistani official to Afghanistan since the Taliban took over of Kabul on August 15. Since then, the Taliban have been trying to form a government but so far have held back the announcement. The Taliban had postponed the formation of a new government in Afghanistan for this week, as the insurgent group struggles to give shape to a broad-based and inclusive administration acceptable to the international community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-no-option-but-to-wait-and-watch-avoid-knee-jerk-reaction-ex-diplomats-on-afghanistan-1027329.html
05-09-2021||National||SC fines advocate Rs 5 lakh for bid to stop elevation of Telangana HC registrar to judge||The Supreme Court has imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on an advocate for abusing the court proceedings to stop the elevation of a registrar general to a judge to the High Court. "The process of appointment of judges to the High Court is under a well known established process where the Collegium of the High Court considers recommending the names and in case of judicial officers by seniority and on merits," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said. The court dismissed a plea by advocate B Sailesh Saxena seeking directions to consider the representation submitted by him and take necessary action with the proposal of appointment of High Court Registrar General A Venkateswar Reddy as a judge of the Telangana High Court. The three-member Supreme Court Collegium in a meeting held on August 17 had approved the proposal for elevation of six judicial officers as judges of the Telangana High Court including Reddy. Saxena made several allegations against the Registrar General and stated that his name should not be processed for elevation as a judge.  The petitioner-advocate claimed that he was a legal advisor for the family of an MP belonging to the Telugu Desam Party and legal counsel for other politically connected persons. He alleged that an FIR at the insistence of the Registrar was filed on July 31, 2017 in pursuance of a direction issued by the High Court with a view to harass him. The bench said the registrar general, as a responsible officer, only followed the direction passed by the High Court. The court found the writ petition as thoroughly misconceived and an abuse of process of law and a counterblast to the series of criminal complaints in which persons belonging to the 'so-called noble profession got involved'. “We are surprised as the brazenness of the petitioner...This is gross abuse of process," the court said, ordering the petitioner to deposit Rs 5 lakh cost with the Supreme Court Advocates On Record Welfare Fund within four weeks. The court also asked the Bar Council of Telangana to examine the conduct of the petitioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-fines-advocate-rs-5-lakh-for-bid-to-stop-elevation-of-telangana-hc-registrar-to-judge-1027333.html
05-09-2021||National||One in three Indians stores confidential info digitally: Survey||One in almost every three Indians stores confidential personal information like debit or credit card details, ATM Pin and Aadhaar number in their mobile phones or computer or email, a survey has highlighted at a time data breach concerns are rising owing to low data protection awareness. The survey by LocalCircles has also shown that around 33 per cent share their ATM or Debit Card pin with close family members or staff, 29 per cent with close family members and 4 per cent with their domestic and office staff. Experts point out that one of the most common ways for hackers to commit cybercrime is by phishing an individual’s email account, text messages on mobile, to access their personal financial details but people continue to rely on storing their sensitive personal financial details, banking passwords and information of their debit and credit cards, on their smartphone, email, or computer. According to the survey, 33 per cent of those who responded to the survey said that they store details of their bank accounts and debit or credit cards, ATM passwords, Aadhaar and PAN numbers on mobile, computer or email. They felt that generating a strong password was easy but it is difficult to keep track of them all between multiple bank accounts, websites and Apps demanding their unique log-in criteria. Giving the break-up to the question on how they generally store personal financial details, 7 per cent answered the phone while 15 per cent said in email or computer and another 11 per cent said in the phone, email, or computer. Another 21 per cent said they have memorised them all while 39 per cent said they have kept it in a paper format with them. Asked whether the respondents shared the PIN details of ATM cards, 29 per cent said they had given this access to "one or more members of the close family" while 4 per cent to “one or more domestic or office staff" and 2 per cent have given it to "one or more friends". The majority of 65 per cent of respondents said no one other than they have access to their ATM or debit card details. The survey also threw out more trends that could be termed dangerous when it comes to storing personal data 11 per cent said they stored their ATM, bank account, email, and other online account passwords in their mobile phone contact list. "This is a very unsafe way to store such credentials because most online apps these days ask for permission to access one’s contact and text messages. Though some apps have high levels of security and are trustworthy, the same cannot be said for the majority of other apps that are available on app stores," the survey said, warning that cybersecurity researchers recently identified 167 counterfeit iOS and Android apps used by hackers to steal money from people. "There is an urgent need for RBI and Banks to make concerted efforts in the direction of digital financial literacy...From time to time the government along with the RBI, should organise awareness programs on how to secure personal data and the dos and don’ts," the survey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-in-three-indians-stores-confidential-info-digitally-survey-1027341.html
05-09-2021||National||Parameters to identify fake Covid vaccine shared with states and UTs||The Centre has shared a set of parameters with all states and UTs to enable service providers and monitoring teams under the national Covid-19 vaccination programme to identify any fake Covid-19 vaccines so that they are not administered in the country. This comes days in the backdrop of concerns flagged by the World Health Organization (WHO) over counterfeit/falsified Covishield vaccine being identified in the South-East Asia and Africa region of WHO.  Currently, the Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Russian vaccine Sputnik V are being administered to eligible beneficiaries under the ongoing Covid-19 inoculation drive in the country.  "It was requested that the vaccines need to be carefully authenticated before use...the information on genuine Covid-19 vaccine labels and additional information of the Covid-19 vaccines in use is being enclosed for reference of program managers and service providers under the National Covid-19 Vaccination Program. "The service providers and monitoring teams for Covid-19 vaccination may be informed about these details and to ensure due diligence towards recognition of counterfeit vaccines," Additional Secretary Manohar Agnani said in a letter to additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries (Health) of all states and UTs on September 2. A genuine Covishield vial bottle will have the parameters like the SII product's label shade in dark green, the brand name with the trademark mentioned on the original vaccine and dark green aluminium flip-off seal. The font of the generic name is un-bold, (Recombinant) is printed at the end of the generic name, overprinted with CGS NOT FOR SALE. The SII logo is printed on the adhesive side of the label and at a unique angle and position which can be identified by only a select few who are aware of the exact details. The lettering is printed in special white ink to be more clear and readable. According to the parameters, the entire label has been given a special texture honeycomb effect which is visible only at a specific angle. At strategic locations, the honeycomb design has been altered slightly and certain additional special elements added to the texture design such that it is not visible to the layman, but people who know the subtle changes can easily check and verify the authenticity of the label and vial. The anti-counterfeit features in the Covaxin label include invisible UV helix (DNA-like structure) which is only visible under UV light, micro text hidden in label claim dots, which is written as Covaxin, green foil effect in X of "Covaxin" and holographic effect on Covaxin. As for Sputnik, imported products are from two different bulk manufacturing sites from Russia and, hence, there are two different labels for both these sites. While all the information and design are the same, only the manufacturer name is different. For all the imported products till now, the English label is only available on the front and back of the carton of 5 ampoule pack, while for all other sides, including the primary label on the ampoule, it is in Russian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parameters-to-identify-fake-covid-vaccine-shared-with-states-and-uts-1027365.html
05-09-2021||National||I'll come to India for my next novel: Salman Rushdie||After having spent years away from the country, British-American author Salman Rushdie finally plans to return to India for his next book. The Booker prize winner, who was speaking at a session of the ongoing Times Litfest, said his next novel is likely to be set in India for which he will have to come back. "The last ten years I have mostly written these western-based novels, these novels mostly based in America, a little bit of England, I think it might be time to come back to India. I think the next book appears to be an Indian novel. "It's in a very early stage, so let me get a little further. But it looks like it'll be entirely set in India, which means I have to come to India. It's been very long," Rushdie said. The author last came to India for the promotion of Deepa Mehta's 2013 film "Midnight's Children", which was based on Rushdie's Booker winning book of the same name. Rushdie's visits to India have often been embroiled in controversy since his 1988 book "Satanic Verses" caused international religious ire, following which he refrained from visiting the country. Talking about coming back to India, the author, who calls himself a "Bombay boy", said religious objections or security hassle --- made his coming back to the country "quite difficult". "Sometimes it is made quite difficult for me to come to India and that can be off putting. Sometimes that's because of religious objections or sometimes it's because of me being engulfed in a kind of security operation that makes it actually impossible for me to be there really," the 74-year-old author said. However, he promised to return once the world "opened up a little bit". "So it just became difficult for me and it's sad because it matters a lot to me. I'll be back, I'll be back. Let the world open up a little bit," he said. Rushdie here also recalled thinking of Indian writing in the English language as the end of a tradition while writing for his "Midnight's Children" in the 1980s. "I wasn't sure that Indian writing in English would necessarily survive. I thought after all there were so many other languages to write in and it may be I thought that the Indian writing in English being done was an end of a tradition rather than the beginning of it. And that was wrong, it turned out to be very flourishing," he said. The current generation of Indian authors, he added, were writing in "every possible style, genre and form", which was "very healthy". "But now it's a flood and the good thing about that is that the writing that's being done is being done in every possible style and genre and form. So it's a very rich, varied literature now, it's a narrow spectrum. It's a broad spectrum. And I think that's very healthy," Rushdie noted. The author, who has written 12 novels and as many collection of essays and non-fiction, shared that he writes "more or less like an office job". "I usually start work by 10 in the morning and I do a day's work like anybody going to work," he said while admitting to working better at night than morning. The writing process for him also depends on the stage of the book he is at, if it is the beginning then writing for three-four hours would exhaust him whereas he can go over 12 hours at a stretch during the later stages of the book. "When I get to the later stages of the book, when I am revising and finishing the book then I can work very long hours, then I can work 12 hours a day even more sometimes . I just stay inside the book, write, sleep, write, sleep. Eat occasionally," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ill-come-to-india-for-my-next-novel-salman-rushdie-1027379.html
05-09-2021||National||Delhi police arrest Sukesh Chandrashekhar's wife Leena Maria Paul||Leena Maria Paul, the wife of Sukesh Chandrashekhar, was arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police on Saturday for allegedly helping her husband in defrauding people, according to media reports. Earlier, Chandrashekhar was arrested over allegations of duping Aditi Singh, the wife of former Ranbaxy promoter Shivinder Singh, to the tune of Rs 200 crore. A Delhi court on Saturday sent Chandrashekhar to 16 days of police custody. The Delhi Police recently invoked stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against Chandrashekhar and others.  Additional Sessions Judge Praveen Singh also sent co-accused Pradeep and Deepak to five-day police remand each.  EOW of Delhi Police produced the accused before and sought their further custody, informing it that MCOCA has been invoked against Chandrashekhar. The EOW recently registered an FIR against Chandrasekhar for allegedly duping the spouses of former promoters of Ranbaxy, Shivinder Singh, and Malvinder Singh of Rs 200 crore, besides ongoing investigations against him in several cases across the country.  During the arguments, the court expressed displeasure with Delhi Police for invocation of MCOCA and said, police cannot do so without proof of the accused working as members of an organised crime syndicate.  According to the prosecution, the EOW has extended its investigation into the case related to extortion of over Rs 200 crore, by Rohini jail inmate Chandrasekar for allegedly duping the wives of former Religare promoters Malvinder and Shivinder Singh, who are currently in Tihar jail. At least two separate FIRs have been registered in the case so far and 23 deputy superintendents have been transferred on August 17, police said.  Shivinder's wife Aditi Singh and Malvinder's wife Japna Singh claimed that they paid crores of rupees to the conman, who posed as an officer from the Union law ministry, to secure bail for their husbands and ensure their safety, the prosecution claimed. "I was assured that the central government would be interested to work with my husband after making him an 'industry advisor' on Covid-related committees; he asked me to contribute to the 'party fund' and assured to set up a meeting either with the former law minister or home minister," Aditi Singh alleged in her FIR.   (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-arrest-sukesh-chandrashekhars-wife-leena-maria-paul-1027399.html
05-09-2021||National||Delhi govt to fund education of school teachers who get selected in world's top 100 universities||The Delhi government will fund the education of government school teachers who get selected in the world's top 100 universities for pursuing courses, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday. He was speaking at a function where 122 teachers and principals were honoured with the State Teacher Award. "In the last five years, we have sent our teachers and principals to Cambridge, Finland, Singapore and the US. The courses for which our teachers went there were such courses which these universities had prepared for us," Sisodia said. "All the best universities in the world are known for their own tailored courses. We believe that if our teachers apply for such courses, they can get selected on the basis of their abilities. That's why the Delhi government has decided today on Teachers' Day, that our teachers will be able to apply for prestigious courses in the field of education in the world's 100 top ranked universities," the deputy chief minister said. He said the Delhi government will bear the full cost of their programme and in the next few days, the Department of Education will issue necessary guidelines regarding this. Sisodia appreciated the efforts made by the teachers for improving the quality of education in schools. Noting that the education system has been badly affected due to the Covid pandemic, he said after the closure of schools, no one had any idea how to proceed with the teaching-learning process. "But the teachers and principals of our schools showed incredible grit and determination in responding to this situation in the face of difficulties. Our teachers delivered the message of 'Learning Never Stops', ensuring how to reach out to their students through new mediums and innovations, and continue their studies. Their efforts are really commendable," he added. Sisodia said teachers have been the biggest contributor to nation building. "Our teachers influence millions of lives everyday with their work. These teachers prepare our children who are the foundation of our nation. Today, the revolutionary changes that have come in the education system of Delhi are a result of the collective efforts of Team Education of Delhi," he said. Every year on the occasion of Teachers’ Day, the Delhi government honours the teachers with the State Teacher Award and expresses gratitude through a grand celebration. This time, many changes have been made in the award. Earlier, this award was given only in the academic field but this time many people belonging to other fields were felicitated. This year, the number of awards has been increased from 103 to 122 as compared to last year. Sisodia also released the first edition of the Education Department's e-magazine 'Nai Udaan'. This year, the Delhi government has introduced the 'Face of DOE’ (Directorate of Education) award and it was given to Raj Kumar, a music teacher who entered the Guinness Book of World Records, and Suman Arora, who had helped government school students crack IIT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-to-fund-education-of-school-teachers-who-get-selected-in-worlds-top-100-universities-1027407.html
05-09-2021||National||Mandaviya meets health ministers of UK, Brazil, Italy||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday said he had an interaction with his Italian counterpart Roberto Speranza on giving priority in travel to vaccinated Indian students enrolled in educational institutions in Italy and on enhancing bilateral cooperation in the field of health and medicine. Mandaviya is in Rome, Italy, for the G20 health ministers' meeting. In a series of tweets, he said, "Had an interaction with Mr Roberto Speranza, Health Minister, Italy to enhance the bilateral cooperation between the two nations in the field of health and medicine." Discussed giving priority in travel to Indian vaccinated students enrolled in Italian educational institutions. "Discussed giving priority in travel to Indian vaccinated students enrolled in Italian educational institutions. Also, invited Italian pharmaceutical companies to invest and expand their business in India," he added. In another tweet, the minister said he invited UK Secretary of State for Health and Social Care Sajid Javid to visit India and discussed with him a roadmap for a new health dialogue between the two countries. "UK appreciated India's management of COVID & congratulated on administering first #COVID19 vaccine dose to more than half the population," he stated. I invited the UK Health Minister for a visit to India and discussed a roadmap for a new health dialogue between the two countries. "Our discussions included ways to promote digital health & enhancing access to new models of telemedicine," Mandaviya said of his meeting with Javid, adding that he highlighted various areas of cooperation in the field of healthcare. Mandaviya also met his Brazilian counterpart. Had an excellent discussion with Mr Marcelo Queiroga, Minister of Health for Brazil, for better cooperation in healthcare. We spoke about One Health & the introduction of Nano-Urea for better results. "Had an excellent discussion with Mr Marcelo Queiroga, Minister of Health for Brazil, for better cooperation in healthcare. We spoke about One Health & the introduction of Nano-Urea for better results. Also, offered India's full support to aid Brazil's fight against TB," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-meets-health-ministers-of-uk-brazil-italy-1027408.html
05-09-2021||National||India mulling to offer humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, likely to join UN initiative||India is mulling to offer humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, even as it is yet to take a call on recognising the war-torn country’s new government, which is likely to be led by the Taliban. New Delhi is likely to send a representative to a meeting the United Nations will hold on September 13 to discuss and coordinate the international community’s response to the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. With no government in place in Kabul, New Delhi is yet to take a call on recognising the new dispensation, which is likely to be formed by the Taliban. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is still considering sending humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, possibly channelising it through one of the United Nations agencies. A source in New Delhi said that India was keen to stand by the distressed people of Afghanistan, irrespective of the course of its engagement with any government that might come to power in the conflict-ravaged country. New Delhi evacuated its envoy and diplomats from Kabul on August 17, less than 48 hours after the Taliban militants entered the capital city culminating its swift military blitz across Afghanistan and President Ashraf Ghani escaped from the country marking the collapse of his Government. But it did not formally shut down the Embassy of India in Kabul, as it would have meant severance of its diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. Ever since the Taliban stepped up military campaign a few months back to take advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies, a large number of people left villages in pursuit of safety. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) estimated that over half a million people had been internally displaced in Afghanistan in 2021 alone and the number of people forced to flee was still rising and nearly 80 per cent of displaced people were children and women. Over 3 million people had already been internally displaced in Afghanistan by December 2020 according to the UN agency. The World Food Programme estimated that nearly 12 to 14 million Afghans, including two million already malnourished children, were experiencing food insecurity. India already made it clear that its “historical relationship” with people of Afghanistan would guide its approach on the future course of engagement between the two nations. The source in New Delhi pointed out that India had spent $3 billion for development projects in Afghanistan over the past two decades and it would like to continue doing its bit for the people of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mulling-offering-humanitarian-aid-to-afghanistan-likely-to-join-un-initiative-1027412.html
05-09-2021||National Politics||Govt 'having fun' selling national assets built by Nehru: Shiv Sena||In a sharp attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre, the Shiv Sena on Sunday said that the 'long-term vision' of the late Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru saved the country from the current economic disaster it is reeling under and the present government is now enjoying selling the national assets he created. "The BJP government may have differences with Sonia Gandhi, Rahul or Priyanka, but why this hatred for Nehru? The institutions created by Nehru are being sold by the present government to give a fillip to the economy," said Sena MP and Chief Spokesperson Sanjay Raut. Dwelling on Nehru's nation-building legacy, Raut asserted that "the government is now having fun selling off the national assets created by him, otherwise the country would be starving, people would be jobless and there would have anarchy". "You should be forever indebted to Nehru but instead, you have wiped out his very role in the Freedom Movement. Why so much animosity towards Nehru. You must reply to the country," Raut said. Slamming the Central government for the act in his weekly column 'Rokthok' in the party newspaper 'Saamna' Group, Raut said without the contributions of Nehru and Azad, the history of Indian Freedom Movement "will never be complete". "Only those who cannot make history consider it a bravado to erase the history of others. Those who kept far away from and never participated in the Freedom Struggle are now trying to keep out one of the heroes of the Independence Movement. This is not proper," he said. "You may have political differences with Nehru's party (Congress), or his politics or his domestic and foreign policies. But to remove his contributions to the country's freedom struggle in this manner is an insult to each freedom-fighter," Raut added without mincing words. He said that in the same vindictive vein, the government renamed the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, but the contributions of Nehru and Indira Gandhi to the Indian Independence are "immortal", and asked what the country hopes to gain by this. In this context, he lauded the political magnanimity displayed recently by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin as an "exemplary act of love, sympathy and respect for political opponents". Raut said that when he took over as CM, Stalin was confronted with the issue of 6.5 million schoolbags to be distributed free to students, but had the photos of the former CMs the late J Jayalalitha and E Palaniswami who was voted out in May 2021. "When asked by his officials what to do with the bags, CM Stalin categorically said the scheme should not stop because of the photos (Jayalalitha and Palaniswami), and must be immediately disbursed to the children. He said the state would save Rs 15-crore which can be used in the war against coronavirus," Raut pointed out. This is the same CM whose father (the late CM M Karuranidhi) was dragged out of his home by Jalalalitha's policemen at the dead of the night and arrested, but Stalin showed a cultured and mature behaviour to forget the old hatred in the state's interest, and Raut urged "all political parties to take a lesson from this".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-having-fun-selling-national-assets-built-by-nehru-shiv-sena-1027302.html
05-09-2021||National Politics||TMC fields Mamata Banerjee for Bhabanipur bypoll, announces candidates for two other seats||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday announced its candidate list for the Assembly bye-election in West Bengal. As expected, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been fielded from her erstwhile constituency of Bhabanipur in Kolkata. As for the two other constituencies which will go to polls along with Bhabanipur, the TMC announced the names of former Minister Jakir Hossain from the Jangipur in Murshidabad district and Amirul Islam from the Samserganj seat in the same district. The ruling party in Bengal made the announcement by issuing a statement on social media. Elections were not held in Jangipur and Samserganj during the last Assembly polls as two candidates died of Covid-19. The bye-election is crucial for Mamata as she has to get elected to the Assembly within six months after taking oath as Chief Minister on May 5. If the bypoll at Bhabanipur was not held before November 5, she would have to step down as Chief Minister as per constitutional laws. It became apparent that Mamata will contest from Bhabanipur after senior TMC leader and Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigned as MLA vacating the constituency on May 21. Mamata won from Bhabanipur in the 2011 Assembly elections when the TMC first came to power in Bengal. She retained the seat in the 2016 Assembly elections. Mamata lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari from the Nandigram constituency in the last Assembly elections. As for Jangipur and Samsergsnj, the TMC respectively fielded Hosain and Islam in the last Assembly elections. But polls were not held in the two seats when two candidates died of Covid-19. The development comes a day after the Election Commission (EC) announced that bypoll at Bhabanipur and election at Jangipur and Samserganj will be held on September 30. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday questioned the neutrality of the EC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-fields-mamata-banerjee-for-bhabanipur-bypoll-announces-candidates-for-two-other-seats-1027328.html
05-09-2021||National Politics||Congress voices support for 'kisan mahapanchayat', Rahul says 'unjust government' will have to listen||The Congress on Sunday voiced support for the 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying the call of truth is echoing and an "unjust government" will have to listen. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the "arrogance of power" cannot withstand the roar of the farmers. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states on Sunday gathered in Muzaffarnagar for the 'kisan mahapanchayat' aimed at what they called "saving the country", just months ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar in protest against the Centre's contentious farm laws. "The call of truth is echoing. You have to listen, unjust government!" Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi also voiced support for the mahapanchayat, saying, "Farmers are the voice of this country. Farmers are the pride of the country. Arrogance of any power cannot withstand the roar of the farmers." The whole country is with the farmers in the fight to save agriculture and in demanding their dues in lieu of their hard work, the Congress general secretary said. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said those stealing the farms of farmers are traitors. Voicing support for the mahapanchayat, senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot expressed confidence that the mahapanchayat organised under the leadership of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha will prove to be giving strength to the farmers' interests. "May this mahapanchayat prove to be a milestone in the direction of a peaceful farmers' movement," Pilot said in a tweet in Hindi. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an amalgam of several farmer unions, has been spearheading the agitation against the farm laws since last year. The government has insisted that these laws have given farmers new opportunity to sell their produce and rejected the criticism that they are aimed at doing away with the minimum support price regime and farm mandis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-voices-support-for-kisan-mahapanchayat-rahul-says-unjust-government-will-have-to-listen-1027353.html
05-09-2021||National Politics||Tikait calls Modi, Shah ' rioters, outsiders' at 'mahapanchayat'; asks farmers to vote against BJP in UP polls||Thousands of farmers gathered on Sunday at a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, where BKU leader Rakesh Tikait called Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders "rioters" and said the party should be given a drubbing in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. He also targeted the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh over sugarcane prices. "This (Muzaffarnagar) is the sugarcane belt. There was a government which had raised the sugarcane price by Rs 80, while another government had increased it by Rs 50. Is the Adityanath government weaker than these two dispensations? It did not increase the price even by one rupee. "This government should be given 'vote ki chhott' (electoral defeat). The slogan of 'fasalon ke daam nahi, to vote nahi' (no fair price for crops, no votes) will have to be raised," Tikait said at the mega rally attended by farmers from UP and neighbouring states. The mahapanchayat was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar in protest against the Centre’s controversial farm laws. Lashing out at the Centre over its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson said "India for sale" boards have been put up. Referring to Modi, Adityanath and Union Home Minister Amit Shah as "outsiders", the farmer leader said he has no objection if they become prime ministers after winning polls from Uttarakhand or Gujarat. "But on the soil of Uttar Pradesh, these rioters will not be tolerated," he said. Tikait said SKM's aim is to "save the country and its mission is not confined to Uttar Pradesh or Uttarakhand". He further claimed the country’s railways, airlines and airports are being “sold” along with "privatisation of electricity" and "sale of roads". "The banks are being sold like FCI land is being given to Adani. The ‘Sale of India’ boards have been put up and the purchasers are Ambani and Adani,” he alleged referring to the top industrialists. He also claimed that state-run energy giant Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and fuel retailer Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) are in “danger”. Popular names like Medha Patkar and Yogendra Yadav were also seen on the dais. Yadav was given a yellow robe by Tikait, while the BKU leader was presented a mace at the event. BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday described the protesting farmers as "our own flesh and blood" and suggested that the government should re-engage with them in reaching common ground. BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said farmers belonging to 300 organisations spread across different states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, among others, have gathered for the event. He said over 5,000 ''langars'' (food stalls), including some mobile stalls, have been set up for the participants. The farmers, including women carrying flags of different organisations and wearing different coloured caps, were seen arriving at the venue in buses, cars and tractors. A woman farmer leader from Karnataka addressed the gathering in Kannada language. One of the participants blew a 'ransingha' (trumpet), the photograph of which was posted by the Kisan Ekta Morcha on Twitter. "In old times, when the fight was for honour and respect, this instrument (ransingha) was used. Today, a call has been given for war by all ''kisan majdoor'' unions against the BJP's 'corporate raj'," it tweeted in Hindi. Meanwhile, the Muzaffarnagar administration denied Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary's request to sprinkle flowers from a helicopter on the venue and participants of the mahapanchayat. City magistrate Abhishek Singh rejected the request, saying it cannot be allowed due to security reasons. The district authorities have posted police personnel at the residences of Union minister Sanjiv Balyan and BJP MLA Umesh Malik here, as a precautionary measure. The SKM on Saturday claimed that thousands of farmers from 15 states had reached Muzaffarnagar to participate in the mahapanchayat. The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws said the event would prove that the agitation had the support of "all castes, religions, states, classes, small traders and other sections of society". "The mahapanchayat of September 5 will make the Yogi-Modi governments realise the power of farmers, farm labourers and supporters of the farm movement. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat will be the biggest ever in the last nine months," the SKM had said in a statement. It also said that 100 medical camps had been set up for the farmers attending the mahapanchayat. The farmers' protest against the three contentious laws has completed over nine months since they first arrived at Delhi borders. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tikait-calls-modi-shah-rioters-outsiders-at-mahapanchayat-asks-farmers-to-vote-against-bjp-in-up-polls-1027358.html
05-09-2021||National Politics||Assembly polls: It is advantage for RLD in western Uttar Pradesh||BJP had swept the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections in 2017, but the wrath of farmers over the farm laws could dent its prospects next year. Farmers attending the massive gathering at Muzaffarnagar appeared to favour the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), an outfit now led by Jayant Chaudhary, the grandson of former prime minister late Chaudhary Charan Singh. This sugarcane belt is angry at the government, both in Uttar Pradesh as well as the Centre, over the three farm laws that seek to give farmers an alternative to sell their produce at doorstep instead of the APMC markets, a move that they fear could dismantle the age-old trading system. Bhajan Lal, a septuagenarian farmer from Shamli, said the cane prices have remained stagnant at Rs 315 per quintal, while neighbouring Haryana and now Punjab offer higher prices.  “One thing is sure, there is no voting the BJP in the coming elections. Jayant (Chaudhary) is our hope,” Lal told DH. Mahendra Pal, a farmer from Himmatpur, claimed that a section of the voters is way about Mayawati’s BSP that had benefited from the alliance with Samajwadi Party in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Many BSP supporters voted for the BJP in the Lok Sabha elections. This was a betrayal of the alliance with (SP chief) Akhilesh Yadav,” Pal said. Rakesh Sharma, also from Himmatpur, admitted that the sugarcane arrears have been cleared by the sugar mills for the last season and very little remain to be paid. “Large sums are due for the current season, but we hope that would be cleared in the next month or so,” Sharma said. Chaudhary Mahendra Singh, a farmer from Shamli, claimed that the wounds of the 2013 riots have healed as farmers had seen through the “sinister” design of the BJP. “BJP benefited from the riots, not any more,” he said, adding that Chaudhary Ajit Singh had also given a message for Jat-Muslim unity before his death in May this year. According to Singh, RLD will hold sway in western Uttar Pradesh, while its alliance partner SP would prove its mettle elsewhere in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-polls-it-is-advantage-for-rld-in-western-uttar-pradesh-1027406.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||15-year-old girl gangraped in UP's Hamirpur, was sleeping outside flood-damaged house||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by three youths at a village here when she was sleeping outside her house damaged by floods, police said Saturday. Two of the three accused were arrested Saturday, they said. The alleged gang-rape took place in the early hours of Friday when the girl was sleeping with her family members, Hamirpur City Deputy Superintendent of Police Anurag Singh said. On the complaint of her father, the three youths -- Anurag, Govinda and Kamta -- were booked under section 376D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The girl has been sent to a government hospital for a medical examination. The entire house of the victim had collapsed due to the recent floods in the Betwa river and the family members were sleeping in the open nearby, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-girl-gangraped-in-ups-hamirpur-was-sleeping-outside-flood-damaged-house-1027139.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM ridicules Akalis' decision to form panel to hold talks with farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday ridiculed the SAD's decision to form a panel to hold talks with farmers, saying no overtures can absolve the Badals of their responsibility in "thrusting the draconian farm laws" on the farming community. Alleging that the Badals themselves are at the root of the problem and the co-conspirators of the Centre's "anti-farmer agenda", Singh said the Akalis neither deserve nor can expect any understanding or forgiveness from the farmers. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday had put on hold for six days his party's poll outreach campaign 'Gal Punjab Di' and had formed a committee to hold talks with farmers to reiterate Akalis' unflinching support for their agitation against the Centre's three farm laws. The Akalis' move came after a group of farmers allegedly tried to force their way inside the venue of a SAD event in Punjab's Moga district on Thursday. Police had resorted to baton charge and used a water cannon to disperse the farmers. The Punjab chief minister, in a statement, on Saturday said the Akalis' "apathy" towards the farmers was evident from the fact that even now, instead of understanding and relating with the pain of the farmers, Sukhbir Badal was refusing to simply recognise the protesters as farmers and was insulting them by alleging that they owed allegiance to other political parties, including the Congress. "If you (Sukhbir Badal) cannot even recognise a farmer when you see one, how can you ever hope to gain their trust and confidence?” Singh asked. The senior Congress leader termed Sukhbir Badal's announcement of suspension of the SAD's election outreach programme and formation of the panel to engage with the farmers as a "desperate measure" to woo Punjab's voters ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. "But the farmers and the people of Punjab are not fools, and your attempts to fool them with lies will backfire on you,” he told the SAD president. Singh claimed that the state had completely and unequivocally rejected the Akalis, who had first "looted" them for 10 years in coalition with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and then "cruelly worked hand in glove with it to impose the farm laws on the farmers". The chief minister said the SAD was an integral part of the ruling NDA at the Centre all through the farm laws legislation process, with Harsimrat Kaur Badal at that time a member of the Union Cabinet which approved the ordinance that spelt the "death knell" for the farmers. "Their dramatic split from the National Democratic Alliance subsequently was nothing but an attempt at eyewash. All that the Badals are interested in is getting back into the saddle by hook or by crook," Singh said. "Having failed in getting the faith of the farmers restored with their crocodile tears, the Akalis were now pretending to engage with them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-ridicules-akalis-decision-to-form-panel-to-hold-talks-with-farmers-1027160.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Two rebel ministers demand CM Amarinder Singh to make Batala 24th district of Punjab||Seeking to “honour the wish of the people” and “overall development” of Batala, two rebel ministers -- Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa have demanded to make the region the 24th district of Punjab. The two ministers have sought an appointment with the Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to discuss the issue with him. In the letter to CM Singh, they have also demanded Fatehgarh Churian and Sri Hargobindpur or Ghumaan towns be made new sub-divisions of the new Batala districts. In their letter, the ministers have stressed the historical importance of Batala which hasn’t received the attention that it deserves.  “Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the first Guru, was married to Mata Sulakhni in this city on July 8, 1487. Gurdwara Dera Sahib and Gurdwara Kandh Sahib are adorned in his memory. Guru Hargobind, the sixth master, also came to Batala to marry his son Baba Gurditta and in his memory Gurdwara Sat Kartaria is adorned in the middle of the city,” they said. Batala, which is pointed out as an important city of Punjab by the two rebel ministers, falls in the Majha region. Several Congress leaders like Rajya Sabha member Partap Bajwa and former MLA Ashwini Sekhri are likely to contest for the 2022 assembly elections from Batala. Stressing on the cultural and historical importance that Batala holds, the ministers said, “From a cultural and literary point of view, there is no Punjabi across the globe who has not heard the name of the great Punjabi poet Shiv Kumar who affixed Batalvi to his name thereby adding to its eminence. The late poet is known in the literary field as Punjab’s Keats”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-rebel-ministers-demand-cm-amarinder-singh-to-make-batala-24th-district-of-punjab-1027250.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Restrictions eased out in Kashmir but security forces continue to remain deployed||Restrictions were eased out in Kashmir, but security forces continued to remain deployed on the fourth day on Sunday following the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, officials said. There are no restrictions on movement of people in the Valley, but barricades continue to remain in place along roads at several areas, especially those leading to Geelani's residence at Hyderpora here in view of the fourth day of mourning for the separatist leader. Security forces have been deployed in strength in the city and elsewhere to maintain law and order, they said. The traffic movement has increased across the Valley, but most of the public transport remained off the roads, officials said. Few shops also opened in some areas of the city as well as in other parts of the Valley, they added. The situation is normal and under control, officials noted. The police had on Saturday said several preventive measures had been taken to maintain law and order, including preventive arrests of dozens of miscreants so far. The police also said several social media platforms, including Kashmir Media Service which are running from Pakistan, have been trying to spread fake news and videos to instigate miscreants to disturb peace. Even a few local media persons and channels have been found spreading fake news and the police are observing them, maintaining evidence and appropriate actions shall be taken against them, they said. While voice calling and fixed-line internet services across all operators were restored Friday night after remaining suspended for two days, mobile internet services remained barred. IGP Kashmir, Vijay Kumar on Friday said the services would be restored on Sunday after a review meeting. Geelani, 91, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday night after a prolonged illness. The pro-Pakistan separatist leader, who spearheaded separatist politics for over three decades in Jammu and Kashmir, was buried at a mosque near his residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-eased-out-in-kashmir-but-security-forces-continue-to-remain-deployed-1027260.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Case against Chhattisgarh CM Baghel's father for alleged derogatory remarks against Brahmins||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel landed Congress and its government in the state in a row with alleged derogatory comments against the Brahmin community, which led to the registration of a police case against him and an embarrassed CM pleading "sorry" and promising "legal action" against his father. The Chief Minister got into swift damage control with a realisation that the remarks coming ahead of UP polls, where the party has been wooing Brahmins, could be a spoiler. Besides, Chhattisgarh itself has a substantial Brahmin population, which had thrown important leaders Vidyacharan Shukla, Shyamacharan Shukla and Motilal Vora from Congress in the past. "I as a son respect my father but such a mistake by him cannot be ignored, which can spoil public order. Nobody is above the law in a government, even if he is the father of the Chief Minister. As CM, I have the responsibility to maintain harmony among different communities. If he made a remark against a community, I feel sorry. Legal action would be taken against him," the Chief Minister, who is a prominent leader from the OBC community, promised. Baghel said he was "saddened and pained" by his father's statement, who had allegedly called Brahmins "foreigners" and appealed to people to "boycott" them and prevent their entry into their villages. The police complaint lodged by a group 'Sarv Brahmin Samaj' also alleged that Nand Kumar Baghel was asking people to evict Brahmins out of the country. The police registered FIR against the 86-year old father of the Chief Minister on Saturday night under sections of 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b)  (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence against the state or against public tranquility) of IPC. "Every person is equal before my government. Everyone knows about my ideological differences with my father. Our political thoughts and beliefs are very much different," the Chief Minister said in the backdrop of some from the Opposition camp attacking him, saying how he can handle the state if he cannot handle his father, and asking for his resignation. There were mixed reactions on social media. The CM emphasised that his government respects every religion, caste and community and their sentiments, and gives equal importance to everyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-against-chhattisgarh-cm-baghels-father-for-alleged-derogatory-remarks-against-brahmins-1027261.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Right-wing teachers' group backs changes to DU English syllabus, seeks 'scan' of all syllabi: Report||The DU Oversight Committee recently removed the works of two Dalit authors, Bama and Sukhirtharani, as well as renowned author Mahasweta Devi’s short story from the English syllabus. The move sparked a stir and invited criticism from over 108 permanent English professors and 15 Academic Council members. In return, the National Democratic Teachers’ Front, a teachers' group backed by the BJP, said that that section of teachers in English department "exploited academic autonomy and freedom in an attempt to denigrate and demonise Hinduism." In a statement, president A K Bhagi and secretary V S Negi, said, the professors also perpetuated "animosity between social castes, to encourage militant Maoism & Naxalism amongst tribals, etc" “’Draupadi’, a story written in Bengali by Mahashweta Devi and translated into English by Gayatri Spivak, had been taught in DU for many years. The very title of the story which revolves around humiliation of a tribal woman, is an insidious attempt to demean Hinduism. The contents of the story is replete with description of gory details of her private body parts, sexual innuendos, vulgar descriptions of sexual attacks on her, etc.,” he statement said. The group denied that Dalit writers were being removed from the syllabus and that there was “a false presumption that HoDs of DU work under pressure of administration”. The 108 teachers had issued a joint statement saying HoD Raj Kumar was "coerced" into approving the changes made to the syllabus. Kumar had reportedly confirmed that, saying he only approved the changes because the syllabus "was being held for months," Express reported. “The aim of Leftists had always been to inject society with the cancer of social and religious conflicts. As patriots and nationalists, NDTF is committed to resist their toxic cancerous approach and demand from University Administration to scan all syllabuses made by the English Department,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/right-wing-teachers-group-backs-changes-to-du-english-syllabus-seeks-scan-of-all-syllabi-report-1027271.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Badals 'root cause' for problems caused by farm laws, says Punjab CM Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh blamed veteran Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Parkash Singh Badal and his children for the problems caused by the farm faws not only in the state but also across the nation.  Since it was passed in Parliament during last year's Monsoon Session, thousands of farmers have been protesting in Punjab, Haryana and the borders of Delhi. The three laws were: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Amarinder Singh also added that the Badals were the root cause of the problem and also co-conspirators of the Centre's anti-famer agenda. He said, "the Akalis neither deserve nor can expect any understanding or forgiveness from the farmers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badals-root-cause-for-problems-caused-by-farm-laws-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-1027286.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 curbs in Haryana extended for 14 days, online classes in residential varsities till October 15||The Haryana government on Sunday directed vice-chancellors of residential universities to continue conducting online classes till October 15, modifying its earlier order to plan the reopening of institutes from the upcoming academic session. Covid-19 induced curbs in the state were extended for a fortnight with the relaxations permitted earlier allowed to continue. "The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another fortnight, that is from September 6 (5 am onwards) to September 20 (till 5 am), along with guidelines to be implemented during this period issued vide earlier orders," an order by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan on Sunday stated. However, making some modifications in earlier orders, it stated that vice-chancellors of residential universities in the state are directed to continue conducting classes online till October 15. A decision to allow students to attend classes physically in residential universities shall be taken on October 15 after assessing the prevalent Covid situation, it stated. Meanwhile, university administrations may strive to ensure to get all students, faculty members and staff, including the outsourced ones, fully vaccinated and share the progress with the Department of Higher Education, Technical Education and Medical Education and Research, as the case may be, the order stated. However, universities and colleges are allowed to open for students for doubt classes, practical classes in laboratories, practical and offline examinations with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behavioural norms. Hostels in colleges and universities are allowed to open only for those students who are appearing in examinations. According to earlier orders, vice-chancellors of universities in the state had been advised to plan the reopening of universities from the next academic session and share the programme with the state government's department concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curbs-in-haryana-extended-for-14-days-online-classes-in-residential-varsities-till-october-15-1027296.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||MBBS 1st year students in Madhya Pradesh to now read about Hindutva icons, Ambedkar||MBBS students in Madhya Pradesh will be lectured about RSS founder K B Hedgewar, Bhartiya Jana Sangh leader Deendayal Upadhyaya, Swami Vivekanand and B R Ambedkar as part of the first-year foundation course, state Education Minister Vishwas Sarang said on Sunday and added the move is aimed at instilling social and medical ethics among the students. Hedgewar, Upadhyaya, Swami Vivekanand are part of the Hindutva pantheon of the Sangh, believed to be the ideological mentor of the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP).The minister said the first year MBBS students will also learn about Maharshi Charaka, one of the principal contributors to the Ayurveda, and sage Sushrut, known as the father of surgery in India. "The students of the first-year course of MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery) will be lectured about Hedgewarji, Upadhyayji, Swami Vivekanandji, Ambedkarji and other great personalities. Lessons on these great personalities will inculcate values, principles, social and medical ethics in the students," Sarang told PTI. The next academic session for MBBS students is likely to start by this year-end. "The National Medical Council (NMC) has said that ethical values should be the part of the foundation course in the first year (of MBBS). So we thought of incorporating these great personalities for building the character of students," he said. The minister said states finalise the content of the foundation course. Keshav Baliram Hedgewar, a surgeon, founded the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh in Nagpur in 1925, based on the ideology of Hindutva. Deendayal Upadhyaya was one of the prominent leaders of the Bhartiya Jana Sangh, the forerunner of the BJP. "RSS first chief Hedgewarji, Upadhyayaji, Vivekanandji and BR Ambedkarji were great visionaries and human beings. Their lives were based on values. Their thoughts, conduct, and the very personalities are inspiring”, the minister said. He said Hedgewar had actively participated in India's freedom struggle. "Deendayalji's thought of 'Antyodaya' for helping the last man (the poorest of the poor) was exemplary. Swami Vivekanandji travelled far off lands to showcase the Indian vision. B R Ambedkar was born in a poor family but he went on to frame our Constitution. We have decided to teach (MBBS) students about the inspiring lives of these great personalities from the coming academic session (2021), '' Sarang added. The NMC decides the syllabus of the MBBS course. It sets topics for each subject but the education department of States is empowered to prepare the content of the Foundation Course subject, sources in the medical fraternity said. The lectures on Hedgewar, Upadhyaya and others are likely to be clubbed in the topic of medical ethics in the foundation course, they added. Lectures in the foundation course are generally given to students for a month after they take admission for MBBS, the sources added. About 2,000 students take admission in the MBBS course every year in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mbbs-1st-year-students-in-madhya-pradesh-to-now-read-about-hindutva-icons-ambedkar-1027307.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 30 new Covid-19 cases, zero death||Delhi recorded 30 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday with a positivity rate of 0.05 per cent, while no fresh deaths due to the infection was recorded for the fifth consecutive day, according to data shared by the health department. This is also the 24th time since the start of the second wave in the national capital that zero fatality has been reported in a day. The second wave swept Delhi during April-May. A total of 65,365 Covid-19 tests, including 45,500 RT-PCR ones, were conducted the previous day, the bulletin on Sunday stated. So far, over 14.12 lakh patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi, it said. The number of active cases in the city declined to 351 from 362 the day before, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-30-new-covid-19-cases-zero-death-1027322.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba criticises Centre for FIR over draping of Geelani's body in Pakistan flag||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday flayed the central government for the filing of an FIR over the draping of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani's body in a Pakistani flag and the alleged raising of "anti-national" slogans after his death. The Budgam Police registered the FIR against unnamed people under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code, taking cognisance of a video clip which showed Geelani's body draped in a Pakistani flag. However, as the police moved in to take over the body, the late separatist leader's aides removed the flag. Geelani, 91, died Wednesday night at his residence here after a prolonged illness. The body was laid to rest at a graveyard in a nearby mosque. Having turned Kashmir into an open air prison, now even the dead aren’t spared.A family isn’t allowed to mourn & bid a final farewell as per their wishes. Booking Geelani sahab’s family under UAPA shows GOI’s deep rooted paranoia & ruthlessness.This is New India’s Naya Kashmir. Criticising the filing of the FIR, Mehbooba tweeted, "Having turned Kashmir into an open air prison, now even the dead aren't spared. A family isn't allowed to mourn & bid a final farewell as per their wishes. Booking Geelani sahab's family under UAPA shows GOI's deep rooted paranoia & ruthlessness. This is New India's Naya Kashmir."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-criticises-centre-for-fir-over-draping-of-geelanis-body-in-pakistan-flag-1027325.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Muzaffarnagar an 'election meeting': BJP||The BJP on Sunday termed the 'Kisan mahapanchayat' organised in Muzaffarnagar an "election meeting" and accused its organisers of indulging in politics with assembly polls approaching in a number of states, including Uttar Pradesh. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states gathered at Muzaffarnagar on Sunday for the 'Kisan Mahapanchayat organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to protest the Centre’s controversial farm laws. The BJP's 'Kisan Morcha' head and MP Rajkumar Chahar claimed in a statement that it is politics and not concerns for farmers which have been on the agenda of those behind the 'mahapanchayat'. "This was very much a political and election meeting. The opposition and these farmer union leaders have been using the shoulders of farmers to engage in politics," he said. Chahar claimed that no government has done so much for farmers as the one led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has in the last seven years. The farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the three contentious laws has been going on for over nine months. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they feel will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kisan-mahapanchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-an-election-meeting-bjp-1027337.html
05-09-2021||North and Central||Farmers vow to make BJP's lotus wither in Uttar Pradesh, Centre||Eight years after the communal riots scarred the region, farmers turned up in full strength in this sugarcane belt of western Uttar Pradesh vowing to oust the BJP governments from the state as well as the Centre. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws at the doorsteps of Delhi, on Saturday launched ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand’ at the massive ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ at Muzaffarnagar with protests in every district of the two states. The SKM also gave a call for a nationwide strike on September 27 to protest against the three farm laws that the farmers’ claim would benefit only big businesses. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who has emerged as the face of the nine-month farmers’ agitation, accused the BJP of creating a divide between the Jat and Muslim communities in western Uttar Pradesh after the communal riots of 2013 and claimed that eight-year-old wounds have now healed. “The slogans of ‘Har Har Mahadev’ and Allahu Akbar were raised together earlier and will continue to be raised together in the future,” Tikait, the younger son of prominent farmers’ leader Mahendra Singh Tikait said addressing the massive rally. Tikait accused the Modi government of putting India on sale by rolling out plans to privatise roads, airports and seaports – a move that could affect livelihoods across the country. “India is on sale, and that is a reality,” he said. The five-hour rally saw farmer leaders from across the country address the gathering, with every leader urging them to punish the Modi and Yogi governments for ignoring the farmers’ demands. “The huge turnout here is a signal that you are set to repeat the West Bengal formula in Uttar Pradesh,” Balbir Singh Rajewal, a leader of the BKU faction from Punjab said. Activist Medha Patkar said farmers should declare that they will not vote for Modi and Yogi for ignoring the demand for rollback of the three farm laws. “Votebandi (say no to votes) is the only answer for notebandi (noteban) imposed by Modi on the nation,” Patkar said. Making an emotional pitch, Tikait said he had taken a vow to return home from the protest site at Ghazipur border in the national capital only after the success of the agitation. “I have come here directly from the Ghazipur border. I will return there after the mahapanchayat. I will not step inside my house in the city till the success of the agitation,” Tikait said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-vow-to-make-bjps-lotus-wither-in-uttar-pradesh-centre-1027364.html
05-09-2021||Opinion||Done right, NMP could be the way out of the woods for the economy||There comes a time when selling off the family silver may be more prudent than holding on to it for its antique value. As with households, so with nations. But just as they say that every generation has to learn anew that the fire is hot, every finance minister has to learn that creating national assets is an arduous task. This is especially important to keep in mind as the Narendra Modi government embarks on a plan to monetise assets. The Union government plans to monetise public sector assets and collect about Rs 6 lakh crore over the next four years to partly fund its ambitious infrastructure projects. The plan, if implemented with military precision, should rake in about Rs 88,000 crore in the current financial year. The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), a special purpose vehicle, will bring in about 14% of the government’s share of Rs 43.29 lakh crore needed for the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). The NMP will cover 20 categories of assets under 12 ministries and departments, including roadways, railways and power, the three top sectors that alone hold monetisable assets valued at about Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Unutilised or underutilised brownfield assets which proudly display a ‘blue chip’ tag, earned over the last four or five decades, will also be put on the monetisation block for auction: 25 airports, 27,000 km of roads, 6 GW of power projects, 160 coal mines, about 8,000 km of natural gas pipeline, the list of gleaming assets to cash in on is long. While the government avowedly claims that it is not selling away these assets, its assurance is likely to be viewed with suspicion and taken with more than a pinch of salt. Those who have dealt with governments in the past know that monetisation, when undertaken over a long number of years, is effectively privatisation. Even when the government does not intend it to be so, things don’t always go as planned or advertised. But the government’s effort to mop up as much revenue as possible to fuel the economy, create jobs and make the economy ‘shine’ is understandable. The demonetisation exercise of 2016, the rolling out of GST in 2017 and other factors had ensured that economic growth had already slowed down to 4.5% by 2019, and it seemed on the path to slowing down further as consumer demand continued to fall and industry remained unwilling to invest. Then, the sudden, severe and extended lockdowns since the pandemic began in 2020 intensified the economic pain. These factors have together broken the backs of the salaried class, the daily wage earner and of much of the business community. The Union government did make efforts to save the economy from nose-diving due to the pandemic, but it nevertheless fell into negative territory. The Atmanirbhar Bharat programme, ‘vocal for local’ mantra and the efforts to help kickstart manufacturing have not yet shown encouraging results due to a number of factors. While governments the world over and in New Delhi can print notes, sell assets and resort to deficit financing, the common man cannot perform any of these tricks to remain afloat. In such circumstances, the government could not help but take steps like asset monetisation to mop up revenue and increase government spending, which is currently the only engine driving the economy, by undertaking new infrastructure projects. GST collection, which seems to have recovered, is not always an indicator of economic recovery, unless other parameters fit in. Thus, one cannot find fault with the government’s intention to augment resources through monetisation or asset sales. The problem, as always, will lie in the finer details of the NMP plan, its implementation and the guarantee of results. While no one can predict the outcome of the NMP plan, one can make reasonable assumptions over how it will turn out from the roadmap and transparency of the plan. The finance ministry or Niti Aayog could publish a white paper on the roadmap of the NMP, its process of valuation of assets and, above all, the procedures it will adopt to avoid creation of private monopolies and/or crony capitalists. Reports that some global private equity biggies like Blackstone, Blackrock, and Macquarie could participate in the asset monetisation process is good news. But our own “swadeshi” private sector should be given preference. The private sector currently needs help, encouragement, easy compliance, lesser tax burden and better credit facilities. There is an urgent need for the government to provide a level playing field and clear administrative cobwebs. Meanwhile, it would not be out place to suggest here that the government should seriously consider abandoning the Air India sale process, which has not made any headway, and bring it under the NMP plan. Since the assets under the NMP plan are ‘not being sold’ and there will be an undertaking to ‘hand over the assets back’ to the government after a certain period, the government will remain the proud owner of the national carrier and will yet have bailed it out of its current financial mess. Another apprehension that the government needs to allay is the possibility of the asset sale revenue being used to bail out public sector banks and to help clean up banks’ balance sheets, loan repayments and debt servicing. It will be inappropriate for the government to utilise the revenues from NMP to fund non-productive aims or projects that do not create new assets. The government should resist the strong temptations that will arise when NMP revenues are in hand, especially as elections approach. (Seshadri Chari reads between the lines on big national and international developments from his vantage point in the BJP National Executive and the RSS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/done-right-nmp-could-be-the-way-out-of-the-woods-for-the-economy-1027141.html
05-09-2021||Opinion||Bhaag Jallianwala Bagh||Hello! I’m feeling super upbeat. Who can whine, when even the men, women and children who were mass murdered at Jallianwala Bagh are leaping out from the redesigned memorial walls with delighted smiles, as if they’ve just heard about the whole “GDP grew at 20 per cent” thing. They look as if some ‘New India’ factotum has instructed them to not be so negative. If victims of colonial homicide can smile, what’s your excuse? What historian Kim Wagner has called the ‘Disneyfication’ of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial is part and parcel of the vision of ‘New India’. You could describe that vision as ‘brutalist bling’, where brutalist (with a small ‘b’) is not so much about exposed concrete as about a bull in a china shop. It likes neat and shiny and, when possible, very big. It is meant to be “positive”, even if that means blinging up a crime scene, as in Jallianwala Bagh. Some of it is meant to convey monolithic, impregnable power stamped across what used to be public space, as in the Central Vista redesign. Some of it is intended to domesticate rival legacies by turning them into a sort of theme park, as in the proposed Sabarmati Ashram redesign. ‘Brutalist bling’ is not merely an architectural term, however – Architecture is only one of the ways that power imposes a psychological state. A self-styled emperor always wants to overpower, divide, and rule with an iron fist, throwing in a dollop of circus to help the people remember that they adore him. When you bring to politics a compulsion to enforce Hindutva-style order and purity upon a chaotic, many-splendoured country, it’s expressed in a kind of clumsy grandness, a militaristic style and vision recast as modernity -- a sort of tantrum that says “Love me, or else”. If ‘New India’s instincts are ugly, or insensitive, or destructive, or wasteful, or needless, or inappropriately timed, or intimidating, or all of the above -- come outside and say that again, you anti-national! What’s the point of being an all-powerful leader if one can’t rename a stadium after oneself, or tear down historical buildings, or build a samosa-shaped Parliament building? You want to leave your impression on future generations, you know? Maybe they should consider minting coins with his likeness on them. That insufferable Mahatma got to have his face on currency, so why not the founding emperor of Hindutva? It must be annoying that the dastardly Mughals were so successful at taking over that it’s just easiest to steal their moves. Democracy is a slow, tumultuous thing made of over-many opinions. More preferable is a manipulative imperial project disguised as the will of the people. Never have so many people been hoodwinked into believing that the wreckage they see around them is actually a neat and shiny upgrade in which they should take pride -- and that, furthermore, they’re Hindu-phobic if they don’t. Empire establishes itself by replacing the past. And if this can only be accomplished by putting the gory back in glory, whether in architecture or society, well, what’s an emperor to do? Anyway, the wonderful thing about life is that everything passes, which allows you a bit of anticipatory schadenfreude. One day, someone will come along and either bulldoze these yucky buildings, or restore them to what they once were, or -- my preferred outcome -- put up a plaque alongside to explain the historical context: “This unpleasant structure was erected in the 2020s by an autocrat who helmed the socially-divisive political movement called Hindutva. The location, size and design of the structure suggests self-aggrandisement founded on a crisis of confidence. It remains standing as a ringing caution to Indian society: Never again.” That really does make me smile. (Mitali Saran thinks a good asteroid could solve all our problems)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bhaag-jallianwala-bagh-1027142.html
05-09-2021||Opinion||Ecologically smart cities||Several kilometres of walking paths and jogging tracks, parking spots at the Queen’s statue, band stand and Central Library, children’s play equipment with swings and a sand pit, benches, dustbins and cycle stands, a water fountain, a “sound garden”. Sounds like an infrastructure project? Nope. It’s the controversial Cubbon Park Smart City work plan for phases 1 and 2, of which phase 1 commenced recently. Parks are the most visible green spaces for nature-starved city dwellers. Bengaluru’s residents and visitors, old and new, seek out Cubbon Park and Lal Bagh in the thousands on the weekends, seeking a chance to rejuvenate their minds and spirits amidst birdsong, flowers and the rustling of leaves, catching up with friends, walking their dogs, taking a family picnic or just enjoying the chance to be alone in the middle of a crowd. For so many of us, the city’s parks represent one of the few opportunities for real relaxation, sans devices – an opportunity that is available for everyone, even those who cannot afford to pay for their entertainment. We know that parks have many important psychological and physiological benefits. Children who live close to a park have a reduced risk of childhood obesity, and adults are less likely to have blood pressure or diabetes. The benefits of regular visits to a park include relief from mental stress from being cooped into small, cramped places at work and home – which we all can attest to needing in pandemic times. Cubbon Park has been intensively planted and maintained by talented and creative horticulturalists over the decades, with a carefully planned mix of species that maintain biodiversity and are attractive to visitors. Yet today, we seem to have lost this knowledge. Our once-intuitive understanding of how to maintain these unique heritage green spaces as ecological locations has given way to a mechanical, engineering-based approach that seeks to bring in vast quantities of concrete and cement, and convert the park into a large built space dotted with greenery. Thereby destroying the ‘wild’ magic of the park that gives it its unique flavour. Cubbon Park was built on land adjacent to the massive Sampangi lake (which now houses the Kanteerava sports stadium). It contains a number of heritage spaces of which many visitors are unaware – including the uppu neerina kunte (salt-water pond) which is integral to the iconic Karaga festival procession, and a number of massive kattes with peepal trees and small shrines, under which people bring grain and meat to feed the birds and wildlife, a practice that has continued for decades, if not centuries. Civic groups have fiercely protected the park, and the rights of people to access it without entry fees, forcing the Horticulture Department to reverse a plan to charge fees in 2009. Even earlier, in 1998, a protest by Sanmathi – an organisation of Mothers and Others – in collaboration with organisations like the Environment Support Group, saved large sections of Cubbon Park from being converted into housing for legislators. But community initiatives and citizen action cannot do everything. The number of species in Lal Bagh and Cubbon Park has shrunk from what it was 150 years back. The smart city project has plans to improve the biodiversity of the park. It should concentrate on restoring the ecological processes that sustain the park, and not transform into a civil engineering project. Of course, some of the infrastructure needs to be repaired. Making the park handicap-accessible is critical, for instance, as is the need to change some of the playground equipment, which is rusty and damaged in many areas. But such fixes should be as minimally intrusive as possible. As it is, the original 300-acre space has shrunk by over a third, losing ground to roads, cement and built infrastructure. We cannot afford to lose even a square metre of one of the few last remaining heritage spaces in the city to more concrete. That would not be smart, but ecologically foolish. (The author is a Azim Premji University Prof, who prides herself on barking up all trees, right and wrong)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ecologically-smart-cities-1027143.html
05-09-2021||Opinion||A new ‘Star Wars’ in the offing?||Of the numerous international treaties currently in place, the one that will prove to be most significant in the years to come is the Outer Space Treaty (OST) whose signatories include the US, Russia, and China. The OST, which forms the basis for international space law, expressly prohibits the placement of nuclear weapons or weapons of mass destruction in space or establishing military bases on celestial bodies. It does not, however, prohibit the exploitation of these very same celestial objects for commercial purposes such as setting up space colonies or mining them for minerals. There is a distinct possibility that an internet linking the terrestrial with the extra-terrestrial will be set up, one without any rules or regulations, just as on earth. You must have a great sense of humour if you think that the recently announced maiden flight of Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin or Elon Musk’s SpaceX ventures are motivated by scientific curiosity. They are much like Vasco da Gama or Christopher Columbus in the 15th and 16th centuries sailing off into the wild blue yonder in search of adventure or riches. The ongoing war between Google and Facebook for control of the digital advertising space on earth or the Amazon/Walmart tussle for control of the e-commerce space will soon be extended to outer space as well. That these companies would make outer space their home offices and use cryptocurrencies for all transactions is not beyond the realm of possibility. The current interpretation of Facebook’s Multiverse should go well beyond the real, the augmented and the virtual worlds. In its current form, the internet is an unregulated international service that runs on top of telecommunications systems, free of direct interference by geo-political entities. There is no international treaty on the internet as one would expect, simply because private corporations which currently manage the net do not like to be regulated by any government, though their publicly stated position is that such regulations would lead to loss of freedom of expression and possible censorship by autocratic countries. Curiously enough, these very same companies practice censorship to varying degrees and, at the same time, do rely on their governments to ensure their communications infrastructures and assets (mostly your data) are always protected. The companies want to have it both ways, it seems. One person’s unfettered freedom of expression is someone else’s loss of economic and commercial interests, and vice versa. Since personhood has long been bestowed on corporations, corporates are presumed to have inalienable rights, rights enforceable both within and across territorial borders by the imperial might of the nation-states where these corporations reside. The passage of the US Space Act in 2015, which confers upon US citizens legal rights to own resources in outer space, coupled with the creation of the US Space Command in 2019 are harbingers of where we are headed in the near future. In a recent address, India’s Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, in bemoaning the new security threats posed by cyber warfare, social media manipulation and the militarisation of space, ignored the much larger issue of the possible rampant commercialisation of outer space, a feat that can only be achieved by a handful of companies located in a handful of nations with significant space programmes. There is no restriction of access to the oceans and seas beyond the 12-mile limit of coastal zones, as stipulated by the UN Convention on the Law of the Seas, which went into effect in 1994. (Incidentally, the US has not ratified it). However, there is no such equivalent for outer space, even though the US Space Command has arbitrarily chosen 100 miles of extra-terrestrial space to be under its purview. Communication satellites are typically positioned about 23,000 miles from earth to be considered stationary. A stationary satellite is an artificial construct, as artificial as the islands created in the oceans by countries such as China and using the 12-mile coastal zone rule to control navigation and limit maritime activities by other countries. Just imagine what would happen if a satellite’s owner were to treat the space enclosed by a sphere of radius 100 miles centered around the satellite to be their sovereign territory. And Amazon recently announced plans to place nearly 3,000 satellites in orbit to bring the internet to even the most remote locations on earth. Now that the Iraq and Afghan wars are over, Star Wars is about to begin. You can watch it on the internet. Live. (Roger Marshalla is a computer scientist, a newly minted Luddite and a cynic)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-new-star-wars-in-the-offing-1027144.html
05-09-2021||Opinion||Let’s nourish Nilgais – Indian and sturdy – among start-ups, not Unicorns||“A chemistry is performed so that a chemical reaction occurs and generates a signal from the chemical interaction with the sample, which is translated into a result, which is then reviewed by certified laboratory personnel,” is a comical and nonsensical quote attributed by the New Yorker to the now disgraced Stanford dropout Elizabeth Holmes, the CEO of the shuttered Silicon Valley diagnostic company Theranos. In 2015, I spent some time studying the start-up ecosystem in the Valley. I had come away underwhelmed by the quality of the Valley start-ups, and even the much-touted Stanford academic ecosystem did not impress. What was to applaud was the entrepreneurship spirit and the flow of money in the Valley. The Indian start-up ecosystem draws inspiration from the Valley and its heroes. However, the focus on Unicorns and valuation rather than on revenues and profits is a ‘pandemic’ that the Indian start-up ecosystem should nip in the bud. Also, wearing the ‘dropout’ tag as a badge of honour is passe. Holmes goes on trial this month, charged with nine counts of wire fraud and two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. At the core of the charges is that Holmes misled investors, patients, and doctors about Theranos’ ability to conduct hundreds of blood tests with a single drop of blood. Holmes is a prolific inventor, with close to 200 granted patents in bodily fluid analytics through point-of-care and distributed services. She was able to convince investors, including Rupert Murdoch, the Walton family, and former secretary of education Betsy DeVos’ family, each of whom put in more than $100 million into Theranos. Holmes had a board of directors that included two former Secretaries of State, two former Senators, a former director of the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, retired senior military personnel, and former CEOs of major corporations. Holmes is said have been doing the standard Valley routine of “fake it till you make it”. Founded in 2003, the Theranos story came unravelling in October of 2015, but probably was being orchestrated from much before. From whistle-blower employees to keen journalists to awakened regulators, winter was upon the company that Holmes built. The company had sold a vision without an engineering backing. Inventions did not translate to market innovations. Most importantly, the company allegedly resorted to falsifying test results to keep the momentum building. At the end of the day, with $750 million of investment and a $10 billion valuation, Theranos had built nothing that worked. The Indian start-up story is just unfolding. It would be opportune to take lessons from successes and failures from across the world. Unicorns are companies with a valuation of $1 billion or more. Many Unicorns’ valuation is simply the investment multiplied by 4, much like empty calories, with no basis in revenues and profits. In India, it would be great to focus our start-ups on reaching the first year of $50 million in profitable revenue (not valuation). These companies should be called the Nilgais – Indian and sturdy. (The author, the former CTO of Tata Group and founder of AI company Myelin Foundry, is driven to peel off known facts to discover unknown layers. @Gkatragadda)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/let-s-nourish-nilgais-indian-and-sturdy-among-start-ups-not-unicorns-1027145.html
05-09-2021||Opinion||Afghanistan’s fall is 9/11’s latest unlearned lesson||Odierno responded tersely that the hanged dictator was a mass murderer. Sky, who liked to live dangerously, said: “We still don’t know who killed more Iraqis, you or Saddam, sir.” There was a deadly silence in the helicopter, and even the diplomat wondered if she had gone too far. “General O,” as she called him, then shouted, “Open the doors, pilots. Throw her out!” There are many layers to this story, recorded in Sky’s memoir of her Iraq service. Odierno deserves credit for taking the harsh jibe on the chin. Sky commands respect, for never having told the military what they wanted to hear. The ugly part, of course, is that she touched on a truth about the US response to 9/11. Incomparably more Afghans and Iraqis have died during the intervening 20 years than Americans perished in the attacks on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon, and few had anything whatsoever to do with violent Islam. As a historian, I acknowledge that this is not a unique phenomenon. In 1944-45, British and US aircraft killed many more French and Dutch civilians in air attacks against Hitler’s V-weapon sites on the continent than Nazi flying-bombs and rockets killed British people. That does not, however, make disproportionate force any more acceptable now than it was then. Amidst all the breast-beating on both sides of the Atlantic that has accompanied the withdrawal from Kabul, I have rewound my mental clock back to 9/11. The only question that seems to matter is: What should we, America and its allies, have done differently, following the most devastating terrorist atrocity in history? Let us all agree — Americans and Europeans, Democrats and Republicans, military and civilians — that an option to do nothing did not exist. My friend Lord Heseltine, a veteran British statesman, once stopped me short when I criticized some Western folly in Syria. He said: “There are moments when a government absolutely must be seen to take action.” 9/11 represented such a moment. The case for direct assaults on al-Qaeda’s camps in Afghanistan, and the pursuit of Osama bin Laden, remains unanswerable. A final reckoning with the terrorist leader was delayed until 2011 in Pakistan, but the CIA and US Navy SEAL operation was a model of its kind, wholly justified in the eyes of most of the world. The November 2001 overthrow of the Afghan Taliban regime, by Northern Alliance tribesmen supported by US air strikes and special forces, also represented a proportionate action, which again commanded international support. British war reporter Toby Harnden has just published a book written with CIA cooperation, “First Casualty,” portraying the early months of the Afghan campaign. It vividly describes the rollicking adventures Langley’s men enjoyed amid the blood, dust and tribesmen, which ended — apparently — with the bad guys in flight. It was then, of course, that things started to go awry. Amidst the orgy of hubris shared by politicians, soldiers and spooks, a delusion gained hold that Afghanistan could be remade on a Western template. Worse, George W. Bush and the neo-con zealots sharpened swords for the invasion of Iraq. Why did they do it? Why did they lie, lie and lie again about the complicity of dictator Saddam Hussein in 9/11, when no shred of intelligence endorsed such a claim? Why did Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair wreck their reputations by promoting spurious claims that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction? When Madeleine Albright was US secretary of state back in 1998, she proclaimed with a cross-party arrogance that would be reflected in much done by Washington after 9/11: “If we have to use force, it is because we are America; we are the indispensable nation. We stand tall, and see further than other countries into the future, and we see the danger there to all of us.” Henry Kissinger justified his own support for the Iraq invasion by saying: “Because Afghanistan wasn’t enough.” America’s enemies had aspired to its humiliation, “and we need to humiliate them.” Stephen Wertheim of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace has written recently: “rather than pose a threat, Iraq offered a stage. On its territory, the United States would exhibit overwhelming power.” In the months after 9/11, America’s warlords were exasperated by how meagre was the budget of credible targets for American might, that could be identified with al-Qaeda. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said: “We have to have something to hit…There is not a lot of Al Qaeda to hit.” He, Vice President Dick Cheney, Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz and a handful of others made the fatal call to expand their objectives: to destroy America’s enemies and secure its hegemony across a great swath of the Muslim world hostile to the West. There is no merit in recycling details of what followed. We should focus on essentials. I never forget a conversation with the then-head of the British Army, Gen. Sir Mike Jackson, in the fall of 2002 after he returned from meetings in Washington, to plan the Iraq invasion in which British forces participated. “Getting to Baghdad will be the easy bit,” said Jackson laconically. “But they [the Americans] haven’t a clue what they will do afterwards.” So it proved, of course. The first important lesson of both Afghanistan and Iraq is that the campaigns exposed institutional failures in Western intelligence that are still unrepaired. The US National Security Agency and its British counterpart GCHQ possess extraordinary electronic resources. But neither the CIA nor the British SIS has ever fathomed the tribal and family networks which are critical to political behavior throughout the Muslim world. Our Islamic “humint” is lousy. Toby Harnden’s book describes how a handful of CIA men, in their own eyes hampered by bungling army Green Berets and Navy SEALs who today return the insults, blundered across Afghanistan strewing dollars and directing air strikes, while scarcely one of them spoke a local language or grasped the nuances of personalities. In 2001 the CIA elevated the Uzbek warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum to heroic status, while in Craig Whitlock’s new book “The Afghanistan Papers,” the old man is characterized by the US military as a murderous scoundrel.  PowerPoint presentations should be banned from military operations: They promote a delusion of omniscience among commanders and their staffs. A few years back I visited the operations room of the British brigade headquarters in Helmand province. It closely resembled its American counterparts: Banks of soldiers sat before banks of wall screens that displayed drone and ground live feeds of a dozen actual and prospective battlefields. The impression of knowledge and control was impressive. Yet almost every man fighting on the ground complained in after-action reports that he knew little or nothing about what was happening in the next street or village — what local people were thinking.    The Australian counterinsurgency guru David Kilcullen wrote a significant 2009 book entitled “The Accidental Guerrilla” in which he highlighted the number of Afghans who joined in firefights not for ideological reasons, but simply for the excitement. He described one such episode in May 2006, when young farmers joined Taliban attacking US special forces — “spontaneously marching to the sound of the guns.” Asked afterward why they had done it, the tribesmen replied: “Did we understand how boring it was to be a teenager in central Afghanistan? This was the most exciting thing that had happened in their valley in years. It would have shamed them to stand by and wait it out.” Such attitudes are an oft-ignored factor in insurgencies, from Belfast to Bogota. In recent weeks, the Taliban has ballooned exponentially in strength, as Afghans whose only ideology is to back winners have bandwagoned with the imminent conquerors of Kabul. In almost all recent interventions including Vietnam, the US and its allies have imposed a heavy, self-harming footprint on primitive societies. Air bases, razor wire, blast walls, armor, low-flying helicopters, shopping malls and chow lines for service personnel, sunglasses and helmets that cause soldiers to resemble Darth Vader’s stormtroopers cripple the Western cause even before anybody starts shooting. Such technology and facilities, along with absurdly brief tours of duty, are deemed indispensable to the welfare of Western troops doing the fighting. Yet they reflect a fundamental error: setting priorities and tactics to enable our forces to conduct campaigns in a fashion that suits us, rather the ones they have actually got, on the ground against enemies who set the lightest footprint. Our forces set themselves apart as aliens, while local people see our enemies as folks like themselves. I asked one of the most senior officers in the NATO military, who has served repeated command tours in Afghanistan, for his personal menu of lessons we should take home from the past 20 years of combatting Muslim extremism. He has responded with impressive thoughtfulness. First, “we never addressed the causes of extremism — poor education, lack of opportunity and a sense of exclusion. We lost the moral high ground with moderate Muslims through our behavior in places like Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo.” He deplores the lack of strategic patience for a long game, after launching the invasions. We “turned a bear-hunting mission into a nation-building one…It was ridiculous that we rejected dialogue with the tribes that made up the Taliban.” The allies failed to create sustainable institutions, and “never built a narrative that local populations could understand and support.” Finally my friend quotes the Italian strategy guru Antonio Giustozzi, who has written extensively about Afghanistan and the Taliban: “Every age has its follies — the folly of our age has been an irresistible desire to change the world without first studying and understanding it.” The West needs to resolve fundamental contradictions about its interventions in faraway places. Neo-colonalist policies — installing US or allied officials to run other people’s countries, as the British did in large parts of the world for more than two centuries — are unacceptable. But local puppet regimes have proved chronically corrupt and incompetent. The Kabul government collapsed within months of President Joe Biden’s announcement of US withdrawal. Every Western insider knew that, even if the Taliban did not deserve to win, nor did our client regime. The centralized model established by Washington was wholly inappropriate for a country that has always been loosely run, through shifting networks of regional tribal and family interests. Any government seen to be in thrall to foreigners, whether in Saigon or Kabul, is likely doomed. Moreover soldiers, whose selling point is that they know how to kill people, make terrible nation-builders. Next time we want a country reorganized, send anybody but generals to do the job. Why should they be any more qualified for such a role than are plumbers or web program designers? The influence of Westerners upon Afghanistan and Iraq has been no less pernicious than that of the Christian missionaries who, in earlier centuries and with the best of intentions, generated discord and sometimes violent strife across Africa and Asia. As for the future, Stephen Wertheim suggests: “It is now — just about — possible to see how the United States might find its way to becoming a nation among nations, no longer dominant but no longer minding.” He characterizes the US response to 9/11 as “ultimately disastrous,” because it has so deeply tarnished its image as “the indispensable nation.” I only partially accept this bleak view. The mistakes and failures are real enough, as most Americans acknowledge. Yet despite all the hard things said by allies as well as enemies, as an Englishman I insistently conclude: The US is still the indispensable power. It is the only superpower we have got, with the might to get stuff done that is vital to us all, and to defend interests common across Western civilization. We may lament America’s sustained confusion of foreign policy and military strategy since 9/11, without being foolish enough to cry: “Yanks go home!” Contrarily, we need them to stay — just to get a tad more real about what abroad is really like, and about the limits of the possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/afghanistan-s-fall-is-9/11-s-latest-unlearned-lesson-1027284.html
05-09-2021||South||Kerala: 12-year-old admitted in Kozhikode hospital with suspected Nipah virus infection||A 12-year-old boy has been admitted to a hospital in Kerala's Kozhikode with symptoms similar to those of Nipah virus infection, health department sources said Saturday. The state government held a high-level meeting of health officials late Saturday night following the information about the suspected Nipah infection, a health department source told PTI. Although the state government has not yet officially announced the presence of Nipah virus, sources said the health minister might rush to Kozhikode Sunday morning to take stock of the situation. Further details are awaited. The first Nipah virus disease (NiV) outbreak in South India was reported in the Kozhikode district of Kerala on May 19, 2018. The state had witnessed 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases till June 1, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-12-year-old-admitted-in-kozhikode-hospital-with-suspected-nipah-virus-infection-1027181.html
05-09-2021||South||12-year-old boy dies of Nipah infection in Kerala as virus returns to haunt state||As Kerala remains in the grip of Covid-19, the state has now come under a Nipah scare after a 12-year-old boy died of the viral infection at Kozhikode district on Sunday. While the child's mother and two health workers were showing some symptoms, as many as 188 persons were found to be in the contact list of the boy hailing from Chathamangalam about 15 kilometres from the Kozhikode. Around 20 were found to be in the high-risk group were hospitalised. Over 100 persons in the contact list were learnt to be health workers. A central team comprising experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) rushed to the spot and collected samples. Following suspicions that the child recently consumed Rambutan fruits from a tree near his house, samples were collected for testing. There were also reports that a goat owned by the family recently died and samples were collected from the spot where the goat was found dead. Fruit bats are generally considered to spread the zoonotic (transferred to humans from animals) Nipah virus. It can also be transmitted directly from human-to-human and no treatment or vaccine is available for the infection. The case fatality rate is estimated at 40 per cent to 75 per cent, according to WHO. Kerala suffered a Nipah outbreak in 2018 that claimed 17 lives. In 2019, the state reported one case, but the infected person was cured. The efforts of the Kerala Health Department in containing the outbreak of the disease received much appreciation from various quarters. The boy who died on Sunday was suffering from fever and vomiting for around two weeks and was initially taken to a private clinic on August 27 from where he was later shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College hospital. He was shifted to a private hospital in the city on September 1 with suspected brain fever. Subsequently, doctors sent the samples to National Institute of Virology. The test results conforming Nipah came on Saturday evening and he died the next morning. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that the area within a three-kilometre radius of his house was declared a containment zone and all nearby regions and districts were also maintaining vigil. Individuals with any sort of symptoms were advised to seek medical attention. The route map of the deceased boy was also published. Several teams were formed for various purposes, including contact tracing and surveillance, and control rooms were opened. The NIV will be setting up a testing facility in the region. Following allegations that the Kozhikode Medical College authorities did not subject the child to a Nipah test despite being admitted with brain fever symptoms, the health minister said that she would look into it. Meanwhile, there was a slight decline in fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala on Sunday. The state reported 26,701 new cases and the TPR stood at 17.17 per cent. The number of active cases in the state was at 2.47 per cent.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/12-year-old-boy-dies-of-nipah-infection-in-kerala-as-virus-returns-to-haunt-state-1027193.html
05-09-2021||South||Kerala: Missing woman found buried 6-ft under lover's kitchen||The Kerala Police on Saturday exhumed a woman's mortal remains from a pit dug inside her lover's home in Idukki district after she was reported missing since August 15, said an officer. The body that was dug out from the kitchen was identified by her youngest son, who confirmed it to the police. Sindhu, a mother of three, has been staying with Binoy, her lover, for the past four years after she separated from her husband. The two along with her 12-year-old son were staying in a very small house near Adimali that belonged to Binoy. The police and the locals started the search for Sindhu, after her relatives approached the local police and filed a petition that she has been missing since this Independence Day. Following investigations and after finding that Binoy suddenly too, went missing, on Friday, the police along with the others carried out a thorough search at his premises, and also decided to dig up the kitchen. Sindhu was found buried in a six feet pit. The crime and the cover-up was carried out with expertise -- this became clear as lot of chilly powder was put in the pit along with the body to distract sniffer dogs, experts said. After the body was located the police stopped digging and it was on Saturday morning they returned with forensic experts and the body was taken out. The Idukki police, which is overseeing the operations said that the body will now be taken to the Kottayam Medical College for conducting an autopsy. Sindhu's relatives said that Binoy on August 10 took her youngest son who stayed with them to his relative's house and came back alone. On August 11, Sindhu reportedly called her daughter who lives with her father. She complained about being harassed by Binoy. And after that there was no communication from Sindhu. On August 14, the youngest son returned to Binoy's house and found his mother missing and the message was passed on to her relatives, who the next day filed the missing complaint. Even though the police came, they did not give much significance to the statement of her young son, that the kitchen of the house was re-done and they left. However, things started to move faster, once Binoy went missing. The police decided to dig up the kitchen floor after her relatives raised more doubts. A man hunt is underway for Binoy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-missing-woman-found-buried-6-ft-under-lovers-kitchen-1027198.html
05-09-2021||South||Karnataka BJP MLA blames Taliban for fuel, gas price hike in India||India is the world’s third-biggest importer of crude oil. However, Afghanistan is not among India’s major sellers. In July 2021, Reuters reported that Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Nigeria, the United States, and Canada are the six countries that sell crude oil to India. At the same time, the constant increase in India’s crude oil price has affected the public which is already affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-bjp-mla-blames-taliban-for-fuel-gas-price-hike-in-india-1027217.html
05-09-2021||South||Two healthcare workers symptomatic for Nipah virus in Kerala, over 180 in contact list||Among them, 20 were in the high-risk group owing to primary contact, and two of them were showing symptoms, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said. Among others in the contact list, around 130 were reportedly health workers. The two symptomatic persons are also healthcare workers. Following allegations that the Kozhikode Medical College authorities did not subject the child to a Nipah virus test despite being admitted with brain fever symptoms, the health minister said that she would look into it. The child was initially taken to a private clinic and then later to the medical college hospital. On September 1, he was shifted to a private hospital in the city. The boy tested positive for the Nipah virus by Saturday evening and the discussions were going on to admit him to medical college when he died by Sunday morning. The health minister said that all the 20 in the high-risk group were being shifted to a special ward opened at Kozhikode medical college. a three-kilometre radius around the house of the deceased child at Chathamangalam was made a containment zone. Testing facility for Nipah was also being set up in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-healthcare-workers-symptomatic-for-nipah-virus-in-kerala-over-180-in-contact-list-1027256.html
05-09-2021||South||Nipah-infected child's last rites performed with protocols||The 12-year-old boy who passed away early this morning due to Nipah virus infection here was laid to rest at nearby Kannambarath Khabaristan by the health department officials after following complete health protocols. The officials, clad in PPE kits, performed the last rites. Only a few close relatives wearing similar gear, were in attendance. The Kozhikode corporation health staff sanitised the entire area after the rituals. Later the body was buried in a 12 foot specially prepared grave. The boy from nearby Mavoor died of Nipah at a hospital here in the wee hours on Sunday. Samples of the boy, which were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, confirmed the presence of the virus. Local authorities have geared up to check further spread of the virus in Kozhikode and surrounding areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nipah-infected-childs-last-rites-performed-with-protocols-1027277.html
05-09-2021||South||ISRO truck blocked for 'nokku-kooli'||Barely a couple of days after the Kerala High Court directed the State to get rid of the practice of 'nokku-kooli' which literally means 'gawking wages', a truck of ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) was blocked on Sunday by workers allegedly demanding the wages. Police said they received a complaint from ISRO based on which they reached the spot and found the workers preventing from entering the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) facility at Thumba here. The issue was settled and the workers left the area after the intervention of police officers, including the Commissioner, an official of the Thumba Police Station said. Nokku-kooli is an euphemism for extortion by organised labour unions. The court, hearing a plea filed by a businessman from Kollam over the issue, said the rights of the headload workers should be protected legally and petitions seeking action on those demanding nokku-kooli were on the rise. "The practice of nokku-kooli is damaging the image of Kerala. It should be eradicated. It gives out wrong perceptions about the state. Meanwhile, the rights of the headload workers should also be protected," the court had said. On May 1, 2018, the State government banned the practice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isro-truck-blocked-for-nokku-kooli-1027311.html
05-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government to start 10 arts and science colleges||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department that manages over 44,000 temples and trusts in Tamil Nadu will spend Rs 150 crore to establish 10 arts and science colleges in the state. With this, the number of colleges run by the department will go up to 15. The department will also set up new libraries in the state besides renovating the existing ones by upgrading their infrastructure. Presenting the department’s policy note in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Saturday, HR & CE minister P K Sekarbabu made a slew of announcements including setting up of medical centres at popular pilgrim centres in the state. HR & CE, which was relegated to the backseat in many governments, has assumed the centre stage ever since the DMK dispensation came to power in May this year. The government appointed 24 non-Brahmin priests, implementing in toto a government order issued by the then M Karunanidhi-led cabinet in 2007, and has now decided to revive six Archakar Payirchi Palli (Priest Training Schools) as part of its efforts to ensure social justice, a core principle of the Dravidian movement. Sekarbabu said the new arts and science colleges will come up at Vilathikulam, Lalgudi, Kadayam, Tiruchengode, Kolathur, Kilpauk, Lalgudi, Kalasapakkam, Anaikattu, and Thoppampatti. The minister said the department will also spend Rs 25 crore in improving infrastructure and sports facilities in colleges and schools run by the department. In a new scheme, Sekarbabu said medical centres will be set up at 10 temples in the state which will have medical staff to provide first-aid to devotees in case of any emergency. Besides, the HR & CE department will also construct 22 marriage hails, while it will spend Rs 1.5 crore to develop the six training schools for priests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-to-start-10-arts-and-science-colleges-1027326.html
05-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu put on alert following Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala||Tamil Nadu government on Sunday asked districts bordering Kerala to be “alert” and step up surveillance following the outbreak of the Nipah virus in the neighbouring state. In a message sent to collectors, the Health Department asked them to include all communicable diseases like Nipah as part of fever surveillance. “Fever surveillance in border districts should cover all communicable diseases, especially Zika and now Nipah. The local bodies along the border should be alerted about these diseases,” Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said in a message to collectors of districts that share borders with Kerala. He also said there was nothing to panic. An identical message was also sent to deputy directors of the health department and health teams that are functioning in districts across the state. Officials said district administrations have been asked to step up surveillance in border areas and screen passengers coming from Kerala. “This is a standard protocol that is being followed. As we launched a fever surveillance programme after the Covid-19 outbreak, we added Zika and now Nipah after a 12-year-old died of the infection. Passengers coming from Kerala will be screened before they enter Tamil Nadu,” a senior government official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-put-on-alert-following-nipah-virus-outbreak-in-kerala-1027334.html
05-09-2021||South||Ex-Union Health Secretary Keshav Desiraju passes away||Keshav Desiraju, a retired bureaucrat who served as Union Health Secretary under UPA-II and an expert on public health, passed away here on Sunday. He was 66. Desiraju, who is also the grandson of former President Dr S Radhakrishnan, passed away on his grandfather’s birth anniversary. After his retirement, Desiraju shifted base to Chennai and was actively involved in drafting the Mental Healthcare Act 2016. A lover of Carnatic music, Desiraju’s book Of Gifted Voice: The Life and Art of M.S. Subbulakshmi was recently released. Desiraju was also active on Twitter and had even tweeted a couple of days ago. An expert on public health, Desiraju penned many books and had participated in several seminars on healthcare facilities in the country. He had also worked closely with NIMHANS in Bengaluru. Chief Minister M K Stalin and leaders from across the political spectrum condoled Desiraju’s death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-union-health-secretary-keshav-desiraju-passes-away-1027354.html
05-09-2021||South||Prisoners’ blood remains taboo despite Kerala HC ruling||Despite the Kerala High Court's recent observation that the criminal background of a person should not be a disqualification for donating organs as their organs could not be considered "criminal kidney or liver", the issue remains a taboo. Blood banks are not entertaining prisoners to donate blood as they are considered a high-risk group with chances of infections like sexually transmitted diseases and drug abuse. Earlier, prisoners in Kerala used to donate blood, and there were provisions for remission of up to 15 days in their sentence for each blood donation. But now, no blood bank authorities are entertaining blood from prisoners. Bringing blood under the definitions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act following instances of the spread of infections like HIV through blood transfusion is learnt to have led to restriction of taking blood from prisoners. Deputy Inspector General of Prions S Santosh told DH that no request for blood donors came to the prisons for more than ten years. Now that the High Court had observed that the criminal background of a person should not be a disqualification for donating organs, the restrictions on collecting blood from prisoners may hopefully see some change. Dr N Vijayakumar, medical officer of the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre at Aluva in Ernakulam, said that the restriction on taking blood from prisoners came after blood was brought under the purview of Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules following public interest litigation in the Supreme Court in 1994. The PIL followed the spread of infections through blood transfusion. Moreover, the coercion factor could be involved in taking blood from prisoners, he said. The rule states that "no person shall donate blood and no blood bank shall draw blood from a person more than once in three months. The donor shall be in good health, mentally alert and physically fit and shall not be inmates of jail person having multiple sex partners and drug-addicts." A doctor in charge of the blood bank at Thiruvananthapuram medical college said that even as prisoners were considered as high-risk group, earlier there used to be a practice of accepting blood from prisoners. But over the last many years, prisoners' blood was not being taken. Moreover, there is an an adequate number of voluntary blood donors now, said the doctor. Even as all sorts of tests are conducted before using the blood donated by a person, the chances of certain infections remaining undetected during the window period were there. Though voluntary blood donors are subjected to pre-donation counselling, those with criminal backgrounds need not disclose chances of infections like STDs, said a blood bank official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prisoners-blood-remains-taboo-despite-kerala-hc-ruling-1027371.html
05-09-2021||South||Kerala Congress attempts to pacify disgruntled senior leaders||In a bid to pacify senior Congress leaders in Kerala Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, leader of opposition V D Satheesan called on the two and held talks. Both the senior leaders, who had been the decision makers of Congress in Kerala for several years, had expressed their displeasure in the open for not being consulted while finalising the new district committee leaders of the party by the new state leadership comprising of Satheesan and well as Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran. Both Sudhakaran and Satheesan were made the state leaders by the national leadership following the setback suffered by Congress in Kerala Assembly polls for the second consecutive time. Satheesan called on Chandy and Chennithala at their residence to earn their confidence and support and both leaders later told reporters that despite the differences they would stand united for the Congress. “Congress party is the primary factor and groupism is secondary only,” Chandy said after the meeting, while Satheesan said that Chandy and Chennithala were those who should guide state leaders. Meanwhile, there were also reports that some Congress leaders in the state petitioned the party's national leadership that Chandy and Chennithala were trying to trigger a revolt. The national leadership had already conveyed support to the new state leadership in its attempts to revamp the party by not succumbing to interests of group leaders - mainly Chandy and Chennithala. Satheesan’s efforts to pacify the senior leaders also came close on the heels of the Congress-led United Democratic Front set to meet this week. Some coalition partners in the UDF had expressed resentment over the revolt in the Congress and gave indications of leaving the front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-attempts-to-pacify-disgruntled-senior-leaders-1027374.html
05-09-2021||South||Survival in question, Sivakasi pins all hopes on Deepavali||Deepavali is just two months away, but the usual enthusiasm witnessed among fireworks’ manufacturers and labourers in the months leading to the festival are absent this time. With a huge pile of last year’s stock still lying with dealers, a majority of the manufacturers have scaled-down production by around 50 per cent this year translating into reduced working days for lakhs of labourers who are dependent on the multi-crore industry, which could well be staring at an existential crisis. The stakeholders – manufacturers, labourers, dealers, and allied industries – have just one prayer on their lips. Covid-19 cases should not spike in October leading to a lockdown and state governments should not impose a ban on the bursting of crackers during Deepavali, falling on November 4. Lockdown and the losses Two lockdowns induced by Covid-19 in successive years and loss of sales during the marriage season and festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi due to a ban on celebrations are also cited as reasons for the industry’s current plight. The manufacturers have been navigating from one crisis to another in the past few years – notably, the transition to Green Crackers during which they suffered huge losses – and Covid-19 might be the last straw. “The prerequisite for this industry to survive beyond 2021 is to allow sales and bursting of crackers this Deepavali season. A ban on the bursting of crackers this year would mean stocks worth thousands of crores of rupees lying either with manufacturers or dealers. In such a scenario, we cannot begin production for the 2022 festive season,” P Ganesan, President of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers' Association, told DH. If the production does not start immediately after Deepavali, companies won’t up their shutters leaving over seven lakh labourers, both direct and indirect, in the lurch. Already labourers get just three or four days' work a week instead of six days during pre-Covid years. Since other industries in Sivakasi also depend on the fireworks’ cluster, labourers don’t even have the option of shifting jobs on days they do not get jobs at the cracker factories. Woes of fireworks’ labourers 58-year-old Sundari recounted her tale even as her hands moved fast in packing 'bijli' crackers at a factory in Meenampatti near Sivakasi. “I consider myself lucky if I get four days’ work a week. Covid has turned our lives upside down as factories do not give us work for six days a week. With just three days’ wages, it is very difficult to meet ends,” Sundari told DH. “The last year was a tad better because we got six days’ work a week. This year, though the lockdown was lifted early, we don’t get work regularly. You can just imagine what my plight would be,” she said. Mixing chemicals in a nearby factory, 46-year-old Nagarajan said she shifted to fireworks a decade ago after working in the printing industry for 15 years. “Life has always been difficult for labourers in Sivakasi. But it has turned worse after the Covid-19 pandemic. We don’t even get our salaries on time as manufacturers say they don’t have enough orders to pay us. Since the economy in the town is entirely dependent on the industry, we do not have many options,” Nagarajan told DH. Scaling-down production While big companies are taking a risk by manufacturing firecrackers to the scale they produced during pre-Covid years, the small and medium scale industries are utilising just 50 per cent of their total capacity. The refrain of several manufacturers is that dealers, especially those in north India, are sceptical of taking the orders from Sivakasi as they are not sure of what could be in store as Deepavali approaches. “Even dealers who gave advance money are asking us not to dispatch the firecrackers. No one is sure of whether state governments will allow the bursting of crackers as many states imposed a ban at the eleventh hour last year. We scaled down production by 50 per cent this year. The tragedy is I don’t know whether I can even sell those,” a manufacturer told DH. P Asaithambi, Director of Lord Fireworks, referred to an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that firecrackers cannot be burst in cities that have poor Air Quality Index (AQI) levels and questioned the purpose of manufacturing green crackers if blanket bans had to be imposed. “My company’s main market is Uttar Pradesh and if there is a blanket ban on bursting crackers or a decision is taken on the basis of AQI level, I will incur losses in crores. Because the AQI level in almost all major UP cities falls under the poor category. Green crackers were introduced to reduce pollution but it is unfortunate they are also not allowed in such places,” Asaithambi said. 'Hope 2021 is different from 2020' Ganesan added it was unfortunate that firecrackers are blamed for pollution though they are burst only on the day of Deepavali. “There is no study or research to connect bursting of crackers with pollution. Actually, there is no relation between the bursting of firecrackers and Covid-19 infections. But many state governments banned firecrackers last year. We just hope 2021 is different from 2020,” he said. Asaithambi, also the president of Sivakasi Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association, said his firm has reduced production by at least 50 per cent this year due to fear of a last-minute ban. “At our factory, we work only for four days a week while many small players have reduced the working days to three. There is no point in producing firecrackers in abundance and stocking them in godowns. The uncertainty surrounding the sales is what worries the manufacturers and dealers,” Asaithambi said. N Kartheeswaran of Sri Velavan Fireworks too echoed the same sentiments maintaining that he may have to shut down his unit if he does not manage to push the stock off his factory before Deepavali. “We have not been able to offset the losses that we incurred last year. Many dealers have not paid for the stocks that they took from us last year as they were not able to sell them. If we continue to invest, where do we go and borrow?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/survival-in-question-sivakasi-pins-all-hopes-on-deepavali-1027405.html
05-09-2021||State||Dakshina Kannada surpasses Bangalore Urban in Covid deaths in August||Dakshina Kannada, which is witnessing an upward trend in daily cases following a spike in infections in Kerala, has recorded 130 fatalities in August, making it the district with highest number of deaths in the state for the said month. Bengaluru Urban registered 101 Covid deaths in August.  One in every five Covid deaths in Karnataka has occurred in Dakshina Kannada in August. The district, in its defence, said 29 of those deaths were of patients from other districts, which if taken into account, the coastal district would still tie with the state capital on the districts with most number of deaths for the month. According to the officials, 59 per cent of the active cases are in Mangaluru city. Also, 66 per cent of the total active cases are in home isolation. The district administration is mulling over filing FIRs against primary contacts who breach quarantine. Dr Ashok H, Covid nodal officer for Dakshina Kannada district, told DH that the positivity rate over the past seven days in the district has dropped to 2.04 per cent and case fatality rate to 1.43 per cent. "Out of 2,248 active cases, 1,486 (66.1 per cent), are in home isolation, 544 (24.2 per cent) in hospitals and 218 (9.7 per cent) in Covid Care Centres. The reason for higher hospitalisation rate compared to other districts is that we are admitting nursing and paramedical students, who are testing positive, who don't have severe symptoms, to hospitals so that they compulsorily remain isolated," he said. "We have 32 paramedical and eight medical colleges. We got clusters from there when we screened 7,000-odd students. Sullia also had 8 per cent positivity rate previously for one month but now has only 145 active cases," he added. Now the focus is on Beltangady taluk which has the next highest active cases with 296. "Deaths are high because medical colleges like Yenepoya are getting referrals from other districts under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka. Earlier we would send them back to their districts but now with the centralised bed management system, deaths of patients from other districts occurring in Mangaluru are being recorded as Dakshina Kannada district's deaths," Dr Ashok said. Taluk committees Apart from district-level technical expert committee, similar ones have been constituted at the taluk-level apart from facility-based ones. "Deaths occurring after one month of recovery from Covid, due to complications, are also being considered Covid deaths, reveal verbal autopsies and case sheets. Majority of them are occurring in medical colleges. Despite 30 different entry points being strictly monitored by the police at the Kerala border, we have people slipping in by foot," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dakshina-kannada-surpasses-bangalore-urban-in-covid-deaths-in-august-1027140.html
05-09-2021||State||Industrial Adalat to be reintroduced to solve industrial problems and disputes: Murugesh Nirani||The Industries department will reintroduce 'Industrial Adalats' (industrial courts) from September 27 to help solve industry related problems on the spot, Karnataka Minister for Large and Medium Industries, Murugesh Nirani said on Sunday. The Minister said he also planned to hold symposia and workshops in major cities across the state to encourage entrepreneurship among youths. The decision to reintroduce Industrial Adalats was taken after his recent meeting with senior officials of his department, the minister said in a statement. Nirani said the Industrial Adalats will provide platforms for stakeholders from the industrial sector to get their long pending grievances resolved. According to him, the Industrial Adalat was introduced during his previous stint as Industries minister between 2008 and 2013. Many investors and industrialists have immensely benefited from Industrial Adalats and issues such as land disputes, taxes, fees, infrastructure facilities and other related issues were resolved amicably, he said. Regarding symposia and workshops, Nirani said it will be held a day after the scheduled Industrial Adalats in cities such as Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Belagavi and Kalaburagi. "We want to encourage the spirit of entrepreneurship among our youths by imparting necessary skills through these workshops and make them entrepreneurs. We want them to emerge as job-providers instead of job-seekers," Nirani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/industrial-adalat-to-be-reintroduced-to-solve-industrial-problems-and-disputes-murugesh-nirani-1027280.html
05-09-2021||State||Karnataka bars cultural programmes, processions during Ganesh Chaturthi||Limiting Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations to five days and prohibiting cultural programmes and processions taken out, the Karnataka government issued guidelines for the celebration of the festival on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the government will allow only one Ganesha pandal per ward in urban areas. "We have granted conditional permission for the celebrations," he said. In rural areas, pandals can be set up with permission from local authorities. All organisers should have a vaccination certificate and Covid negative report, according to the guidelines. They were issued following a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, with ministers and experts over the measures required to curb the spread of the pandemic during the festival. At all public Ganesha pandals, the premises should be sufficient to accommodate only 20 people. Organisers should make sure that the number of devotees does not exceed 20 at any moment during the five day period, the circular said. According to Ashoka, a pandal can come up in an area of 50x50 feet. The government has also barred all cultural events and DJ programmes organised on account of the festival. It has restricted the height of Ganesh idols to four feet at public programmes and two feet at residences. "Processions are not allowed either when installing the Ganesha idol or while during visarjan. Processions are completely banned," the guidelines issued by Tushar Girinath, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department (Disaster Management) said. Only a 'small number of people' will be allowed to take the idol for visarjan. All public places and temples where Ganesha idols are installed will have to be sanitised on a daily basis. Arrangements should be made to provide sanitisers and thermal screening for devotees. All events at Ganesh pandals should end at 9 pm, in accordance with the night curfew regulations. Arrangements for Ganesh visarjan will be made by local authorities at dedicated spots in both urban and rural areas. Mobile tanks will also be pressed into service. Any violation of the guidelines will attract penal provisions under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, the circular added. The guidelines came amidst pressure from BJP leaders and various groups to allow full-fledged celebrations during the festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bars-cultural-programmes-processions-during-ganesh-chaturthi-1027308.html
05-09-2021||State||Lalinakere in Hassan burst into celebration as Suhas wins medal in Paralympics||Lalinakere, a small village in Arsikere taluk in Hassan district, burst into celebration as soon as Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj, a native of Hassan district, claimed silver in the men's singles in Badminton in the Paralympics in Tokyo on Sunday. Suhas Yathiraj is an Indian professional Para-Badminton player currently ranked world No 2 in Men’s Singles and also the Silver Medalist in SL-4 category in Tokyo Paralympics 2021. The villagers distributed sweets and expressed happiness for making a small village in Hassan district popular across the world. Suhas was born on July 2, 1983, at Sarada Nursing Home in Hassan. His mother is Jayashree and father Yathiraj served the Irrigation department. Suhas's grandfather Krishna Iyengar was the native of Lalinakere village and resided here in 1950, according to villagers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lalinakere-in-hassan-burst-into-celebration-as-suhas-wins-medal-in-paralympics-1027384.html
05-09-2021||State||40 days after floods, Central team visits Belagavi to assess damage||An inter-ministerial flood assessment team, led by Chief Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Home Affairs, Sushil Pal, arrived in Belagavi on Sunday to assess the damage, 40 days after the region suffered a flood havoc. The team, comprising D K Manoharan, director, Agriculture Ministry; Shubham Garg, assistant director, Ministry of Power; Manoj Arya, commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, visited three affected areas in Khanapur, all under 30 minutes. The team, however, didn’t meet the flood-affected villagers or farmers. It only recorded the information provided by the district officials. The team inspected a flood-ravaged bridge across Malaprabha river in Marutinagar, the deluge-hit police training school and a poultry farm where over 4,000 chicks perished in rain andfloods. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath briefed the team of the damage caused by the floods and heavy showers in Khanapur taluk in July. The Central team later in the day took stock of the crop loss and damage to civic infrastructure in Hukkeri taluk. Speaking to reporters, Sushil Paul said, “Floods have caused extensive damage to crops, road infrastructure in the district. Three teams have inspected the affected places. After a meeting with the chief minister, we will submit a comprehensive report to the Centre in 10 days. We will recommend the Centre to release the compensation as per the NDRF guidelines.” Another inter-ministerial team, led by J Guruprasad, superintending engineer, Ministry of Jalshakti, visited the flood-affected places in Dharwad district, including Alnavar. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil told the Central team that the district had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 500 crore in July floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/40-days-after-floods-central-team-visits-belagavi-to-assess-damage-1027392.html
05-09-2021||State||IT dept to have new building in Bengaluru||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman laid the foundation stone for the office building of the Income Tax Department in Bengaluru on Sunday. According to a release, the new building will have an exclusive public relations office to address public grievances and an Aaykar Seva Kendra for providing taxpayer services. The building will be constructed by the Bangalore Project Circle, CPWD, said a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/it-dept-to-have-new-building-in-bengaluru-1027393.html
05-09-2021||State||Mild tremors rattle Vijayapura, Bagalkot, panic-stricken people spend night outdoors||Mild earthquake, measuring 3.9 on Richter Scale, rattled Vijayapura and Bagalkot cities and several parts of districts, including Babaleshwar, Tikota, Basavana Bagewadi, Almatti and Nidagundi, late Saturday night. Mild tremors were felt by the residents of the twin districts at 11.47 pm and 11.49 pm on Saturday night and 4.15 am on Sunday. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, the epicenter of the quake is located near Kolhapur in Maharashtra. A loud bang in Earth’s crust followed by tremors triggered panic among the residents as they ran out of their houses. And with overnight rain adding to their fear, many spent the night outside their houses anticipating more tremors. Apart from Bagalkot city, mild tremors were also felt in Bilagi, Jamkhandi and Guledgud taluks of the district. “I was on the top floor of my house when I felt tremors twice in a gap of three to four seconds at around 11.45 pm. I got down and rushed out of my house. The panic-stricken residents of the colony also came out of their houses,” Amogh Deshpande, a resident of Vidyanagar 22nd Cross in Bagalkot, told DH. Vijayapura Deputy Commissioner P Sunilkumar said, “According to Mines and Geology department officials, Vijayapura district falls under Zone II, classified as the low damage risk zone. There’s no need to panic. The general public should not pay heed to rumours.” Not uncommon  In fact, tremors and loud sounds are nothing new to the villagers of several villages in Tikota and Basavana Bagewadi taluks. The residents of Hunshayal, Malghan, Babanagar, Karbhantanal, Masuti villages keep experiencing strange loud sounds from the crust, followed by vibrations. The district administration had roped in geologists from Bengaluru to study the strange phenomenon, three months back. The experts had clarified that it was not an earthquake. But that did not help in assuaging the villagers’ fears and anxiety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mild-tremors-rattle-vijayapura-bagalkot-panic-stricken-people-spend-night-outdoors-1027394.html
05-09-2021||State||Union Minister launches CM's 'Raitha Vidyanidhi'||The Chief Minister's Scholarship Scheme for children of farmers - Raitha Vidyanidhi - was launched by Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday. The scheme was one of the first announcements made by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after assuming charge in July this year. Speaking at the event, Bommai noted that farmers continue to be in a state of economic distress. "To address this, the government will give importance to post-harvest processing under a comprehensive agriculture policy," he said. The government will make all efforts to ensure scientific storage, transport and marketing of farmers' produce. Bommai said that measures were essential to ensure that the crop varieties developed at agriculture universities reach the farmers and benefit them. Union Minister Tomar recalled the programmes of the Central government aimed at doubling farmers' income. The Central government has set aside Rs 1.5 lakh crore under Atmanirbhar Yojana to provide basic facilities for farmers to store their produce. Several programmes initiated by Agriculture department in Karnataka were a model for other states, he said. Union Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje said that 750 farm produce groups will be set up in Karnataka to help small farmers of the state. Farmers should benefit from schemes such as "One District, One Product" and others initiated by the Centre, she said. It can be recalled that the Bommai government had set aside Rs 1,000 cr for the scholarship scheme aimed at encouraging children of farmers to pursue higher education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/union-minister-launches-cms-raitha-vidyanidhi-1027395.html
05-09-2021||State||Rs 152-cr project to shift 450 families from Kali tiger reserve||In a “win-win” move for the Forest department and the forest dwellers in the Kali Tiger Reserve, officials have come up with a proposal to relocate about 450 families outside the reserve, which will end human impact in 20,500 hectares of core area. The 448 families, comprising about 2,200 persons, reside in 24 hamlets spread across the five ranges in Kali tiger reserve. Over the decades, the department has made efforts to provide basic amenities, but access to education and healthcare have turned out to be a major challenge. Sources said the department has budgeted an expenditure of Rs 151.80 crore for rehabilitating the families. The proposal has been submitted to the Centre to get funds under the compensatory afforestation fund (national CAMPA). Lack of job opportunities has been a major bane for the forest dwellers. As a result, the youth have left their families to work in far away places. Access to healthcare during pregnancy or emergency situation has also been difficult as they have to travel to either Dharwad or Karwar. “Over the last few years, they have voluntarily come forward for relocation. The youth, especially, know that their aspiration for upward mobility requires access to resources that a protected area cannot give. A plan has been prepared to help them in this regard,” a senior official in the department told DH. The guidelines issued by the national tiger conservation authority (NTCA) provide for either total cash compensation of Rs 15 lakh or a rehabilitation process that includes procurement of agriculture land, construction of house among other measures. “It’s a win-win move that reduces pressure of development works in the fragile areas of the reserve. About 20,500 hectares of the reserve will be free of human activities, allowing wildlife to thrive. It puts an end to potential man-animal conflict in the area,” an official said. Under the CAMPA Act, the Centre gets 10 per cent of the fee paid towards compensatory afforestation by agencies/persons who take up projects in forest areas. Karnataka’s proposal is expected to be considered by the executive committee of the national authority in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-152-cr-project-to-shift-450-families-from-kali-tiger-reserve-1027397.html
05-09-2021||State||Karnataka to recruit 5,000 teachers to meet shortage||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday announced the recruitment of around 5,000 teachers to the government schools during the current academic year to address the shortage of teachers. He was at an event to mark Teachers' Day organised by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. In view of the sharp increase in enrollment at government schools for the last two years, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh had recently requested the chief minister to consider recruitment of teachers on priority. "The government has decided to recruit 5,000 teachers for the current academic year following the request by the minister," said the chief minister. Hailing the National Education Policy (NEP) as the best thing to happen in the education sector in post-independent India, Bommai suggested the teachers study the new education policy and submit their suggestions on the same. "I have studied the policy, it is one of the best things we are giving to students post-Independence. While implementing such policies, there will be positive responses and objections. I request teachers to study the policy and submit their suggestions as we are all set to implement it at the primary and secondary level," Bommai said. As many as 31 primary and high school teachers and 10 PU lecturers were honoured with the Best Teacher award at the state level during 2021-22 academic year. Also the winners of Best Teacher award at national level - Nagaraj C M (Govt HS, Doddabanahalli, B'luru South), Hema Angadi (Govt Higher Primary School, Belagavi) and Parameshwaraiah M (Govt Model Higher Primary School, Lalavi, Ballari dist) - were felicitated. Cong flayed  Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said the leaders of the opposition party should stop giving irresponsible statements on National Education Policy. Responding to the recent statement by the Congress leader D K Shivakumar on the NEP, the minister said, "By giving such statements, the opposition leaders are only dishonouring the experts who framed the policy and also the teachers. Those who have studied the policy will not give such irresponsible statements."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-recruit-5000-teachers-to-meet-shortage-1027398.html
05-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lay emphasis on harvest management: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that thrust would be given to post-harvest management under the Comprehensive Agriculture Policy (CAP). The chief minister, who launched the ambitious CM Raitha Nidhi Scholarship programme, said efforts will be made to get better prices for the crops grown by the farmer through scientific storage of agricultural produce, transportation, marketing facilities and other amenities. Bommai said agriculture universities must successfully grow the plant variety, which are researched in the agriculture fields. Universities must come out of their premises to the fields, he opined. Appreciating Prime Minister Narendra Modi's determination to double the income of farmers, he said that though it is a challenge the Prime Minister has accepted the challenge and has charted out a plan. He also said that the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Scheme was implemented to provide security to farmers' lives. The State government too added Rs 4,000 additional assistance when B S Yediyurappa took charge as CM, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lay-emphasis-on-harvest-management-cm-bommai-1027404.html
05-09-2021||West||Fire in Mumbai high-rise building; no casualty||A minor fire broke out at an apartment in a 35-storey building in Mumbai's Worli area in the wee hours of Sunday, a fire official said. It was a 'level-1' (minor) fire and no one was injured, he said. The fire brigade received a call at 1.53 am about the blaze in the flat located on the 17th floor of the 'Marathon' building in Gandhi Nagar locality of Worli, the official said. Local police and fire brigade officials rushed to the spot and the flames were douse by around 2.15 am, he said. Furniture kept inside the flat was gutted in the blaze, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-mumbai-high-rise-building-no-casualty-1027262.html
05-09-2021||West||Goa authorities on alert after IMD forecasts very heavy rain||Goa administration was on high alert on Sunday, a day after the IMD predicted "very heavy rainfall” in the coastal state over the next couple of days, officials said. The sky was overcast in Goa's capital Panaji and other cities of the state since morning, they said. A senior official from the North Goa district administration said control rooms were activated and people were asked to remain alert in case there was flooding in their areas. “After the experience of last month, when several places were flooded (due to heavy rains), we are leaving nothing to chance,” the official said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said with the likely formation of a low pressure area over north and adjoining central Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours, monsoon activity may get strengthened over south Konkan and Goa in the coming days. “Very heavy rainfall (exceeding 11.5 cm in 24 hours) is very likely at one or two places over the districts of Goa on September 5, 6 and 7. Likelihood of heavy rainfall (64.5–115.5 mm in 24 hours) continues over North and South Goa districts for about a week from 4th September, with scattered and isolated spatial distributions,” the IMD had said. It also said that intense spells of showers for a short duration are very likely over North and South Goa districts during this period. “Winds with speed around 40 kmph are likely to occur along with rain spells. With increased rainfall activity to continue, the areas vulnerable for landslide and flooding may be kept under monitoring,” the weather department had said. The IMD also informed the state government that water levels in rivers and reservoirs may be monitored and necessary precautions may be taken. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said the state administration was put on high alert in the wake of the possibility of very heavy showers in the coastal state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-authorities-on-alert-after-imd-forecasts-very-heavy-rain-1027266.html
