06-09-2021||First Edit||Vaccine coverage is govt’s job||While the Karnataka government’s proposal to launch door-to-door Covid-19 vaccinations in rural areas to increase the coverage is welcome, the move to take coercive steps in Bengaluru to achieve the objective is questionable. The state is facing challenges in inoculating the eligible population in villages due to shortage of doses at primary health centres coupled with vaccine hesitancy. Though the government has held several campaigns on the efficacy of vaccines, rumours continue to take precedence over facts with many still continuing to believe that it would have adverse side effects. For instance, in some villages of Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district which has a high literacy rate, many are yet to receive their first dose even seven months after the drive began. Due to the poor footfall at PHCs, even those keen to get jabbed are forced to return disappointed. At the same time, many centres frequently run out of vaccines, further compounding the problem. This has its own fallout as daily wage farm labourers are unable to repeatedly skip work for the sake of getting vaccinated. In Bengaluru, it is a different story altogether with the government conveniently washing its hands of the responsibility and shifting the onus on employers who at their own cost will have to ensure that 100 per cent of their employees are administered at least one dose of the vaccine or face prosecution under the Epidemic Diseases Act. In a controversial circular, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has empowered marshals and health officers to enter any commercial establishment including offices, industries, hotels and restaurants from the second week of September and check the vaccination certificates of employees. While the employers cannot be punished for the BBMP’s failure, such intimidating measures are sure to open the floodgates of corruption. Various industry bodies, including the hoteliers’ association, while promising total compliance, have demanded that the BBMP should first make vaccines available. While long queues or shortage of doses are common at BBMP facilities, they have pointed out that not everybody, especially small businesses, can afford paying upwards of Rs 1,000 per dose in private hospitals. While the government should quickly launch the door-to-door vaccination programme in rural areas without further vacillation, in Bengaluru, BBMP should immediately withdraw the circular and ensure inoculation at the premises of commercial establishments, instead of shirking its responsibility. Unless the government undertakes the vaccination drive on a war footing by plugging all gaps, the target of covering the entire eligible population by the year-end will only remain on paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/vaccine-coverage-is-govt-s-job-1027434.html
06-09-2021||In Perspective||Statutory basis for solid waste body||The Bengaluru Solid Waste Management Limited (BSWML) has been set up as a government-owned company to execute solid waste management (SWM) projects on behalf of BBMP based on an executive order and without any statutory basis which is essential. This company should be empowered statutorily as a procurement entity on behalf of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike as envisaged in the proposed New Bengaluru Governance (NBG) Bill, 2021. The BBMP Act, 2020 which is in force, stipulates ward committees as corporation authorities assigning them statutory powers in SWM and investment in Bengaluru. The newly established BSWML company runs contrary to the mandate of the BBMP Act in this regard. Firstly, the BSWML has not been statutorily backed by suitable enabling provisions in the BBMP Act. Secondly, BBMP Act has given statutory powers regarding SWM to the ward committees which is imprudent. These ward committees should have only a participatory role. Thirdly, BSWML, without a statutory backup, will be perceived as a service providing contractor only. The MSW Rules, 2016 authorises the appointment of any agency based on the criteria specified under it. To address these anomalies, it is appropriate to create a statutory framework for the establishment of BSWML and to specify its powers and functions clearly in the BBMP law such that BSWML is under the administrative control of the BBMP Council. Further, as a major reform, the law should stipulate that licencing of service providing agencies should be in accordance with the mandate of MSW Rules, 2016 which is currently not in practice in BBMP or any municipality in the state. The operator licence should be applied for by the vendor agencies to the BSWML which must scrutinise it and recommend grant of such licences for approval by the BBMP Council and issue the same. The BSWML will operate on the budgetary framework and administrative control of BBMP. It is empowered to accord technical sanctions to the projects and procure them through tendering process among the pre-qualified licenced operators before entering into a service contract. BSWML will act as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to manage the operations and infrastructure development for SWM in Bengaluru. The BSWML should be responsible to get regular feedback from the municipal authorities and the ward committees on the day-to-day operations and deficiencies in the service delivery. It will act as a regulatory body for enforcement of adherence to contract conditions by licenced operators under the criteria stipulated under MSW Rules, 2016. BSWML shall also be responsible to coordinate and liaise with the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board for obtaining statutory clearances. The Bengaluru Solid Waste Management Authority (BSWMA) will have a Governing Council headed by the chief minister and an Executive Committee. The composition of the BSWML as conceived in the government order can be reconfigured as its executive committee under the law. Administrative approvals for all the projects are accorded by BBMP Council or the BSWMA depending upon the value of the project cost. BSWMA will exercise the financial power of the state government to avoid unnecessary delay. Investment plan  The BSWMA will be declared as a Development Authority and will be made responsible for the preparation of SWM master plan for the Bengaluru Urban District including phase-wise investment plan with milestones, which should be routed through Bangalore Metropolitan Region Authority for incorporation in the five-year draft development plan to be prepared by the Greater Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee (GBMPC).  The BSWMA shall be responsible for the identification and allocation of suitable land to BBMP for setting up of processing and disposal facilities for solid wastes as incorporated in the SWM master plan. BSWMA shall ensure that the master plan is reviewed regularly. The master plan must identify sites for setting up regional waste processing facilities accessible to the surrounding municipalities and panchayats.  On similar lines of BSWML and BSWMA, the state government may think of establishing Solid Waste Management Limited for every district having a municipal corporation and an apex body at the state level called Karnataka Solid Waste Management Authority as and when required. Creating statutorily backed SPVs will facilitate state-wide municipal governance reforms for sustainable and accelerated SWM and infrastructure development. This strategic legislative intervention by the state government through the proposed NBG Bill, 2021 enables the realisation of the intent of constitutional mandate and MSW Rules, 2016 in letter and spirit empowering the ward committees and municipal authorities to discharge their obligatory functions effectively which is the need of the hour. (The writers are directors, Centre for Urban Governance Studies & Policy Research, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/statutory-basis-for-solid-waste-body-1027430.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Counting of votes for Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Hubbali-Dharwad civic polls commences||Counting of votes for Belagavi City Corporation election commenced at 8 am. A total of 385 candidates are in the fray of whom 55 were of BJP, 45 of Congress, 27 of AAP, 11 of JD (S) and 7 of AIMIM. MES has backed 22 independents. Candidates and their election agents and counting agents began arriving at the counting centre in the premises of B K Model High School. Low voter turnout has become matter of concern for candidates. Meanwhile, the counting of votes polled for 55 wards of Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation began at N V International School in Kalaburagi on Monday. Out of 55 wards, the results of seven wards announced. While BJP and Congress won three seats each, an independent candidate won the other seat. A straight fight is going on between Congress and the BJP to wrest Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation. BJP rebel candidate Shambulinge Badabatti won from ward No. 36 in  Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation. He defeated BJP candidate Suraj Tiwari, a close aide of Kalaburagi south MLA Dattatraya Patil Revoor. Congress' Raghamma won ward No. 33. Elsewhere, counting of votes to elect new corporators to Hubbali Dharwad Municipal Corporation, began at UAS in Dharwad. BJP has won 25 seats in the HDMP, while Congress has won 14 seats and independent candidates have won three seats. JD(S) and AAP are yet to open their account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/counting-of-votes-for-belagavi-kalaburagi-hubbali-dharwad-civic-polls-commences-1027497.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hung house in Hubballi-Dharwad after BJP narrowly misses majority||The BJP, which was eyeing a hat-trick win in the Hubbali-Dharwad municipal polls, fell short of three seats to get a clear majority in the twin cities' civic body. Congress put a brave show by winning 33 seats. A dismal performance by the JD(S) saw them win only one seat. AIMIM, which contested for the first time, gave a good performance by winning three seats. Independent candidates have won six seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hung-house-in-hubballi-dharwad-after-bjp-narrowly-misses-majority-1027543.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Floating jetty to come up in Mangaluru||A floating jetty will come up in Mangaluru at a cost of Rs 6.5 crore. Once completed it will become the first such facility at any fishing harbour in Karnataka, said MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath. He was speaking during the flagging off ceremoy of eight insulated cold storage trucks by the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC) here on Monday. The jetty will come up at the end of the third phase of the fisheries harbour in Old Port. Further, he said that the Cabinet has approved Rs 22 crore for the completion of the third phase of the fisheries harbour in Mangaluru. A jetty for the anchoring of traditional boats will come at Thota Bengre at an estimated cost of Rs 3.5 crore. A proposal for upgrading the Old Port especially to give emphasis to hygiene and other development works at an estimated cost between Rs 75-100 crore  has been sent to the Central government. The Karnataka Cabinet has already approved the proposal, he said. Further, he said that 16 various development projects related to the fisheries sector at an estimated cost of Rs 1,100 crore will come up in Karnataka. Inaugurating the programme, Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Water Transport S Angara said there is a need to promote inland fishing along with marine fisheries. The insulated cold storage vehicle will help in the supply of quality fish catch to various parts of Karnataka. Noting that excessive fishing is harmful, the Minister said that fishermen should focus on saving fish species as well. The fisheries department will set up cold storage units in various parts of Karnataka to help in the supply of fresh fish. Pisciculture can be an alternative in areas where arecanut plantations are affected with yellow leaf disease, he felt. KFDC Chairman Nithin Kumar said that the insulated cold storage vehicles have been procured at an estimated cost of Rs 2 crore under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY). Three trucks are of four tonne capacity,four trucks have two tonne capacity and one truck has one tonne capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/floating-jetty-to-come-up-in-mangaluru-1027546.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress wins Mysuru corporation bypoll||Rajani Annaiah of the Congress has won with a huge margin of 1,997 votes over her nearest rival Leelavathi of the JD(S) in the bypoll to ward number 36, Yaraganahalli, under Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), held on September 3. The bypoll had recorded a voter turnout of 64.49%. The counting of the votes was held on Monday morning. While Rajani Annaiah secured 4,113 votes, Leelavathi managed to get 2,116 votes. Shobha R Ramesh, of the BJP, was far behind with just 601 votes. The bye-election was necessitated due to the disqualification of earlier corporator Rukmini Madegowda of the JD(S) in May. Rukmini Madegowda was also elected as mayor on February 24. The seat was reserved for Backward Classes (B)-Woman. Leelavathi is a close relative of Rukmini Madegowda and they had hoped to retain the ward in their own family. Rajani Annaiah, who had lost to Rukmini Madegowda in the 2018 polls with a margin of 364 votes had filed a petition before the District Court questioning the election of Rukmini alleging that a false affidavit was filed regarding her assets. The lower court annulled the election. Later, Rukmini had filed an appeal before the High Court, which upheld the disqualification. The lower court had directed to declare Rajani Annaiah as the winner but the High Court cancelled the order and directed to hold an election on May 26. Rajani Annaiah was earlier elected from the same area in 2013. The bypoll had created anxiety among the leaders and workers of both Congress and JD(S), as they had just parted ways from their alliance in the mayoral election held on August 25 when Sunanda Palanetra of the BJP was elected as mayor. Despite canvassing by MLAs, MP and other high-profile leaders, the BJP was far behind the rival parties. BJP candidate in the 2018 Assembly poll from Narasimharaja constituency Sandesh Swamy and his son Sathvik, a corporator from the neighbouring ward number 35, had taken the bypoll seriously. With this result of the bypoll, the BJP maintains its lead with 22 corporators, followed by Congress with 20 and JD(S) with 17. There are five Independents and one BSP corporator in the MCC with a total of 65 wards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-wins-mysuru-corporation-bypoll-1027563.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP to retain power in Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike: Jagadish Shettar||Though the BJP could not reach the magic figure required to get majority in the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP), MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar expressed confidence that the party would come to power in the civic body with the help of votes by MP, MLAs, MLCs and independents. "BJP could not win in a few seats due to rebel candidates, as votes were divided. Therefore, we could not win in expected number of wards. Price rise has no impact on this results," he said. Rebel candidates had earlier itself clarified that they would be with the BJP only, after the elections. The party would take a suitable decision about taking them back to the BJP, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-to-retain-power-in-hubballi-dharwad-mahanagara-palike-jagadish-shettar-1027569.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Inscription with carving of 'Purushamriga' unearthed in Bantwal taluk||A rare inscription belonging to Bangarasa with the carving of 'Purushamriga' was unearthed at Sajipamooda in Bantwal taluk. The inscription was unearthed by Rani Abbakka Tulu Adhyayana Kendra Chairman Dr Tukaram Poojaru and former Bantwal taluk panchayat president Yashvanth Deraje. Later, under the guidance of Prachyasanchaya Samshodhana Kendra, Udupi Director Prof S A Krishnaiah and researcher Shruthesh Acharya read the contents of the inscription. The inscription belongs to the Bangarasa period of the 15th century. The inscription is carved on granite and is 138 cm tall and 76 cm wide. It is written in Kannada script and has 17 lines. There is a carving of the sun and moon on the top of the inscription. In addition, there is a carving of Shivalinga with Prabhavali in the middle. The right side has a 'Purushamriga' offering pooja to 'Shivalinga' and there is an embossing of a Nandi on the left-hand side. The researcher felt that this may be the first inscription with 'Purushamriga' in Karnataka. The inscription dates back to May 17, 1483. It is a 'Daana Shasana' (grant inscription) of Lakshmapparasa Odeya, son-in-law of Banga ruler Pandyapparasa. The inscription makes reference to donations to Ichilada Mutt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/inscription-with-carving-of-purushamriga-unearthed-in-bantwal-taluk-1027571.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj might have lost final but won hearts, says mother||Her joy knew no boundaries after her son Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj won historic silver after going down fighting against top seed Lucas Mazur of France in the men’s singles SL4 class final at the Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday. With a grinning face, Jayashree C S, mother of Suhas told DH that her son has achieved what he had in his mind. "I am confident that his feat would inspire many persons with physical disabilities. He might have lost the final match but conquered the hearts of Indians through his fighting spirit. This is more important than a gold medal." Sharing her thoughts with DH from Noida, in Uttar Pradesh, where her son is District Magistrate, she said Suhas is highly talented and a hard worker. He was good at academics and sports as well. Though he has an impairment in one of his ankles by birth, it never became a hindrance to his achievement in any field. He used to play cricket very well during his boyish days in Shivamogga. It was Gourav Khanna, coach, who observed his talent in badminton during the IAS training in Mussoorie, Uttarkhand, and asked him to practice every day. Since then, he was determined to win a medal in the Paralympics. She said Suhas is highly dedicated and he had the urge to bring laurels to the country. He also had some luck. His perseverance and dedication were the key elements behind his success.  "He did not win the gold medal. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi's interaction with him has made me very proud. So, I have no regrets that he did not win gold." She also made it clear he is reticent by nature. But he always wanted to inspire others through his deeds. "I liked the final match which he lost more than the match he won because he flaunted his fighting spirit in the final." Suhas has finally proved that success is not the monopoly of anyone. But one must have the determination to reach great heights in any field, she added. Speaking to DH, Yogish, who played cricket with Suhas, in Shivamogga, said "We never felt that he has a physical disability. He was good at studies and sports. We used to fondly call him Prasadi. We are glad that he won a silver medal in Paralympics." Suhas did primary education at Rotary school, secondary education at Sacred Heart school. After completing PU (Science) in DVS Independent College in Shivamogga, he went to the National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Suratkal, Mangalore, to pursue an engineering course. His father Yatiraj was an assistant executive engineer in Upper Tunga Project in Shivamogga and he breathed his last in 2005. Since then, Jayashree has been staying in Shivamogga. Her younger son Sharath L Y is serving as a software engineer in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/suhas-lalinakere-yathiraj-might-have-lost-final-but-won-hearts-says-mother-1027572.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress wins Tarikere municipal election||The Congress has won the majority in Tarikere TMC election. The results were announced on Monday. Out of 23 wards, Congress won 15 seats, while BJP had to be satisfied with only one seat. Independent candidates have won the remaining seven seats. Out of 23 wards, the election was held for 22 wards. T S Basavaraju from Congress in ward number 10 was elected unopposed. There were 78 candidates in fray in 22 wards. The counting was held at Government Girls PU College in Tarikere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-wins-tarikere-municipal-election-1027592.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress becomes single-largest party in Kalaburagi City Corporation polls||The Congress has emerged as a single-largest party by winning 27 seats in the house of 55 in Kalaburagi City Corporation polls, the results of which were announced on Monday. Interestingly, the BJP which contested in 47 wards out of 55, has managed to win in 23 wards. While JD(S) clinched 4 seats, and an independent candidate won in a ward. Despite emerging as second-largest party, the BJP is dreaming to come to power with the support of JD(S) and one independent. While an independent winner is a rebel BJP candidate, one of the four JD(S) corporators too has his roots in the BJP. The saffron party will have six more votes of the elected representatives including an MP, two MLAs and three MLCs. Meanwhile, Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board Chairman and Gulbarga South BJP MLA Dattatraya Patil and Kalyana Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Chairman Rajkumar Patil Telkur have convened a joint press meet at 5 pm to give details about the results. On the other hand, the Congress is also trying its best to continue its sway over Kalaburagi City Corporation. KPCC Working President Eshwar Khandre is holding talks with the JD(S) corporators. One or two newly elected corporators have jumped to the JD(S) after the Congress denied them ticket to contest for this election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-becomes-single-largest-party-in-kalaburagi-city-corporation-polls-1027600.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru college student's cover of Sri Lankan song gets good views||The cover version of Sri Lankan song ‘Manike Mage Hithe’ sung by Alva’s College student Aseema Dhola has received the highest views in YouTube. The cover version of the same song sung by Yohani and Sathishan had received more than 50 million views recently. Inspired by the same, Aseema had sung the song. Aseema learnt the lyrics of the song with the help of her friends Thath Mendis and Nipuni Taruka. Priyanka Poojar had directed the cover version of the song. Gunesh Bharathiya and Greshel Kaliyanda had recorded the song. The song has received more than 12,000 views within two days of uploading it on YouTube. Originally the song was sung by Dulan and the cover version sung by Aseema has been shared by Dulan on his Instagram page. Alva’s Education Foundation President Dr M Mohan Alva, Trustee Vivek Alva, Principal Dr Kurian have lauded the efforts of Aseema.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-college-students-cover-of-sri-lankan-song-gets-good-views-1027604.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kollegal MLA N Mahesh bereaved||Vijaya (64), wife of Kollegal MLA N Mahesh, passed away at a hospital in Bengaluru, on Sunday night. She was ill for a few days. Vijaya complained of breathing issues and was admitted to the hospital on Sunday night. She failed to respond to the treatment and passed away at 11.30 pm, sources told DH. Vijaya had served as the manager of Mandya Apex Bank and retired three years ago. She leaves behind husband and MLA N Mahesh and a son. The last rites would be conducted at Kansi Foundation in Kanakapura, near Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kollegal-mla-n-mahesh-bereaved-1027635.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 test mandatory for hotel, restaurant staff in Mangaluru||In the backdrop of a surge in Covid-19 cases in Mangaluru, the Mangaluru City Corporation has made it mandatory for all the staff of hotels and restaurants in Mangaluru City Corporation limits to undergo Covid-19 tests. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that for public convenience, all the Urban Healthcare Centres in MCC limits have been conducting Covid-19 tests in the evening. The general public, including staff of hotels and restaurants can make use of the Covid testing facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-test-mandatory-for-hotel-restaurant-staff-in-mangaluru-1027664.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP relies on Independents in HDMP elections||BJP which had control of Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagar Palike for the last two terms failed to get a clear majority in the elections despite being the single largest party in the 82-member House. After the counting of votes at the University of Agricultural Sciences here on Monday was completed, the BJP which had contested all the 82 seats managed to get 39 while the Congress which was keen to regain the control of the civic body could manage 33 seats. Janata Dal (S) could win only one seat while Independents won in six constituencies. AIMIM sprang a surprise by winning three seats. Both the BJP and Congress have to depend now on the Independents to get hold of the HDMP. While the BJP needs the support of three candidates to cross the halfway mark and reach the magic figure of 42 (which is 50%+1), the grand old party needs the support of nine. The saffron party is confident of holding the reins of HDMP it has three MLAs, One MP and two MLCs who have voting power in the Mayoral election. Their votes will take BJP’s tally to 45. Congress has one MLA and one MLC. MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar admitted that the performance of the party was not up to the expected level and attributed it to the division of votes caused by rebels. Shettar told DH that the BJP will take control of the HDMP and exuded confidence that the Independents will support BJP in the interest of twin cities’ development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-relies-on-independents-in-hdmp-elections-1027700.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mixed result for BJP in Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai's first poll outing||In a bittersweet result for the ruling BJP, the saffron party swept the Belagavi city corporation election, but failed to cross the majority mark in its bastion of Hubballi-Dharwad and finished second in Kalaburagi.  These elections, whose results came Monday, were Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s first electoral litmus test.  The Congress and the JD(S) also suffered setbacks in these local body elections. Belagavi, where elections were fought on party symbols for the first time, saw the BJP winning 35 out of the 58 seats, far ahead of the Congress that bagged 10.  Remarkably, only two candidates out of 22 backed by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) won, a total rout for the pro-Marathi outfit known for its clout on the city’s civic body. The AIMIM got one seat while the JD(S) failed to open its account.  The outcome of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation election came as a surprise as the BJP was looking to score a hat-trick. Hubballi is Bommai’s hometown, and the party has former chief minister Jagadish Shettar, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and other legislators here.  Out of the 82 seats, the BJP won 39 while the Congress, which was keen to wrest control of the civic body, managed 33 seats. The JD(S) could win just one seat, while Independents bagged six. The AIMIM sprang a surprise by winning three.  The BJP is short of three to reach the halfway mark of 42 and the party is confident of seeing itself through as it has three MLAs, two MLCs and an MP to up its tally. For Congress, however, the Hubballi-Dharwad result is an improvement, coming as it does on the BJP’s turf.  In Kalaburagi, the Congress ended up as the single-largest party winning 27 out of the 55 seats despite favourable conditions for a clear majority. The BJP won 23, JD(S) four and one Independent.  The BJP and the Congress are making hectic political manoeuvres to take control of the city body.  The Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP, for all the noise it made, did not win a single seat in Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi.  The outcome of polls at the Doddaballapur CMC, Tarikere TMC, Bidar CMC and Bhadravathi CMC was a mixed bag. These local bodies had polls for 56 seats of which the Congress won 25, the BJP 13 and JD(S) eight.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mixed-result-for-bjp-in-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommais-first-poll-outing-1027711.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nipah virus: Dakshina Kannada DC issues alert||Dakshina Kannada deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V has issued an alert in the wake of Nipah virus infections and deaths reported in neighbouring Kerala. Calling upon people to remain cautious, the DC said that officials concerned should take all necessary precautionary measures. The DC said "A 12 year-old boy died of Nipah virus infection in Kozhikode. The infection has spread to health staff as well. Dakshina Kannada shares its border with Kerala. A large number of people commute to the district for health and education purposes. Hence people should be cautious." Stating that Nipah is a zoonotic virus which spreads from animals to humans and also transmitted directly between people, the DC said the symptoms include acute respiratory illness and fatal encephalitis besides fever, headache, cough and throat ache. The DC has called upon people to wash hands using detergents frequently and stay away from bats and pigs that cause the spread of the virus. Do not consume fruits that were partly eaten by birds and animals. The health authorities should inform the health department immediately if any person was found experiencing symptoms of Nipah, the DC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nipah-virus-dakshina-kannada-dc-issues-alert-1027720.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||HDMP lacks space for meetings of 82-member elected body||The Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP), which is turning 60 next year, lacks sufficient space to house the 82 corporators that will come for the general body meetings. After the delimitation of wards, the number of wards in the HDMP has increased from earlier 67 to 82. Accommodating the members of the new elected body of the HDMP, which hasn't had a general body meeting for over two-and-a-half years, has become a challenge for the officials. Even when the HDMP had 67 corporators, the general body meeting hall at the HDMP’s central office premises lacked enough space. Even after some renovations, the hall was congested. The meeting hall at the HDMP office in Dharwad is also not spacious enough to accommodate 82 corporators. When the newly-elected corporators would meet to elect the mayor and deputy mayor, the number of participants would be more than 82, as MP, MLAs, and MLCs also have voting rights. Therefore, there is a great need for a spacious meeting hall, which the HDMP lacks at its offices. Long-pending issue The issue of the need for a spacious municipal building at the HDMP is occasionally being raised for the last decade but it has not yet been materialised. In 2015, the HDMP general body resolved to construct a well-equipped municipal building at its central office premises at an estimated cost of Rs 14 crore. The project could not take off as it did not get the government’s approval, while the project cost was also heavy for the HDMP alone. It did not progress, though the HDMP reserved Rs 1 crore for it in 2018. “In the pension grants arrears provided by the government, Rs 7 crore is available now. The works up to Rs 5 crore do not need approval at the government level. Planning is on for a spacious municipal building having a meeting hall and chambers for mayor, deputy mayor, and Leader of Opposition, which can be constructed speedily,” said HDMP Commissioner Suresh Itnal. The possibility of expanding the existing hall is also being explored as it can be done fast, he added. If the previous plan has to be revised or a fresh plan has to be moved after the new elected body comes into force, it would require approval from the HDMP’s general body. Space for constructing this new building is available at the HDMP’s central office premises both in Hubballi and Dharwad, officials say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hdmp-lacks-space-for-meetings-of-82-member-elected-body-1027755.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cybercrime, drug mafia, dark web are new challenges before police: Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Pitching for more efficient policing, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said cybercrime, drug mafia, dark web are "new challenges" and such new crimes need to be cracked down by using new technology and advanced equipment. He said there has to be a dashboard for DG and all SPs, for them to regularly monitor the cases. "There are new challenges like cybercrime, drug mafia, cracking the dark web, all these new kinds of crimes have to be cracked down by using new technology, using advanced equipment," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a conference of senior police officers here, he said, Karnataka police is known for its efficiency and has a good name across the country, and stressed the need to continue the tradition with excellent efficiency. "Law and order situation and crimes should be completely under control, and investigation should happen in an impartial manner," he said, highlighting the need for people-friendly policing and improving the crime reporting system. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, DG & IGP Praveen Sood, senior officials of the home department and senior police officials were present. Stating that there has to be a dashboard for DG and all SPs for them to regularly monitor the cases, Bommai said measures should be taken to ensure adequate punishment for the accused who have been charge-sheeted, every case has to be analysed, court observations have to be taken note of to see to that things are rectified in the future investigations. "...there should be no relationship with any agents or criminals at any level. All measures should be taken to put an end to gambling and there should be no collusion with those involved in illegal sand mining or marketing," he added. The Chief Minister said for reforming the police system in the state, a command centre was coming up, also approval has been given for six forensic labs. "A new Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) battalion and infrastructure is being developed, jail infrastructure is being improved, fire force equipment are being modernised and coastal police are being provided with equipment like high-speed boats," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cybercrime-drug-mafia-dark-web-are-new-challenges-before-police-karnataka-chief-minister-basavaraj-bommai-1027637.html
06-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||People have endorsed new govt: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai on poll results||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai hailed Monday’s urban local body election results as the people’s “endorsement” of his government and that this set the tone for other polls that are lined up. “These elections took place a month after [my] government came to power. So, this is an endorsement and support that people have given to our [BJP] government,” Bommai said. “This is a sign of things to come in the future.” The saffron party swept the Belagavi city corporation election, finished first in Hubballi-Dharwad and came second in Kalaburagi. “People have accepted a national party and the BJP will always be with Belagavi,” Bommai said. “Hubballi-Dharwad is our fortress that we have managed to keep. In Kalaburagi, we have improved our tally,” he said, thanking party leaders, workers and voters. ‘Not as expected’ Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the results were not what Congress expected. “It’s a plus-point that we won 33 seats in Hubballi-Dharwad where we were up against the CM, a former chief minister (Jagadish Shettar), a union minister (Pralhad Joshi),” he said. The former CM further attacked the BJP for “misusing” the administrative machinery. “They used infinite monetary resources for the elections, which our party lacks. The Kalaburagi police commissioner, for example, acted like a BJP worker,” he said. Contradicting Siddaramaiah, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said the results were satisfactory. “We might have lost in Belagavi, but it's a good start for the party. In Hubballi-Dharwad, too, we weren't in power for 15 years and now our numbers have increased,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/people-have-endorsed-new-govt-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-on-poll-results-1027743.html
06-09-2021||Main Article||Section 124A and sovereignty||On August 26, the Supreme Court of India made certain critical observations with regard to the application of Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The remarks came during the hearing of a case of an IPS officer of Chhattisgarh, who has been serving in various capacities in police and investigative agencies. In this ongoing case, i.e., Gurjinder Pal Singh vs The State of Chhattisgarh (2021), the court has given directions to the state government for the non-arrest of the petitioner until further orders. It also directed the petitioner to fully cooperate with the investigating agencies and to participate in the inquiry/investigation without fail. The top court noticed that the filing of sedition cases, especially when the regime in power changes, is a worrying trend in the country. The remarks are significant in the context of the ongoing hearing of the public interest litigation (PIL) questioning the constitutional and legal validity of Section 124A. The Law Commission of India, in its consultation paper on sedition in 2018, argued for a debate among various stakeholders to bring in a “friendly” amendment. Set against this backdrop, here an attempt is made to analyse the nuances and subtleties of Section 124A and its linkage with the state’s sovereignty. The central questions are: Why have the successive governments continued to hang on to this colonial rule/provision when the United Kingdom abolished the same in 2009? What are the contributing factors that explain the sustenance of sedition law in the IPC despite democratic associations and civil society organisations advocating its striking down? The current discourse has argued for the (i) abolition and (ii) repeal of Section 124A on the basis of democracy and its irrelevance in the contemporary period. Broadly, these two sides of arguments are located in the concepts of rights and liberty rooted in constitutional governance. Both the rights of a citizen to differ from the opinion of the government including dissent and liberty as a political value in a democratic set-up are indeed well-settled principles to argue for the abolition or repeal of Section 124A. In spite of these democratic norms, the successive governments in India — for that matter, across the world — continued to have such provisions in their legal codes. The main argument for the continuation and sustenance of seditious laws is the necessity to curb the elements of secession or terrorism or anti-nationalism, as argued by the Ministry of Home Affairs in its written reply to the Rajya Sabha in 2019. Where does the state find the basis for this argument? The roots are to be found in the concept of sovereignty, precisely the state’s sovereignty. The term sovereignty has been derived from the Latin word superanus, meaning supreme. Harold Laski (1925) observes, “It is by possession of sovereignty that the State is distinguished from all other forms of human associations.” In simple form, sovereignty is the supreme authority or power of the state having legality to enforce its will through coercive apparatuses or institutions. Section 124A and its sustenance by successive governments draw the legal basis from John Austin’s work namely ‘Lectures on Jurisprudence’ (1832), whose expositions form the legal theory of sovereignty. This aspect is known as legal sovereignty and the second aspect is political sovereignty. In India, since Independence, the governments have relied mostly upon the aspects of legal sovereignty in pursuing Section 124A. One of the main arguments of Austin’s theory is that “the sovereign is legally unlimited and there are no legal limits to his/her authority”. This theoretical stand provides a well-established ground for states to apply Section 124A on its citizens. No doubt, legal sovereignty does give scope to the state to enforce Section 124A to protect from the forces of balkanisation. There is a very thin line that divides the freedom of speech and expression from that of causing disaffection towards the government. The problem arises when the government perceives only the latter aspect than the former element in filing such cases. In the process, what the governments are missing is the dimension of political sovereignty and its role in establishing the social legitimacy of the ruling dispensation. The legal aspect of sovereignty is mostly visible, codified and external in nature whereas the political aspect is related to the invisible, uncodified and internal. Underlining the importance of political sovereignty, A V Dicey observes, “Behind the sovereign, which the lawyer recognises, there is another sovereign, to whom the legal sovereign must bow.” Seen from this perspective, Section 124A and its application in India are politically unjustified in addition to the legal validity. The low conviction rate of sedition cases illustrates this point in a reasonable manner. The way forward Our Constitution has clearly recognised the sovereign will of citizens in the preamble, i.e., “We the People of India…”. The founders of the Constitution have vehemently opposed the usage of the term sedition in Constituent Assembly debates and hence, it has not found place in the Constitution. While there is a definite need to repeal Section 124A, given the extent of its misuse by elected governments for political gains and to suppress the voices of dissent, it is undeniable that the state must protect the society from anti-national elements but with due respect to people’s rights and liberty. The due process of rule of law is critical in balancing people’s rights and state responsibility. The inappropriate use of Section 124A as a tool of political opportunism erodes the political sovereignty of the elected government and disturbs the social contract between the state and the citizen. Political sovereignty has a variety of forms and the governments have to acknowledge and appreciate the political demands of the people that were ingrained in the new forms of social movements to protect and preserve the legitimacy of the ruling dispensation. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/section-124a-and-sovereignty-1027431.html
06-09-2021||National||Shetti takes out 'padyatra' in Kolhapur to seek relief for farmers; to meet Maha CM on Monday||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna (SSS) leader Raju Shetti on Sunday took out a 'padyatra' (foot march) in Kolhapur district, seeking loan waiver and other reliefs for farmers, who were hit by the recent floods in parts of western Maharashtra. Shetti along with farmers and workers of his outfit took out the march from Prayag Chikhli village, where five rivers meet and become Panchganga river, to Nrusinhwadi. As Shetti had earlier warned of a 'jal samadhi' at Nrusinhwadi, the district administration had deployed lifeboats. Nevertheless, some members of the outfit jumped into the Panchganga, but were taken out safely by the police. Speaking to PTI, Shetti said, "The state government, through the sub-divisional magistrate of Ichalkaranji circle, issued me a letter which said that we have been invited to Mumbai for a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at his official bungalow 'Varsha' on Monday." The former MP said the meeting is scheduled to take place at 3 pm for which he would go to the state capital. Shetti had said the financial assistance being provided by the state government to the farmers was meagre, and demanded that farm loans be waived along with the school fees of children from such areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shetti-takes-out-padyatra-in-kolhapur-to-seek-relief-for-farmers-to-meet-maha-cm-on-monday-1027427.html
06-09-2021||National||SP MLA booked for using derogatory words against prime minister: Police||Samajwadi Party MLA and former minister Manoj Pandey was booked Sunday for allegedly using derogatory words against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, police said. The case was registered at the Unchahar Police Station on the complaint lodged by a person named Dilip Kumar, a resident of Shivgarh police station area of the district, after a video of Pandey's utterances went viral on social media. Superintendent of Police Shlok Kumar said the case has been registered against various sections of the Indian Penal Code. The complainant alleged that during a public event at a village in the district, the Unchahar MLA "abused" the prime minister and other dignitaries occupying constitutional post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sp-mla-booked-for-using-derogatory-words-against-prime-minister-police-1027438.html
06-09-2021||National||DH Toon | How to deal with 'artificial' intelligence?||Bengaluru-based software company Infosys has come under sharp attack from RSS mouthpiece 'Panchajanya' over the problems faced by taxpayers in accessing the new Income Tax portal. Two days later, RSS distanced itself from the comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-how-to-deal-with-artificial-intelligence-1027472.html
06-09-2021||National||With 219 deaths, India logs lowest daily Covid-19 toll in 167 days; 38,948 new cases||India logged 38,948 new coronavirus infections and 219 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 167 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 3,30,27,621, while the death toll has climbed to 4,40,752. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.33 per cent after 48 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. India had reported 199 deaths in a single day on March 23. The active cases have declined to 4,04,874 comprising 1.23  per cent of the total infections while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.44 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,174 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases are being reported for 71 consecutive days, the ministry said. As many as 14,10,649 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,14,68,867 . The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.76 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 73 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,21,81,995. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 68.75 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 219 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala, and 67 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,40,752 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,774 from Maharashtra, 37,409 from Karnataka, 35,018 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,856 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,496 from Kerala and 18,502 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-219-deaths-india-logs-lowest-daily-covid-19-toll-in-167-days-38948-new-cases-1027502.html
06-09-2021||National||Centre to set up online platform for self-help groups: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the Centre will come up with an online platform for self-help groups. With the help of this platform, women would be able to sell their products across the world, he said.  While interacting healthcare workers and beneficiaries of Covid vaccination program in Himachal Pradesh, the prime minister lauded the state's efforts in fight against Covid-19. "Himachal Pradesh has given me an opportunity to be proud. I have seen the state struggling for basic facilities but today we see them doing well. I want to congratulate and thank the government and teams here," PM Modi said.  Himachal Pradesh has became the first state to vaccinate 100 per cent population of its eligible population with the first dose and one-third of the population with the second dose.  "I have seen that all the staff members including doctors, nurses and others have worked in a team to carry out the vaccination drive. We must not show leniency of any kind to complete the vaccination drive," PM Modi said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-set-up-online-platform-for-self-help-groups-pm-modi-1027529.html
06-09-2021||National||NEET-UG exam to be held as scheduled after SC dismisses petition||The Supreme Court Monday refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination, scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar said if students want to appear in multiple exams, then they need to prioritise and make a choice as there may never be a situation where everyone is satisfied with the date of exams. The apex court said however that the petitioners will be at liberty to make a representation before the competent authorities on the issue and the same may be decided at the earliest in accordance with the law. "The arguments which you (counsel for petitioners) are canvassing may not be relevant for 99 per cent candidates. For one per cent candidates, the entire system cannot be put on hold," the bench, also comprising justices Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar, told advocate Shoeb Alam who was appearing for the petitioners. When Alam said that around 25,000 students will be appearing in either improvement or compartment examinations for class 12, the bench observed that only around one per cent candidates go for that. Alam argued that medical entrance exam NEET-UG 2021 be deferred as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. "If you are to appear in multiple examinations, then you need to make choice," the bench said, adding, "You have to prioritise. You must also be conscious that any deferment is likely to clash with some other examination." The bench said the respective boards will do their job and the court will not interfere with examinations in such a situation. It said deferment of exams might affect the next course and whole thing will be prolonged. "It will be very unfair to reschedule the examination. NEET is a very large examination. It is not state-wise, it is a nation-wide exam," the bench said. Alam told the court that around 16 lakh candidates are likely to appear in the NEET exam. "We should now really redefine our scope of judicial review. Where do we go and to what extent," the bench observed, adding it do not want scores of students to suffer in any manner due to deferment of examination for which they have “burnt midnight oil” and prepared. "The relief claimed in this petition is to quash a public notice of July 13 issued by the competent authority scheduling NEET UG 2021 examination on September 12. For the reasons canvassed by counsel for the petitioners, we are not impressed nor willing to show any indulgence to the petitioners or to allow them to invoke the remedy under Article 32 of the Constitution," the bench said. The apex court was hearing a petition seeking deferment of the examination on the ground that several other exams are scheduled during the period. Last year, the NEET was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 13.66 lakh candidates had appeared in the exam of whom 7,71,500 qualified. In a first, the NEET-UG exam 2021 will be conducted in 13 languages with Punjabi and Malayam being the new additions, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had announced in July. He had also said that a new exam centre for the NEET has been opened in Kuwait to facilitate the Indian student community in the Middle East.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-ug-exam-to-be-held-as-scheduled-after-sc-dismisses-petition-1027544.html
06-09-2021||National||Javed Akhtar wrong in comparing RSS with Taliban, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said lyricist Javed Akhtar was "completely wrong" in comparing the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh with the Taliban. "How can you say those who favour the concept of a Hindu Rashtra are of Talibani mindset? We don't agree with this," an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said. Akhtar recently told a news channel that right wing all over the world has an uncanny similarity. "The Taliban want an Islamic country. These people want to make a Hindu Rashtra," the lyricist said without naming the RSS. Referring to his remarks, the editorial in 'Saamana' said, "Even though Javed Akhtar is a secular man and speaks against fundamentalism, he is completely wrong in comparing the RSS with the Taliban. The Marathi publication further said the stand of those who propagate a Hindu nation is moderate. "The partition which led to the creation of Pakistan was based on religion. Those who support a Hindu nation only want that the majority Hindus shouldn't be sidelined. Hindutva is a culture and people of the community demand the right to stop those who attack this culture," it said. The Sena edit further said comparing Hindutva with the Taliban is an "insult" of the Hindu culture. "Despite being a Hindu majority country, we have raised the flag of secularism. The proponents of Hindutva only want that Hindus shouldn't be sidelined," it said. "You can have differences with the RSS, but to call their philosophy Talibani is completely wrong," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javed-akhtar-wrong-in-comparing-rss-with-taliban-says-shiv-sena-1027548.html
06-09-2021||National||Union Health Ministry doesn’t have data on ventilator deaths due to Covid-19: RTI response||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare does not have details of ventilator deaths and other information on the usage of the devices, a response to an application under the Right To Information (RTI) Act shows. NGO NatConnect Foundation sought to know from the Ministry the details of patients put on ventilators during the two waves of Covid and the response was: “No information is available in records of DM Cell, MoHFW with respect to queries raised by you vide your RTI application.” NatConnect filed its first appeal in response to which Govind Jaiswal, Director, Public Health, confirmed the non-availability of the information sought. Expressing shock and dismay at this response, NatConnect director B N Kumar asked: “If the ministry does not have the centralised information, who else will have it?” Kumar said first of all the Ministry took three long months to respond and the reply is totally unsatisfactory. He, therefore, filed an appeal with the Ministry seeking details. “I wanted to know the details from two perspectives – one to know the preparedness of the health services machinery in the wake of the continuous Covid-19 fury and second to know the effectiveness of the ventilator treatment in various States and UTs,” Kumar stated in a statement. For instance, the AIIMS Bhopal reported a ventilator survival rate of 25% during April-December 2020 and 28% during January-April 2021. The AIIMS Bhubaneswar recorded higher by a few notches: 42% ventilator survival during the first wave and 61% during the second wave. These responses came after the Union Health Ministry apparently forwarded the NatConnect query to these hospitals. The national data is very important as it will help plan for the future, Kumar said. “This is also because we had several deaths due to lack of ventilator facilities and oxygen supply,” he said and recalled that a journalist breathed last on a wheelchair in a Hyderabad hospital despite all efforts, including a minister’s intervention. He expressed the hope that the central ministry would collage the data at least now and plan for the third wave which is feared to impact the children who are yet to be vaccinated. Most of the adult population is being covered under the current aggressive vaccination drives across the country free of cost as well as paid modes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-ministry-doesn-t-have-data-on-ventilator-deaths-due-to-covid-19-rti-response-1027566.html
06-09-2021||National||SC refuses to consider plea for international task force on origin of second Covid-19 wave||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain a PIL for directions to the Centre to set up an international task force of experts to determine the origin of second wave of Covid-19 virus, responsible for the large number of deaths in India from April to June this year. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the court cannot enter into conspiracy theories and asked the petitioner to withdraw the plea and approach the Centre. "We will rather focus on managing pandemic in our country than delving into conspiracy theories involving other nations, on which we don't even have a jurisdiction," the bench added. Mumbai-based Pankaj Phadnis, a researcher and a trustee of Abhinav Bharat Congress filed the plea for forming an international task force, including members of China, to determine the origin of the second wave. He also asked the court to direct the Union government to scientifically keep track of any further mutation that may occur in future and not be caught unawares as it was when the Delta variant emerged. "A recent report co-authored by the former Chief Economic Advisor to the Government of India confirms the existence of a war-like situation by suggesting that as many 3.9 million Indians have been killed in the last three months by the second wave of the pandemic. The monumental tragedy is not yet over," the plea said. The bench, however, said, "We have no jurisdiction over Chinese or American citizens. Government is there to hear you. Plea is dismissed as withdrawn." The plea said all citizens are forced to live under serious restrictions waiting for the next attack - the third wave.  "The origin of the Wuhan virus that led to the pandemic of Covid-19 is subject matter of international investigation. Origins of the Delta variant of the Wuhan virus that seems to have killed 3.9 million Indians in less than three months; are today not known. This variant first found in India is now the dominant virus strain in the world bringing opprobrium upon India in the eyes of the world," it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-for-international-task-force-on-origin-of-second-covid-19-wave-1027567.html
06-09-2021||National||10 things to know about farmers' protest in Haryana on Tuesday||Haryana has imposed bans on large gatherings in the state ahead of another 'kisan mahapanchayat' scheduled to be held in Karnal on September 7. Here is a timeline of 10 events leading up to the large gathering on Tuesday. 1. On August 28, 10 people were injured as Haryana Police lathi-charged farmers who blocked the Karnal highway. The farmers were protesting a BJP meeting that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was attending. 2. Soon after, a video of Ayush Sinha, an IAS officer surfaced. In the video he was seen directing police to "crack heads" of farmers has evoked outrage. Demands are being raised for his dismissal. 3. Ayush Sinha was the Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Karnal, and has been removed from his post. 4. Farmers' Union has set a dealine for September 6 for government action against Sinha, inclusing filing a murder case. 5. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha objected against the Chief Minister's defence of Sinha. 6. The Chief Minister had defended Ayush Sinha saying that while his choice of words was wrong, the strictness was required. 7. In the 'kisan mahapanchayat' held on September 5th,in Muzzafarnagr, the farmers resolved to oppose BJP in the state Assembly elections of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. 8. The meeting was attended by Rakesh Tiktait and other farm leaders, and close to 8,000 security forces and personnel were deployed for this meeting. 9. At the meeting, Tiktait said that such meetings will be held across the country, so as to save the country from being sold. 10. UP BJP spokesperson Alok Awasthi said that the meeting organisers had political motives involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-things-to-know-about-farmers-protest-in-haryana-on-tuesday-1027575.html
06-09-2021||National||IISER Bhopal sequence genome of medical herb Giloy||The Bhopal-based Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) have sequenced the genome of the medicinal herb Giloy. The genome sequence of Giloy could be a breakthrough as the potential therapeutic agent for diseases like Covid-19 in the future. Such research on Giloy (Tinospora cordifolia) has been conducted for the first time in the world. The genome and transcriptome sequencing of Giloy is important due to its tremendous use in pharmaceuticals and ayurvedic formulations to treat various health conditions including Covid-19 and can provide deep insights into the genomic basis of its medicinal properties. The usage of Giloy is also recommended under Ayurveda practice by the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in prophylactic care as well as therapeutic applications for all symptomatic or asymptomatic patients infected with Covid-19. It is also used in fever and diabetes. The research team was led by Dr. Vineet K. Sharma, Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences, IISER Bhopal, and comprised Shruti Mahajan and Abhisek Chakraborty, PhD students, IISER Bhopal, and Titas Sil, BS-MS Student, IISER Bhopal, according to a press statement issued here. The Research has been published in the international preprint server for biology bioRxiv. Elaborating the highlights of this Research, Dr Sharma said: “Giloy also has anti-microbial activity and is used in skin diseases, urinary tract infection, and dental plaque, among others. It is also found to reduce the clinical symptoms in HIV-positive patients and its antioxidant activity has anti-cancer and chemo-protective properties. Giloy extracts are found to be potential candidates in treating various cancers like brain tumour, breast cancer, and oral cancer, as well. The availability of the Giloy genome will help in bridging the missing link between its genomic and medicinal properties. This study will provide leads for exploring the genomic basis of its medicinal properties." This research was undertaken by MetaBioSys Group, which focuses on the Indian microbiome including gut, scalp, skin microbiomes in healthy and diseased individuals. They also undertake pioneering work in sequencing and functional analysis of novel eukaryotic and prokaryotic genomes by developing and employing new Machine Learning-based software for Biology Big Data analysis. Mahajan said, “Giloy is considered as an important multipurpose medicinal plant in Ayurvedic science. This plant came into the limelight due to its immunomodulatory and antiviral activity after the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic. It has been used in various health conditions due to its immune-modulatory, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic, anti-microbial, anti-viral, anti-cancer properties, among others.” Previous studies have shown that a compound from Giloy was reported to target the two proteases of SARS-CoV-2 virus namely Mpro and Spike proteases, and another compound was predicted to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 Mpro and also disrupts viral spike protein and host ACE-2 interaction. Treatment with Giloy extract modulates the various pathways of the immune system for improved immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iiser-bhopal-sequence-genome-of-medical-herb-giloy-1027582.html
06-09-2021||National||Ram Nath Kovind presents President's Colour to Naval Aviation in Goa||President Ram Nath Kovind awarded the President's Colour to the Indian Naval Aviation at a ceremonial parade held at the INS Hansa base near here in Goa on Monday. On the occasion, the president was given the guard of honour by the Indian Navy. Kovind, who is on a tree-day visit to Goa, presented the President's Colour to the Naval Aviation in the presence of Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh. Goa Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and others were present during the function at the INS Hansa base located in Vasco town, about 40 km from the state capital Panaji. The President's Colour is the highest honour bestowed on a military unit in recognition of its exceptional service to the nation. It consists of a 36 inch by 48 inch white ensign with the national flag in the canton and the state emblem embroidered in gold at the centre. The elephant, signifying strength, is placed diagonally opposite the national flag in the canton, a Naval spokesman said in a release. The Navy was the first among the Indian armed forces to be awarded the President's Colour on May 27, 1951 by the then President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad. “Subsequent recipients of the President's Colour in the Navy include the Southern Naval Command, Eastern Naval Command, Western Naval Command, Eastern Fleet, Western Fleet, Submarine Arm, INS Shivaji and the Indian Naval Academy,” the spokesman said. The Indian Naval Aviation came into being with the acquisition of the first Sealand aircraft on January 13, 1951 and commissioning of the INS Garuda, the first Naval Air Station, on May11, 1953. Today, the Indian Naval Aviation boasts of nine air stations and three naval air enclaves along the Indian coastline and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the spokesman said. Over the past seven decades, it has transformed into a modern, technologically advanced and highly potent force with more than 250 aircraft, comprising Carrier-borne fighters, maritime reconnaissance aircraft, helicopters and remotely piloted aircraft, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-nath-kovind-presents-presidents-colour-to-naval-aviation-in-goa-1027585.html
06-09-2021||National||72% say Indian Covid-19 vaccines are safe and effective: Poll||A total of 72 per cent respondents of a survey think that Indian Covid-19 vaccines are safe and effective However, 60 per cent of the respondents believe that Indian vaccines are at par with foreign Covid-19 vaccines. The survey 'Public Ki Awaaz Poll' was conducted by location-based social networking app "Public" to examine the extent of vaccine hesitancy. The poll garnered a total of 9,14,164 responses to find out the vaccine hesitancy. According to the survey, 8.8 per cent of the respondents expressed hesitation in getting vaccinated against the virus. According to the aggregate estimates, a large chunk of respondents considers it safe to take the vaccine. Around 72 per cent strongly agree that the vaccines are safe and effective and over a majority of 60 per cent of respondents believe that Indian vaccines are at par with foreign Covid-19 vaccines.  Around 25 per cent of the respondents said that they've already been vaccinated with both doses. Although the majority of respondents favoured vaccines, the survey showed that 18 per cent of the respondents still haven't received even a single dose while 8.8 per cent were not sure of getting vaccines. A meagre 4 per cent strongly expressed their mistrust against the vaccines. The potential risk of side effects was the most cited reason of about 34 per cent for not administering the vaccines. As per the findings, other factors that lead to vaccine hesitancy are lack of trust for 20 per cent, health concerns for 14 per cent and never having taken any vaccine for 11 per cent.  According to the poll, both community and institutional encouragement are essential in this regard. 24 per cent of the respondents said that their confidence in the efficacy of vaccines is based on the recommendations of friends and family, while 25 per cent said that they'll go by the word of healthcare experts. The vitality of information is indicated in the responses of the participants as 23 per cent hold the view that access to more information on the vaccines can help shore up confidence. On the question of 'getting information and updates on the vaccines', a whopping majority of 59 per cent respondents marked media as an important source, whereas 15 per cent rely on government ads. Around 13 per cent of the respondents said that they depend on friends and family, while 11 per cent cited other sources as means of obtaining information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/72-say-indian-covid-19-vaccines-are-safe-and-effective-poll-1027602.html
06-09-2021||National||Chandrayaan-2 spacecraft completes over 9,000 orbits around moon, says ISRO||The lander and rover might have crash-landed on the lunar surface, but the Chandrayaan-2 mission itself has just completed 9,000 revolutions around the Moon. The onboard instruments are also functioning nominally, as Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) Chairman K Sivan said on Monday. At the launch of a two-day Lunar Science Workshop-2021 here, Sivan said eight payloads onboard the mission’s spacecraft are in functional mode, relaying remote and in-situ observations of the lunar surface from an altitude of 100 km. The workshop is to commemorate the spacecraft’s two years around the Moon. Isro will make available the scientific data from the mission for analysis by academia and institutes. This, as Sivan pointed out, will enable greater participation to bring out more science from the Chandrayaan-2 mission. The space agency is preparing for Chandrayaan-3 to make another go at lunar landing. The orbiter from the second mission has generated data that Sivan said was ‘very much encouraging.’ This has been attributed to the hi-tech instruments onboard the orbiter. As A S Kiran Kumar, Chairman of Apex Science Board, Isro said “Chandrayaan-2 has really incorporated many new features in its instruments which are taking the observations carried out on Chandrayaan-1 to a newer and higher level.” The Chandrayaan-2 mission featured an Orbiter, Lander and Rover designed to explore the lunar South pole. Launched onboard GSLV Mk-III on July 22, 2019, the mission reached the lunar orbit on August 20. The mission went as planned till September 6, when the lander and rover crash-landed after separating from the orbiter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandrayaan-2-spacecraft-completes-over-9000-orbits-around-moon-says-isro-1027615.html
06-09-2021||National||Use local traditions to step up Covid vaccination drive: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a strong pitch for use of local traditions to step up the Covid-19 vaccination drive, citing the experience of a Himachali village where a local deity was invoked to overcome vaccine hesitancy. “Faster vaccination will also benefit the tourism sector, which is the source of employment for the youth,” the prime minister said. Health workers from the state shared their experiences of overcoming the odds to remove doubts about Covid-19 vaccines. “In Malana village, we had to invoke the local deity and seek his approval for the vaccination drive,” ASHA worker Nirma Devi told the prime minister. Nawang Upashak, a spiritual leader from Lahul-Spiti, said he circulated videos of the Dalai Lama getting the Covid-19 vaccine, which helped him address vaccine hesitancy among locals. The Prime Minister emphasised using the local traditions in helping the vaccination drive and praised the model of dialogue and collaboration to speed up the vaccination drive in Himachal Pradesh. Modi also referred to the recently notified guidelines for operating drones or remotely piloted aircraft systems that have the power to change the lives of people in the hill-state. “Drones can now be used for home-delivery of medicines, for tending to orchards and also for surveying of land. The technology can also be used to ensure security of our forests,” the prime minister said. The Prime Minister had special praise for health worker Karmo Devi of Una who has administered 22,500 doses of Covid-19 vaccines till date despite a fracture in her leg. The Prime Minister said India was vaccinating at the record speed of 1.25 crore vaccines per day, which was more than the population of many countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-local-traditions-to-step-up-covid-vaccination-drive-pm-modi-1027616.html
06-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Nipah adds to Covid-hit Kerala's woes||As Kerala continues to keep healthcare authorities on their toes amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Nipah virus has returned to haunt the state once again, adding to its woes.   India were in a commanding position after scoring 466 in the second essay, courtesy a memorable hundred by Rohit Sharma and equally important knocks by Cheteshwar Pujara, Shardul Thakur and Rishabh Pant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-nipah-adds-to-covid-hit-keralas-woes-1027621.html
06-09-2021||National||India administering 1.25 cr Covid vaccines daily: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said India is administering 1.25 crore Covid vaccines daily which is higher than the population of several countries. Himachal Pradesh has become a champion by being the first state to administer the first dose of Covid vaccine to all eligible people despite logistic difficulties, he said through video conference. Sikkim and Dadra and Nagar Haveli too have achieved this target, he added. Earlier, Modi interacted with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of the Covid vaccination programme in the state through video conference. Modi is virtually talking to healthcare workers to appreciate their efforts. Interacting with Dr Rahul, posted at the Dodra Kwar Civil Hospital in Shimla district, Modi said 10 per cent of the expenditure can be saved if all 11 shots in a single vial are used while administering Covid vaccines. The prime minister appreciated health worker Karmo Devi from Una for vaccinating people despite having a fractured leg. Devi told Modi that she has so far administered 22,500 vaccines. Meanwhile, Nawang Upashak from Lahaul-Spiti told Modi that the Atal Tunnel had given a boost to the tourism sector in the tribal district and between 700-800 local residents have sought the authority’s approval to open homestays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administering-125-cr-covid-vaccines-daily-pm-modi-1027629.html
06-09-2021||National||SC seeks lawyer bodies' reply on plea to declare virtual hearing fundamental right||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Bar Council of India and the Supreme Court Bar Association on a plea to declare a virtual court hearing, started due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as a fundamental right for the litigants. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai and B N Nagarathna sought a response from the bar bodies in four weeks while refusing a stay the Uttarakhand High Court's order which on August 16 declared that the court will resume physical hearing and no request for a virtual hearing will be entertained. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioner, 'All India Jurists Association', a body of 5,000 lawyers, and others contended that this matter pertained to restriction on right of the litigants. "We will issue notice to BCI and SCBA. Let's see what is their response. We've seen the order but we're not going to stay it," the bench told the counsel. Luthra, for his part, said different sets of directions have been issued by the courts. The hybrid option should not be done away with. The litigants will save a cost on the lawyers to travel and also reduce the carbon footprints. It will also be a relief for the litigants. "We are hoping that there should be normalcy...What was the status of litigants for 70 years," the bench asked the counsel. He said in 2013, electronic reforms were introduced. To this, the bench pointed out the BCI, the Chairman had in a function on Saturday said that lawyers have been suffering due to virtual hearings. The counsel then said it was because cases were not being taken up. "How will young lawyers learn? In court, there is an eye to eye contact and the matter in which you argue is also effective. There is a difference between online courts and offline courts. Soon Artificial Intelligence will take over and some countries have even resorted to it for decision making. But we've said clearly that it can't be used in Indian courts," the bench said. The counsel, however, said all that he was stressing was that hybrid hearing should continue as access to justice is a fundamental right.  The plea claimed the High Court’s order was a death knell for the idea of virtual courts. The order goes against accessible, and affordable justice being propagated by the e-committee of the top court. Apart from Uttarakhand, the plea also cited instances of Bombay, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala High Courts compelling lawyers to appear physically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-lawyer-bodies-reply-on-plea-to-declare-virtual-hearing-fundamental-right-1027631.html
06-09-2021||National||Over 16,000 Covid samples sent for whole genome sequencing in Jul-Aug, says Centre||The Centre said on Monday that over 16,000 Covid-19 samples by sentinel sites were sent in July and August for Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) to check for variants of SARS-COV-2. The Union Health Ministry said there have been some media reports alleging that genome sequencing and analysis of Covid-19 declined sharply in India even as cases of the disease continued to rise.  Since July onwards, for accurate sharing of sample particulars and timely communication of WGS results, data for samples for WGS by sentinel sites is being shared through Integrated Health Information Platform (IHIP) portal, it said. This ensures real-time sharing of sample particulars and WGS results.  Accordingly, 9,066 samples were sent through sentinel sites in July and 6,969 samples were shared in August, the ministry said. Genomic surveillance of SARS-COV-2 is crucial to determine incidence and prevalence of the variants of concern. "It is clarified that the number of sequences, as quoted in the report, seems to be taken from Indian Covid-19 Genome Surveillance portal," the ministry said.  "The sequences analysed in the IGIB SFTP are as per the collection date of samples and does not depict the number of samples sequenced in a particular month. The samples sequenced by labs of INSACOG consortium also depends on the samples sent by the respective states," the ministry said in a statement. The initial part sequencing of samples by INSACOG labs was aimed at detecting the Variants of Concern (VOC) among incoming international travellers and also to see whether any person with VOC has entered the country in past one month (double the incubation period of 28 days) from the date of establishment of INSACOG (December 26, 2020). For the detection of presence of VOC inside country, five percent of the positives (by RT-PCR) were targeted for sequencing. Both the objectives were achieved by end of January, 2021, the statement said. Many states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi started showing rising trends in the month of February and as a response, the sequencing was enhanced in four districts of Vidharbha, 10 districts of Maharashtra and around 10 districts of Punjab, the statement said. Moreover, the numbers have not been fixed to 300 samples per month or 10 sentinel sites per state. These are the indicative numbers and the States/UTs have been provided the flexibility of identifying more sentinel sites ensuring geographic representation from all parts. In addition to the sentinel sites, there is the option for the states of sending vaccine break-through, reinfection or other unusual presentation samples for sequencing to INSACOG Labs, the statement stated. Sentinel surveillance makes sure that samples from each state were geographically well represented as the five per cent of random sampling strategy resulted in samples from certain districts being over-represented, while some districts remained unrepresented from States. With the decrease in positivity, the samples availability from the sentinel sites catering to districts with zero or single digit weekly new cases has also gone down.  Currently, over 86 districts in the country are having zero weekly new cases, the statement said. "For the past one month the majority of the new cases are from only Kerala and Maharashtra. At present, out of the total 45,000 new cases, more than 32,000 cases are from Kerala and more than 4000 cases from Maharashtra which means that 80 per cent cases are from two states and only 9000 cases, which is around 20 per cent, are from rest of the Indian states. "This is also reflected in the samples sequenced from various states," the statement said. Since July, for accurate sharing of sample particulars and timely communication of the WGS results, data for samples for WGS by the sentinel sites is being shared via IHIP portal which ensures real-time sharing of sample particulars and WGS results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-16000-covid-samples-sent-for-whole-genome-sequencing-in-jul-aug-says-centre-1027632.html
06-09-2021||National||Navy's indigenisation will help India's march towards $5 trillion economy: Kovind||The Indian Navy’s thrust on indigenisation will help the country’s march towards becoming a five trillion-dollar economy, President of India Ram Nath Kovind said on Monday. Kovind, who was in Goa to present the President’s Colour to Indian Naval Aviation, also said that no country could aspire to become an economic or regional powerhouse while being dependent on defence imports. “As we move towards becoming a five trillion dollar economy, we must remember that no country can aspire to become an economic or regional powerhouse, while being dependent on imports to defend itself,” the President said. “The Indian Navy has been at the forefront of indigenisation and this is well reflected in the Navy’s current and future acquisition plans, which are powered by indigenisation. In pursuance of the Government of India’s vision of ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’, Indian Naval Aviation has also made steady progress in consonance with the ‘Make in India’ drive,” he also said. Kovind also said that the Indian Navy was a prominent force in the Indian Ocean region while singling out the armed force’s role in Covid outreach and assistance efforts. “While the natural tendency during Covid-19 pandemic was to look inwards, India and the Indian Navy have looked outwards. The Navy was a key instrument of India’s Covid outreach, delivering assistance and support to our maritime neighbours and partners in the Indian Ocean Region,” the President said. “I have no doubt that the prompt and effective deployment of the Indian Navy in the time of crisis, has underscored India’s vision of being the ‘Preferred Security Partner’ and ‘First Responder’ in our region,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navys-indigenisation-will-help-indias-march-towards-5-trillion-economy-kovind-1027639.html
06-09-2021||National||Leopard, cat come face-to-face after falling in well in Maharashtra village||A leopard and a cat came face-to-face after falling into a well in a village in Maharashtra's Nashik district and the two felines were rescued safely hours later by forest department personnel, an official said on Monday. The incident took place in Kankori village under Sinnar taluka, where the leopard may have fallen into the well while chasing the cat on late Saturday night, he said. The well is located in the farm of one Ganesh Sangle, a resident of Kankori. Sangle and other villagers heard the leopard's roars coming out of the well on early Sunday morning and informed the forest department. Both the animals were rescued safely from the 25 to 30 feet deep well with the help of a crane on late Sunday evening by the forest department, the official said. The leopard, which did not harm the cat during the face-off, was later released in its natural habitat, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leopard-cat-come-face-to-face-after-falling-in-well-in-maharashtra-village-1027657.html
06-09-2021||National||GSI delineates 100 geologically potential mineral blocks for auction: Govt||In order to realise the vision of self-reliant India, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has delineated 100 geologically potential mineral blocks for auction, the government said on Monday. Handing over of 100 mineral blocks' reports to state governments will ensure continuous supply of minerals in the country and more revenue to state governments by bringing more mineral blocks under auction, the mines ministry said in a statement. The function to hand over the above reports will be held in the national capital on Wednesday. Minister of Mines, Coal and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi along with Minister of State for Mines, Coal and Railways Raosaheb Patil Danve will be the Chief Guest. With time, the frequency of major discoveries of an economically viable mineral deposit has decreased and this is a worldwide phenomenon despite tremendous technological advancements. Hence, the situation warrants an out-of-box thinking, new approaches, enhanced cooperation and enthusiastic participation from the government and private sectors, the statement said. "In the above scenario, the handing over of 100 reports by GSI to state governments attains crucial importance to the mining sector, industrial growth and employment generation," it said. The MMDR Amendment Act, 2015, ushered in transparency in the allocation of mineral concessions in terms of prospecting licence and mining lease. In this continuous endeavour, the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act was further liberalised in March 2021. The recent amendment is expected to increase employment and investment in the mining sector, increase the revenue to states, increase production and time bound operationalisation of mines, maintain continuity in operations after change of lessee, increase the pace of exploration and auction of mineral resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gsi-delineates-100-geologically-potential-mineral-blocks-for-auction-govt-1027658.html
06-09-2021||National||Ants found in Air India plane headed to London||Bizarre as it could get, swarms of ants were found in an Air India plane headed for London from the national capital on Tuesday, prompting the national carrier to change the aircraft. The aircraft, which also had the Prince of Bhutan Jigme Namgyel Wangchuck, on board, aborted take-off soon after swarms of ants were spotted in its business class cabin. Jigme Namgyel Wangchuck is the son and heir apparent of King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck of Bhutan. The flight took off later after the airline changed the aircraft. Earlier this July, an Air India Express flight made an emergency landing at the Thiruvananthapuram International airport after the pilot detected a crack in the windshield. The aircraft was going to Saudi Arabia to bring back Indians from there. In May, Air India flight to Newark in the United States from Delhi returned to the airport here within 30-minutes of take-off after a bat was found inside the business class cabin. There were similar incidents with Air India earlier with rats playing the major role in disruptions. In January last year, passengers spotted a rat on board an Air India flight in Varanasi when it was to take-off for Dehradun. However, during the searches, rat was nowhere to be found while the fliers were later adjusted in other flights to Dehradun. In November 2019, an Air India flight from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam was delayed for around 12 hours after a rat was spotted in the cabin. Spotting a rat on a Delhi-San Francisco flight led to a delay of nine hours in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ants-found-in-air-india-plane-headed-to-london-1027668.html
06-09-2021||National||Domestic air passenger traffic up 31% at 66 lakh in August on higher capacity deployment: ICRA||Domestic air passenger traffic continued on the growth trajectory in August with volumes growing up to 31 per cent to 66 lakh over the previous month, helped by higher capacity deployment and a downward trend in the pandemic, credit ratings agency ICRA said on Monday. The domestic passenger traffic in July 2021 was 51 lakh, ICRA said in a release. Domestic passenger traffic on a year-on-year basis, however, spiked around 131 per cent over August 2020 traffic of 2.83 million passengers, it said. The ratings agency said despite the continued recovery in the previous month, there is continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel. "The air travel demand has continued to register improvement and the same grew by around 30-31 per cent at around 65-66 lakh in August, compared to around 50.1 lakh in July 2021, signifying a y-o-y growth of around 131 per cent," Kinjal Shah, Vice President and Co-group Head for Corporate at ICRA, said. The airlines' capacity deployment for August 2021 was around 99 per cent higher at around 57,500 departures, as against 28,834 departures in August 2020, Shah said, adding that on a sequential basis, the number of departures in August 2021 were higher by around 22 per cent, as Covid-19 infections demonstrated a downward trajectory. "For August 2021, the average daily departures were at  around 1,900, significantly higher than the average daily departures of around 900 in August 2020, and higher than around 1,500 in July 2021, though it remains lower than around 2,000 in April 2021," Shah said. The average number of passengers per flight during August 2021 was 114, against an average of 106 passengers per flight in July 2021, she said. Though the recovery continued in August 2021, there is continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting the demand to only necessary travel, while both leisure and business travel have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions, despite the decline in infections, she said. The Civil Aviation Ministry permitted increasing the capacity deployment on domestic routes, gradually from 33 per cent, with effect from May 25,  when domestic travel resumed after the first wave last year, to 80 per cent, with effect from December 3, 2020. However, it reduced the permissible capacity deployment to 50 per cent of pre-Covid levels, with effect from June 1, 2021, due to the resurgence of the second wave of the pandemic. It had again increased the permitted capacity to 65 per cent with effect from July 5, which has subsequently been increased to 75.2 per cent from August 12 this year, Icra said. In addition, the ministry has also increased the minimum and maximum fare band by 10-13 per cent for domestic flights with effect from August 12, 2021, until August 31, 2021. "In ICRA's view, the price increase may not materially impact the passenger traffic demand as in the current scenario, travel is limited to only necessary travel while both leisure and business travel have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions and the spread of the infections. However, it will allow airlines to recoup some part of the increase in jet fuel prices, thereby cushioning some impact on the airlines' losses,” it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-air-passenger-traffic-up-31-at-66-lakh-in-august-on-higher-capacity-deployment-icra-1027671.html
06-09-2021||National||Ram temple foundation to be ready by October, 'garbhagriha' by Dec 2023: VHP||The foundation of Lord Shri Ram's temple in Ayodhya will be completed by the end of September or the first week of October this year and Ram Lalla will be consecrated in the 'garbhagriha' (sanctum sanctorum) of the temple by December 2023 when devotees can take darshan, a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader said here on Monday. Speaking to reporters, VHP national general secretary Milind Parande also said the construction of the temple will take a little time but the 'garbhagriha' (sanctum sanctorum) will be in place by December 2023 with starting of puja ritual and darshan for devotees. "The construction of the temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya is going on ahead of time. The foundation of the temple will be completed by September-end or in the first week of October. Bhagwan Ram Lalla will sit in the 'garbhagriha' by December 2023," he said. Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has been entrusted with the task of the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had performed the Bhumi Pujan at the Ram Janmabhoomi in August 2020. Anil Mishra, a trustee of Ram Mandir Trust, had told PTI earlier that the work on the base plinth for the temple will start with pink stones of Mirzapur in December this year. About 50 layers of a 10-inch thick mixture of building material will be laid in about a 50-feet deep foundation measuring 400 feet long and 300 feet wide, he had said. Six layers of building material mixture have been placed on top of the other over the foundation land spread across 2.77 acres, according to Mishra. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-foundation-to-be-ready-by-october-garbhagriha-by-dec-2023-vhp-1027683.html
06-09-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea to quash OBC, EWS reservation in all India quota seats in medical courses||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre on a plea challenging the decision to grant 27% OBC and 10% EWS reservation in the all India quota category of seats in NEET admissions for medical courses. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli issued notice to the Union government, Medical Counselling Committee and National Board of Examination on the petition filed by Neil Aurelio Nunes and 26 others. The court put the matter for consideration on September 20. The petitioners, represented by senior advocates Arvind Datar and Vikas Singh, asked the court to quash the July 29 notification by Medical Counselling Committee for granting reservations in all India quota seats from the current academic session 2021-22. Notably, 15% seats in MBBS and 50% seats in MS and MD courses in medical colleges are filled through all India quota from the candidates selected in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. The petitioners claimed the issue has to be examined whether there should be vertical or horizontal reservations and whether annual income of Rs 8 lakh should be criteria for considering EWS category. They also contended the application of reservation in the current academic year is completely arbitrary and cannot be interdicted at this stage. The selection process which has commenced for the current academic year cannot be disturbed, at a belated stage, they said, adding the policy was a "sheer afterthought", causing "grave injustice" to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-to-quash-obc-ews-reservation-in-all-india-quota-seats-in-medical-courses-1027691.html
06-09-2021||National||India plans 50% increase in oxygen production before third Covid-19 wave||India aims to ramp up its medical oxygen production capacity to 15,000 tonnes per day before a potential third wave of coronavirus infections that is expected to hit the country as soon as mid-September, an industry executive said. The target implies a 50% jump from the maximum output of almost 10,000 tonnes reached earlier this year during the peak of the second Covid-19 wave, when hospitals ran short of the gas and relatives of patients had to search out oxygen cylinders. Linde India supplied nearly one-third of the total oxygen demand during the peak.  Moloy Banerjee, head of Linde South Asia, said that while the government is targeting 15,000 tonnes of medical oxygen per day, Linde and other manufacturers were hoping to hit production of at least 13,500 tonnes per day ahead of the third wave. As of Monday, India's total Covid-19 cases had reached 33.03 million, with the death toll at 440,752, according to health ministry data. While demand for medical oxygen in India has considerably reduced since the peak, reaching near pre-Covid levels, gas companies along with the government are gearing up for a scenario where the third wave could be worse than the previous one.  The New Delhi government said last month it will increase oxygen production by setting up new manufacturing units or expanding the production capacity of existing units for uninterrupted oxygen supply during a health crisis. Shares of Linde India rose to record levels in the days following the Delhi government's notification and have more than doubled for the year as of Monday's closing price. "There have been discussions with the Delhi government since the second wave of Covid-19. We are still reviewing the policy and trying to see if it is workable for Linde," Banerjee added. The company has not entered any formal agreement with the government. Linde has also been in touch with the governments of Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh states to support setting up of additional oxygen storage capacities and manufacturing units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-plans-50-increase-in-oxygen-production-before-third-covid-19-wave-1027692.html
06-09-2021||National||Mobile internet suspended in Karnal ahead of farmers' mahapanchayat & gherao of mini-secretariat||The Haryana government on Monday ordered suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal district to "stop the spread of misinformation and rumours", a day ahead of the farmers' mahapanchayat and planned gherao of the mini-secretariat over the August 28 lathicharge. The mobile internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from 12:30 pm on Monday to Tuesday midnight, according to an order of the Home Department. The order, issued "to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of Karnal district, said mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services, including bulk SMS (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services etc provided on mobile networks, except voice calling, will remain suspended.  "Whereas, it has been brought to my notice vide...dated September 6 by ADGP (CID), Haryana…and District Magistrate, Karnal, that there is chance of intensification of protest which may adversely affect the public safety and law and order situation in Karnal district in the wake of call for Kisan Mahapanchayat on September 7. "And whereas, there is a clear potential of disruption of public utilities and safety, damage to public assets and amenities and law and order in district Karnal on account of misuse of internet services by way of spread of inflammatory material and false rumours, which are being/could be transmitted/circulated to the public through social media/messaging services on mobile Internet services, SMS services and other dongle services," the order said. It said that the suspension of mobile Internet services was ordered to stop the spread of misinformation and rumours through social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter on mobile phones and SMS. It said this could facilitate mobilisation of mobs that can cause serious loss of life and damage to public and private properties by indulging in arson, vandalism or other violent activities. All telecom service providers of Haryana are, hereby, directed to ensure compliance of the order, it added. Earlier on Monday, prohibitory orders banning gathering of five or more people were imposed in Karnal. The district administration issued orders under section 144 of the CrPC and a traffic advisory with planned route diversions, officials said. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' outfits protesting against the farm laws, had threatened to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7 if its demands were not met. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Monday said a mahapanchayat will be held in Karnal on Tuesday, after which farmers will proceed to gherao the mini-secretariat. "Farmers will be gathering in Karnal's New Anaj Mandi on Tuesday morning," he said, adding their demands have not been met and they will go ahead with their protest. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mobile-internet-suspended-in-karnal-ahead-of-farmers-mahapanchayat-gherao-of-mini-secretariat-1027694.html
06-09-2021||National||Javed Akhtar's Taliban-RSS remarks aimed at creating confusion in society: VHP; seeks action||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Monday condemned the statement of Javed Akhtar on the Taliban and RSS calling it a "conspiracy" to confuse society and demanded strict action against the Bollywood lyricist. “The Taliban is a terrorist organisation which believes in violence and is anti-women. Comparing such organisations with the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal.....I condemn his statement. All these three organisations do not believe in violence and do not work against anyone. They do social service. It seems like a conspiracy when such big people give such statements and society gets confused. His statement was aimed at confusing society by telling lies. Strict action should be taken against him,” VHP national general secretary Milind Parande told reporters when asked about Akhtar's statement. Parande demanded that the web series "Empire" be restricted as it is "very systematically channelising the violent and aggressive Muslim invaders". To a query on Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat's meeting with some Muslim intellectuals in Mumbai, Parande said, "organisations that work in society for the national cause can meet anybody. This meeting is part of that normal discourse". Queried on VHP's stand in the next year's assembly polls in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Parande said the VHP is not a political party. "The VHP works in the interest of Hindus. We believe that the interest of Hindus and the country is the same. We would like to have the Central and state governments that think of the interest of Hindus. We will spread awareness in society about the Hindu interest and the importance of voting," he said. Parande termed as "appeasement policy" the allotment of a room for offering namaz in the Jharkhand assembly. “This appeasement is going on even now. India was divided due to such an appeasement policy. Any dialogue with Muslims or anyone should be on the principles of nationalism as they are citizens of this country. The dialogue should not be based on appeasement as it is not good for the country. What happened in Jharkhand is an example of appeasement,” he said. Parande also demanded action against the persons involved in the Hijab incident in Nagpur. A complaint was filed at a police station on Saturday after some local residents took exception to the alleged distribution of pamphlets advocating 'hijab' (Islamic head covering) in the Civil Lines area. Some morning walkers saw three women allegedly distributing pamphlets and urging young women to wear the hijab, and questioned them, a police release had said. Parande refused to speak on the agenda of recently held coordination meetings held between the RSS and its affiliated organisations like VHP, BMS and others in Nagpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javed-akhtars-taliban-rss-remarks-aimed-at-creating-confusion-in-society-vhp-seeks-action-1027697.html
06-09-2021||National||Working at fast pace to restore air traffic to pre-Covid-19 levels: Scindia||Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday said the Centre was working at a fast pace to bring air traffic to pre-Covid-19 levels by restoring domestic and international flights and enhancing the number of services in each state. He was speaking to reporters at the Ahilyabai Holkar Airport here en route to Ujjain to take part in the 'shahi savari' ritual of Lord Mahakal. Queried on the MP government's decision to teach MBBS students about RSS founder KB Hedgewar and other prominent leaders in the foundation course, Scindia said, "You can ask me about my department (civil aviation), I will answer your queries. But I will not reply on any issue about which I am not having full knowledge.” Speaking about the aviation sector, which has taken a big hit due to the pandemic, he said the Centre was working at a fast pace to bring air traffic to pre-Covid-19 levels by restoring domestic and international flights. Earlier, on Sunday, MP Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang announced that MBBS students in the state will be lectured about RSS founder Hedgewar, Bhartiya Jana Sangh leader Deendayal Upadhyaya, Swami Vivekanand and B R Ambedkar as part of the first-year foundation course to instill social and medical ethics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/working-at-fast-pace-to-restore-air-traffic-to-pre-covid-19-levels-scindia-1027698.html
06-09-2021||National||SC raps Manipur govt over Covid-19 preparedness, says will not give character certificate||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Manipur government for the “pathetic” conditions in Covid-19 quarantine Centres in the state and said “we are not going to give you character certificate”. The top court said that High Courts were the bastion of ensuring justice during the Covid-19 period and it is not going to interfere with the orders passed against the state government. A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli, dismissed an appeal of the Manipur government against the two orders of the High Court passed last year on a PIL with regard to ensuring facilities at hospitals and Covid-19 quarantine centres. “We are not going to give you a character certificate. High Courts were bastions of ensuring justice during the Covid-19 period. Sorry, we are not going to interfere with the orders,” the bench said. Advocate Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, appearing for the state government, said that orders were passed by the High Court on a PIL and certain directions were passed, which were not feasible. “Your facilities at the Covid-19 centres were pathetic. You did not have separate bathrooms for men and women. Even bed rolls were changed after 15 days. There were no doctors’ visits to the quarantine centres. The High Court has passed a very much calibrated and restrained orders, we are not going to interfere with them,” the bench said. The High Court on July 16, 2020 had said that the State Government shall consider to constitute various committees consisting of experts only, probably, in all major Departments which shall collect information, relevant data, discuss with the stakeholders including farmers, entrepreneurs, workers and assess the impact of the Covid-19 crisis and submit their reports with suggested remedial measures to the State Government, so that an effective action plan can be made well in advance. It had directed that the State Government shall share all the information, without any discrimination except those which are exempted under the provisions of the Right to Information Act, 2005, with the general public relating to any action taken by it towards combating Covid-19 crisis including the one relating to spending public money, infrastructure, manpower, facilities in the quarantine centres and in particular, the institutional quarantine centres for combating Covid-19 crisis. The High Court has also directed the State Government to frame exhaustive rules and regulations to regulate the functioning of the State Government towards combating Covid-19 crisis or modify suitably the existing SOP, depending upon the change of circumstances. It had asked the Manipur Human Rights Commission to submit its bill to the State Government towards the expenditure incurred by it while conducting the spot inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-raps-manipur-govt-over-covid-19-preparedness-says-will-not-give-character-certificate-1027701.html
06-09-2021||National||Govt issues SOPs for police officers to seek prior approval before probing corrupt public servants||The Centre has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for police officers to seek mandatory prior approval before conducting any investigation against allegedly corrupt public servants, according to a Personnel Ministry order. An amendment carried out in the over 30-year-old Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988 in July 2018 bars a police officer from conducting “any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant” without “the previous approval” of the authorities. The SOPs were issued “to standardize and operationalise procedures with a view to achieving uniform and effective implementation for prior approval processes”, more than three years after the amendments came into force. They provide for stage-wise processing of information received by a police officer, specify the rank of the police officer to seek prior approval and lay down a single-window procedure for it among others, said the order issued to secretaries of the central and state government departments. All administrative authorities, including ministries and departments of the central and the state governments, besides the investigating agencies, have been asked to ensure “strict compliance” of the SOPs, it said. The SOPs have been shared with the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) “with the request that all field units may kindly be apprised of these SOPs for strict compliance”, and also with the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC). The SOPs make it mandatory for a police officer to verify whether the information received by him pertains to the allegation of the commission of an offence by a public servant or whether it contains information to identify the public servant(s) against whom the offence has been alleged. It also makes it mandatory for them to specify act(s) of commission or omission attributable to such public servant(s) and “whether such act(s) are relatable to the official function or duty discharged by such public servant(s) specific to the office/post held at the time of commission of the alleged offence”. “The police officer in receipt of an information shall place the matter before the police officer of appropriate rank for seeking previous approval,” it said. The SOPs have specified the police officer of appropriate rank who shall make a proposal to the appropriate government/authority in respect of a person who is or has been a public servant, said the order. The police officer of appropriate rank shall decide upon whether the information received merits to be “enquired” or inquired into or investigated, it said. Enquiry for the purposes of these SOPs means any action taken for verifying as to whether the information pertains to the commission of an offence, the order clarified. A director general (DG) or DG-equivalent police officer has been specified in the SOPs to seek prior approvals for Union ministers, Members of Parliament, ministers of state governments, members of state legislature, judge of the Supreme Court and high court, and chairpersons or managing directors of public sector enterprises (both central and state) and public sector banks (board-level). The Personnel Ministry has also shared a checklist for police officers for processing cases of prior approvals, said the ministry's order. The police officer will have to enclose a copy of the complaint if the request seeking approval against an allegedly corrupt officer is based on it. They would also have to enclose an authenticated translation in case the original complaint has been made in a vernacular language, it said. They will have to furnish details whether the complaint prima facie reveals deriving of an undue advantage by a public servant for self or any other person, information in respect of bribe giver and “details of the recommendation made or decision taken by a public servant, which is relatable to the offence alleged against the public servant”, according to the order. The government authorities have been asked to “designate an officer” “not below the rank of an under-secretary for receiving the proposals relating to previous approval”, it said. “The appropriate government or the authority, as the case may be, shall examine the proposal, by independent application of mind and take an appropriate decision under section 17A of the Act, for being conveyed to the police officer of appropriate rank,” the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-sops-for-police-officers-to-seek-prior-approval-before-probing-corrupt-public-servants-1027707.html
06-09-2021||National||14% rainfall deficiency caused 19th century famines in southern India: Study||Scouring through more than 200 years of British administrative reports, an Indo-US team of researchers have found that the 18th and 19th century famines in southern India - including the Great Famine of 1875–1878 and the Indian Famine of 1899–1900 in which millions perished - were caused by a marginal rainfall deficiency of just about 14% rather than any extreme event. The findings, the researchers observe, underlines the need to take the impacts of small changes in rainfall pattern into account while assessing climate change risks, rather than looking for large scale violations all the time. The team that includes researchers from the Indian Institute of Human Settlement, Bengaluru, dug deep into 218 years British official documents (1729-1947) kept in the National Archives of India to reconstruct an eighteenth to twentieth century record of famines and its consequences associated with ‘rain failures’ in southern India. "We found that the deficiency was about 14% from the average rainfall. The study shows that it does not need an extreme event (more than 40% rain deficiency) to trigger an extreme socio economic impact,” Atreyee Bhattacharya, a professor at the University of Colorado, USA and corresponding author of the study told DH. Such rain failure linked famines in southern India happened in 1803–1807, 1811–1812, 1823–1824, 1832–1833, 1838–1840, 1868–1869, 1875–1878, 1896 and 1899–1900. They affected several districts of both Madras and Bombay presidencies and usually lasted for 3–4 years. In addition, the famines of 1845 (in Gujarat), 1854–1855 (parts of Bombay and Madras Presidencies), 1862 (Ahmednagar) and 1882 (Mysore) were also mentioned in the archival documents. The famine of 1862 was an exception in the sense that it was a local one in the northwest part of the Bombay presidency when June–July–August September rainfall was lower than average in western India but rainfall was normal in southern India. India Meteorological Department records and historical rain gauge reconstructions showed most of such famines were associated with 13% deviation from average rainfall for the southern interior peninsular region whereas for the western interior region (western Maharashtra and north Karnataka), the threshold was around 17%. The average for the peninsular India was around 14%. “The ‘rain-failure’ that colonial administrators listed as the cause of socio-economic disruptions and human impacts is within the range of rainfall variability inherent to the southern Indian semi arid regions (SARs) and not because of extreme rainfall reductions,” the team reported in the journal Scientific Reports last week. The famines occurred repeatedly in the East Indian Company and Crown periods underscoring that policies and practices adopted by the administrators over two centuries did not mitigate against the occurrence of such famines at least till the beginning of the 20th century. Overall, in both Crown and Company periods, the same numbers of famines were reported from both presidencies. "The study can remove doubts on whether only extreme events are needed to cause food scarcity, conflict and human migration,” said Gaurav Arora, an economist at the Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Delhi and a coauthor of the study. The famine of 1875–1876 prompted the formulation of the Famine Commission in 1880. The panel submitted its last report in 1901 after which there was no mention of famines in the British administrative documents in the NAI pertaining to the peninsular India of the 20th century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-rainfall-deficiency-caused-19th-century-famines-in-southern-india-study-1027714.html
06-09-2021||National||No Afghan will be asked to leave India without MHA's approval: Officials||As the situation in Afghanistan continues to be uncertain, the Union Home Ministry has said that no Afghan national living in India will be asked to leave the country without its approval, according to officials. The MHA's decision came about a fortnight after the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan and many Afghans arriving in India fearing retribution from that country's new rulers. No Afghan national will be asked to leave India by the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) without prior approval of the home ministry and such cases will be referred to the MHA by the FRRO, a home ministry official said. This came after a woman member of Afghan parliament, Rangina Kargar, was deported from Delhi's IGI Airport to Istanbul despite valid papers. The government had later apologised to Kargar. The government has already extended visas of all categories granted to citizens of all countries, including Afghanistan, living in India on "gratis basis" till September 30. Many Afghan nationals who came to India before the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan have been staying in India for more than six months now and, in many cases, since the first lockdown was announced in March 2020. The MHA has decided to extend till September 30 the existing facility of deemed extension of regular visa or e-visa or stay stipulation period, without levy of any overstated penalty, granted to foreign nationals stranded in India due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Such foreign nationals may not be required to submit any application to FRRO concerned for extension of their visas. Before leaving the country, they may apply for exit permission which would be granted by the FRRO on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty. If an extension of visa is required beyond September 30, the foreign national concerned may apply for an extension on the online e-FRRO platform on a payment basis which would be considered by the FRRO subject to eligibility as per the provisions of the visa manual. According to the visa rules, Afghan nationals should get themselves and their family members registered within 14 days of their arrival with the local police, except those exempted from it. Several Afghan nationals, feeling threatened or facing the fear of persecution at the hands of the Taliban, have expressed their desire to stay in India. After the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan, the MHA had announced the introduction of a new category of visa called e-Emergency X-Misc visa for Afghan nationals. The ministry has also announced that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-Visa in view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. India has already shut down its missions in Afghanistan and the visas are processed in New Delhi now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-afghan-will-be-asked-to-leave-india-without-mhas-approval-officials-1027724.html
06-09-2021||National||Covid-19: Doctors' panel in favour of reopening schools at all levels||India’s leading epidemiologists have recommended urgent reopening of schools at all levels including the primary sections and resumption of in-person classes as the benefits "clearly outweighs any risk that it may implicate". After reviewing the existing scientific data, the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine – a body of 6,000 plus doctors from 550 medical colleges - recommended reopening with appropriate precautions such as improved ventilation, physical distancing and masking. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a major chunk of our population has been deprived of education and there is virtually no education in rural areas due to the big digital divide. The growth and development along with nutritional status from preschool to higher classes has been compromised. The benefits of opening the schools far outweighs the risk of SARS –CoV-2 infection,” Suneela Garg, president of IAPSM said in a statement. The advisory comes at a time when several states have reopened schools starting with the senior classes (Class 9-12) but there are a few others who wanted to wait for some more time. While the doctors advised following certain safeguards for the schools to follow before opening, they admitted that it might be impracticable to have all the safeguards in place everywhere though it is desirable to do so. From global scientific evidence, it is evident that children have a much lower risk of contracting and transmitting SARS-CoV-2 and encountering adverse outcomes. “Local health authorities and administration must engage with school authorities and parent-teacher bodies to ensure continuous communication and to address concerns, if any,” the association said. There is no evidence that vaccination for kids is essential. In more than 175 countries schools are open but no country in the world has vaccinated children younger than 12 years. The risk of moderate to severe disease is already very low among children and the social media comments on children being super-spreaders are myths. The deaths in children due to SARS-CoV-2 are very rare. The risk of severe disease is only in those children who have pre-existing health conditions. Data from across the world and India shows that infection is generally very mild in children. “Even if a few cases are reported in the school going children, we should not have panic driven knee-jerk reactions and close the schools. Such a decision is to be taken after a diligent epidemiological investigational and taking into consideration the local epidemic situation," said AM Kadri, secretary general of IAPSM. It is time to bring children back to the classes and tackle widening learning inequities, tweeted Chandrakant Lahariya, an epidemiologist, public policy and health systems specialist based in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-doctors-panel-in-favour-of-reopening-schools-at-all-levels-1027730.html
06-09-2021||National||Demand for caste-based census growing: Nitish Kumar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, a votary of caste-based census, on Monday said several political parties in other states have started raising the same demand for caste enumeration of the country’s population and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has to make a decision on it. He also dismissed speculations that such a census, in which details of Other Backward Class (OBC) people will be taken besides those of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, will lead to social tension. "We recently met PM Modi over the issue. Leaders of all political parties of Bihar are of the view that caste-based census should be conducted in the country as it will benefit everyone. He listened to everyone's opinion very carefully. Now he has to make a decision," Kumar told reporters. Led by Kumar, a 10-party delegation from Bihar, which included the BJP, met Modi in New Delhi on August 23 to push for a caste-based census which has not taken place in the country since the British rule. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme ‘Janata Ke Darbar Mein Mukhya Mantri’ here, he said, "Certain political parties in other states have also started demanding a caste-based census in the country." The JD(U) leader, however, did not name any party. A number of parties of Uttar Pradesh - Samajwadi Party (SP), Congress, Anupriya Patel’s Apna Dal, Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, Sanjay Nishad’s Nishad Party and Babu Singh Kushwaha’s Jan Adhikar Party - have raised such a demand ahead of assembly elections due next year in various states including UP. Several political parties of Maharashtra and Odisha have also sought caste-based census which is scheduled to be held this year. With census being the Union government's prerogative, it is now up to the Centre to take a call on the demand. Statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population, the Bihar CM has said recently. The BJP leadership has so far not taken a categorical stand on the issue which has been lapped up by a number of regional parties, many of them its rivals in different states. There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron party to make inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties. Kumar rejected fears that a census of all castes could lead to social tension. “When the (Bihar) legislature passed resolutions on it, members of all parties and from all castes and religions supported it. There should be no misgivings,” he said. Observing that findings of the Socio Economic Caste Census conducted during the Congress-led UPA regime were not made public because of "doubts over statistical accuracy", Kumar said, “Caste-based census will be in the interest of the country.” To a question on rising prices of petrol and diesel in the country, Kumar said, “The state government is in constant touch with the central government over the issue. We are trying to find a way out”. Patna has already joined the list of state capitals where the petrol price has crossed the Rs 100-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-caste-based-census-growing-nitish-kumar-1027736.html
06-09-2021||National||Centre to increase database of farmers to 8 crore by December with help of states: Tomar||Picking a leaf from Karnataka, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday asked states to create a database of farmers with linkages to land records for better targeting of various government schemes for their welfare. Tomar, addressing a conference of chief ministers and agriculture ministers of states, asked state governments to create a database for using the federated farmer database prepared by the Centre and allow linkage to state land record database. He said the Agriculture Ministry has created a database of 5.5 crore farmers and it will be increased to eight crore farmers by December with the help of State governments. The database would allow the government to offer personalised services to farmers such as soil and plant health advisories, real-time weather advisories, irrigation facilities, seeds, fertilisers and pesticide-related information, nearby logistics facilities and market access information. The discussion with the States centred around the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) set up to drive infrastructure investment. Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said India was emerging as a trusted export partner and there was further scope for improvement of agri-exports. He emphasised strengthening the infrastructure for storage and warehousing and channelling investments for this purpose. The recent modifications to the AIF such as making APMCs, state agencies, national and state federations of cooperatives, farmer producer organisations and self-help groups eligible for funding under the scheme. Activities such as community farming, assets, post-harvest management projects and primary processing too have been made eligible for funding under the scheme. Tomar also stressed the need to make India self-reliant in edible oils and urged states to promote oil palm cultivation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-increase-database-of-farmers-to-8-crore-by-december-with-help-of-states-tomar-1027737.html
06-09-2021||National||For 3rd time in 11 days, India's daily Covid-19 vaccination crosses 1 crore doses||For a third time in the last 11 days, India administered more than one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in a day on Monday taking the total number of doses given in the country to over 69.68 crore, the Union Health Ministry said. "September has started on a high note as India touches 1 crore Covid-19 vaccinations today. Under PM Narendra Modi's leadership, world's largest vaccination drive is scaling massive heights," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted. A total of 1,05,76,911 doses were administered on Monday, officials said, adding that the figure is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night. Citing data collated till 7 pm, the ministry said the country has so far vaccinated 53,29,27,201 beneficiaries for the first dose and 16,39,69,127 for the second dose. Cumulatively, 27,64,10,694 people in the 18-44 age group have received their first dose and 3,57,76,726 the second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. "Safety to those who keep us safe. The first dose of vaccine has been administered for the complete vaccination of the security forces deployed in Kutch and to protect their families from Covid. The government has achieved this important achievement in the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic," Mandaviya said in another tweet. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-3rd-time-in-11-days-indias-daily-covid-19-vaccination-crosses-1-crore-doses-1027742.html
06-09-2021||National||Narendra Modi to host 13th BRICS summit, India says stand-off altered direction of its relations with China||The military stand-off between India and China altered the direction of the relations between the two nations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said, even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to virtually host on Thursday the 13th BRICS summit, which Chinese President Xi Jinping will attend. Jaishankar pointed out that China early last year had deployed a large number of troops in “very operational mode” along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India “without any good reason” and in “complete departure” from the efforts to keep the disputed boundary “peaceful and tranquil” through “a series of agreements” inked by the two nations. He referred to the June 15, 2020, violent face-off between the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the LAC at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. He noted that the clash had resulted in casualties on both sides. “It (the military stand-off between India and China) has taken the relationship in a completely different direction,” said the External Affairs Minister, while virtually delivering the J G Crawford Oration 2021 at the Australian National University. His comment on the status of India-China relations came on a day New Delhi announced that the Prime Minister would host the 13th summit of the BRICS – a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – on Thursday. Apart from Modi and Xi, President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, President Vladimir Putin of Russia, President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa will take part in the virtual meeting. After the India-China military stand-off along the LAC started in April-May 2020 and took the relations between the two neighbours to a new low, this is going to be the first multilateral event, which will be hosted by Modi and attended by Xi. The theme for the summit is ‘BRICS@15: Intra-BRICS cooperation for continuity, consolidation and consensus’. India had outlined four priority areas for its term as the BRICS chair – Reform of the Multilateral System, Counter-Terrorism, Using Digital and Technological Tools for achieving Sustainable Development Goals and Enhancing People to People exchanges. “In addition to these areas, the leaders will also exchange views on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other current global and regional issues,” the MEA spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-to-host-13th-brics-summit-india-says-stand-off-altered-direction-of-its-relations-with-china-1027744.html
06-09-2021||National||We are conscious of humanity, it is not forte of only few: SC||"We are conscious of humanity and it is not the forte of only few”, observed the Supreme Court on Monday while hearing the case of Faridabad's Khori village where unauthorised structures standing on Aravali forest area were removed and made it clear that rehabilitation will be for those who would be found eligible. A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari was told by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for some of the petitioners who are resident of the village, that basic amenities like drinking water, food, toilets, temporary accommodation, electricity and medical facilities were not provided to the people and they are facing hardship after the demolition. At the outset, Gonsalves referred to a report prepared by social workers and some lawyers who had visited the area and interviewed the people there and told the bench there is an urgent need of drinking water, accommodation, food, toilets, health facilities and electricity there as the claims of authorities about temporary accommodation are “absolutely false”. The counsel appearing for the municipal corporation of Faridabad told the bench that they did not agree to the report and it is “absolutely wrong to paint us black” as they have already provided temporary accommodation, food, toilets and other necessary amenities. He said there were “land grabbers” and the authorities cannot permit any strangers to come there. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Gonsalves said people there are on the debris as they have nowhere to go and are waiting for rehabilitation. However, the bench said “debris there are of demolished houses. Those houses were demolished because they were unauthorised. Persons can't stand on the debris and say we will not move from there.” “Please understand what we are saying,” the bench said. Gonsalves told the bench that he fully understands what the bench was saying. “Please understand what I am saying. Please understand the suffering of the people,” the senior advocate said, adding, “I wanted your lordships to please hear what I am saying”. To this, the bench said “We are hearing you fully”. The bench said rehabilitation will be for those who would be found eligible for it. The apex court said it is examining all the aspects, including the immediate pressing needs, and temporary has to be by very nature something which is not permanent. “It is not as if we are going to provide colony or resettlement at that very place. Then what was the purpose of removal of these unauthorised constructions,” the bench observed. It said the administration has to be permitted to do things in a structured manner. The bench said as per the report, somebody else could come and say he or she will distribute food there. “Now, who is going to check that. Who is going to look after this,” the bench observed, adding, “We cannot allow this to become that kind of a philanthropy and charity is not to be done by anybody like this. State will be responsible if any untoward thing happen there.” During the hearing, when senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for some of the petitioners, asked whether he was audible, the bench said, “Yes. Your colleague said we are not hearing you. Now, therefore we stopped speaking. Now, you say are you audible to test our voice.” “You cannot say that you hear us. We have been doing this for last so many dates. We are also conscious of humanity. It is not the forte of only few,” the bench observed. The counsel appearing for the municipal corporation said that fresh and hygienic food is being provided at the temporary accommodation there and they are giving Rs 2,000 per family per month for at least six months. During the hearing, the bench also heard submissions advanced by advocate Mathews J Nedumpara, who appeared for some intervenors, and said that no one can be evicted without following the due process of law. The bench, which posted the matter for further hearing on September 13, rejected his submissions that directions given earlier by the court in the matter were “flawed”. It asked the municipal corporation to indicate the timeline required for rehabilitating eligible persons. It also observed that it will hold “somebody responsible” for the situation which led to mushrooming of the area into slums or rather unauthorised constructions. “We will have to hold somebody responsible for the situation. In the first place, the mushrooming of this area into slums or rather unauthorised structures, whatever you may call, and then action not being taken despite the court orders,” the bench said. On June 7, the top court had directed state of Haryana and Faridabad municipal corporation to remove “all encroachments”, consisting around 10,000 residential constructions, in Aravali forest area near the village, saying “land grabbers cannot take refuge of rule of law” and talk of “fairness”. It had passed the June 7 order after hearing a separate plea filed by five alleged encroachers against the demolition drive of civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-conscious-of-humanity-it-is-not-forte-of-only-few-sc-1027745.html
06-09-2021||National||Centre, Haryana govts conspiring to crush farmers' protest: Cong||The BJP governments at the Centre and in Haryana are "conspiring" to crush the farmers' agitation, the Congress alleged Monday, demanding authorities restore mobile Internet services in Karnal and withdraw section 144, allowing the farmers to protest there peacefully. Congress general secretary K C Venugopal in a statement criticised the Haryana government for imposing prohibitory orders and for snapping Internet services in Karnal in order to stop farmers from protesting against "murderous attacks on them". Central forces were deployed, mobile Internet services suspended and prohibitory orders banning gathering of people were imposed in Karnal Monday, a day ahead of a gherao planned by farmers at the mini-secretariat over the August 28 lathicharge on them. The Haryana government ordered the suspension of mobile Internet services from 12:30 pm on Monday to Tuesday midnight to "stop the spread of misinformation and rumours" on social media, according to an order of the Home Department. Farmer unions have decided to hold a Kisan Mahapanchayat on September 7 in Karnal in protest of the attack on them and for seeking action against guilty officials. The Congress leader also said the BJP government should "shed its arrogance" and invite farmers over for talks to resolve their pending issues and withdraw the three "anti-farmer" agriculture laws, which sparked the agitation. He said that far from finding a solution, or taking action against guilty officials, or calling farmers for talks, the BJP-JJP government of Haryana has issued orders to shut down Internet and also imposed section 144 in Karnal to “derail” the farmers’ mahapanchayat. “It is clear that the Modi-Khattar governments once again want to deliberately instigate gullible and Gandhian farmers for violence. “The Congress demands that the Modi and Khattar governments should give up their stubbornness and arrogance and remove section 144 and restore internet facilities in Karnal and allow the farmers to hold their Mahapanchayat in a peaceful manner," Venugopal said. He said farmers should be invited for talks and an FIR be registered against guilty officials. “This will ensure justice for the 'Annadata' of India,” he said, demanding the Modi government stop “conspiring to crush” the Gandhian movement of farmers. The September 7 Kisan Mahapanchayat by farmers is rightly seeking justice from the BJP's central and Haryana governments to take action against officers and politicians for attacking farmers, he said. The Modi government has betrayed its anti-farmer face by “attacking” the livelihood of farmers with the three black anti-agriculture laws and by not allowing farmers to enter Delhi for justice, he also alleged. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-haryana-govts-conspiring-to-crush-farmers-protest-cong-1027764.html
06-09-2021||National||Health Ministry writes to Kerala and UP about Nipah virus outbreak and mysterious fever||The Union Health Ministry on Monday asked the Kerala government to keep an eye on possible Nipah virus outbreaks in Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad districts that are adjacent to Kozhikode where a boy had died from the deadly infection. Following a request from the state government, the Indian Council of Medical Research has started the process of establishing a point-of-care diagnostic laboratory at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, which houses the state level virus research and diagnostic laboratories. Presently an unit of the National Institute of Virology at Alleppey provides such laboratory support. These are some of the recommendations and actions taken by the Centre following an on-the-spot assessment by a National Centre for Disease Control team that visited Kerala on Sunday. In their interaction with the state officials, the NCDC team also suggested opening up a 24x7 control centre besides coordinating with Animal Health and WildLife Department to trap and collect samples from fruit bats, which harbours the virus, for testing. On the mysterious fever deaths of Uttar Pradesh, the ministry asked the state administration to screen all fever patients for dengue, malaria, scrub typhus and leptospirosis. While majority of the cases are caused by dengue, a few cases of scrub typhus and leptospirosis have also been found. The central recommendation was on the basis of a report submitted by a central team that visited Uttar Pradesh. Firozabad district has recorded 51 deaths, mostly of children, and hundreds of hospitalisations in over a fortnight and the viral fever has now spread to neighbouring Mathura and Mainpuri districts. The NCDC has deputed two epidemic intelligence service officers in the district for 14 days to assist the district administration in strengthening its outbreak response. A district official had said that over 100 people with fever were admitted to the district hospital on Sunday. The hospital had over 400 patients on Sunday, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-writes-to-kerala-and-up-about-nipah-virus-outbreak-and-mysterious-fever-1027767.html
06-09-2021||National Politics||Congress's G-23 miffed as all decisions taken by Rahul||Sonia Gandhi has been the interim president of the Congress since the resignation of Rahul Gandhi following the debacle in various polls, but all the decisions and meetings are taking place at Rahul Gandhi's residence, which makes him the de-facto party chief. The Congress dissenting group of 23, which wrote a letter last year for visible and effective leadership, point out that the issues raised by them remain the same as no forward decisions have been taken. Many of the letter writers were adjusted in different committees of the party, but they have not been involved in the consultation processes. This has further miffed the group and sources within the group say that the issue remains the same. Be it Chhattisgarh or Punjab, the epicentre of the meetings was 12, Tughlak lane, the residence of Rahul Gandhi. The two important meetings happened there in which T.S. Singhdeo and Bhupesh Baghel were present and later with Baghel also the meetings were held at Rahul's place only. These events have made it clear that the decision making in the Congress is now confined to Rahul Gandhi. The Punjab issue was settled at Rahul Gandhi's residence with Navjot Singh Sidhu appointed as the party president in the state. A meeting with Sonia Gandhi took place afterwards, but the decision was taken at Rahul Gandhi's residence which was backed by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. After Sidhu attacked the Congress leadership, the reaction came from Manish Tewari, a former Union minister, who said that if they utter a word they are being named. He used a Urdu couplet to describe the situation, "hum aah bhi bharte hai tau, ho jaate ha badnaam, wo qatal bhi karte hain tau charcha nahi hote." Last year on August 23, leaders including Tewari wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi for a 'visible and effective leadership and elections from the block to CWC level which were still pending. But nothing has moved and the Congress apparatus is working under Rahul Gandhi. The grudge of the G-23 leaders is that either he should take the responsibility fully or make way for someone else. Most of them want Sonia Gandhi to function as full time president, but sources say due to health reasons she is reluctant. The Congress leaders are upset over the growing clout of K.C. Venugopal, the General Secretary organization of the party. There has been simmering tension in the Kerala unit against him with one of the leaders expelled from the party -- secretary P.S. Prasanth -- who was expelled from the party hours after he wrote to Rahul Gandhi. Both Ramesh Chennithala and Oomen Chandy are said to be upset over the party affairs. Despite Rahul Gandhi calling the shots, things are not improving. The issue of Rajasthan is pending from the last one year and now it is being said that the much awaited cabinet expansion in the state will take place soon. In Chhattisgarh, the Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel flexed his muscles after bringing more than 50 MLAs to Delhi in a show of strength. The Congress is facing tough times and is going to face elections in six states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Goa, Punjab, Manipur and later Gujarat. In Delhi and Mumbai, the Municipal body polls are slated which are also considered as prestigious elections. For Goa the Congress has appointed P. Chidambaram as Senior observer and for Manipur Jairam Ramesh, but for other states there is no clarity. The election results early next year will decide the fate of the Congress. In the recently concluded Assembly elections, the party lost in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and only solace was Tamil Nadu where it is a junior partner of the DMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congresss-g-23-miffed-as-all-decisions-taken-by-rahul-1027492.html
06-09-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi 'political cuckoo' of Indian politics: BJP||With Rahul Gandhi attacking the government over the farmers' protest, the BJP on Monday dubbed him as a “political cuckoo of Indian politics” who, it alleged, does not want to work on the ground and uses the shoulders of others for his political agenda. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also accused the Congress leader of posting an old picture of farmers' protest while referring to their Sunday mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, and said this is part of his politics of “spreading confusion and lies”. “The Congress is without a (regular) president. It is incapable of raising ground issues. That is why Sonia Gandhi holds virtual meetings with leaders of other parties while Rahul Gandhi relies on old photographs in his attempt to spread confusion for politics,” Patra told a press conference. Sonia Gandhi is the interim president of the party. As a cuckoo does not build her nest and seeks comfort in nests of other birds, Rahul Gandhi also works in a similar manner, he said. “He does not work to build his party's organisation. He does not work hard. It has become his habit to use others' shoulders for politics,” he charged. With protesting farmer unions hitting out at the government, Patra claimed that the Modi dispensation was always dedicated to farmers and will remain so. He cited a number of measures taken by the government, including direct transfer of over Rs 1.5 lakh crore to farmers, and record procurement and payment for their produce, to make his point. Citing the Morning Consult survey that ranked Modi with the highest approval rating of 70 per cent among 13 heads of governments, including Joe Biden and Boris Johnson, Patra said it was possible because of the government's achievements, including a host of welfare measures for the poor, deprived and farmers. At the press conference, the BJP spokesperson also referred to India's Covid-19 vaccination drive, which has been gathering pace and clocked over one crore jabs on two days recently, and hit out at Rahul Gandhi, who had earlier criticised the alleged slow pace of inoculation. Over 68.75 crore people have received at least one dose of vaccination, which has reached an average daily figure of 85 lakh, he said. “Now Rahul Gandhi is not seen posting any tweet on the vaccination drive,” he said. He also attacked the Congress leader for not speaking out on the alleged rape of a minor in Rajasthan and registration of an FIR against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father for his remarks allegedly targetting a community. While Gandhi spreads “confusion” everywhere for his politics, he has kept quiet on these issues involving the Congress-ruled states, Patra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-political-cuckoo-of-indian-politics-bjp-1027579.html
06-09-2021||National Politics||Scramble for 'Brahmin' votes in Uttar Pradesh ahead of Assembly polls||As the next assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh draws nearer, a mad scramble has started among the major political players to set their caste equations right and the electorally influential 'Brahmin' community appears to be on everyone's radar. If it was the Congress, which had undertaken a 'yatra' in different parts in the state through a little known outfit 'Brahman Chetna Parishad' to launch, what the grand old party called a "campaign for justice" for the community, the BSP, which had tasted power in the state riding its "social engineering" (Brahmin and Dalits) formula in 2007, organised several 'prabuddh sammelans' (for Brahmins) with the intention of bringing back the community to its fold. Congress has also hinted that it may also project a 'Brahmin' face for the post of chief minister of the state in the assembly polls. The Samajwadi Party (SP) has also announced plans to install statues of 'Parashuram' (a Brahmin sage) in different parts of the state. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has decided to put up its candidates on all the 403 seats in the polls in the state, would be holding 'Chanakya Vichar Sammelans' for a similar purpose. Since holding caste based meetings have been banned, the political parties named their meetings differently, though it is meant for a particular caste only. The opposition parties think that the 'Brahmins' are 'angry' with the BJP as they feel that they are being 'persecuted' in Yogi Adityanath regime and their feeling stems from the fact that several saffron party lawmakers from the community too had expressed concern over the way the community members were being treated by the present dispensation. BJP MLA from Sultanpur district Deomani Dwivedi said that many 'Brahmins' were killed in police encounters in the state. Political analyst J.P.Shukla says that 'Brahmins' can't be 'fooled' by false promises. "Brahmins have no problems in aligning with other castes....After all they supported the BSP in 2007 polls....in 2009 Lok Sabha polls they supported the Congress and in 2014 and 2019 LS polls they switched loyalty to the BJP," Shukla added. It will be interesting to see which party gets the support of the 13 per cent 'Brahmins' this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scramble-for-brahmin-votes-in-uttar-pradesh-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1027589.html
06-09-2021||National Politics||Children dying of dengue, viral fever but Adityanath claiming 'all is well': Akhilesh||Children are dying of viral fever and dengue, but Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is making false claims of "all is well", Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Monday. There is an outcry in the state due to dengue and viral fever. There are huge crowds in hospitals, and children are dying due to a lack of proper and timely treatment, he said in a party statement. The BJP government is, however, not paying attention to the collapsed health services in the state, he added. Dengue fever has claimed the lives of hundreds of innocents in western Uttar Pradesh, and the outbreak is now visible in the eastern part of the state as well, Yadav alleged. In state capital Lucknow itself, there is a rush in hospitals, he said, adding that the disease has hit Firozabad, Mathura, Mainpuri, Kanpur and Farrukhabad among other places badly. The cries of mothers who have lost their children is a reality which is far away from the tall claims being made in government advertisements, the SP chief said. Citing various cases of hardships being faced by family members of patients in getting medical attention, Yadav alleged that the BJP government lacked sensitivity, and said dengue has exposed the reality of its claims of having improved medical facilities. There is widespread public anger against the BJP as it has shown disregard towards the health and the welfare of the people, he said. The BJP will never come back to power again, and everyone is confident that a 'Samajwadi' government will be formed in 2022, Yadav added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/children-dying-of-dengue-viral-fever-but-adityanath-claiming-all-is-well-akhilesh-1027706.html
06-09-2021||National Politics||Committed to farmers' welfare, says an uneasy BJP||The massive show of strength by farmers at a kisan mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar has triggered unease within the BJP with the party hitting out Rahul Gandhi “firing from the shoulders” of farmers at the Modi government. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra refrained from commenting on the farmers’ rally at Muzaffarnagar and merely stated that the Modi government was committed to the welfare of farmers. Earlier, BJP leader Varun Gandhi had called for re-starting talks with the farmer leaders “in a respectful manner” and described the agitating farmers as “our own flesh and blood”. “They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner, understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” Gandhi, a Lok Sabha member from Pilibhit, said. BJP Lok Sabha member from Baghpat Satyapal Singh the farmers had laid bare their political ambitions by appeasing one particular religion and by dubbing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as “outsiders”. Muzaffarnagar Lok Sabha member Sanjeev Balyan voiced concern over the kisan mahapanchayat and recalled that a similar gathering eight years ago had led to communal riots. Patra, at the party briefing, targeted Rahul Gandhi, calling him a “political cuckoo” who does not work on the ground and seeks to appropriate issues raised by others. “Just as a cuckoo never builds her nest, Rahul Gandhi does not work hard to build his party organisation. It has become his habit to fire from others’ shoulders for his own political benefit,” Patra said. Patra also accused Rahul of “spreading confusion and lies” by posting an old photograph of the farmers’ protest and trying to pass it off as that of the Sunday rally at Muzaffarnagar. “That Rahul Gandhi has to use an old picture to claim success of the Mahapanchayat just shows how the propaganda to call it a well attended “farmer” agitation hasn’t worked. It is political. With religious slogans raised, it leaves no one in doubt, what the actual motivation is,” BJP IT Department head Amit Malviya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/committed-to-farmers-welfare-says-an-uneasy-bjp-1027717.html
06-09-2021||National Politics||ED quizzes Trinamool's Abhishek Banerjee, says those fighting BJP are being harassed||Top Trinamool Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee, who is West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew, on Monday was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case arising out of a coal pilferage scam even as he alleged that whoever fighting the ruling BJP is being "harassed". The 33-year-old leader, who is Trianamool's National General Secretary, arrived at the ED office in Jam Nagar House in the national capital at around 11 AM, saying he was "ready to face investigation" and "will cooperate" with the officers who are doing their job. After the questioning, which lasted till around 8 PM, he told reporters, "anyone who fights against the BJP is harassed. This case has arisen out of Kolkata, I've been summoned to Delhi. I have been asked questions non-stop for the last 8 hours. From day one, I have been asking to bring evidence, if any, against me into the public domain." "If BJP thinks it can scare the Trinamool Congress by doing all this, if they think Trinamool will accept defeat like Congress and other parties, they are mistaken. We will fight more vigorously. We'll go to every state where the BJP has murdered democracy," he said. Banerjee's wife Rujira was also summoned on September 1 but she did not appear citing the Covid-19 pandemic while requesting the ED to question her in Kolkata. While leaving Kolkata for Delhi on Sunday, he had said he would hang himself if any central agency can prove his involvement in any illegal transaction. The Investigating Officer of the case recorded the statement of Banerjee, who represents the Diamond Harbour seat in the Lok Sabha, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). It is claimed that Banerjee had received funds from those involved in illegal coal mining through one of his close aides, who is a party youth wing leader. The ED had registered a case of money laundering based on an FIR filed by the CBI in November last year in the coal pilferage scam linked to the Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in Kunustoria and Kajora in West Bengal's Asansol. It is alleged that Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. The ED has arrested two persons -- former Inspector in-charge of Bankura police station Ashok Kumar Mishra and Vikas Mishra, who is the brother of TMC youth wing leader Vinay Mishra. Vinay is said to have left the country sometime back and renounced his Indian citizenship -- in this case so far. One Anup Majhi alias Lala is said to be the prime suspect in the case, who is alleged to be running his "illegal coal mining business smoothly by managing senior functionaries of (a) political party of West Bengal though Inspector Mishra". A "deep system of political patronage" and a "well-oiled machinery" was "used to brazenly carry out certain unlawful coal mining" in West Bengal, the ED had earlier claimed. The ED had said that Vinay and Vikas had received "proceeds of crime worth Rs 730 crore on behalf of some influential persons and for themselves" in this case involving around Rs 1,352 crore. The statement of this unidentified "witness" furnished by the ED in the court earlier had claimed that "it is known fact that Vinay Mishra collected money from illegal coal mining of Majhi and his associates for his closely associated political boss in the present ruling party; that Vinay Mishra is the youth leader of TMC and he is very close to Abhishek Banerjee and that he (Vinay Mishra) is the eyes and ears of Abhishek Banerjee". "Majhi assisted in transferring substantial funds derived from the proceeds of crime to Abhishek Banerjee's close relatives (wife and sister-in-law) at London and Thailand," the ED had claimed citing documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ed-quizzes-trinamools-abhishek-banerjee-says-those-fighting-bjp-are-being-harassed-1027740.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh writing new story of development: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Sunday said the state is getting rid of mafia, mosquito and filth, and is scripting a new story of development. "There was a time when eastern Uttar Pradesh was a hub of mafia and also cases of malaria, encephalitis and dengue were on surge in the region but now the conditions have changed," he said. Speaking at the beginning of a sanitisation drive, he said encephalitis have been "controlled" in the state due to sanitisation and taking adequate measures. "Encephalitis has reduced to minimum level with toilets in every home," he said. Adityanath also remembered second president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan whose birth anniversary on September 5 is observed as Teacher's Day. He said, "The sanitisation drive has begun on the anniversary of second president Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan and it will continue till September 12." He also met flood victims at Sadar tehsil, Belwar, Kaudiram and Gola areas of Gorakhpur district and distributed relief material. Before conducting a survey of flood affected areas, he met people during a Janta Darbar at the Gorakhnath temple and also congratulated Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas LY for bagging the silver medal in the men's singles badminton event at the Tokyo Paralympics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-writing-new-story-of-development-adityanath-1027450.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||An altercation over Rs 70 leaves shop owner dead in Indore||A shop owner in Indore, Madhya Pradesh was murdered over an altercation for Rs. 70 on Sunday. The incident took place after a fallout between two men and a shop owner, a Pintu Dubey over pending payment for cigarettes. The two men reportedly walked into Dubey's shop on Saturday, September 4, asked for cigarettes but refused to pay for it.  On September 5, they returned to the shop, this time drunk and argued with the store owner.  When Dubey stepped out, they attacked him with a rod and stabbed him. The accused damaged some vehicles, attacked those around, including the owner whose store is next to Pintu's. City Police Superintendent Jayant Rathore and Assistant Superintendent Prashant Chaubey, reached the spot after being informed of the attack. "We have taken one of them into custody and search is on for the other. We are trying to arrest him at the earliest," he told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/an-altercation-over-rs-70-leaves-shop-owner-dead-in-indore-1027509.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Ex-UP Governor booked for sedition over 'derogatory' remarks against Yogi government||Former Uttar Pradesh Governor Aziz Qureshi has been booked for sedition over his alleged derogatory remarks against the Yogi Adityanath government in the state, police said on Monday. The FIR was lodged following a complaint by BJP leader Akash Kumar Saxena at the Civil Lines Police Station in Rampur district on Sunday. In his complaint, Saxena alleged that after visiting Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan’s house and meeting his wife Tazeen Fatma, Qureshi made derogatory statements against the Yogi Adityanath government and compared it to a “blood-sucking demon”. "The statement can create tension between two communities and create unrest in the society," Saxena said in his complaint. The BJP leader also handed over to police a pen drive containing Qureshi’s alleged statement which was aired by various news channels. Qureshi was booked under sections 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on grounds of religion, race), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 124A (sedition), and 505(1)(B) (intent to cause fear or alarm to the public), a senior police officer said. Qureshi (81), is a senior Congress leader and had served as the Governor of Mizoram from 2014 to 2015. He also had charge of Uttar Pradesh for some time. Police said action will be taken according to the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-up-governor-booked-for-sedition-over-derogatory-remarks-against-yogi-government-1027514.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||20 dogs poisoned in UP village; FIR registered||At least 20 dogs were poisoned by some people in a village in the Shrinagar area here, police said on Monday. An FIR was lodged in this connection against unidentified persons based on a complaint by Basaura village head Sukhnandan Prajapati, and the dead dogs were buried, local SHO Anil Kumar said. Some people allegedly fed the dogs bread laced with a poisonous substance in the village on Saturday and Sunday, Kumar said. Prajapati said at least 20 dogs have died so far, and the count is likely to go up. Chief Development Officer Haricharan said the matter was being probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-dogs-poisoned-in-up-village-fir-registered-1027538.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Government not respecting our judgements: Supreme Court on delay in appointments to Tribunals||The Supreme Court on Monday said it does not want any confrontation with the Union government but its patience is running out due to delay in appointment in tribunals. The top court said it was extremely upset with the way the Union government passed the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021 in disregard to its previous judgements. "The Centre appears to be hell-bent upon not respecting our judgements," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, warning of contempt action if appointments were not made within a week. "We don't want confrontation with government and we are happy with the way SC judges are appointed. These tribunals are collapsing with no members or chairpersons. Tell us your alternate plans. What do you want? Do you want to close down tribunals," the bench also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and D Y Chandrachud asked Mehta. Maintaining that this was not the intention of the government, Mehta sought adjournment in the batch of petitions including the one filed by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh as Attorney General K K Venugopal was not available. The bench, however, asked him to argue the matter, saying it was not going to adjourn the matter. He shared a letter from the Ministry of Finance and said appointments in tribunals would be made within two weeks after the Act came into force. The bench said the new 2021 Act is the replica of what was struck down in Madras Bar Association cases. The Act, notified on August 13, however, made provisions on appointments in tribunals like fixing tenure of persons to four years and putting a bar on selecting persons below 50 years of age. "There is no respect for the judgements of this court. It is unfortunate. Last time, you have said that you have appointed some members in the tribunals. How many you have appointed," the bench asked him, adding the government was emasculating the tribunals. With this, the bench said three steps can be taken now, first- stay the Tribunals Act or close down tribunals, secondly - we ourselves appoint the people or give power to the High Courts, thirdly -issuing the proceedings under the Contempt of Court Act. The court asked Mehta to take instructions and posted the matter for hearing on Monday, September 13. On August 6, the court noted vacancies across the tribunals as appointments to the post of 19 presiding officers, 110 judicial members, and 111 technical numbers are pending. During the hearing on Monday, the bench said tribunals are on the verge of closure due to unavailability of members and presiding officers. The bench said that NCLT, NCLAT are critical to the economy and they are important for rehabilitation of corporate entities. It further said important cases are not being heard because of vacancies and by not appointing members at these tribunals creates a very critical position. Justice Chandrachud, for his part, said that he had chaired a selection committee for National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. “Names which we recommended are either deleted, and there’s no clarity why? We sit together with bureaucrats and make these decisions…it is a waste of energy," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-not-respecting-our-judgements-supreme-court-on-delay-in-appointments-to-tribunals-1027540.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Section 144 imposed in Karnal in view of farmers' protest call over lathicharge||Prohibitory orders banning the gathering of people were imposed in Karnal on Monday, a day ahead of a farmers' planned gherao of the mini-secretariat here over the August 28 lathicharge episode, officials said. The district administration has issued prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, banning the assembly of five or more people, and a traffic advisory with planned route diversions, they said. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Monday said a big panchayat will be held here on Tuesday, after which farmers will proceed to gherao the mini-secretariat. "Farmers will be gathering in Karnal's New Anaj Mandi on Tuesday morning," he said. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmer outfits protesting against the farm laws, has threatened to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7 if its demands were not met. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. It had also demanded that he be dismissed from service. The Haryana government on Wednesday transferred 19 IAS officers, including Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier admitted that the choice of words used by Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer, was wrong but had defended the police action. A delegation of Congress MLAs had met Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, seeking a judicial probe into the lathicharge on the farmers. Chaduni had earlier also sought the registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge.    He had demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of a farmer who died after allegedly sustaining injuries in the lathicharge in Karnal on Saturday. However, the administration here claimed that the farmer was not injured in the police action but had died due to a heart attack. Chaduni also demanded a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to each of the injured farmers. The farmer leader had last week also announced to lay a siege to the secretariat office in Karnal on September 7 for an indefinite period if their demands are not met. Director General of Police P K Agrawal on Saturday visited Karnal for a meeting with senior officials where he reviewed the security arrangements ahead of Tuesday's protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/section-144-imposed-in-karnal-in-view-of-farmers-protest-call-over-lathicharge-1027557.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||PM Modi interacts with health workers, vaccine beneficiaries in Himachal Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of the Covid vaccination programme in Himachal Pradesh through video-conferencing. Interacting with Dr Rahul, posted at the Dodra Kwar Civil Hospital in Shimla district, Modi said 10 per cent of the expenditure can be saved if all 11 shots in a single vial are used while administering Covid vaccines. Himachal Pradesh has become the first state to achieve the target of administering the first dose of Covid vaccine to all eligible people above 18 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-interacts-with-health-workers-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-himachal-pradesh-1027560.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Restrictions remain in force in parts of Srinagar||Normal life remained affected for the fifth day on Monday as authorities imposed restrictions in parts of the city to prevent exhumation of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani's body from the Hyderpora graveyard for burial in the Eidgah Martyrs' graveyard in old city. "Restrictions have been imposed around Hyderpora and Eidgah areas of the city as a precautionary measure," officials said.  The officials said there were inputs that miscreants might attempt to exhume Geelani's body for burial at the Eidgah graveyard where many militants and two top separatist leaders -- Abdul Gani Lone and Mirwaiz Mohammad Farooq -- are buried. Geelani had expressed his desire to be buried at the Eidgah graveyard, according to a statement issued by separatists in February last year. The 91-year-old died at his home here on Wednesday night. Officials said all roads leading towards Eidgah and Hyderpora have been barricaded and drones used for maintaining overhead vigil around these areas.  They said CCTV cameras have already been installed at the Hyderpora graveyard where Geelani was buried on Thursday.  Elsewhere in the city, normal life was affected due to the restrictions as markets were partially open.  However,  educational activities like online classes remained suspended due to suspension of internet services on mobile devices.  Internet services are currently available on broadband and fiber platforms only in the valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-remain-in-force-in-parts-of-srinagar-1027565.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Firozabad dengue outbreak: UP CM orders strict action against lax officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday that some officials of the health and urban development departments have been found lax in discharging their duties in Firozabad district where dengue and viral fever claimed over 50 lives, and ordered strict action against them, according to an official statement. The chief minister held a meeting and directed that teams of specialists from Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and King George's Medical University in Lucknow be sent to Firozabad, Agra and Mathura. The teams will guide local doctors and will oversee treatment of patients there. As many as 105 patients of dengue and viral fever were admitted on Sunday to the government medical college in Firozabad, where the diseases have claimed 51 lives so far. "In Firozabad, some officers of the health and urban development departments have been found lax in discharging their duties. It should be examined and action should be initiated against guilty officers," the chief minister told the meeting. The chief minister also issued directions for making arrangements of additional beds, paramedical staff, medicine and testing equipment. The ÇM Helpline is taking feedback from the families of patients about the facilities available in hospitals, an official spokesperson said. Firozabad government medical college principal Dr Sangeeta Aneja had said on Sunday, "Today, 105 new patients of dengue and viral fever were admitted while 60 people recovered. As of now, 447 patients are admitted to various wards." Last week, three Firozabad doctors were suspended on charges of laxity. District Magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh on Thursday suspended the three doctors with immediate effect on charges of negligence and warned government doctors of strict action for any negligence in treatment to ailing people. The suspended doctors are Girish Srivastava of Primary Health Centre of Salai in Firozabad, Ruchi Srivastava, a public health expert, and Saurav. On Wednesday, Firozabad's Chief Medical Officer Neeta Kulshresth had been removed following the spate of deaths, mostly children, since August 18 due to the viral fever and suspected cases of dengue. The chief minister had visited the district on August 30 to take stock of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/firozabad-dengue-outbreak-up-cm-orders-strict-action-against-lax-officials-1027605.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||SC refuses to entertain plea for opening of Singhu border, asks Sonipat residents to move HC||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea for directions to the governments to clear the roads connecting Delhi and Haryana at Singhu border, blocked by farmer groups protesting against the three farm laws since November 26, last year. Taking up a plea by Sonepat residents in Haryana that the road blockade posed a hurdle to travel for essential needs, a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, said the invitation to interfere in the matter was tempting, but there are High Courts, which can deal with the local issues. “There is no gross violation of fundamental right. Let us (Supreme Court) not be the court of first recourse. Suppose, tomorrow there is a border dispute between Karnataka and Kerala or some other states. There will be no end to this," the bench, also comprising Justices Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli, said. The petitioners had moved the apex court raising the issue of hurdles created in travelling to and from Delhi, particularly for essential needs. The court, however, said the present matter should be heard by the High Court concerned, as it would be more aware of the local conditions. “Why don't you approach the High Court being residents of Sonepat? Why are these petitions filed here for publicity? There is no need for us to intervene when High Courts are well versed with the local conditions and what is happening,” the bench told advocate Abhimanyu Bhandari, representing the petitioners. The counsel, for his part, contended before the bench that Singhu Border is the "umbilical cord" for the people travelling from Haryana to Delhi. To this, the bench said, “We should trust High Courts”. The bench emphasised that the petitioners should move the High Court, which would deal with maintaining a balance with freedom to protest and the freedom to access basic amenities. The petitioners then sought liberty to approach the High Court. The bench then replied, "Why should we direct the High Court to hear? It is a human issue; the High Court will deal with it the best way”. The counsel referred to the earlier orders of the top court, which stated that the roads can't be blocked but the bench remained unmoved. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-opening-of-singhu-border-asks-sonipat-residents-to-move-hc-1027607.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Dissatisfied with board exam results, 14,000 students in Madhya Pradesh take tests physically||Around 14,000 students of Classes 10 and 12, who were not satisfied with their board exam results declared on the basis of past performance in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, appeared physically for exams in Madhya Pradesh on Monday, an official said. The state government has organised a special annual examination from Monday for students of Classes 10 and 12 of the 2020-21 academic session, who were unhappy with the grades that they got based on marks scored by them in their previous classes, MP Board of Secondary Education's (MPBSE) public relations officer S K Chourasia told PTI. All Covid-19 protocols were being followed while conducting the exams, he said. The official said students who were absent for a long time from school or had failed were also given the opportunity to appear for the exams physically, but their number was quite less. "Mainly, the students who are unhappy with their grades are appearing for the tests," he said. Students of Classes 10 and 12 from schools affiliated to the MPBSE were appearing for the exams. Due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 were not held in the state. Instead, the students were evaluated on the basis of their past performance, Chourasia said.. The students of Class 12 students were judged on the basis of marks that they secured in Class 10, while Class 10 students were evaluated on the basis of marks of their internal school tests conducted in the last 3 years, the official said. On Monday, some of the students while entering the examination centres expressed confidence of scoring well in the tests. A Class 12 student from Bhopal said he was unhappy that his result this year was based on his Class 10 marks. “It is hard to judge a student on his previous performance. After the last board exams (of Class 10), I started studying hard. I know my grade will improve for sure,” he said. The student said he also knows this is a risky proposition, given the fact that if he does not score well now, he may suffer badly (in academics). According to an official, if these students appearing now for the exams do not score well, they will be declared failed. If a student is unsuccessful in a subject, he or she would be given a chance to clear it (in the form of a supplementary test), he said. The official said results of nearly 18 lakh students of Classes 10 and 12 were declared earlier based on their past performances. Out of them, around 9,000 students of Class 10 and 5,000 of Class 12 were now appearing for the exams physically from Monday. The exams for both the classes will be completed later this month, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dissatisfied-with-board-exam-results-14000-students-in-madhya-pradesh-take-tests-physically-1027613.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Hurriyat faction led by Mirwaiz condemns FIR over draping of Geelani's body in Pak flag||The Hurriyat Conference faction led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday condemned the filing of an FIR over the draping of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani's body in a Pakistani flag following his death last week. The police registered the FIR against unnamed people under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code over the draping of Geelani's body in a Pakistani flag and the alleged raising of "anti-national" slogans after his death. However, as the police moved in to take over the body, the late separatist leader's aides removed the flag, officials had said earlier. Geelani died on Wednesday night at his residence here after a prolonged illness. The body was laid to rest at a graveyard in a nearby mosque. In a statement, the Hurriyat said it denounced the filing of the FIR against Geelani's family. "The details shared by Geelani's son in media that the authorities took the body of the 92-year-old leader into their custody, and buried it on their own without the knowledge and participation of the family is appalling and painful to hear," the amalgam said. "It is so tragically inhuman when a family is denied the basic right of burial of their loved one and one can only imagine what the family must have gone through. After such harshness the authorities are now harassing the family with FIRs and threats of arrests," it claimed. The Hurriyat said the people of Kashmir stand with Geelani's family "in this hour of grief and injustice".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hurriyat-faction-led-by-mirwaiz-condemns-fir-over-draping-of-geelanis-body-in-pak-flag-1027624.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Umar Khalid withdraws bail plea in Delhi riots case after police object, files fresh appeal||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under stringent anti-terror law UAPA in the 2020 Delhi riots conspiracy case, has withdrawn his bail application and filed a fresh one after the city police objected to its maintainability. Senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that the application seeking bail under section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been substituted with the one under section 437 after the police objected to it. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, representing the police, objected to the fresh plea that purportedly accused the prosecution of adopting “dilatory tactic” and called it "not fair". “In the interim application you have filed, you have made certain allegations that the objections taken by the prosecution are dilatory tactics. Therefore, to paint the prosecution by saying that it is dilatory tactics is not fair,” the prosecutor said. The fresh application was filed after Prasad submitted that the court hearing the plea is a special court designated under UAPA Act and therefore exercises all powers that are before the Court of Magistrate within the rigours of section 437 of CrPC. ASJ Rawat sought the police reply on the fresh bail application and posted the matter to September 8. In the last hearing on the bail plea on September 3, Khalid told the court that the charge sheet in the case has made hyperbolic allegations without any factual basis and reads like a script from a web series and news channels. Delhi Police had earlier said the bail plea had no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case. Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/umar-khalid-withdraws-bail-plea-in-delhi-riots-case-after-police-object-files-fresh-appeal-1027634.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Denial of last rites to Geelani's family against humanity: Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said denial of last rites to the family of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani was against humanity and had saddened the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The 91-year-old was buried in a graveyard located in a mosque near his residence. "We had our differences with Geelani ... A fight is with a living person but once a person dies, the differences should end. The deceased is entitled to dignified last rites," Mehbooba said after a party meeting here. The former chief minister said the news reports about the denial to Geelani's family to perform his last rites had saddened the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "The family has a right to perform the last rites of a dead person. What we heard and came to know through media reports about disrespect to the deceased, is against humanity. You have to respect your opponent after death like you would respect anyone," she said. She said Geelani's wish to be buried at Eidgah graveyard should have been granted. "Even a convict sentenced to death is granted one last wish before execution," Mehbooba said, referring to Geelani's wish. The PDP president condemned the alleged misbehaviour with womenfolk of Geelani's family at the time of his death. "India is held in high esteem globally for its civilisation and culture... But what has happened does not fit the image of the country," she added. Mehbooba said people cannot be forced to like or dislike a leader at gunpoint. "What happened with the dead body of Geelani has probably generated sympathy among even those who might have had differences with his politics. There was no call, yet the markets were shut down after people came to know about what had happened (on Wednesday night)," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/denial-of-last-rites-to-geelanis-family-against-humanity-mehbooba-1027718.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||Viral fever in Firozabad: Central team says majority cases of dengue, a few of scrub typhus||A central team which was sent to Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh to investigate the cause of a fever outbreak and deaths among children has observed that the majority of cases are of dengue and a few are of scrub typhus and leptospirosis. Firozabad district has recorded 51 deaths, mostly of children, and hundreds of hospitalisations in over a fortnight and the viral fever has now spread to neighbouring Mathura and Mainpuri districts. Based on the observations of the central team, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary has recommended screening of all fever patients for dengue, malaria, scrub typhus and leptospirosis. Bhushan highlighted the need to strengthen ELISA-based testing facilities and suggested that activities related to fever survey and vector control be continued under a micro plan submitted by the central team. He also recommended that surveillance should be strengthened with implementation of the Integrated Health Information Platform (IHIP) in the district in coordination with the central surveillance unit at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and that entomological activities be strengthened and continued according to standard guidelines and SOPs of the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). He also recommended augmenting isolation beds and admission facilities in the district hospital of Firozabad and neighbouring districts and organising a short reorientation of all doctors at primary health centres and community health centres. Services of experts on infectious diseases from King George's Medical University and similar institutions may be utilised for this purpose. "You may recall that a central team comprising National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) officials was sent to Firozabad to investigate the cause of fever outbreak and deaths among children and suggest suitable recommendations for containment of this outbreak. The central team has observed that the majority of cases are due to dengue, while a few are because of scrub typhus and leptospirosis," Bhushan said in the letter.  He further suggested intensifying awareness activities By the district administration.  The NCDC has deputed two epidemic intelligence service (EIS) officers in the district for a period of 14 days and they will assist the district in strengthening its outbreak response, Bhushan said. A district official had said that over 100 people with fever were admitted to the district hospital on Sunday. The hospital had over 400 patients on Sunday, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/viral-fever-in-firozabad-central-team-says-majority-cases-of-dengue-a-few-of-scrub-typhus-1027748.html
06-09-2021||North and Central||AAP volunteers demand Bhagwant Mann as CM candidate in Punjab polls||Though the AAP is yet to announce its chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab assembly polls, supporters of state unit chief Bhagwant Mann are demanding that the party leadership should choose him. However, the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday said the chief ministerial candidate will be declared at an appropriate time. Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal in June had said that the party's chief ministerial face for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls would be from the Sikh community. Several AAP volunteers in Sangrur and Barnala districts are holding meetings to press the party leadership to choose the Sangrur MP as the chief ministerial face, sources in the party said. At Mann's residence on Monday, some of them even raised slogans in his favour. Talking to reporters in Sangrur, Mann said every day he is meeting party volunteers from across Punjab and they come with their suggestions and issues. When asked that these volunteers are demanding that he should be declared as the CM candidate and what is the AAP's stand on it, Mann said it is the party's internal matter. He said the party volunteers are conveying the message of the public. Taking the voice of people to the party is his and every volunteer's duty, Mann said. Meanwhile, AAP Punjab unit in-charge and MLA Jarnail Singh the CM candidate will be announced at an appropriate time. The Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-volunteers-demand-bhagwant-mann-as-cm-candidate-in-punjab-polls-1027752.html
06-09-2021||Opinion||Fossil fuels’ price boom is not the victory it might seem||From the price action, you’d think that fossil fuels are back in business.  Since breaking above $100 a metric ton in May, the price of coal at Australia’s Newcastle port — a benchmark for Asia, which consumes about three-quarters of the world’s soot — has gone almost vertical, hitting a record $173.10 a ton Thursday. The key regional contract for liquefied natural gas, the Japan-Korea Marker, is in similar territory, hitting $18.02 per million British thermal units the same day. That’s not a record, but it’s still the third-highest spike LNG has ever seen, during what’s typically the low season for a commodity that tends to surge amid winter’s heating demands.    If you think of futures prices simply as a vote on the path ahead for the commodity in question, that should worry a world that needs to decarbonise. This view is simplistic, though. Commodity prices don’t rise and fall based on the level of demand itself, but rather as a result of the mismatch between demand and supply. A world in which fossil fuel consumption is on a long-term downtrend can still see handsome prices for fossil fuels in any period when supply falls faster than demand. The current price spike has multiple sources. One is the diversion of Russian gas from Europe to Asia, while another is China’s coal-to-gas switch. Then there’s the relatively warm, dry summer that’s reduced hydro generation and increased pressure on air conditioners. Most important, though, has been the bounce back from 2020’s bout of economic sickness, which has sent electricity consumption surging — and with it, the dirtiest forms of generation. One of the biggest drivers for growth in renewable power’s energy share over the past decade has been flat or declining electricity demand. Adding wind and solar capable of supplying 5 per cent of a country’s grid power can drive a sharp reduction in emissions if output remains constant or falls. If, however, grid use climbs 5 per cent, then all that new renewable capacity won’t make a shred of difference to emissions. If it climbs 14 per cent year-on-year — as China’s did in July — then it’s likely to be fossil fuels that make up the shortfall.  That situation can turn even the economic disadvantages of coal and gas in their favour. For years now, the growth of renewable power with zero fuel costs has been pushing thermal generators out of use, dealing a severe blow to their economics. Fossil power plants need to be in operation for 60 per cent to 80 per cent of the time to turn a profit, but the last time China’s fleet hit that level was all the way back in 2011. For most of 2019 and 2020, the figure was well below 50 per cent.  That very underutilisation, however, means that there’s substantial ability to turn up the gas when demand starts surging. Delivering an extra megawatt-hour from a thermal generator operating at half capacity only requires finding some fuel on the global markets for coal and LNG. If you want to increase wind and solar generation beyond current levels, you’ll need to build a whole new power plant. That sounds like bad news for decarbonisation — and in the short term, it is. Still, the current price spikes also provide a reminder to generators of why the days of thermal power are numbered. At current prices for Newcastle coal, even the most efficient power plant will be paying upwards of $60 per megawatt hour just for its fuel. In the largest markets of China and India, the cost of brand-new wind or solar generation is half as much, or less. Even renewable power plants backed up with batteries to provide on-demand electricity are competitive with fossil fuels at current prices.  That’s the ultimate reason why the world will switch away from the historic role of carbon as the solid base of electricity systems over the coming decade. Renewable generation is priced at the time of installation, and doesn’t vary in cost over a multi-decade project life. That gives enviable certainty to grid operators whose revenues are typically fixed by the government, especially when compared to commodities like coal, whose price can increase threefold in 12 months, as they did over the past year. As lenders withdraw finance from fossil fuel projects and major producers shift toward lower-carbon alternatives, those problems will only be accentuated, with supply-demand mismatches increasingly leading to volatile fuel prices that will play havoc with generators’ cashflows. Stability and certainty have always been valued qualities in business. The very ungoverned excitement of energy fuel markets now contains the seeds of their own decline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/fossil-fuels-price-boom-is-not-the-victory-it-might-seem-1027493.html
06-09-2021||Opinion||Congress infighting in Kerala: Opportunity in crisis||Post-1947, the Congress in Kerala followed a different political trajectory than the party at the national level. When leftists within the party had an influential say at the national level during the post-independence period, leaders known for their anti-leftism led the party in Kerala.  Seven decades down the line, the Kerala unit of the Indian National Congress is treading a path which its national leadership is afraid to take. The Congress leadership at the national level survives unscathed even after two consecutive electoral debacles, which has prompted resentment among some leaders. But that is not the case in Kerala. After the Assembly poll debacle, the Kerala unit of the party is undergoing tumultuous changes at the organisation level. After getting a new chief, the Kerala PCC has revamped the district committees, triggering a crisis. But astute management of the current mess, both politically and organisationally, could turn out to be a blessing in disguise for the party. The overhauling provoked former chief minister Oommen Chandy and former Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Ramesh Chennithala to oppose it. Chandy and Chennithala, though leading two different factions in the party, have united to resist the changes that the new leadership is trying to make. With a new power centre emerging, some of the leaders, who have steadfastly stood with either Chandy or Chennithala, have shifted their allegiance making the two veteran leaders, who have controlled the party for the last two decades, jittery. The triumvirate that runs the party now in Kerala - PCC chief K Sudhakaran, parliamentary party leader VD Satheesan, and Rahul Gandhi's Man Friday, national general secretary, KC Venugopal - are trying to control the party structure. They are pushing the former group leaders, Chandy and Chennithala, to the margins, making redundant the factions they lead.  The three have succeeded initially, but the aggressive manner in which Chandy and Chennithala have responded to the organisational changes has complicated their task. But can the new leadership use the impending crisis to revamp the party, both organisationally and ideologically? The Congress party weathered many organisational crises when K Karunakaran and A K Antony were at the helm of affairs. But unlike in the past, the party is currently facing an existential crisis. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerging a force to reckon with makes it imperative for the Congress party to assert its ideological position. The BJP won an 11.3 per cent vote share in the Assembly polls, and its candidates came second in nine constituencies. Unlike the national level, the Congress in Kerala has functioned as a spearhead of various rightist organisations. With the BJP on the ascendant, the Congress cannot continue to be ideologically ambivalent. The Sabarimala issue made this evident when the Congress eventually ended up playing second fiddle to the machinations of the Hindutva groups. Despite the desperate attempts by the Congress leaders, the Sabarimala issue turned out to be a damp squib for the party during the last election. Though the new leadership intends to make the Congress a cadre-based party, nothing has been heard from these leaders how they will assert the Congress as a centrist political party in the state. The current leadership has acted coherently against factionalism. But it has not yet stated how it will reinvent the party ideologically.  While Satheesan has earlier expressed his dislike for caste organisations, like the Nair Service Society (NSS), PCC president Sudhakaran is amicable towards these rightist organisations. Due to his vociferous anti-left position, Sudhakaran continues to be a darling among the more conservative sections in the state. How Sudhakaran's ideological affinity towards the extreme right plays out will have implications for the Congress in Kerala in the long run. This is not to say that the current bickering in the party after the organisational changes at the district level is a non-issue. Even while the challenges posed by the once supreme leaders continue to be huge, the changes new leadership initiated has reinvigorated party cadres dampened by the successive Assembly poll debacles.  The Kerala government's alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 situation, deteriorating law and order problem, impending economic crisis have given the opposition a perfect setting for a political comeback. But it depends on how new leaders at the helm heal wounds that have surfaced after the changes carried out in the organisation.  It is not just about how they diffuse the challenges posed by Chandy and Chennithala. More important is for how long the triumvirate – Sudhakaran, Satheesan, and Venugopal - can remain united because their varying styles and approaches may come to the fore once their fight against a common foe is over.  (The writer is a Kochi-based independent journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/congress-infighting-in-kerala-opportunity-in-crisis-1027524.html
06-09-2021||Opinion||Jean-Luc Nancy: Death, Tenderness and Love of Life||One of the most influential French philosophers, Jean-Luc Nancy, who slept forever on August 23, 2021, leaves behind resonant vibrations of thoughts about tenderness, love and death, which do not flounder in the existential anomie of his being a 'heart transplant'. Nancy celebrated his transplanted heart much like the resurrected body of Jesus, to which Jesus quipped, "do not touch me". Death, for Nancy, then, is touching my 'body' and its transplants without touching it, which makes it into an other body, an un-touch-able body. Similar to Antonin Artaud's exploration of 'true freedom' in a 'body without organs', the heart, for Nancy, is the only part to which an outside opens itself. All experiences of the world, therefore, necessarily are 'experiences of the heart'. The heart knows the truth of the body, as Nancy muttered, "if it is an other, it is a body", and further, "an Other is a body, because only a body is an other". The body as the other, for Nancy, emerges from 'the fall of sleep' like in Rimbaud's 'sleeper in the valley' who, "would say he is sleeping and that like any sleeper he has joined eternity: the reverse of time". Nancy surmised that if only the dead could speak, he would say that he was sleeping. Such is the sleeping body that lies at the threshold of beings thrown, being "outstretched alone there, there, a here like nowhere". Death frees the body as the other, who lies in sleep to make the way for the transition from Nancy's 'being toward' to an indeterminate otherness. Nancy's idea of death brings the body as the being that is perpetually held toward the other closer to his philosophical 'experience of the heart' that opens up to outside of being loved. Being recipients of the love of the other, the heart 'breaks', per Nancy, when it watches over the dying and the dead. Such an experience of the heart is 'ruptured' in the web of tender relations of receiving love and then breaking, or rendering itself somehow as a 'me' or 'I' in the outside that interweaves the experiences of many hearts of mourners in whose lips death falls into a 'tearful survival'. This is how death brings love and tenderness back to the 'face of the dead', which Nancy described as "all appearances appear without a trace". Giles Deleuze would have termed such appearances "thousand plateaus" of tenderness and love in inter-personal "body without organs". Nancy's image of 'the fall of sleep' into death transfigures these 'thousand plateaus'. Are the Eros and Thanatos then suspended by putting to sleep the whole heart? How can a sleeping heart, the transplanted heart of Nancy, for example, reclaim its presence in being and world? Nancy would reflect on the social pathology of dying and deaths by "vowing' this heart to 'stopping of the heart". Nancy saw the possibility of dreadful, horrific and gruesome experiences in the 'outside' that unfolds before one's heart an impossible passage to images of death in "heads kept buried beneath muddy waters", or to a"'soul without soul" that floats "lifeless over the field of battle or muck whose inanity an operating-room lamp garishly exposes". Death, then, is an experience of an outside 'beyond all existent'. The body can make sense of Nancy's this notion of 'fall of death' or sleep only by taking a sojourn to an 'unseeable' outside of suffering and pain. It is only in the resurrected body of Jesus alone an exception is made, in which one can touch the 'un-touch-able'. This 'un-touch-able' as the debt of life to the gift of resurrection after death seemingly makes us tender, caring and loving towards the lives of others, which, per Nancy, is not reducible to mere drives and desires. (The writer teaches Philosophy at North-Eastern Hill University, Shillong)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jean-luc-nancy-death-tenderness-and-love-of-life-1027578.html
06-09-2021||Opinion||Muzaffarnagar and the law of diminishing returns||Remember the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013, which left 62 dead? They made headlines for weeks. That violence was one of the reasons for the subsequent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) victories in UP in the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections. Union Minister of State Sanjeev Balyan, an accused in those riots, who continues making provocative speeches, represents Muzaffarnagar in Parliament. Much before the 2013 riots were the 1988 riots in the district during the Ayodhya movement, which saw more people dead. The last two generations of Muzaffarnagar have therefore seen animosity between Hindus and Muslims reach extreme levels. The same can be said of Indore. Those who were children when 23 persons were killed in the 1989 riots, triggered by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP)'s Ayodhya yatras saw their city erupt again in 2008 over a VHP bandh that Muslim shopkeepers resisted. Seven persons died then. Late last year, villages around Indore saw communal violence, again set off by VHP yatras for the Ayodhya's Ram Temple. Indore has been under uninterrupted BJP rule for the last 16 years, except for a 15-month interval between 2018-2020. Earlier, in 1990-92, under then BJP chief minister Sunderlal Patwa, Bhopal railway station was adorned with a banner welcoming travellers to the "capital of the Hindu Rashtra". So Indore's residents have long been familiar with the Ayodhya movement and the bitter divisions it has bred. But this recurrent communal violence has apparently not resulted in the deep-seated hatred one would expect. Ordinary Hindus and Muslims carry on with their routine dealings with each other without any trace of animosity. In Muzaffarnagar, Hindu women routinely get their hands decorated with mehndi on the festival of Teej by Muslim men skilled in the art. Indore's Hindu women think nothing of having bangles put on their hands by Muslim bangle sellers. That these practices are routine came to light when self-styled protectors of Hindu women recently tried to put an end to them. Ironically, their self-publicised threats and attacks last month revealed that the age-old shared culture that India is famous for continues to exist even in these "sensitive" towns. Mathura, known as Lord Krishna's birthplace, has always been part of the slogans of the Ayodhya campaign. New pleas against the Shahi Idgah mosque adjacent to the Ram Janmasthan are pending in the city's courts. But this dispute seems not to have impacted everyday interactions between Hindus and Muslims. The Muslims who ran the Srinath Dosa Stall, which was vandalised last week, had sold their stall to a Hindu, who had allowed them to continue operating it. Such intermingling is intolerable for Hindutvawadis. It is not enough for them that Muslims are kept out of Hindu-dominated residential colonies in cities. They want them out of sight, restricted to their ghettos, summoned only when required. The commonplace sight of Hindus patronising Muslim sellers as well as Muslim artistes (remember stand-up artiste Munnawar Faroqui in Indore) enrages Hindutvawadis. Their goal is an economic boycott of Muslims. Post-riots, cashing in on heightened communal feelings, they've given calls to this effect, as happened in Mumbai 1993 and Gujarat 2002. These never worked; interdependence between the two communities is too deep. A Sindhi trader in Godhra told this reporter after the burning of the Sabarmati Express there in 2002 that it would be self-destructive for his fraternity to obey the BJP's directive to boycott Muslims economically. But the interdependence is not just monetary. Muzaffarnagar's shopkeepers were bewildered by the Kranti Sena's threat not to employ Muslim mehndi artistes for Teej. Our customers have never asked about the artiste's religion, they said. When a bunch of Hindu men were thrashing bangle seller Tasleem Ali in Indore, local Hindu women objected, and it was a Hindu whose intervention stopped the attack. Ali's former village Pradhan in Uttar Pradesh said it was common for Muslims to have Hindu names in the village; no one thought it odd.  In Mathura, Hindu customers were back at the Muslim-run dosa stall the day after the highly publicised attack; apart from the fanatical Bajrang Dal, no one was surprised that Muslims had named their stall after the city's reigning deity. None of these Hindus stood to gain financially from their dealings with Muslims. If asked, none of them would say they were doing anything out of the ordinary. Perhaps that's the "secularism" lamented every day in WhatsApp groups that claim to support the BJP. For seven years, these groups have incited Hindus to stop "foolishly practising `bhaichara'" and start aggressively "protecting" their religion; to "be Hindu, buy Hindu." If such relentless goading hasn't succeeded even in Yogi Adityanath's UP, we have hope. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/muzaffarnagar-and-the-law-of-diminishing-returns-1027638.html
06-09-2021||Panorama||Papads or fryums, GST remains a political hot potato ||For about a year after the Goods and Services Tax (GST) made its arangetram, Twitter was the go-to place to seek clarifications on various aspects of the law. Later, GST help desks were set up across the country but many taxpayers were of the opinion that the help desks themselves needed help. As the law developed, the Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) took over the job of ruling on the intricacies of the laws. Looking at the spectrum of rulings given by AARs across the country, many have reached the conclusion that AAR decisions are largely pro-revenue. In 2021, Twitter appears to have regained pole-position for clarifications. Industrialist Harsh Goenka tweeted, “Did you know that a round papad is exempt from GST and a square papad attracts GST? Can you suggest a good chartered accountant who can make me understand the logic?” GST and logic can never be used in the same sentence as both are poles apart.  The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) decided to respond to Goenka’s tweet and clarified that papad, by whatever name known, is exempt from GST vide Entry No. 96 of GST notification No.2/2017-CT(R). This entry does not distinguish based on the shape of the papad. This notification is available at http://cbic.gov.in. One can only hope that Goenka’s Twitter handle does not become an unofficial e-help desk for all things GST. While the response of the CBIC is to be appreciated, it should be noted that there are cases pending across the country on the rate of GST for papad-like things such as fryums. Food has always been a controversial area between the makers of indirect tax laws and the taxpayer. The erstwhile service tax laws had concepts such as a distinction between indoor and outdoor catering. They also stated that a wholesome meal provided by the Indian Railways was exempt from service tax. What constitutes a wholesome meal was not clarified. The GST also has made a fine distinction within food and drinks. For instance, tender coconut water other than put up in a unit container and bearing a registered brand name is exempt while tender coconut water put up in a unit container and bearing a registered brand name, or bearing a brand name is taxed at 5 per cent. A rate of 5 per cent (wherein most food products are parked) would be acceptable to anyone since the impact on end prices is expected to be minimal. Other sectors have not been so lucky as food products in terms of being taxed at nominal rates. The automobile sector is a case in point. GST on automobiles In India, automobiles are emotional for their owners, profitable for the manufacturers and lucrative for the taxman. Just as water finds its own level, automobile drivers in India find their own path even on the narrowest of India’s roads. Many were expecting the government to do something in GST to encourage automobile owners in India to keep the momentum of purchases going. Players in the automobile industry have been seeking a reduction in the GST rate for the past couple of years. Last year, two-wheeler manufacturers were expecting a cut in GST rates to give a boost to sales that were hit due to the impact of the pandemic. Recently, leaders of large automobile companies had a sort of a face-off on GST rates with the revenue secretary in a public meeting. The automobile industry has argued that it is inappropriate to tax both two-wheelers and luxury four-wheelers at 28 per cent. The only response that the government has given is that if players in the industry are so badly affected, they should reduce their royalty payments to offset the impact of the pandemic. With the automobile industry increasingly going electrical, vehicles in the non-electrical segment could turn out to be really costly in comparison. Electric vehicles get taxed at 5 per cent under the GST. As in most things in India, it will take some time for a majority of Indians to opt for electric automobiles. It is imperative that the government reduce the rate of GST on non-electric vehicles to 18 per cent for now keeping a target of 12 per cent for the future. Till date, a detailed and comprehensive study of the impact of GST on retail prices and inflation has probably not been made. The GST has not added much to inflation in India because save for a few aberrations such as automobiles and cement, GST rates are in a good zone now. Essential commodities and critical items are bucketed in the 5 per cent rate while most services are at 18 per cent as against the erstwhile 15 per cent. Most taxpayers in India are savvy enough to ensure that the increase of 3 per cent is either paid for by their customers or is availed by them through input tax credit, thereby negating the impact on end prices. Apart from the so-called sin goods which attract a tax of 28 per cent apart from different rates of cess, most goods are in either the 5, 12 or 18 per cent bracket. The GST Council should debate whether a rate of 20 per cent for most services and sin goods would make sense considering the fact that the pandemic has impacted many entities in this segment. If the GST Council is able to work out an alternate mechanism to compensate state governments for loss of revenues, the GST Compensation Cess can be removed. This is easier said than done since the backlog of compensation payable to state governments is increasing every single day. History is evidence of the fact that cesses make messes of the end price that the customer pays. However, with monthly GST revenues regularly crossing the magic threshold of Rs 1,00,000 crore, the government would not want to rock the boat too much. Since some concessions are inevitably given in the build-up to the next elections, the government would not want to exhaust all the limited options they have now. The more things change under the GST, the more they remain the same. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/papads-or-fryums-gst-remains-a-political-hot-potato-1027433.html
06-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Non-action on cricket field||Long ago, when groundnut oil was Rs 2.50 a kilo, a Test cricket match lasted full six days, with a day off in between to give the 22 players, umpires and the spectators some rest. Then the off day was dropped and it became a nonstop five-day event. Enter a businessman, Kerry Packer, who introduced the 60-over format that spilled on to the night. Sixty overs? Too many, felt a few who gave a 15+% discount and pruned it to 50 overs, now famous as one-day internationals. Even that seemed longish, so an edited version of 20-20 quickies was thought of. These remained a rage because they were action-packed. However, this too was abridged. Now we have 100-ball matches. Whatever be the thrill it provides, cricket is a game where a majority of players are engaged in non-productive action. Of the 11 batsmen, only two are out on the pitch at a given time and the rest will be cooling their heels in the dugout. Each batsman who walks in takes guard afresh, including the 11th man! Taking guard is a sheer waste of time because the geographical position of the stumps remains the same. Why not mark the stumps too on the pitch, like the boldly visible crease, and save time? There are other ways of wasting time too. Batsmen look for imaginary bumps on the pitch and spend time crushing them with the bat. Some tighten their gloves after each ball, making the bowler and the fielders wait. No one tightens the pads yet; if not this activity too would add to the wasted time. Fast bowlers are the worst culprits. They have a long run-up before they fling the ball. For each ball, the bowler has to walk up to his bowling mark and run back the same distance to deliver the ball. During this time not only the batsman, the remaining 10 fielders just wait. When the batsman hits only one fielder moves to gather the ball and the rest just watch. When the ball is left untouched by the batsman, the wicket-keeper alone has some work; ten other fielders are mute spectators. In the dugout, while the two batsmen are out playing, their teammates are busy chatting. Add to this the breaks for drinks and lunch. Thank god! There is no break for a brief siesta for the ‘tired’ players. Can you imagine non-action like this on the football or hockey or basketball field? No wonder my mentor Dr H Narasimhaiah used to say no developed country, which values time, plays cricket! Yet, I am a crazy fan, that’s the irony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/non-action-on-cricket-field-1027429.html
06-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Coping with loss||Most of us feel squeamish when faced with the prospect of writing a eulogy if only because it brings us face to face with our own mortality. As someone who suffers from white-coat hypertension, a morbid fear of needles and that weird delusion where one reads about the symptoms of some random ailment and is promptly convinced that one has the disease, I feel as if I’m staring into the abyss.  Inevitably, we have all faced loss at some point in time in our lives: a beloved childhood pet, aunts, uncles, a parent but all of these, while tragic enough at the time, do not even come close to the mind-numbing, soul-shredding, tsunami of grief that comes with losing a child. One feels the pain of the child’s untimely passing until the dawning of the day of the Lennon-esque revelation, “Life is what happens to you when you’re busy making other plans…” With this comes the deeper insight that we are all motoring down the busy road of life, caught up in the quotidian until that moment that we are plucked from this mortal coil. Of course, we’re insignificant specks in this vast cosmos but every once in a while, a special being blazes like a comet across the banality of our lives which gives us hope that we were created with a higher purpose. My nephew, Rishi, was one such special being who filled 17 years on earth with all the precious things that give joy and meaning to life: music, laughter, family, confidence to plough a lonely furrow free of the shackles of the herd, all of it rooted in a deep and abiding concern for his fellow man. At 14, he organised a violin recital fundraiser for the Snehagram Foundation in Bengaluru with the help of his mentor at the Peabody Music & Dance Conservatory at Johns Hopkins University. Snehagram is a vocational and rehabilitation center whose mission is to enable self-sufficiency in children living with HIV. At the same time, he was no goody two shoes but a remarkable young man with many facets whether it was the DIY ear-piercing or getting Ramu the Ulsoor barber to give him a silver-streaked widow’s peak. Tobogganing through the icy Swedish tundra to witness the glorious natural phenomenon of the Northern Lights, spending time on George of the Jungle’s farm in the wilds of Sirsi and staying up all night to witness the miracle of birth, gently stroking the newly born calf, brokering an armistice between his adopted stray cat, Gatsby, and the family dog, Summer, or composing an ode to a beloved grandma…these were the sum and substance of a typical Rishi day. How can one forget his first love: the joy of cross-country running which at its essence is man pitted against the elements in the manner of the elusive Raramuri, the lightning-footed lost tribe who occupy the remote hills of Chihuaha, bordered by Sinaloa and Sonora.  Yes, it was a short life but what a joyous one. At the core of all our belief is the knowledge that we are mere travellers placed on this planet for a finite period of time. Those of us who seek a higher purpose and look for meaning in this life and the hereafter grope uncertainly seeking portents of an infinity where we will attain our higher calling. Powerful minds of the calibre of a Hawking or a Dawkins have grappled incessantly with this question which remains unanswered but perhaps Rishi’s comet-like blaze sheds some light on this conundrum. Perhaps the quality of life we achieve on this planet in our allotted time is what determines the size, shape and environment of the galaxy we attain in our next avatar. Guwayu, dearest Rishi, until we meet again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/coping-with-loss-1027628.html
06-09-2021||Second Edit||Shoddy probe of Delhi riots||The criticism made by the Delhi High Court of the investigations conducted by the Delhi Police into the February 2020 riots is not isolated. Multiple courts which have heard the cases relating to the riots have expressed unhappiness about the way the police investigated them and presented evidence and how prosecution has been conducted. A total of 735 FIRs have been filed. The riots were the worst Delhi saw in many decades, and even when they took place there were allegations that they were engineered for a purpose and that the police did not do enough to prevent them and to bring them under control. The shoddiness of the investigation and prosecution of cases, pointed out by courts, would be considered as an extension of the shoddy and unprofessional conduct of the police during the riots. The Delhi High Court Friday last granted bail to five persons, including two women, who had been held in jail for many months, with the observation that ‘’the sole act of protesting’’ cannot be used as a weapon to justify the incarceration of people exercising their fundamental right. The five had been arrested for taking part in anti-CAA protests. The court also said that serious charges like those relating to murder cannot be made on the basis of vague evidence and general allegations. The high court had granted bail to three others in June. A trial court acquitted the accused in a riot case, in the first trial that was completed, after noting that there were many inconsistencies in witness statements. In many other cases also, the courts cited poor evidence as the reason for granting bail. It is not easy to investigate, find evidence and file charges in riot cases as roving mobs in different places are involved and actions and counteractions are often difficult to distinguish. Even then, the Delhi Police did a bad job, going by the responses and observations of the courts. In one case, the judge said it was painful to see ‘’very poor standards’’ of investigation and ‘’half-baked’’ charge-sheets. In another it said the investigation appeared to be ‘’callous, inefficient and unproductive’’. There was no systematic collection of evidence, finding of witnesses and credible framing of charges, and the unprofessional conduct of the police gave rise to even absurd situations. From the many observations of courts, it is very likely that the need to dispense justice was not taken seriously by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/shoddy-probe-of-delhi-riots-1027432.html
06-09-2021||South||Contact tracing, finding source of Nipah infection priorities: Kerala Health Minister||Stressing that the Health department's priority is to strengthen contact tracing and determine the source of infection, Kerala Health Minister Veena George on Monday said there are chances that the 12-year old boy who succumbed to Nipah may have come in contact with more number of people. George, who met the media, said the samples of seven people among the 20 high-risk contacts of the child have been sent to the Pune NIV for testing. The child succumbed to Nipah virus early Sunday morning. "The most important job is to strengthen contact tracing. We are giving special training to our field workers. It is equally important to find the source of infection. Whether this child is the first to get infected or from where this child was infected. We traced 188 contacts yesterday. There can be more contacts. We are trying to locate everyone," she said. She said there are chances of an increase in the number of contacts as the parents have taken the child to a clinic first, then to a private hospital, then to the medical college and from there to another private hospital. "Samples of seven among the 20 high-risk contacts of the child have been sent to the Pune NIV. We are expecting the results to come today. We have also sought the help of NIV Bhopal. The Pune NIV will set up a testing facility at Kozhikode medical college today which will help us in getting the results faster," she said. The Chathamangalam Panchayat and adjacent areas are completely cordoned off after the boy was found infected with Nipah virus. The three-km-radius from the boy's house is now a containment zone. The Minister had on Sunday said the two healthcare workers, who are among the 20 high-risk contacts of the deceased child, have been identified with symptoms of Nipah virus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/contact-tracing-finding-source-of-nipah-infection-priorities-kerala-health-minister-1027525.html
06-09-2021||South||'Alchemist' Kerala auto a hit after Coelho shares picture||After a book shop in Kerala and a Malayalam movie, it is now a Kerala autorickshaw that caught the attention of renowned Brazilian writer Paulo Coelho. Coelho shared on social media the picture of a Kerala autorickshaw with his name on its rear. Pradeep K A, a native of Cherayi near Kochi, used the Brazilian writer's name and his book's on the auto. The rickshaw has been plying in Kochi over the last several years. The auto owner says he was fascinated by the author after reading his popular book 'The Alchemist' and put Coelho's name in English and the book's name in Malayalam on his ride. The autorickshaw has been anointed 'Alchemist'. After Coelho shared the photo on Twitter, the picture went viral garnering much-awaited appreciation and attention for Pradeep. The tweet received over 22,000 likes and 2,000 shares. Pradeep also keeps Coelho's picture inside his autorickshaw along with other popular personalities like Osho. Fifty-six year old Pradeep, who worked in private firms in Kolkotta for several years after his studies, said that he was really taken by 'The Alchemist' even as he read many books of renowned writers like Marquez and Tolstoy. He always keeps books in his autorickshaw and reads during breaks, he said. "It was hard to believe when I came to know from my son and some friends that Coelho shared my auto's picture," says Pradeep who now dreams of meeting the writer. Last year, a book shop at Aluva had caught Coelho's attention for its unique design of a huge book shelf with books including 'The Alchemist'. In 2016, Coelho had shared the poster of a Malayalam film 'Kochavva Paulo Ayyappa Coelho' which is also centered around a character influenced by 'The Alchemist'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alchemist-kerala-auto-a-hit-after-coelho-shares-picture-1027554.html
06-09-2021||South||Kerala: Five more develop Nipah symptoms; 251 now in contact list||Five more persons at Kozhikode showed mild symptoms of Nipah, while those in the contact list of the deceased boy increased to 251 on Monday. Specimen from eight persons, including the deceased boy's mother and health workers, showing symptoms are being tested at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. A large number of people in the contact list are health staff from across three hospitals who treated the 12-year-old. Health department personnel in the know said that the source of the infection was yet to be ascertained. Experts who visited the deceased's house and nearby region on Sunday collected the specimen of fruits — mainly Rambutan fruit — as there were suspicions that the child had recently consumed it. Specimen from fruit bats in the region would be tested at National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases. Though a goat died at the boy's house recently, experts had maintained that the chances of Nipah infection through goats was quite remote. The presence of wild boars in the region was also being examined, health department sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-five-more-develop-nipah-symptoms-251-now-in-contact-list-1027568.html
06-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu will celebrate Periyar's birth anniversary as social justice day, says CM Stalin||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to celebrate every year the birth anniversary of reformist leader E V Ramasamy Periyar on September 17 as "Social Justice Day," Chief Minister M K Stalin announced in the Assembly on Monday. Periyar's ideology was all about social justice, self-respect, rationalism and equality, which laid the foundation stone for the Tamil society's growth during the last century and it would also pave the way for the future, Stalin said. Hence, the government has decided to celebrate the leader's birth anniversary every year to serve as a symbolic reinforcement of his egalitarian principles, the Chief Minister said amid thumping of benches. On that day every year, employees in all government offices including the State Secretariat would take pledges to follow values based on such lofty ideals which includes, brotherhood, equality, self-respect and rationalism, he said. The Chief Minister recalled the services of Periyar (September 17, 1879--December 24, 1973) to the Tamil society and said he was instrumental in the enactment of the first Constitutional Amendment Act (that safeguarded reservation for backward classes).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-will-celebrate-periyars-birth-anniversary-as-social-justice-day-says-cm-stalin-1027584.html
06-09-2021||South||ADB clears $150 million loan for urban poor housing project in Tamil Nadu||Multilateral funding agency Asian Development Bank has approved a $150 million (about Rs 1,095 crore) loan for a sustainable housing project for the urban poor in Tamil Nadu. The loan to provide access to inclusive, resilient, and sustainable housing for the urban poor in Tamil Nadu was approved on September 3, 2021, ADB said in a release on Monday. The Manila-headquartered funding agency said Tamil Nadu is vital to India's economic growth, contributing 8.54 per cent to the country's gross domestic product (GDP). Economic opportunities have increased rural–urban migration in the state, which already has one of the highest urbanisation rates in India. "Tamil Nadu's housing shortfall accounts for 6.66 per cent of the national deficit, and when mapped against income levels, low-income households bear most of the shortage," said ADB Principal Safeguards Specialist for South Asia Ricardo Carlos Barba. The aim is to provide vulnerable and disadvantaged households access to inclusive, safe, and affordable housing infrastructure and services, Barba said. Tamil Nadu has a population of more than 72 million (7.2 crore), nearly half of which are living in urban areas. The rapid urbanisation and growth in the urban population will require adequate urban infrastructure and services, including housing, ADB said. With this $150 million loan, through the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, the project will construct housing units in nine different locations and relocate about 6,000 households vulnerable to natural hazards to safer locations. It will also help Tamil Nadu's Directorate of Town and Country Planning develop regional plans to map the state's economic and infrastructure development including affordable housing, environmental protection, disaster risk management, and gender, ADB said. A portion of ADB's assistance will be invested by the state government as equity into the Tamil Nadu Shelter Fund to catalyse private sector financing and support investments mainly in industrial housing and working women's hostels for low-income and migrant workers. In addition, ADB will provide a $1.5 million (nearly Rs 10.95 crore) technical assistance (TA) grant from its Technical Assistance Special Fund to support the capacity building of government agencies responsible for delivering affordable housing and regional planning in the state. The TA will document successful approaches to affordable housing delivery, including the graduation programme for vulnerable relocated beneficiaries, that can be adopted in other cities and countries, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/adb-clears-150-million-loan-for-urban-poor-housing-project-in-tamil-nadu-1027619.html
06-09-2021||South||Allow second Covishield dose after 4 weeks from first for those who want it early: Kerala HC to Centre||The Kerala High Court has directed the Centre to allow scheduling, on Co-WIN portal, of second Covishield dose after four weeks from the first for those who want to take it earlier than the present suggested gap of 84 days. Justice P B Suresh Kumar said that if the central and state governments can permit persons travelling abroad to choose between early and better protection from Covid-19, there is no reason why the same privilege cannot be extended to those here who want early protection in connection with their employment or education. The high court, in its order dated September 3 which was made available on Monday, said that even according to the Union Health Ministry's policy the people shall have the choice to get early vaccination, for the implementation of which vaccine is being distributed on payment basis through private hospitals as well. "The fourth respondent (Centre) is directed to make necessary provisions forthwith in the Co-WIN portal, so as to enable scheduling of second dose of Covishield vaccine after four weeks of the first dose for those who want to accept the second dose after a period of four weeks in terms of the initial protocol of the vaccine," the court said. The observations and directions of the court came while allowing the plea by Kitex Garments Ltd, represented by advocate Blaze K Jose, seeking permission to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine to its workers without having to wait for 84 days. Kitex, in its plea had said that it has already vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose at a cost of nearly Rs 93 lakh, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions. The Centre had opposed the plea by contending that the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield was fixed to increase the efficacy of the vaccine, as recommended by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and was also based on the technical inputs provided by the National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NITAG).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allow-second-covishield-dose-after-4-weeks-from-first-for-those-who-want-it-early-kerala-hc-to-centre-1027669.html
06-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to observe Periyar’s birth anniversary as ‘Day of Social Justice’||September 17 – the birth anniversary of legendary social reformer E V R Periyar – will be observed as ‘Day of Social Justice’ every year, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin announced on Monday. Periyar, as he is popularly known, founded the Dravidar Kazhagam, a precursor to the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Stalin’s announcement in the Assembly was welcomed by all political parties represented in the House, including the BJP which projects itself as an alternative to the Dravidian parties. Social justice is a core principle of the Dravidian movement whose off-shoots are ruling the state since 1967. Making the announcement under Rule 110 in the Assembly, Stalin paid rich tributes to Periyar, whose roots can be traced to present-day Karnataka, saying the social reformer’s two primary principles were equality of men and women and abolition of caste. “Periyar launched the Self Respect Movement to ensure that people from all sections of the society live with dignity. The protests that he spearheaded can never be replicated by others. The words that came out of his mouth are those others were scared to utter. If I keep talking about him, I can go on for ten days,” Stalin told the Assembly. The Chief Minister said the first amendment to the Indian Constitution came about because of Periyar, who “never went to Parliament.” The first amendment to the Constitution in 1951 concerned “fundamental rights”, the right to freedom of speech, rights against the compulsory acquisition of property (Art. 31) and rights against non-discrimination. “The government has decided to observe Periyar’s birth anniversary on September 17 every year as the Day of Social Justice in Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said, adding that employees in all state government offices will take an oath to follow the principles of self-respect, rationalism, equality, brotherhood, and social justice. Periyar is highly revered in Tamil Nadu for his fight against discrimination of women and some of his revolutionary ideas like the right to women in family properties were transformed into legislation by successive DMK governments. BJP, which welcomed the announcement on Monday, views Periyar as its ideological opponent as it makes a concerted effort to emerge as an alternative to the Dravidian majors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-observe-periyar-s-birth-anniversary-as-day-of-social-justice-1027677.html
06-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu tables a bill on ‘Right to Sit’ for those working in establishments||Employees working in shops and establishments in Tamil Nadu, especially those in textile and jewellery showrooms, have a reason to cheer. The state government on Monday tabled a Bill in the assembly that makes it mandatory for establishments to provide seating facilities to all employees.  Once the Bill is passed in the Assembly and signed into Act by Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Tamil Nadu will probably be the second state after Kerala to legalise ‘Right to Sit’. The bill to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947 was tabled in the Assembly on Monday by Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C V Ganesan.  Thousands of employees in textile and jewellery showrooms stand for long hours as they cater to customers. The lack of seating arrangements for them has been a major issue that has been highlighted every now and then.  The Bill noted that persons employed in shops and establishments in the State are made to stand throughout their duty time resulting in varied health issues.  “Considering the plight of the employees who are on their toes throughout their duty time, it is felt necessary to provide seating facility to all the employees of the shops and establishments,” the Bill said, adding that the issue was placed before the State Labour Advisory Board meeting on September 4, 2019, which was approved. The Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments (Amendment) Act, 2021 envisages providing “suitable seating arrangements” for all employees so that they make take advantage of any opportunity to sit in the course of their work and thereby avoid ‘on their toes’ situation throughout the working hours.  The tabling of the Bill in the Assembly received appreciation from several quarters on social media with activists welcoming the move. Vasanta Balan, whose movie Angadi Theru chronicled the struggles of those working in such establishments, welcomed the Bill. “I thank the Tamil Nadu government. The dreams of my movie Angadi Theru is getting fulfilled slowly,” he wrote on his Facebook page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-tables-a-bill-on-right-to-sit-for-those-working-in-establishments-1027689.html
06-09-2021||South||More people develop Nipah virus symptoms in Kerala's Kozhikode district||Kerala is keeping fingers crossed as more persons at Kozhikode district developed symptoms of Nipah virus, while the source of the infection on the 12-year-old boy who died of the virus remained untraced. While only three were showing symptoms on Sunday, eight more persons developed symptoms like headache and slight fever. Test results of the 11 symptomatic were expected by Monday late night. A team from NIV, Pune reached Kozhikode and will be setting up a testing facility. Those in the contact list of the deceased boy also increased to 251 by Monday. Among them, 54 were in high risk group. As many as 129 in the contact list, including 30 in high risk group, were health workers. Health Minister Veena George said that the health condition of the symptomatic patients were stable. All recent deaths in the region would be reviewed. The state government has also sought supply of monoclonal antibodies from Australia through ICMR, said the minister. Health department sources said that since the Covid protocol was in place and many wards in the region were declared containment zones in view of Covid surge, the chances of large-scale spread of Nipah was remote. Meanwhile, the source of the infection was yet to be ascertained. Apart from a central team comprising experts from the National Centre for Disease Control, the state Animal Husbandry Department also visited the region and collected specimens of fruits, birds and animals. The health minister said that samples of bird-bitten Rambutan fruits from two trees on the premises of the house of the deceased boy at Chathamangalam in the district as well as specimen from two goats in the house were also collected. A team from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal was expected to come down to the state. Sources said that the presence of wild boars in the region was also being examined. Meanwhile, the Kerala health sector could heave a sigh of relief as the Covid TPR was witnessing a slight decline over the last few days. On Monday the total fresh cases reported in the state was 19,688 with a TPR of 16.71. The TPR that went up close to 20 per cent last week was witnessing slight decline over the last one week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/more-people-develop-nipah-virus-symptoms-in-keralas-kozhikode-district-1027699.html
06-09-2021||South||Kerala records 19,688 fresh Covid-19 cases, 135 deaths||Kerala on Monday reported 19,688 fresh Covid-19 cases and 135 deaths pushing the total infection count to 42,27,526 and the fatalities till date to 21,631, the state government said. The test positivity rate (TPR) was found to be 16.71 per cent after testing 1,17,823 samples in the last 24 hours, according to a state government release. With this, 3,25,08,136 samples have been tested till now, it said. The bulletin also said that since Sunday, 28,561 people have recovered from the infection taking the total recoveries to 39,66,557 and the number of active cases to 2,38,782. Among the 14 districts of the state, Thrissur recorded the highest with 3,120 cases followed by Kozhikode (2,205), Ernakulam (2,029), Malappuram (1,695), Kollam (1,624), Palakkad (1,569), Thiruvananthapuram (1,483), Alappuzha (1,444), Kannur (1,262) and Kottayam (1,020), the release said. Of the new cases, 81 were health workers, 111 from outside the state and 18,602 infected through contact with the source of the contact not being clear in 894 cases. There are currently 6,20,739 people under surveillance in various districts. Of these, 5,87,582 are in home or institutional quarantine and 33,157 in hospitals. The state government also said that 75 per cent of the total population eligible for vaccination have been given one dose of vaccine by September 5 and 28 per cent of the eligible populace have been given both doses by the same date. More than 92 per cent of the people over the age of 45 years have received one dose and 48 per cent of the same age group have received both jabs till date, the release said. It further said that only 12.82 per cent of the cases currently under treatment are admitted in hospitals or field hospitals and less than 1 per cent of those under treatment are in the ICU. The state government said that those who are Covid positive and also suffer from comorbidities should avoid staying at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-19688-fresh-covid-19-cases-135-deaths-1027702.html
06-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu targets 20 lakh Covid jabs on September 12||Tamil Nadu has set an ambitious target of administering 20 lakh vaccines doses on September 12 holding 10,000 vaccination camps across the state with a special focus on districts bordering Kerala, where Covid-19 infections are on a spike. The government will seek the assistance of teachers and professors in creating awareness about the mass vaccination drive on September 12. The state has administered over 5 lakh vaccines a day last week, but the numbers have now come down. Health Minister Ma Subramanian said the state has enough stock of vaccines for the mega camp being planned for Sunday next. Officials said the state received over 19 lakh doses recently and is to get more vaccines in the coming days. “We have planned to hold 10,000 special vaccination camps in Tamil Nadu on September 12 to administer 20 lakh vaccine doses in a day. Though the vaccination drive will be held across the state, special focus will be on nine districts bordering Kerala,” Subramanian said. Coimbatore, Kanyakumari, Tenkasi, Theni, Tiruppur, and Nilgiris, are some of the districts that share borders with Kerala. Subramanian said he has planned to visit some of these districts on September 12 to oversee the special vaccination drive. The state wants to focus on border districts as Kerala continues to report a huge number of fresh infections every day. At last count on September 5, Tamil Nadu had administered 3.53 crore doses of which 22,08,956 are from the private sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-targets-20-lakh-covid-jabs-on-september-12-1027709.html
06-09-2021||South||Weddings under SMA can be registered without bride, groom's physical presence: Kerala HC||Weddings under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) can be registered without insisting upon the physical presence of the parties, the Kerala High Court said on Monday. However, the challenge was identification of both the parties by the marriage officer and one of the options for that use of technology like facial recognition software or biometrics, the high court said. Noting that the court does not have the expertise to work out the modalities on use of technology for such matters, a bench of Justices A Muhamed Mustaque and Kauser Edappagath impleaded the Department of Information Technology and the Ministry of External Affairs as parties in the matter. The bench directed the central government's lawyer to seek instructions on the government policies on facial recognition and other data tools for the identification of the parties. The court was hearing a batch of pleas referred to a larger bench by a single judge to deal with the issue of whether a wedding under SMA can be solemnised/registered online via video conference without insisting on the physical presence of the bride and groom. The single judge, Justice P B Suresh Kumar, was of the view that parties to an intended marriage can certainly be permitted to solemnise the marriage by exchange of words through video conference. He had expressed the view while hearing the batch of petitions which had contended that personal physical presence of the bride and groom was not necessary for solemnisation of nuptials under the SMA. Justice Kumar had referred the matter to a larger bench as two other judges of the Kerala High Court had ruled that solemnisation of marriages under SMA via videoconference would dilute the provisions of the Act and that physical presence of both parties was mandatory. Appearing to agree with the view of Justice Kumar and the contentions of the petitioners, the bench on Monday said, "We have no hesitation to hold that the marriage under the SMA can be registered without insisting for physical presence of the parties before the Marriage Officer. "However, the Marriage Officer must be in a position to identify the parties. But the manner in which such identification can be made online is a concern for us." The bench said that two modes have been suggested during the hearing and one of them was to be physically present before the Consulate, if the couple was residing abroad, or before the authority recognised under the domestic law. "The second mode is developing a technology tool for identifying the parties with reference to facial recognition or with bio metrical credentials," it said. The state, meanwhile, was not in favour of online solemnisation of marriages under the Act. It had contended before the single judge that solemnisation of marriage was mandatory prior to registering it under the SMA and therefore, presence of the two sides and the witnesses is required before the Marriage Officer. It has further contended that another requirement for solemnisation of the marriage was that at least one of the two parties has to be a resident of the area within the territorial limits of the Marriage Officer for minimum 30 days prior to issuing the notice of the intended nuptials. Therefore, two persons living abroad cannot have their marriage solemnised online if they do not satisfy the residence requirement, it had argued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/weddings-under-sma-can-be-registered-without-bride-grooms-physical-presence-kerala-hc-1027723.html
06-09-2021||South||BJP labels Andhra Pradesh government's curbs on Ganesh Puja as anti-Hindu||The BJP has intensified its protests demanding the Andhra Pradesh government to allow the public to celebrate Ganesh Puja by adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. On Monday, party cadres held rallies and attempted to lay siege to the collectorates and other administrative centres in various districts. State BJP unit chief Somu Veerraju has accused CM Jagan Mohan Reddy's administration of turning a blind eye to the mass gatherings during the Bakra Eid, Muharram and to the Sunday masses in the churches but “is imposing restrictions on Hindu festivities.” The BJP leaders have alleged that organizers of Ganesh festivities in places like Anantapuram, Kurnool, Vijayawada, Adoni are being threatened with arrests at the behest of the YSRCP government. “With what authority is the state DGP asking the Hindus to celebrate Vinayaka Chavithi only at homes,” Somu asked during a sit-in protest in Kurnool on Sunday while reiterating that the Reddy government “is hurting the Hindu sentiments.”  Somu and other leaders were detained when they attempted to march to the Collector's bungalow. During a review on the Covid-19 situation in the state last week, the Chief Minister has directed the authorities to ensure all the precautionary measures are followed as the health department has suggested limiting Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations to homes rather than in public places like setting up of pandals. It was also recommended to avoid the Ganesh idol immersion processions carried out as the culmination of the annual 10-day puja. However, the BJP leaders are questioning “the duality when it comes to Hindu festivals.” On Sunday, state general secretary Vishnu Vardhan Reddy shared a video on Twitter of “a crowded gathering in an illicitly built church in Chilukaluripeta.” “Does the coronavirus spread only when Hindus celebrate Vinayaka Chavithi? Do rules, restrictions apply only for the Hindus under the YSRCP rule,” Vishnu Vardhan questioned. Meanwhile, the main opposition TDP too has questioned the curbs on Ganesh Puja celebrations. “Covid-19 curbs did not come in the way of statewide YSR death anniversary events. And when the festivities are being allowed in neighbouring Telangana, why the restrictions here?” TDP leaders pointed. A TDP meet chaired by party chief Chandrababu Naidu on Monday has resolved to conduct Ganesh Puja on 10 September in all the 175 assembly constituencies, duly following Covid-19 rules. Various Hindu bodies and organizers of Ganesh pandals have also asked the Jagan government to reconsider its decision and allow the festivities ensuring Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-labels-andhra-pradesh-governments-curbs-on-ganesh-puja-as-anti-hindu-1027735.html
06-09-2021||State||Lack of vacant govt land hinders allotment of sites for poor||The distribution of sites for the poor has become a dream due to the lack of vacant government land, in Puttur. The poor beneficiaries, who had applied for sites under various schemes 10 years ago, are still waiting for the same. The poor have been submitting applications seeking sites under Ashraya scheme. Over 3,000 applications have been received so far. Of which 1,642 have been finalised. It is estimated that about 50 acres will be required to allot sites for the eligible. Puttur CMC has written a letter to the revenue department to identify the land. During a recent review meeting of DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, officials said that though 3.54 acres was identified on survey number 232/3 AP1 in Balnadu GP, the land is not suitable for construction of houses. The said land was in a sloppy area. The Puttur MLA has proposed five acres in Sampya. The CMC has written to the tahsildar on earmarking the land. Further, 1.82 acres of land at Kemminje has beenearmarked for SC/ST beneficiaries in Puttur CMC limits. About 40 sites can be developed in it, sources in CMC said. Sources said that the CMC had written to the revenue department twice to mark the border of the government land in Chikkamudnoor. The sites in Chikkamudnoor have already been encroached upon and 10 houses have come up under 94 CC. Tahsildar and Puttur CMC Commissioner had jointly conducted an inspection of 10 acres of land in Aryapu. The Tahsildar in turn had directed land surveyor to prepare the map of the said land. A joint survey was conducted on five acres of land at Ananda Sagara in Puttur Kasaba. About 0.16 acre of DC Manna land has been identified at Chikkamudnoor. The Tahsildar has directed to prepare the map of the land and earmark the land. Puttur CMC President Jeevandhan Jain said that the CMC has asked the revenue department to earmark 50 acres of land for finalising the sites for the poor applicants. Priority will be given for women while allotting sites. Already, we have discussed on it with MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor in Ashraya committee meeting, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lack-of-vacant-govt-land-hinders-allotment-of-sites-for-poor-1027458.html
06-09-2021||State||Target to vaccinate entire adult population by November: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar||The Karnataka government is working with a target to fully vaccinate the entire adult population against Covid-19 by the end of November, Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Monday. In a video conference with Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and Zilla Panchayat CEOs of 23 districts, which are lagging behind in vaccination coverage, the minister said: "These 23 district administrations have been given a target to speed up coverage and complete the first dose for all by the end of this month. Target has been set to complete both the doses for all by November," Sudhakar said. Progress and achievement on testing, setting up of oxygen plants and other civil works were also discussed at the meeting, he added. Noting that even last year the state government had allowed the celebration of the Ganesha festival, despite a higher number of Covid cases, the Minister said, "this year we have a positivity rate of 0.7 per cent and guidelines have been issued to ensure precautionary measures especially in a public celebration." "We will review the situation district-wise and issue separate guidelines wherever the positivity is more than 2 per cent," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. The government on Sunday had issued guidelines for the Ganesha festival celebrations limiting it to five days and prohibiting cultural programmes and processions. Pointing out that a 12-year old boy who was detected with Nipah virus infection in Kerala has succumbed to it, Sudhakar said, "We have taken strict measures to ensure it doesn't spread here. We also need to be vigilant to prevent a third wave of Covid."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/target-to-vaccinate-entire-adult-population-by-november-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-1027725.html
06-09-2021||State||Keep strict vigil on illegal immigrants, overstaying foreigners: Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra to police||The government has directed the police to maintain a strict vigil on illegal immigrants and overstaying foreign nationals, and action should be taken immediately against those involved in anti-social and anti-national activities, Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said on Monday. "A direction has been issued to the police to maintain a separate register on such foreign nationals, in their respective police stations, and maintain a strict vigil on their activities," Jnanendra said. The Minister attended the one-day state-level senior Police Officers Conference here. Pointing out the need to review the names which are listed in the "rowdy-sheet", he said if there are names of innocents and activists who participated in the pro-Kannada, pro-farmers and pro-people agitations, they should be removed as per rules. "The process of reviewing names will be done by the District Police Chief concerned and it will be done within the framework of the existing rules and regulations...our only intention behind the decision is to ensure that no innocent person included in the list suffers," he added. Further, stating that the conviction rate against the criminals is not satisfactory, he said directions had been issued to take all necessary measures to improve the situation in this regard. "The criminal elements can be put under check if the conviction rate goes up," he was quoted as saying by his office in a press release. Noting that the State government has decided to strengthen the Coastal Protection Force, Jnanendra said officials have been asked to coordinate with the Naval authorities to ensure foolproof coastal security cover against anti-national elements trying to sneak in. Police have been instructed to ensure that the illegal killing and transportation of cattles should be prevented, and culprits should be brought to book, he said. Also, directions have been given to take stern action against the illegal casinos and other gambling dens. The Minister said the government has also decided to submit a proposal to set up a unit of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) either in Bengaluru or in Mangaluru to check anti-national elements. Referring to the 'beat police' system, he said it would also be reviewed and strengthened, and the e-beat system being practised in the urban areas should be further tightened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/keep-strict-vigil-on-illegal-immigrants-overstaying-foreigners-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-to-police-1027756.html
06-09-2021||State||HC nod for appointing pollution control board chief||The High Court on Monday permitted the state government to proceed with the appointment of chairperson for Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma clarified that the appointment is subject to the final outcome of the PILs, challenging clauses in the guidelines framed by the state government as qualifications for the post. During the hearing, the state government submitted the name of the person selected for the post of chairperson in a sealed cover. The selection was conducted as per the public notice, inviting applications, in July 2020. The bench observed that KSPCB is functioning without the chairperson since June 2020. The court perused the selection of the state government and permitted it to go ahead with the appointment. A batch of PILs had initially challenged the appointments made in absence of qualification guidelines to appoint the chairperson of the KSPCB. After the guidelines were formed, contentions were raised in respect to the qualification, both educational as well as experience in administering an institution. The court observed that a person selected for the post of chairperson should have either an experience in the areas relating to environmental protection or should have administered any government department, organisation, institute dealing with environmental issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-nod-for-appointing-pollution-control-board-chief-1027761.html
06-09-2021||State||HC directs govt to shift power lines passing over schools||The High Court on Monday directed the state government and the electricity distribution/transmission companies to shift all power lines passing over school premises in the state. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma passed this order in view of electrocution of students while hoisting National Flag. The suo motu PIL was registered in 2019 after five students were electrocuted while trying to remove the iron pole to tie the national flag on a hostel premises in Koppal. This year, a 16-year old boy Chandan was electrocuted at a government school at Karikere village in Tumakuru district on August 15. Two other boys sustained injuries in the incident. During the hearing, a report of the deputy commissioner of Tumakuru was placed before the court. The report stated the children were self-motivated to erect the flag post. The court said that the deputy commissioner, in connivance with the school authorities was trying to give a different colour to the incident.  “The minor children can by no stretch of imagination try to do something on their own. It has to be on the instruction of the teachers. In respect of the high-tension wire, it has been stated that the electric line has been slightly shifted. No high tension wire can pass through the school,” the bench said.   The bench ordered issuance of notice to Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation (KPTCL) and distribution licensees in the state as some of the shifting of lines has to be done by distribution companies also.  Meanwhile, the bench said that the compensation of Rs one lakh paid to the family of the victim in Tumakuru incident was meagre. The court directed the government to follow the benchmark of Koppal case wherein Rs 10 lakh compensation was paid to family members of each of the five victims. The court also directed the authorities to grant compensation to the injured students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-directs-govt-to-shift-power-lines-passing-over-schools-1027762.html
06-09-2021||State||Draft Bill proposes 3-year jail for online gambling||The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, which seeks to prohibit online gambling, proposes a prison term of up to three years and a fine as high as Rs 3 lakh for violators.  The draft Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill likely to be tabled in the upcoming legislature session. The draft Bill was cleared by the Cabinet on Saturday last.  The Bill also defines several key terms, which will be applicable to games that depend on chance or skill of the player. Those aiding and abetting online gambling could face a penalty of up to Rs 10,000 and a jail term of up to six months. The draft Bill also doubles the penalty and jail term for such offences, mandated under Karnataka Police Act for online gaming offences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/draft-bill-proposes-3-year-jail-for-online-gambling-1027770.html
06-09-2021||State||Ahead of session, JD(S) delegation meets CM||A JD(S) delegation led by former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday. According to sources, releasing funds for constituencies represented by JD(S) legislators was discussed during the meeting. Apart from that, representatives of the regional party urged Bommai to ensure that irrigation and drinking water projects at Mahadayi and Mekedatu be taken up at the earliest. The JD(S) delegation expressed its reservation over the Yettinahole project. According to the initial plan, Byragondlu reservoir had 5.78 tmcft storage capacity, which is now reduced to 2 tmcft. This will have repercussions for drinking water supply to Bengaluru Rural, Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts, the JD(S) leaders said. During the meeting, the CM is learnt to have sought the co-operation of JD(S) legislators during the upcoming Assembly session scheduled from September 13. Among those present in the meeting included JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy, former minister Venkatrao Nadagouda among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ahead-of-session-jds-delegation-meets-cm-1027771.html
06-09-2021||State||Karnataka identifies 117 children orphaned by Covid-19||Almost a month after the lethal second wave of Covid subsided, the state government has identified 117 children who lost both their parents due to the pandemic. These are children whose parents succumbed to Covid-19 since March 2020, when the pandemic broke out.  Bengaluru Urban and Chikkaballpur districts have the most number of orphans with 12 children each. In three districts - Bengaluru Rural, Udupi and Uttara Kannada - no orphans have been identified. Speaking to DH, Women & Child Development Minister Halappa Achar said that the process of identifying the orphans was ongoing. “Of the orphans identified during surveys, basic relief amount is transferred to almost all the children,” he said. According to the minister, benefits for 110 of the 117 children were transferred to their bank accounts under Chief Minister’s Bala Seva Scheme (CMBSS). “The remaining applications are under process. One or two cases are pending for approval in district-level committees. Anganwadi workers and officials from all gram panchayats are on a lookout for such children. The process will continue until all children orphaned by the pandemic are identified,” Achar said. Based on the reports submitted by local authorities, the district administration will ensure benefits for children announced under the Scheme by the government, Achar added. It can be recalled that the CMBSS was launched by former chief minister B S Yediyurappa in May this year with a slew of measures to help the orphaned children. Under the scheme, children below 10 years will receive financial assistance of Rs 3,500 per month. Apart from this, children who had passed Class 10 were offered laptops by the government. Women above 21 years were assured a one-time financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh under the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-identifies-117-children-orphaned-by-covid-19-1027772.html
06-09-2021||State||Karnataka CM launches scholarship for Brahmin students||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai launched a post-matriculation scholarship facility for economically-backward Brahmin students on Monday.  The Sandeepani scholarship, launched by the Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board (KSBDB), will be paid through direct benefit transfer (DBT) into the bank accounts of students. A total of 9,206 students will get Rs 13.77 crore.  On the occasion, Bommai flagged off the Annadata scheme to provide assistance to Brahmin farmers who want to start agri-based business and the Purushottama self-employment scheme of providing loans.  "Brahmins in the IT/BT sector are financially powerful. But, there are many who are economically-backward,” Bommai said, assuring support to the KSBDB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-launches-scholarship-for-brahmin-students-1027774.html
06-09-2021||State||CM Bommai to meet Union ministers in Delhi today||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to visit New Delhi on Tuesday in what will be his fourth visit to the national capital since he assumed office a little over a month ago. According to the chief minister’s office, Bommai is slated to meet union ministers. Sources said Bommai might also try to meet BJP national president JP Nadda to discuss the party’s performance in ULB polls, disgruntlement of Tourism Minister Anand Singh who wants a ‘better’ portfolio and filling up four vacant Cabinet berths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-bommai-to-meet-union-ministers-in-delhi-today-1027775.html
06-09-2021||State||The Paralympic dream that started at Mussoorie IAS academy||Her joy and excitement knew no bounds when her son Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj clinched a historic silver at Tokyo Paralympics. Ranked number 2 in the world, Suhas went fighting against top seed Lucas Mazur of France in the men’s singles SL4 class final on Sunday. Jayashree C S, mother of Suhas, shared her joy with DH from Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida, UP), where her son is a district magistrate. A beaming Jayashree said that her son might have failed in the gold medal match, but he won the hearts of millions with his never-say-die attitude. “I am confident that his feat would inspire many  with physical disabilities. He might have lost the final match but conquered the hearts of millions through his fighting spirit. This is more important than the gold medal,” she said. Taking a trip down memory lane, Jayashree said, “Suhas was good in academics and sports as well. Though he has a birth deformity in his left ankle, but it never stopped him from scaling heights in his chosen fields. He used to play cricket very well with able bodies during his childhood days in Shivamogga.” However, Suhas took to badminton seriously after Gourav Khanna, a coach, spotted his talent during his IAS training days in Mussoorie in Uttarakhand and asked him to practice everyday. That’s when he made up his mind to win a Paralympic medal. He chased his Paralympic dream putting in extra effort. His hard work, perseverance, dedication and a bit of luck earned him the Paralympic glory, a proud Jayashree told DH. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with Suhas made me very proud. So, I have no regrets that he did not win the gold, but his performance in the final was worth its weight in gold.”  A right-hand batsman and a medium pacer, Suhas was good at cricket during his school days. Yogish, Suhas’ childhood friend in Shivamogga, vouches for it. “We never felt that he has physical disability. He was good in studies and sports, cricket in particular. We used to fondly call him Prasadi. We are glad that he won silver medal in Paralympics,” Yogish said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-paralympic-dream-that-started-at-mussoorie-ias-academy-1027776.html
06-09-2021||State||No official circular for Nipah vigil yet in border districts||At a time when Tamil Nadu has already asked its districts bordering Kerala for increased surveillance for Nipah and Zika infections, the Karnataka health department is yet to issue any circular to its districts bordering Kerala. The joint director of the communicable diseases wing in the health department Dr Bhanumurthy told DH they’re awaiting guidelines from the Centre. “We have verbally told district health officers of border districts to be vigilant,” he said. But the initial generalistic symptoms of Nipah: fever, headaches, muscle pain, vomiting and sore throat, has made it difficult to identify suspect cases. Unless it is followed by atypical acute respiratory distress or neurological signs like seizures, encephalitis and others, Nipah is not suspected. District surveillance officer of Dakshina Kannada (which is already seeing a surge in Covid cases because of its proximity to the Kerala border) Dr Jagadeesha said there are ‘no active interventions at this hour’ (for Nipah) and that they’re ‘just alert and watchful’.  “IEC (information, education, and communication) activities are in place, like asking people to avoid areas where bats live and to avoid contact with a sick bat or pig. We’re asking people to avoid consumption of raw dal, palm sap and contaminated fruits,” he said. Information has been relayed to private hospitals which cater mostly to Kerala patients to take proper clinical history of patients, the places they’ve visited, and if they have Nipah-related symptoms.  Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar district surveillance officers and health officers did not respond to queries from DH on their respective surveillance activities, if any.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-official-circular-for-nipah-vigil-yet-in-border-districts-1027777.html
06-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka schools reopen for students of classes 6 to 8||Schools reopened for students of classes 6 to 8 in Karnataka on Monday, by following strict Covid-19 protocols and standard operating procedures (SOP). As per government directions, schools have been reopened in taluks where Covid-19 positivity rate is below 2 per cent. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said that the government decided to reopen schools after approval from the state's technical advisory committee on Covid-19. "The department had an intention of reopening schools for some time now and teachers were also ready for it, but keeping in mind the health of the students along with education and concerns of the parents, we discussed with the technical advisory committee and after taking the opinion of expert paediatricians, we are reopening schools for classes 6,7 and 8," he told reporters. The Minister said, many parents and students had urged him during his recent visits to several parts of the state to reopen schools. He said the entire government machinery and district administrations have been working together with the department for the safe conduct of classes. It is mandatory for students to submit a consent letter from their parents to attend offline classes and these classes are not compulsory, as there is a provision of online classes also. The government has said that offline classes for students of class 6-8 will be held on alternate days, each with 50 per cent attendance, it will be five days a week, and the remaining two days (weekend) will be used for sanitizing and other Covid control measures. In response to a question, the Minister said, looking at how offline classes will go on, the government after consulting the technical advisory committee will take a decision on reopening schools for class 1 to 5, but did not specify any timeline. The government had already allowed the reopening of schools for students from classes 9 to 12 since August 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-schools-reopen-for-students-of-classes-6-to-8-1027532.html
06-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No dispute with Basavaraj Bommai's leadership for Karnataka Assembly polls: K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday said he has no dispute with Union Home Minister Amit Shah's recent statement that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will lead the BJP in state in the next Assembly elections. Eshwarappa, who was here to meet Union Ministers, told reporters that though he had earlier said the party would face the next Assembly elections with collective leadership, he would accept what Shah had said. “Since the BJP has failed to reach a majority mark in the past Assembly polls in Karnataka, I have suggested that the party should go to the next Assembly polls in the collective leadership. The collective leadership means, Bommai, Former Chief Ministers B S Yediyurappa, Jagadish Shettar and state president Nalin Kumar Kateel jointly make strategy instead of any particular person. This was the popular opinion among party workers,” the Minister said. “Since Amit Shah openly said that Bommai will lead the party in the next Assembly elections, I have no issue. I will abide by the party's central leadership decision,” he said. Shah's recent statement has surprised many state leaders, and even Yediyurappa and Shettar huddled to discuss its implications. The state will face the next Assembly elections in early 2023. Eshwarappa also said city corporations elections have proved that Bommai's and Kateel's leadership have been accepted by the people of the state. The credit of party candidates winning in corporation elections goes to these two leaders, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-dispute-with-basavaraj-bommais-leadership-for-karnataka-assembly-polls-k-s-eshwarappa-1027687.html
06-09-2021||West||ED issues lookout notice against NCP leader Anil Deshmukh||Evading investigations for months in a case involving bribery and misuse of office, Maharashtra’s former home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh now faces a lookout notice. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a lookout notice in connection with alleged charges of money laundering. The ED had issued five summons asking Deshmukh to join investigations, however, he had failed to appear and so far has not been able to secure any relief from the Bombay High Court or Supreme Court. Deshmukh (72), a veteran politician, considered close to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, is facing investigations by the ED as well as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The senior politician from Vidarbha had to resign from the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government after former Mumbai Police Commissioner and current commandant general of Home Guards Param Bir Singh alleged that the minister has fixed a Rs 100-crore per month collection target for now dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. It may be mentioned that Vaze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the twin cases of planting of a gelatin sticks-laden Mahindra Scorpio near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani, and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran slapping and faces murder and terror charges. Deshmukh, his wife Aarti Deshmukh and their son Hrishikesh Deshmukh had so far not appeared before ED. Deshmukh, however, had been grilled by the CBI. The ED had arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde and they have been chargesheeted by the ED, which has also attached properties to the tune of Rs 4.20 crore which are linked to Deshmukh and his family. Last week, the CBI arrested one of its own officers -- Sub-Inspector Abhishek Tiwari -- and Deshmukh’s lawyer Anand Daga in connection with the alleged leak of confidential documents related to the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-issues-lookout-notice-against-ncp-leader-anil-deshmukh-1027481.html
06-09-2021||West||BMC deploys drones to disinfect mosquito-breeding spots||As there is a spurt of malaria and dengue cases amid the Covid-19 pandemic in Mumbai, the civic body has started using drones to keep a check on the vector-borne diseases. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is using drones for checking on water accumulation and spraying disinfectants. In fact, during the doctors' conclave on Sunday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has expressed concern over malaria and dengue cases and asked the health machinery to keep them in check and launch awareness programmes. On Monday, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar inspected drone operations at the Dhobi Ghat off the Mahalaxmi station in Mumbai. Pednekar was accompanied by Assistant Municipal Commissioner Sharad Ughade, who heads the BMC’s G-South Ward. "The mayor was given a detailed presentation on the drone operations and how effective it is to control malaria," BMC officials said, adding that the drone operations would continue in areas where malaria and dengue cases are reported. So far, this year, in Mumbai, over 3,000 malaria cases and 200 plus dengue cases have been reported, however, fortunately, there is no record of any deaths.Spread over 10 sq km and covering the Worli, Mahalaxmi, Lower Parel and NM Joshi Marg area, the ward has high incidents of vector-borne diseases, based on data compiled over the years. Last week, state Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted: “Last year and this year, we’ve had anti larval spray access to old, dilapidated, inaccessible structures thanks to the drones we’ve been using through. Traditionally, G-South Ward has had higher numbers of dengue/ malaria, we’re working to control it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-deploys-drones-to-disinfect-mosquito-breeding-spots-1027535.html
06-09-2021||West||IAF plane with Rajnath, Gadkari to conduct mock emergency landing on highway in Rajasthan's Barmer||A plane of the Indian Air Force (IAF), carrying Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari, will conduct a mock emergency landing on a national highway in Rajasthan's Barmer this week, sources said on Monday. The two ministers will be inaugurating the 3.5 km-long strip on the national highway in Barmer this week as it is ready to handle emergency landings of the IAF's fighter jets and other aircraft, sources mentioned. It is India's first national highway to be used for emergency landing of IAF aircraft, they added. In October 2017, fighter jets and transport planes of the IAF had conducted mock landings on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway to show that such highways can be used by the IAF planes for landing in case of an emergency. The Lucknow-Agra Expressway comes under the Uttar Pradesh government. According to the sources, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) worked in coordination with IAF officials to develop the airstrip on the national highway in Barmer. They said at least 12 national highways across the country -- apart from the aforementioned one in Barmer -- are being readied so that they can be used as airstrips by the IAF planes in an emergency situation. The parts of the 12 national highways that will be used as airstrips are being identified and prepared, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iaf-plane-with-rajnath-gadkari-to-conduct-mock-emergency-landing-on-highway-in-rajasthans-barmer-1027551.html
06-09-2021||West||Security beefed up outside Javed Akhtar's house after BJP demands apology over his RSS-Taliban remark||Security was beefed up outside the residence of writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar in Mumbai on Monday after a Maharashtra BJP MLA demanded an apology from him over his remark where he allegedly compared the RSS with the Taliban, a police official said. Adequate police bandobast was placed outside Akhtar's residence near the ISKCON temple in Juhu area, the official said, adding that security personnel, including women constables, were deployed outside the lyricist's home. Akhtar recently told a news channel that right wing all over the world has an uncanny similarity. "The Taliban want an Islamic country. These people want to make a Hindu Rashtra," the lyricist said without naming the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). BJP MLA and state party spokesperson Ram Kadam condemned Akhtar's remark. The legislator from Mumbai said no film involving Akhtar will be allowed to be screened in the country until he apologises to Sangh functionaries over his comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-beefed-up-outside-javed-akhtars-house-after-bjp-demands-apology-over-his-rss-taliban-remark-1027553.html
06-09-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Thackeray asks politicians to immediately stop 'programmes that attract crowds'||Amid growing resentment among people and demand by political parties to open up restrictions further, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray made a fervent appeal to avoid crowding in order to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic’s third wave. Alerting people vis-a-vis new variants of the viral infection and that the third wave is “round the corner”, Thackeray said if we do not take things seriously we may have to pay a heavy price. “I appeal to all - let us avoid public gatherings, let’s avoid political meetings and rallies, let’s not promote assembly of people,” the chief minister said after a review meeting of the Disaster Management Department. “Let us prioritise the lives and health of our citizens. The situation can go out of hand in view of the spike in daily cases. Let us prevent the third wave. Let us take all precautions at our end,” said Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president. Ahead of the festive season kickstarting with the Ganesh festival, he said: “Who would like to impose restrictions on festivals and religious programmes? But what is important here is people’s lives.” Making special requests to political parties, he said: “I appeal to all those in government and those in opposition, please take more precautions now. People’s lives are more important. Besides, the onus is on us to ensure that things do not go out of control.” Thackeray further said that Kerala is seeing a spike of 30,000 cases daily. “This is a danger signal and if we don't take it seriously, Maharashtra will have to pay a heavy price," he said, indicating that the third wave is round the corner. “In United States, the third wave has disrupted normal life. China too seems to be in trouble," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-thackeray-asks-politicians-to-immediately-stop-programmes-that-attract-crowds-1027594.html
06-09-2021||West||ED to summon more people in PMLA case against Anil Deshmukh as it widens probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has widened its probe into the alleged money laundering and kickbacks case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and others as it plans to soon question a number of people linked to him, officials said on Monday. The criminal investigation being carried out by the ED pertains to the alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. The agency on Monday questioned a deputy regional transport officer in the case here even as summonses to several other individuals from various government departments and in the personal circle of the NCP leader are expected to be issued. Maharashtra transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab was also asked to join the probe and was issued summons last month by the ED in this case but he skipped appearance citing his official commitments. Parab, 56, is also a minister of parliamentary affairs in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and he is understood to have sought a fortnight to depose before the agency. Official sources said the agency is also looking at all legal options it can exercise to get 71-year-old Deshmukh to join the investigation after he got no relief against the ED action from the Supreme Court. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader recently moved the Bombay High Court seeking quashing of the summons issued against him by the ED. Deshmukh has refused to comply with at least five ED summonses for questioning in the case and has instead suggested the agency to interact with him over an online link saying he was a "law abiding citizen." The agency also has notified a lookout circular against him soon after filing an FIR in this case in April, the sources added. The circular is notified to all the land, sea and airports so that authorities deployed there are legally empowered to stop the person named on the dossier and they simultaneously inform the investigating agency about the detainee. Officials said the ED is also looking at more assets of Deshmukh, his family and others that can be attached in this case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Assets worth Rs 4.20 crore of the Deshmukh family were recently attached by the ED. The ED case against Deshmukh, who was earlier the home minister in the MVA government, and others came after the CBI booked him in the corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribe made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh had said that Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner. Two aides of Deshmukh, 51-year-old personal secretary (additional collector rank) Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45) were arrested in June. The agency had claimed that while serving as the state home minister, Deshmukh had allegedly misused his position and collected through suspended police officer Sachin Waze Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was then allegedly laundered by the accused to a Nagpur-based educational trust called Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, controlled by Deshmukh's family members.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-to-summon-more-people-in-pmla-case-against-anil-deshmukh-as-it-widens-probe-1027713.html
06-09-2021||West||In just 6 days of Sept, Mumbai logs over 28% of total Covid-19 cases recorded in Aug: BMC data||In the first six days of September, Mumbai has recorded over 28 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases that it had reported during the entire last month, as per civic data. The spike in the cases has left the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials worried ahead of the festive season beginning on September 10 with the 'Ganesh Chaturthi'. Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani on Monday said in view of the current situation, the BMC has decided to ramp up coronavirus testing, hire more clean-up marshals to impose fine on people spitting in public places, and keep jumbo Covid-19 centres ready. The data shows that Mumbai reported 2,570 Covid-19 infections in the last six days of September, which comes to 28.9 per cent of the total 9,147 cases recorded in the entire month of August. Besides, the city reported 21 fatalities in the last six days, while it had recorded 157 deaths due to Covid-19 during the entire last month. With the surge in daily cases, the active Covid-19 cases, which had dipped to 2,700, jumped to 3,771 on Monday. The number of buildings sealed due to the Covid-19 cases rose to 44 from 20 in August. In another worrying parameter, the average doubling rate of Covid-19 cases worsened to 1,290 days after improving to over 2,000 days. The average growth rate based on the past seven days increased to 0.06 per cent from 0.04 per cent, as per the data. "One month is important for us. Currently, people are going out for the ten-day Ganpati festival (beginning September 10). They will return after the immersion (of idols on Anant Chaturdashi). Hence, this period and the next 15 days will be very crucial for us," Kakani said. In normal times, pandals set up by various mandals in Mumbai and in other cities of Maharashtra used to attract thousands of devotees during the Ganesh festival. On Monday, Mumbai reported 379 new coronavirus cases and five fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 7,46,725 and the death toll to 15,998. The city is now left with 3,771 active Covid-19 cases, a BMC official said. The daily Covid-19 cases in Mumbai were recorded over 400 since September 1, but after a gap of five days, the city logged less than 400 infections on Monday. On Sunday, Mumbai had recorded 496 Covid-19 cases and two fatalities. Kakani said the civic body is increasing the number of Covid-19 tests as a precautionary measure and also speeding up the pace of vaccination. Apart from this, the BMC is also conducting meetings with general practitioners at ward levels and keeping jumbo Covid-19 facilities ready. "We are also appealing people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour," the civic official said, adding that they have already directed the ward offices to increase the number of clean-up marshals. He said the jumbo Covid-19 centres at Dahisar, Mulund and Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) are already opened and a couple of more centres will be opened later this month. Amid the rising graph of Covid-19 cases, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal last week held a meeting with top officials of the civic body and Mumbai police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-just-6-days-of-sept-mumbai-logs-over-28-of-total-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-aug-bmc-data-1027759.html
