07-09-2021||First Edit||Vacancies: Deliberate defiance of SC||The Supreme Court’s unhappiness over the failure of several states, including Karnataka, to fill up the vacancies in the state information commissions is not new. It has in the past pulled up both the Centre and states for their failure in this regard. The court made critical remarks and issued notices to them in 2018; in 2019, it directed them to fill the vacancies in time. It also told them to appoint eminent persons from various fields as commissioners, as they have tended to appoint only former bureaucrats in the commission. Later in 2019, the court again told them to make the appointments within a period of one month to six months and in a transparent manner. The court has now warned them of strict action over non-compliance with its directives. It has also sought status reports over the pendency of cases in the information commissions. There is a long trail of pending cases in the commissions both at the central and state levels. More than two lakh cases were pending a few months ago and the situation would have only become worse now. In Karnataka, only seven information commissioners are working, against a sanctioned capacity of 10. The commission also does not have enough support staff and infrastructure. There are vacancies in other states and at the Centre. Governments have been lackadaisical in appointing information commissioners. This reluctance to fill up the vacancies despite repeated directives from the top court can only be seen as part of a persistent negative attitude they have adopted towards citizens’ right to information (RTI). This attitude has been expressed in various ways. Ministers have complained that the RTI has constrained officers from taking decisions or that it is being misused. Information commissions have also been weakened by the changes in law, which reduced the commissioners’ tenure and made it possible to change their terms of service, in effect making them beholden to governments. It has also been observed that penalties imposed on government officials for violation of the RTI law are fewer now. There have also been attempts to make filing petitions for information more difficult by increasing the fee and making the process more cumbersome. Governments, politicians and officials have not been comfortable with the RTI law and have always tried to undermine it. The delay in the appointment of commissioners is part of that obstructive mindset. The RTI law has empowered citizens like few other legislations have. The court should ensure that the citizens are not robbed of their power and that the governments fill up the vacancies in the commissions at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/vacancies-deliberate-defiance-of-sc-1027820.html
07-09-2021||In Perspective||Afghanistan: The way forward for India||The internationally-recognised Afghan government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (IRA), led by President Ashraf Ghani, collapsed with the capitulation of the Afghan armed forces against a marauding Taliban militia. The armed forces and a government built over 20 years withered away ahead of the scheduled withdrawal of the US-led forces. The US military presence in Afghanistan, and its mission to democratise that country, have come to a chaotic and humiliating end. India had developed close ties with the IRA during the period of reconstruction. India provided strong support to the Afghan armed forces with training and weaponry. The close ties with the IRA had put India at odds with the Taliban. When the Biden administration reiterated earlier this year that the US resolved to completely withdraw from Afghanistan, the policy options before India narrowed. The Taliban, which refers to its regime as the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), is an Islamist religious-political movement and militant organisation. The Taliban are regarded by many governments around the world, including India, and by the United Nations as terrorists. It is one of two entities claiming to be the legitimate government of Afghanistan, alongside the internationally-recognised IRA. The US-led alliance invaded Afghanistan in 2001 to bring to justice the perpetrators of the 9/11 terror attacks in the US and to deny safe haven to terrorism in Afghanistan for all time to come. The US was able to displace the Taliban from power by early 2002 and brought forth a democratic process while the country remained plagued by an insurgency led by the Taliban. After pouring billions of dollars and holding multiple elections since 2001, Afghanistan is back to square one, with the potential of becoming a hotbed for global terror once again. India had backed the Northern Alliance that had politically and militarily opposed the Taliban regime from 1996-2001. After the overthrow of the Taliban regime, India invested approximately $3 billion in developmental assistance in Afghanistan -- with the Afghan parliament building and the Afghan-India Friendship Dam being the showpieces. India has been home to a significant Afghan student population, many under government sponsorship. As we wait for the Taliban-led government to be formally announced, India should look to engage with them constructively, despite the issues of international recognition. Several countries have been unequivocal in their stance of not recognising a Taliban-dominated government in Kabul. India, with due circumspection, should consider official recognition of a Taliban-dominated government in a gradual manner. India would be better off engaging with the Taliban regime instead of an obstinate opposition to the proscribed terror group. The novel approach of promoting a democratic process does not always help in securing India’s interests. After all, India has been engaging constructively with countries such as Myanmar and Iran. Moreover, with the Taliban in power, Pakistan is likely to strategically dominate the region and can potentially use Afghanistan as a base against India -- as it has done in the past. Thus, it is in India’s interest to ensure that it has a working relationship with the Taliban regime and also retains its soft power to counter Pakistan’s influence in the region. India has to balance its commitment to a multi-ethnic Afghanistan with the realpolitik of engaging the Taliban regime. The Taliban derives its support from ethnic Pashtuns and has been hostile to other ethnic and religious groups such as Shia Hazaras, Uzbeks, Tajiks, Hindus and Sikhs, amongst others. Given the Taliban’s extremist past, the Indian government will have to tread carefully while negotiating with the Taliban. The ties between the Taliban and terrorist organisations in South Asia have haunted India, as in December 1999 when an Indian commercial aircraft was hijacked and flown to Kandahar, Afghanistan. Peace in the Kashmir Valley remains a top priority for the Indian government.  Pakistan and its religious proxies in Afghanistan have strongly backed the Taliban movement since its inception in the early 1990s in the tribal areas of the Af-Pak border region. India’s outreach to the Taliban will have to carefully offset any anti-India behaviour that Pakistan might force on the Taliban. Further, China and Russia have displayed a keen inclination to officially court the Taliban after its capture of most of Afghanistan at breakneck speed. Russia and China are looking to secure their interests in Afghanistan, in addition to filling the vacuum created by the exit of US-led security forces. India, like Western democracies, has a tendency to push the democratic value system at the cost of its strategic interests. But now, it is in India’s interest to look beyond the nation-building and democracy-promotion paradigms and strive to re-establish a working relationship with the Taliban regime. (The writers are foreign policy researchers with experience spanning academia, government, think-tanks, and the corporate sector)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/afghanistan-the-way-forward-for-india-1027816.html
07-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four new GTTCs to come up in Karnataka||Four new Government Tool Room and Training centres will come up in Karnataka in addition to the already existing 28 centres, GTTC Zonal Head Lingaraj Sannamani said. If everything goes well as per the plan, the four new GTTC will commence classes from next academic year after availing permission from AICTE. The new GTTC will come up at Madikeri, Hunsur, Haveri and Hanagal, he told mediapersons. Four new GTTCs were set up at Koppala, Yadigiri, Chitradurga and Challakere during the academic year, he said and added that admissions for the GTTCs have been good in majority of the centres except in Mangaluru, Lingsugur, Chikkodi and Hospet. Hence, the last date has been extended by making it first-come-first-serve basis, he added. Owing to the increase in demand, Belagavi has three GTTCs -- at Belagavi, Chikkodi and Gokak. He said that the job opportunities for those undergoing training in the GTTC are very high. Many trainees were placed in reputed companies even before they completed their training. Career prospects are bright in machine tool, electrical and electronics, equipment, automation and information technology industries. The training programmes have been structured with a blend of theory and practicals with the aim of equipping the trainees to use the acquired knowledge for immediate application in the industry.   GTTC Principal Mruthyunjaya Gouda said that students who have passed SSLC or equivalent are eligible for Diploma in Tool and Die Making (DTDM) and Diploma in Precision Manufacturing (DPM). The number of seats in DTDM is 60 and in DPM in 30. During the internship for one year in the industries, the students get a monthly stipend of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 as well. The GTTC at Baikampady has recorded 100% placement all these years. Students who have passed PUC or ITI are eligible for the courses with lateral entry for the second year of the course. Pandemic effect To a query on whether Covid-19 pandemic has hit the admissions in GTTC, senior staff Kumaraswamy said that last year, only 37 students had opted for DTDM and 18 students for DPM. However, as the industries were functioning, the placement was not affected though, he added. A help desk has been set up in the campus of GTTC in Baikampady to help the students  apply for various scholarships. A dormitory-type accommodation is also provided for the needy students at the campus itself. “During the third year, the students are training to prepare the tools after taking orders from the industries of the Baikampady industrial area as well,” he added. For details on GTTC, students can contact 9880591219, 7975621917. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-new-gttcs-to-come-up-in-karnataka-1027960.html
07-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Devotees can now have darshan at Kukke, Dharmastala temples during weekdays||Devotees will be allowed to have darshan at Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple and Sri Kshetra Dharmastala between 7 am and 7 pm during weekdays, said DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. However, no darshan will be allowed during weekends. A circular issued by the DC said that devotees will not be allowed to have darshan on Saturdays and Sundays till further orders. Devotees will not be allowed to stay in guest houses of the temples during weekends and only temple staff will be allowed to perform pooja rituals, he said. Though the Covid-19 test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada has declined, restrictions are in place considering the possibilities of a third wave. Devotees should strictly follow covid -19 guidelines at temples during weekdays. Both the temples have been asked not to distribute Theertha prasada and anna prasada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devotees-can-now-have-darshan-at-kukke-dharmastala-temples-during-weekdays-1028123.html
07-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||PM Modi's people-friendly policies helped in BJP's maiden Belagavi win: Nadda||BJP President J P Nadda on Tuesday said the people-friendly policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi helped the party register its maiden victory in the Belagavi City Corporation polls. Nadda thanked the people for supporting BJP in the Karnataka local body polls. “Thank you to the people of Karnataka for trusting the BJP in the three city corporation elections of Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalburgi. Congratulations to (chief minister) B S Bommai Ji, (state president) Nalin Kateel Ji and all the karyakartas, who have ensured that BJP won bigger than it did last time,” he said. “Thanks to the people-friendly policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we have won Belagavi City Corporation for the first time. It's a matter of pride that BJP Karnataka has emerged as the single largest Party in Hubballi-Dharwad Corporation and performed exceedingly well in Kalaburgi Corporation,” Nadda said. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said the results of Karnataka Local Body Elections have reiterated the fact that Kannadigas have immense faith in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Ravi also congratulated former chief minister B S Yediyurappa for his hard work. Karnataka's ruling BJP won the Belagavi City Corporation with a clear majority in the local body elections but fell short of a magic number in Hubballi-Dharwad. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pm-modis-people-friendly-policies-helped-in-bjps-maiden-belagavi-win-nadda-1027901.html
07-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Nobody unhappy in BJP about Bommai leadership: Arun Singh||Nobody in BJP is unhappy with Union Home Minister Amit Shah's recent statement that next assembly polls in Karnataka will be faced under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, BJP National General Secretary (in charge Karnataka) Arun Singh said on Tuesday. “Why should anybody be unhappy with the Bommai leadership? He is the Chief Minister and under his leadership, 2023 Assembly polls will be fought,” Singh told reporters. "Amit Shah made it clear. Under Bommai leadership the party will face the elections. State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel will strengthen the party while Bommai will give good administration," he said. Under Bommai and Kateel leadership, the party was able to make a victory march in just concluded City Corporations elections. Similarly, in the 2023 assembly polls also, the BJP will form the government, he said. Earlier in the day, former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar met Singh in New Delhi. Terming that it was a courtesy call, Shettar said we discussed the Corporation elections results only and there was no political discussion. Shettar was in Delhi to attend Union Minister Pralhad Joshi's daughter's marriage reception.  Soon after Shah's statement in a public event in Davangere last week, Shettar met former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and discussed its political implications. Though Shettar and Yediyurappa did not air their view on Shah statement, it was learnt that both the leaders were in the view that the party should face the poll in collective leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nobody-unhappy-in-bjp-about-bommai-leadership-arun-singh-1028006.html
07-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mysuru police 'morally responsible' for gang rape: Congress Panel||A Congress fact-finding committee that studied the recent gang rape incident near Chamundi Hill in Mysuru has blamed the state government for its failure in deploying sufficient police personnel and vehicles for the maintenance of law-and-order.  In its 31-page report to the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), the committee headed by former MP VS Ugrappa said the police were “morally responsible” for the gang rape and demanded Home Minister Araga Jnanendra’s resignation. It also stated that frequent police transfers, lack of coordination between the police and other departments and the diversion of police personnel for VIP security worsened the law-and-order situation.  The committee also named district in-charge minister ST Somashekar, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and BJP MLAs for not coordinating among themselves.  During its interaction with citizens, the committee noted allegations against the police that they were more interested in resolving real-estate and civil matters instead of law-and-order.  Among its recommendations, the committee asked the government to ensure that the case would come up for hearing in the next five months and to strengthen the police force in a city that attracts tourists.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mysuru-police-morally-responsible-for-gang-rape-congress-panel-1028062.html
07-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka session: Price rise, rape incident on Congress's agenda||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) decided on Tuesday to fight the BJP government on price rise, law-and-order breakdown, the state’s financial condition, the National Education Policy (NEP) among other issues during the upcoming session of the legislature.  The 10-day Karnataka legislature session is scheduled to start on September 13.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, the CLP leader, chaired a meeting of the party’s legislators where they discussed their strategy to counter the Basavaraj Bommai government.  “Law-and-order has collapsed. Murders, ransoms, loot and rapes are being reported daily. The recent Mysuru gang-rape is proof of this,” Siddaramaiah told his MLAs.  He also claimed that corruption had exceeded limits. “It’s now well-known that this is a 20 per cent (commission) government,” he said. “The financial position has hit rock-bottom. CM Bommai has no money to implement schemes he announced after taking over,” he said.  Siddaramaiah brought up the implementation of NEP in the state without any discussion in Parliament or with chief ministers. “The Centre is riding over states. They did the same with the APMC amendments. The NEP should have been discussed in both houses of the state legislature,” he said.  Congress is also likely to bring up the government’s handling of Covid-19 and delay in providing flood relief during the session.  Let's fight BBMP polls, DKS tells BJP Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Tuesday dared the ruling BJP to declare elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). "The BJP is celebrating the recent outcome of the urban local body elections. If they are so confident, let them declare BBMP polls," he said at an event to distribute ration kits in Byatarayanapura and Vijaynagar. "Last time (2015), we won more seats than the BJP in BBMP. This time, too, we will win more. Why are they postponing the polls by citing petty excuses?" Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-session-price-rise-rape-incident-on-congresss-agenda-1028121.html
07-09-2021||Main Article||Education: Policy and politics||Mythological stories are almost always meant to suggest a truth metaphorically. The dictatorial king Hiranyakashipu introduced an ‘educational policy’ to be followed by every student—to consider him as worshipful God—and he did not even hesitate to attempt to kill his own son Prahlada for opposing it. Similarly, the Spartans used armed force to regulate education by destroying the liberal Athenians led by Pericles. It is a historical fact that rulers have always attempted to control education. In ancient India, the educational policy of the Aryans demanded that the natives—Dasyus—learn according to the norms laid down by the former. Though the ancient Indian thinkers regarded education as an instrument that puts an ignorant person on an intellectual, progressive and virtuous path (tamaso ma jyothirgamaya—from darkness, lead me to light); (aano bhadrah krtvo yantu vishwatah—Let good thoughts come from all directions), the period between 1000 BC and 400 BC witnessed a struggle between Buddhism and Brahminism. Supported by the kings and religion, while Brahminism tried to reinforce royally patronised hierarchies, the Buddhist Viharas opened their doors to all castes and became people-centric. During the Mughal period, only ‘Madrasas’ and ‘Maktabas’ were encouraged (Sitaram Yechury—1986). Making people aware and obedient to religion and the king was the major objective of all ancient societies. Pioneering work was done in the field of education in India during the regime of East India Company. Though motivated to spread Christianity via missionaries, the company had realised the political significance of religious neutrality and refrained from carrying the directions of the Charter of 1698 meant to spread the Gospel. Reluctantly, it had to accept the Charter Act of 1813, which established in 1833, the much-abused Macaulay Commission, which was guided by the principle of encouraging the learning and literature respected by the influential classes. But it was hobbled by the politics of language–the Orientalists demanding education through Sanskrit, Arabic and Persian; and the Anglicists, led by Raja Ram Mohan Roy, demanding English education to take the country towards an age of renaissance. Though Macaulay wanted a class of persons “Indian in blood and colour but English in opinions, morals and intellect”, he had also foreseen that Western education would bring Indians towards Indian nationalism based on Western ideas of government. Ultimately, it was Charles Wood’s report that set out major reforms in India by introducing the study of Indian literature and philosophy, along with Western science, culture and arts. Post-Independence, the Constitution aspired to provide equal access and equity in education. The University Education Commission was appointed under the chairmanship of S Radhakrishnan (1948) with the aim to decolonise our education system. Jawaharlal Nehru contributed immensely to make science, scientific temper and secularism the guidelines to educational policy. In 1968, the D S Kothari Commission report led to a national education policy, which was subsequently updated in 1979, 1986-1992, followed by the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (2000) and the Right to Education Act (2009). Now, there’s the much-publicised National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. Its proponents and cheer leaders consider it a panacea for all the ills of India’s previous education policies and to make India ‘Vishwaguru.’ Its critics brand the report and the slogans accompanying it as a ‘deceit in design’, another gimmick of a government full of gimmicks. The truth may be somewhere in-between. The need to overhaul the system is beyond doubt and the latest NEP’s pronouncements may be relevant, but the questions it brings up are more than the answers it gives. Education has always been a tool for imposing, status-quoist, non-dynamic, religion-scripted thoughts, for the rulers to become more powerful. History abounds with stories of rulers who misused religion and culture and even economic ideology to become ever more powerful. In the contemporary era, we see nationalism and slogans of development as guidelines for educational policies. There is an attempt to ‘teach’ but to not allow to ‘learn’. The design of the NEP 2020—5+3+4-years structure, etc.,— and catchy titles and acronyms like ‘All for All’, SAFAL, NISHTA, are superfluous in making an effective educational policy. What matters is the ‘content’ of it, not its ‘form’. History and literature become easy tools in the hands of powerful rulers. We see in our twin, Pakistan, how the children, through compulsory ‘Pakistan Studies’ are fed with fake and hate-filled understanding of mankind and how recently, many ‘Western’ educated youngsters in that country have been fighting against such brain-stunting impositions. The question is whether the present ruling Parivar intends to be ‘exclusivist’ or ‘inclusivist’ in dealing with history and literature. History cannot be reversed, even if we are made to be ignorant of it or it is rewritten. From the times of Valmiki and Vyasa to the contemporary times, great literature has always questioned and rebelled against the system, preventing it from remaining static and singular. If NEP 2020 can help bridge the gap between the strong and the weak, the haves and the have-nots, which has widened in the post-Covid, digital world, and encourages jignyasa (curiosity) and samvada (dialogue), with full autonomy to the academic world, we should cheer it on. One hopes that its votaries will remember the Taittireyopanishad, which shows how to bring about Vidyasandhi–the conjunction between the powerful education policymaker and the helpless knowledge-seeker. Modern secular education, to evolve to its present state, has had to face many challenges from religious bigotry and the will of the ruling classes. Let us hear former President S Radhakrishnan, in whose honour India celebrates Teachers’ Day, “The end-product of education should be a free, creative man who can battle against historical circumstances and adversities of nature.” (The writer is a well-known educationist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/education-policy-and-politics-1027817.html
07-09-2021||National||Internet services restored in 8 districts of Kashmir||The internet services on mobile devices were restored in eight of the 10 districts in the Kashmir valley on Monday, police said. Voice call and internet services, except the lease lines, were snapped late on Wednesday night, hours after death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani at his Hyderpora residence. The mobile internet services were restored in all districts of the valley Monday except Srinagar and Budgam districts around 7 pm, a police official said. The suspension of these services in Srinagar and Budgam districts will be reviewed on Tuesday, police said. While voice call and internet services on broadband and fibre platforms were restored on Friday night, the internet services on mobile devices remained suspended till Monday. "Mobile internet will be open shortly today by 7 pm in all districts except Srinagar & Budgam. Will review about Srinagar & Budgam tomorrow afternoon," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir zone, Vijay Kumar tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/internet-services-restored-in-8-districts-of-kashmir-1027818.html
07-09-2021||National||People rejected BJP's lies, propaganda: Ashok Gehlot after Rajasthan local body polls results||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed happiness over Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti election results, saying people have rejected the BJP's "lies and propaganda". He said there is no anti-incumbency in the state and these results show the Congress will form the government again in the state in 2023. He also alleged the BJP resorted to horse-trading to win Jaipur Zila Pramukh polls where Congress rebel Rama Devi won as a BJP candidate. Gehlot said the same people are involved in this horse trading who tried to topple the Rajasthan government last year. The results of three phases of voting were released on Saturday for 200 Zila Parishad members, 1564 Panchayat Samiti members in 78 Panchayat Samitis in six districts of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa and Sirohi. The elected representatives Monday elected Zila Pramukhs and Pradhans. Both the BJP and the Congress won three Zila Pramukhs each. "For the past one year, BJP's Union ministers and local leaders were continuously making statements against me. Six contenders for the post of chief minister of BJP made rhetoric against me and the state government without arguments and facts. I never answered them but today the public has shut their mouths by giving a befitting reply," Gehlot said in a statement. He said people have given a big mandate by blessing the Congress and have wiped out the BJP from the government of the villages. The anger of the farmers and the rural masses towards the BJP is clearly visible in these election results, he said. Even the central ministers campaigned, but the public did not fall for their lies and propaganda, he alleged. People have given a clear message to the BJP that they should stop dreaming to form a government in Rajasthan, he added. "The people of the country have made up their mind that now they will teach a lesson to the BJP in every coming election," Gehlot said. He said that out of 1,564 wards of Panchayat Samitis, the Congress won in 670 wards (42.77%), BJP won 551 wards (35.17%) and independents in 371 wards. Most of the independents are also Congress-backed candidates, he said. Out of 78 panchayat samitis, Congress candidates won on 50, the BJP just 25, he said, adding out of these also, 10 Pradhans won by a margin of just 1 vote. Similarly, in 200 Zila Parishad wards, the Congress won 99, the BJP 90 and others 11. The Congress got majority in four out of six Zila Parishads, and managed to form boards in three places. “If the Congress government had misused power like the previous BJP government, this would not have been possible,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-rejected-bjps-lies-propaganda-ashok-gehlot-after-rajasthan-local-body-polls-results-1027830.html
07-09-2021||National||Congress breaking ties with AIUDF will benefit both parties: Ajmal||All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) president Badruddin Ajmal on Monday said the Congress might have snapped ties with the party but he has no grudge against it as the decision will benefit both the parties during by-elections to be held in seats lying vacant due to resignation of MLAs. The AIUDF chief said his party will contest one or two seats in the by-polls, the dates of which are yet to be announced. "Whatever decision the big brother (Congress) takes, we agree to it. We have accepted that the alliance is not there anymore but they could have at least discussed the matter with us once before announcing their decision," Ajmal said. At a meeting of its core committee on August 30, the state Congress decided to break alliance with the AIUDF saying "continuous and mysterious praise of the BJP and the chief minister by AIUDF leadership and senior members have affected the public perception of the Congress party". The AIUDF was part of the Congress-led Grand Alliance that fought the BJP-headed in NDA in the assembly election held earlier this year in Assam. To a question, Ajmal said the party did not feel betrayed by the decision of the Congress. "Why should we feel betrayed? We had a political arrangement and then they decided to break the ties. Let them be happy and we are also happy," the MP from Dhubri said. Of the six vacant assembly constituencies where by-elections will be held, the AIUDF will contest in only one or two, he said without naming the seats. "The break-up of the alliance will benefit both the AIUDF and the Congress," he said without elaborating. Ajmal, however, criticised Raijor Dal president and independent MLA Akhil Gogoi, claiming that he is "frustrated and seeking cheap publicity". "Akhil is meeting Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to be part of an all-India alliance. His party has only one MLA and he wants to be a national leader. This is indeed a joke," the MP said. The 10-party Grand Alliance was formed ahead of this year's assembly elections in the state. Besides the Congress, AIUDF and Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF), it comprised the Jimochayan (Deori) People's Party (JDPP), Adivasi National Party (ANP), CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha, and the RJD. The alliance had won 50 seats in the assembly polls with Congress securing 29, AIUDF 16, BPF four and the CPI(M) one. On August 30, the Congress also decided to snap ties with the BPF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-breaking-ties-with-aiudf-will-benefit-both-parties-ajmal-1027840.html
07-09-2021||National||Hindus & Muslims in India have common ancestors: Bhagwat||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday said that Muslims in India do not need to have any fear as Hindus don’t hold enmity towards anyone. Hindus and Muslims in India have common ancestors and it is a well-known historical fact that Islam came to India along with invaders and this fact shouldn’t be concealed, he said. “Our beloved motherland and rich heritage form the basis of unity in this country. Hindus and Muslims in India have common ancestors,” Bhagwat said addressing a gathering which had attendance from the Muslim community. Bhagwat said that Indians have always been striving for the well-being of one and all. “For us, the word Hindu is synonymous to the rich heritage brought to us by our motherland, ancestors and the culture and in this context, every Indian is Hindu for us,” he said at a seminar titled “Nation First, Nation Supreme” organised by the Global Strategic Policy Foundation here in Mumbai. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Lt Gen. (Retd) Sayyad Ata Hussain, the Vice-Chancellor of Kashmir Central University were among other prominent speakers at the event. “In line with our culture which accepts all diverse opinions, we assure that there won’t be disrespect for other faiths, but, for that, we will have to ensure that we think of dominance of India and not that of a particular faith like Islam,” he said amid the emerging geopolitical situation. According to him, coming and being together is inevitable for prosperous India, for the progress of the motherland. In his speech, Bhagwat stressed that its a well known historical fact that Islam came to India along with invaders and it shouldn’t be concealed. “Saner voices from among the Muslim community should be raised against acts of insanity committed by sections of the community. They will have to firmly oppose the hardliners. This is a long drawn task that will have to be done with great effort and care,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindus-muslims-in-india-have-common-ancestors-bhagwat-1027872.html
07-09-2021||National||India sees 31,222 new Covid-19 infections, 290 fatalities||India logged 31,222 fresh cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to  3,30,58,843, while the active cases were recorded below four lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,41,042 with 290 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The active cases have declined to 3,92,864  comprising 1.19 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 12,010 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,26,056 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,31,89,348. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.05 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last eight days while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.56 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 74 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,22,24,937. With more than 1.13 crore vaccine doses administered  in the last 24 hours, the cumulative doses administered  in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 69.90 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 290  new fatalities include 135 from Kerala, and 37 from Maharashtra. A total of  4,41,042 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,811 from Maharashtra, 37,426 from Karnataka, 35,036 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,861 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,631 from Kerala and 18,515 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-31222-new-covid-19-infections-290-fatalities-1027876.html
07-09-2021||National||Kisan Mahapanchayat in Karnal: Security tightened as farmers plan to gherao mini-secretariat||Security arrangements have been beefed up in Karnal as farmers will be holding a mahapanchayat on Tuesday and also plan to gherao the mini-secretariat here over the August 28 lathicharge, officials said. There is heavy deployment of Haryana Police as well as central forces in Karnal, while security forces in adequate strength have also been deployed at the new Anaj Mandi here where farmers will meet and plan to move towards the mini-secretariat, they said. Officials said vehicular traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National highway was plying normally in the morning. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has appealed to the farmers to assemble at the Anaj Mandi in a peaceful manner. “We will be holding a mahapanchayat in new Anaj Mandi. "I appeal to all to reach the mandi in a peaceful manner. We have got message that police will allow us to gather at the mandi. Next course of action will be decided at the Mahapanchayat,” Chaduni said in a video message. According to reports, farmers have started reaching the new Anaj Mandi while BKU leader Rakesh Tikait is also reaching Karnal. Senior police officials have been put on duty at the new Anaj Mandi. There is also heavy barricading and deployment of security forces at the mini-secretariat here. Earlier, a day ahead of the proposed gherao of the mini-secretariat by the farmers, central forces were deployed, mobile internet services suspended and prohibitory orders banning gathering of people were imposed. The Haryana government, which had earlier ordered suspension of mobile internet services here from Monday 12:30 pm to Tuesday midnight, decided to suspend these services in four adjoining districts -- Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat districts with effect from 12 am to 11:59 pm on Tuesday. Forty companies of security personnel, including 10 companies of central armed police forces, have been deployed in Karnal district where local authorities have also imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, officials said. According to a Haryana Police advisory issued on Monday, National Highway No 44 (Ambala-Delhi) may see some traffic disruptions in the district on Tuesday. "Therefore, the general public using NH-44 are advised to avoid journey through Karnal town or otherwise use alternate routes to go to their destination on September 7," it said. A Haryana Police spokesperson had later said in case need arises, planned route diversions on the Delhi-Ambala National Highway will be brought into effect from 9 am Tuesday, but until then traffic will ply normally. With additional force from neighbouring districts in place, five SP-rank officers and 25 DSP-rank officers are overseeing security arrangements here, Karnal's Superintendent of Police, Ganga Ram Punia said. Drones fitted with cameras will be mobilised as part of security measures, he said. No one will be allowed to take law into one's hand, Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said earlier. Speaking to reporters in Chandigarh on Monday, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij appealed to farmers to ensure that the protest is peaceful and the common man is not affected. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer outfits protesting against the farm laws, had threatened to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat on Tuesday if its demands were not met. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department. Chaduni said a meeting with district administration officials was held here on Monday, but after failing to get any satisfactory response about their demands they decided to hold a big panchayat on Tuesday before proceeding to the mini-secretariat to gherao it. He had earlier sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge. He also demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of a farmer who died after allegedly sustaining injuries in the lathicharge. However, the administration here claimed that the farmer was not injured in the police action but had died due to a heart attack. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kisan-mahapanchayat-in-karnal-security-tightened-as-farmers-plan-to-gherao-mini-secretariat-1027907.html
07-09-2021||National||Shikshak Parv: PM Modi launches new framework to assess quality of schools||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a scientific framework to assess the quality of schools, saying it was time to give a new direction to transform the education sector. Addressing the inaugural conclave of 'Shikshak Parv', Modi said the School Quality Assessment and Assurance Framework (SQAAF) will seek to bridge the gap in inequality of education faced by students in different parts of the country. “Without a common framework, it was difficult to adopt standards for all aspects of education such as curriculum, pedagogy, assessment, infrastructure, inclusive practices and governance process,” he said. The Prime Minister said schools will be able to make their own assessments based on the framework and encouraged for working towards transformational change. “Its biggest feature is that the states will also have the flexibility to make changes in this framework according to their needs,” Modi said. Modi also launched the Indian Sign Language Dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning) and Talking Books (audio books for the visually impaired). “For the first time, the country is making sign language a part of the curriculum as a subject, so those innocent children who need it the most are not left behind,” he said. He also unveiled NISHTHA teachers' training programme for NIPUN Bharat and Vidyanjali portal for facilitating education volunteers, donors and CSR contributors for school development. The theme of the ‘Shikshak Parv-2021’ was “Quality and Sustainable Schools: Learnings from Schools in India”. He said the National Digital Educational Architecture (N-DEAR), inspired by the UPI interface in the banking sector, will act as a super connect between all academic activities. It will facilitate transfer from one school to another or admission in higher education, multiple entry-exit systems, academic credit bank or maintaining the records of the skills of the students. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shikshak-parv-pm-modi-launches-new-framework-to-assess-quality-of-schools-1027910.html
07-09-2021||National||Centre ties up with pharma companies to develop multi-strain Covid-19 vaccine: Report||The government has reportedly partnered with players of the pharmaceutical industry to introduce a 'cocktail' vaccine that could help combat future deadlier variants of the virus.  Multiple variants of the novel coronavirus have been found across the globe and with vaccination drives being conducted globally, the focus has shifted towards the efficacy of the vaccines against the emerging variants. Many countries have reported breakthrough cases of Covid-19 where the immunity induced by the vaccines was overpowered by a newer mutated variant of the coronavirus. While there were no details of the institutions or the pharma companies involved in the effort to create multi-strain vaccine, the government official said, “the product is not ready yet; it is under development. This will take some time. Once the product is ready, it will go for clinical trials.” There are two ways to achieve this vaccine. The first involves using a different variant from the original Wuhan one for developing the jab. Another one involves mixing of two variants and testing if the shot works, industry sources told the publication.  Ahemdabad-based Zydus Cadilla, whose DNA-plasmid Covid vaccine is approved in India, is working to produce a vaccine to combat the Delta variant. They are also, according to the publication, trying to roll out a multi-strain vaccine. If found that the Delta construct works better with multiple variants than of the Wuhan strain, then the vaccines can be tweaked with genetic sequence of the Delta variant in the future, said Sharvil Patel, managing director of Zydus Cadila. Patel said the second method would involve two variants on the lines a flu shot which can have multiple variants as part of the same vaccine. "However, all this research is still very preliminary, and I do not think that we have anything in sight anytime soon. To have something practically would take at least five to six more months,” he said. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-ties-up-with-pharma-companies-to-develop-multi-strain-covid-19-vaccine-report-1027927.html
07-09-2021||National||Jammu & Kashmir to establish mega IT hub to create jobs||The Jammu and Kashmir government is planning to establish a mega Information Technology (IT) hub to generate employment in the Union Territory. According to J&K’s IT policy 2020, the government shall endeavor to establish state-of-the-art infrastructure of international standard suiting to the requirements of the IT/ITES industry. “Mega IT hub will be developed through an initial effort of developing an IT township with a built-up space of 2 million square feet. A signature tower of 1 million square feet shall form the nucleus of the Mega IT hub,” the policy document reads. The policy offers incentives to woo investors, both within the UT and outside J&K. It envisages reimbursements up to 25 per cent of lease/rental charges on the space subject to a maximum limit of Rs 10 lakh per year for a period of five years. Besides subsidies, the J&K government is also highlighting good quality air and low crime rate in the UT to attract outside investors. As per the policy document, the government is offering incentives to IT companies to operate in three-shifts and to facilitate women to work during the night by providing transportation and security. A senior official said after the successful implementation of the J&K’s IT policy 2020, J&K may emerge as a new hub of IT in the country. “The UT has the best environment for successful IT ventures. Besides ample human resources, J&K has a good climate for the IT sector and we are hopeful that outside investors will flock to the UT soon,” he said. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-kashmir-to-establish-mega-it-hub-to-create-jobs-1027929.html
07-09-2021||National||FIFA chief says Brazil game abandonment was 'crazy'||FIFA is investigating the abandonment of the Brazil-Argentina World Cup qualifier with its president Gianni Infantino labelling the events "crazy", while Tottenham Hotspur are reportedly ready to take disciplinary action against their Argentine players. Brazilian health authorities intervened on Sunday after accusing four Argentine Premier League players of violating the country's Covid-19 quarantine rules. Aston Villa goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez and Spurs duo Cristian Romero and Giovani Lo Celso were on the Neo Quimica Arena pitch as part of Argentina's team when officials from Brazil's health regulator Anvisa walked onto the field and stopped the game around five minutes after kickoff. Aston Villa midfielder Emiliano Buendia had also travelled from the UK and was in the stands. Anvisa said Brazilian rules make clear that travellers who have been in the UK, South Africa or India during the previous 14 days are forbidden from entering the country unless they are Brazilian citizens or have permanent residency. It said Argentine players had made false statements about their previous whereabouts on immigration forms. Brazil's Federal Police said on Monday they had opened a formal inquiry into the actions of the Argentine players who, a spokesperson said, were deported. "We can confirm an investigation has begun into the possible crime of supplying false information," a spokesperson said. "Yesterday, the players were notified they must leave the country, which is the regular procedure, and statements from them were taken." The Argentina squad left Brazil together on Sunday night and flew back to Buenos Aires. FIFA said it had received reports from match officials. "The information will be analysed by the competent disciplinary bodies and a decision will be taken in due course," world soccer's governing body said in a statement. The Argentine Football Association said FIFA gave both national associations six days to outline their positions. Difficult Situation Infantino, in a video address to the European Club Association's general assembly, said the situation was a reminder of the difficulties faced during the pandemic. "We saw what happened with the game between Brazil and Argentina, two of South America's most glorious teams," Infantino said. "Some officials, police, security officials entered the pitch after a few minutes of the game to take away some players - it is crazy but we need to deal with these challenges, these issues which come on top of the Covid crisis." Alejandro Martinez, brother of Emiliano, said the players were due to fly from Argentina to Croatia, which is a UK green-list country, later on Monday to avoid the 10-day mandatory hotel quarantine on return to the UK from a red-list country. "They will travel to Croatia to do their quarantine there and then go to England," Alejandro told radio station La Oral Deportiva. "That was the condition set by Aston Villa." The Argentine Football Association (AFA) said Martinez and Buendia had been released from the national team, meaning they will not take part in Thursday's qualifier at home to Bolivia. The AFA later released Spurs pair Lo Celso and Romero, saying, “they are out of the game against Bolivia and can return to their club”. The website football.london said the Spurs pair could expect club fines on their return to England having made the trip without the permission of their club. Villa and Tottenham declined to comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fifa-chief-says-brazil-game-abandonment-was-crazy-1027932.html
07-09-2021||National||Now, a biopic on TMC's 'colourful' Madan Mitra||TMC MLA Madan Mitra, known for his quirky comments and colourful outfits, has given his nod for a biopic, which would trace his four-decade-long political career that started as a close aide of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Director Raja Chanda, who has several box office hits to his credit, would be making the film on Mitra. Mitra, who became a social media darling over the last couple of years for his eccentric and often controversial Facebook lives, said on Tuesday that the shooting for the film would begin in two months. "Madan Mitra's life is an open book. It has colours, it has light and shades. Have told director Raja Chanda that the script should not hide anything but rather bring out my entire personality -- warts and all," he said. Mitra, who was in jail for months in the Saradha chit fund scam case, said that episode would also be a part of the film. The prudent trade unionist said all aspects of his political life that began with student politics alongside Mamata Banerjee to the movement against land acquisition during the Left rule will be a part of the film. "Of course the script will refer to my biggest strength, my wife, but my other female friends will also not be left out," said Mitra, who courted controversy after partying with BJP's actress candidates on Holi during the West Bengal assembly elections. Mitra, the TMC's Kamarhati MLA, said director Chanda has been approaching him for the biopic for the past two years. Chanda told PTI, "I am happy. It is a challenge to portray a multidimensional personality like Madan Mitra on the big screen. I hope it will be liked by everyone." Chanda has directed Bengali hits such as Rangbaz and Challenge 2. Mitra, who appeared in a music video titled 'Oh! Lovely' ahead of the elections, said that actor Saswata Chatterjee will in all probability be playing him in the film.\||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-a-biopic-on-tmcs-colourful-madan-mitra-1027940.html
07-09-2021||National||78 Afghanistan evacuees released from ITBP quarantine centre||Seventy-eight people including Afghan nationals, who were evacuated from Afghanistan after Kabul fell to Taliban last month, were on Tuesday discharged from an ITBP facility here after they completed a 14-day quarantine rule in place to check the spread of coronavirus infection. The group includes 53 people from Afghanistan (34 men, nine women and 10 children), and 25 Indians (18 men, five women and 12 children), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. They were handed over medical certificates and a red rose as they left the facility. These people were brought to this Covid-19 quarantine facility located in south-west Delhi's Chhawla area on August 24 after they landed here onboard an evacuation flight operated by the Indian Air Force. The Afghan nationals have been sent to a designated location in south Delhi while the Indians are expected to go to their homes, a senior officer said. The facility still has 35 people, who returned from Afghanistan, under quarantine that includes 24 Indians and the rest from Nepal. This group is also expected to be discharged similarly on Wednesday, at the end of their 14-days quarantine period as mandated under existing Covid-19 medical protocol, the officer said. This ITBP quarantine centre was operationalised last year soon after the outbreak of Covid-19 and it has hosted over 1,200 people including foreigners from at least eight countries till now. The first batch of Indians and some foreigners returning from Wuhan in China were also quarantined here last year. The ITBP is a border guarding force under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and it is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488 km long Line of Actual Control with China apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/78-afghanistan-evacuees-released-from-itbp-quarantine-centre-1027945.html
07-09-2021||National||Lalu’s sidelined son Tej Pratap Yadav floats parallel organisation||Sidelined in the RJD, founded and headed by his father Lalu Prasad, elder son Tej Pratap Yadav has floated a new students' body with the ostensible aim of strengthening the parent organisation. Yadav launched the Chhatra Janshakti Parishad two days ago and claimed that it was not meant to pose any challenge to the Chhatra RJD, the party's official student wing, but work towards "mobilizing youth at the village level". The maverick MLA came out with the announcement, claiming, as always, that he had "the blessings of Lalu Prasad", at a time when he was left licking his wounds after losing the battle in a tug of war with state RJD chief Jagadanand Singh. Singh, known to be close to Yadav's younger and more powerful sibling Tejashwi Yadav, had earned the wrath of the mercurial elder brother recently when he sacked Akash Yadav as the state president of Chhatra RJD. Though there was no official word on the reasons behind the removal of Akash Yadav, one of the few close friends of Tej Pratap Yadav, it was widely believed that the blame fell on him when posters came up in the city recently in which images of Tejashwi – now the party’s de-facto leader – were conspicuous by absence. Sensing that it could further diminish his clout, Tej Pratap Yadav had reacted furiously, likening Jagadanand Singh to 'Hitler', who refused to visit the party office for days in protest, until he was, understandably, mollified by Tejashwi. Meanwhile, Akash Yadav realised that time was up for him in the RJD, where he was seen as aligned with a leader who did not have power despite pedigree, and joined the Lok Janshakti Party. RJD rank and file, which has been witness to Tej Pratap Yadav’s tantrums for a while, viewed the development with bemusement. Speaking on condition of anonymity, some of them pointed out that the volatile leader had reacted similarly during the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 when he floated a “Lalu Rabri Morcha” when his cronies were denied tickets. They agree that the fact of being the son of Lalu Prasad and rustic mannerisms reminding the masses of his legendary father make Tej Pratap Yadav more than a pushover. Nonetheless, few in the party believe that he can muster the tenacity of purpose which was required if he wished to emerge as a credible centre of power since the RJD seems to have reconciled itself to Prasad having anointed the younger son as his heir apparent. The fresh episode in what looks like an unequal war of succession has brought some glee to the BJP, which sees the RJD as the main hurdle in its quest for becoming the numero uno political force in Bihar. "Tej Pratap Yadav is fighting for his survival and we sympathise with him. His father has treated the party as a personal fiefdom and failed to do justice to his own son," state BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said in a statement here. He also added that "it is ironic, and a poor reflection on the RJD that Tej Pratap Yadav, who never cared to educate himself, shall be floating a students' body. No wonder the party has lost trust of the people".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lalu-s-sidelined-son-tej-pratap-yadav-floats-parallel-organisation-1027948.html
07-09-2021||National||Pegasus row: SC grants more time to Centre for filing response, fixes pleas for hearing on Sept 13||The Supreme Court Tuesday granted more time to the Centre to decide on filing a further response to a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged snooping of certain people in India through the use of Israeli spyware Pegasus and slated the matter for further hearing on September 13. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted before the bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna that due to some difficulties, the affidavit, sought by the court, could not be filed. He asked the court to list the matter for hearing either on Thursday or Monday. "There is some difficulty with the affidavit. We had filed one and you had enquired, if we want to file another one... some officers were not there," he submitted before the bench. The bench pointed out that the Centre had already filed a short affidavit in the matter. Mehta responded that since the top court had issued notice in the matter, therefore a more detailed response would be filed. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing senior journalist N Ram, submitted that he does not have any objection to Mehta's request. After a brief hearing in the matter, the bench ordered the matter be listed on Monday. Last month, the court sought to know from the Centre if it wanted to file a detailed affidavit addressing the contentions of petitioners, whether government bought Pegasus or used it, or it wasn't used at all.  The Centre, for its part, said that to dispel any wrong narrative spread, it will constitute "a committee of experts in the field which will go into all aspects of the issue." Mehta had then said the government does not want to file any additional affidavit on the Pegasus issue, as national security aspects are involved.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-row-sc-grants-more-time-to-centre-for-filing-response-fixes-pleas-for-hearing-on-sept-13-1027953.html
07-09-2021||National||Judicious land-use for power generation may help India achieve its renewable energy ambitions||Judicious planning of land-use for solar and wind power generation will help India achieve its renewable energy ambitions, according to a report of the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA). The report examines how much land would be needed for the country to reach net-zero emissions by 2050. IEEFA has calculated that if India were to implement a mid-century net-zero target, solar power generation could occupy in the range of 50,000-75,000 sq km of land, while wind power generation could use a further 1,500-2,000 sq km (for the land area directly impacted by turbine pads, sub-stations, roads and buildings) or 15,000-20,000 sq km (the total project area including space between turbines and other infrastructure). The amount of land that could be needed for solar power is equivalent to 1.7-2.5 per cent of India’s total landmass, or 2.2-3.3 per cent of non-forested land. The report’s author Dr Charles Worringham, researcher and IEEFA guest contributor, explains that the higher end of the land-use range is deliberately generous to allow plenty of leeway for planning. “This is a precautionary approach for the purposes of planning and putting in place smart land-use policies today for future renewable infrastructure,” Dr Worringham said in a press statement. Comparing the effects of large-scale renewable expansion to those of meeting electricity requirements from additional coal-fired power, Worringham noted that the locations for renewable energy generation can be chosen using India’s preferred social and environmental criteria and can be widely distributed across the country. “Additional coal can only come from already heavily mined districts or from new coal blocks, which are often in significant forest areas and where displacement of Adivasi communities is an issue. Nor does renewable energy permanently alter land and natural resources in the same way as coal,” Dr Worringham said Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judicious-land-use-for-power-generation-may-help-india-achieve-its-renewable-energy-ambitions-1027954.html
07-09-2021||National||India 'prepares for the worst' ahead of possible Covid-19 third wave||As Covid-19 cases and deaths exploded in India in April and May, New Delhi's premier Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and several others ran so short of oxygen that many patients in the capital suffocated. When Reuters visited the hospital on Friday, its last coronavirus patient was readying to leave after recovery - a remarkable turnaround health experts attribute to growing levels of immunity from natural infection and vaccinations. But hospitals have learned from bitter experience during the second Covid wave, when funeral pyres burned non-stop and bodies littered the banks of the holy Ganges river, as India braces for another possible surge in infections around its September-November festival season. Beds have been added at facilities around the country, and hospitals are working to ensure ample supplies of oxygen. Ganga Ram is raising its oxygen storage capacity by 50 per cent, has laid a one-kilometre-long pipeline carrying the gas directly to Covid ICUs, and is installing equipment to keep the oxygen flow high. It has also ordered an onsite oxygen-generation plant, which are mostly made in Europe and can take months to arrive given the surge in demand globally. "In light of the possibility of the emergence of coronavirus mutants, with higher transmissibility and immune escape, the hospital continues to prepare for the worst," said Satendra Katoch, medical director of the hospital, in between guiding colleagues doing an internal audit of its facilities. The crowded private hospital, however, said it had no scope to add more beds. During the peak of India's second wave, Ganga Ram expanded its capacity by nearly 50 per cent to about 600 beds, but even so, some 500 patients per day had to be put on a waitlist for admission, according to physician Varun Prakash, who managed its war-room during the crisis. Nationally, India has added many more hospital beds in the past few months and imported more than 100 oxygen carriers to raise the total to about 1,250. Companies such as Linde are planning to lift the country's overall output of the gas by 50 per cent to 15,000 tonnes a day. Linde told Reuters it had retained 60 of some 80 cryogenic containers - meant to hold super-cooled oxygen - it had brought in from the company's overseas operations, in case demand shot up again. "The distribution infrastructure and logistics fell short during the second wave," Linde South Asia head, Moloy Banerjee, said. The federal government, meanwhile, has approved the construction of nearly 1,600 oxygen-generation plants at hospitals, though fewer than 300 had been set up as of early last month as imports take time. High Antibody Levels Almost all states are readying special paediatric wards as some experts warn unvaccinated children could be vulnerable to any new virus mutations. States including Madhya Pradesh are also stocking up on anti-viral drugs such as Remdesivir. But with a government survey estimating as many as two-thirds of Indians already have Covid-fighting antibodies through natural infection, and 57 per cent of its adults with at least an initial vaccine dose, many health experts believe any new outbreak of infections could be much less devastating than the second wave. "The number of susceptible persons will be less now, as many persons have been infected or vaccinated," said epidemiologist and cardiologist K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India. "Even if reinfections or breakthrough infections occur, they are likely to be mild and mostly managed at home. The serious gaps in health-service delivery that were evident in the second wave are less likely to be seen." Kerala is seeing such signs already. The southern state currently has the highest number of infections, including many among vaccinated or partly vaccinated residents, but its fatality rate is well below the national figure. At 33.1 million, India has reported the most number of Covid-19 cases after the United States, with 441,042 deaths. It has administered 698.4 million vaccine doses - at least one dose in 57 per cent of its 944 million adults and two doses in 17 per cent. The health ministry, which wants to immunise India's entire adult population this year, did not respond to a request for comment on its preparations for a potential third wave. Epidemiologist and public health specialist Chandrakant Lahariya said the data and trends were encouraging. "With the emerging evidence that for individuals with past infection, single dose may provide far greater levels of antibodies than people who did not have infection or receive both shots of vaccines, it is assuring for India." Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-prepares-for-the-worst-ahead-of-possible-covid-19-third-wave-1027955.html
07-09-2021||National||Deity is owner of land attached to temple, priest cannot be treated as 'Bhumiswami': SC||A priest cannot be treated as Bhumiswami (owner of land) and the deity is the owner of the land attached to a temple, the Supreme Court has ruled. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and A S Bopanna said the 'pujari', or priest, only holds the land for the purpose of management of the property of the temple. "In the ownership column, the name of the deity alone is required to be mentioned, as the deity being a juristic person is the owner of the land. The occupation of the land is also by the deity which is carried out by the servant or the managers on behalf of the deity. Therefore, the name of the manager or that of the priest is not required to be mentioned in the column of occupier as well," the top court said on Monday. It added that the law is clear on the distinction that the Pujari is not a Kashtkar Mourushi, (tenant in cultivation) or a government lessee or an ordinary tenant of the maufi lands (land exempted from payment of revenue) but holds such land on behalf of the Aukaf Department (relating to 'Devasthan) for the purpose of management. "The Pujari is only a grantee to manage the property of the deity and such grant can be reassumed if the Pujari fails to do the task assigned to him, i.e, to offer prayers and manage the land. He cannot be thus treated as a Bhumiswami," the bench said. "We do not find any mandate in any of the judgments to hold that the name of Pujari or manager is required to be mentioned in the revenue record, the bench said. It said that the name of the Collector as manager cannot be recorded in respect of property vested in the deity as the Collector cannot be a manager of all temples unless it is a temple vested with the State. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by Madhya Pradesh challenging an order of High Court which quashed two circulars issued by the state government under the MP Law Revenue Code, 1959 (Code). These circulars ordered deletion of the names of pujari from the revenue record so as to protect the temple properties from unauthorised sale by the priests. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deity-is-owner-of-land-attached-to-temple-priest-cannot-be-treated-as-bhumiswami-sc-1027962.html
07-09-2021||National||How this Odisha headmaster kept students from dropping out||Four years ago, an upper primary school in Odisha's Ganjam district lacked basic infrastructure and students skipped their lessons every other day. Cut to 2021, the student strength from classes 1-4 at Kanamana upper primary school in Chhatrapur block has increased from 50 to 107 with zero dropout rate. The government-run institute owes this achievement to Ajit Kumar Sethy, its headmaster, who brought about a sea of transformation with his innovative teaching methods. Sethy was among the 44 teachers from across the country and two from the state who were felicitated with the National Teachers Award by President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday for their contributions in improving the quality of school education and enriching the lives of students. "At the time of joining, I saw that the school lacked infrastructure. I worked on a plan to bring the students, most of them from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, back to the school," Sethy, who joined the institute in 2017, said. With the involvement of villagers, the panchayat head and others, the school was electrified, a separate toilet complex for boys and girls was built, a water purifier was installed, and a nutritional garden on the school premises developed. Sethy composed songs on chapters of the various subjects to keep the students in good spirits. "Children showed keen interest in learning new topics when we taught them through songs," he said. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Sethy made videos on different subjects and made them available to the students over WhatsApp, YouTube as well as the Madhu App, which has been developed by the Ganjam district administration. He also created awareness among students against child marriage, child labour through music. In a tweet on Sunday, the education ministry described Sethy as an arts and music teacher who came up with innovative interdisciplinary learning styles by "using his musical instruments as ‘prop’ to help children understand abstract concepts in science, mathematics, geography, etc". Sethy said he was happy to have got this award after only 13 years of service. "It was a recognition of the hard work," he said, adding that the award would inspire him to strive harder to improve the lives of students.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-this-odisha-headmaster-kept-students-from-dropping-out-1027963.html
07-09-2021||National||DGTR recommends anti-dumping duty on Vitamin C from China for five years||The commerce ministry's investigation arm DGTR has recommended the imposition of anti-dumping duty on Vitamin C, used by pharmaceutical firms for medicine production, from China to guard domestic manufacturers from cheap imports. The Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has concluded in its probe that the imports from China are entering the domestic market at price below the level of the selling price, and even the cost of sales. The domestic industry has been impacted due to the dumped imports, DGTR has said in a notification. "Accordingly, definitive anti-dumping duty...is recommended to be imposed for five years from the date of the notification to be issued by the Central Government, on all imports of goods...originating in or exported from China," it added. The DGTR has recommended $3.2 per kg and $3.55 per kg duty on imports. The finance ministry takes the final decision to impose the duty. In international trade parlance, dumping happens when a country or a firm exports an item at a price lower than the price of that product in its domestic market. Dumping impacts the price of that product in the importing country, hitting the margins and profits of the manufacturing firms. According to global trade norms, a country is allowed to impose tariffs on such dumped products to provide a level-playing field to domestic manufacturers. The duty is imposed only after a thorough investigation by a quasi-judicial body, such as DGTR, in India. The imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organization (WTO) regime. India and China are members of this Geneva-based organisation, which deals with global trade norms. The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgtr-recommends-anti-dumping-duty-on-vitamin-c-from-china-for-five-years-1027965.html
07-09-2021||National||37% students in rural areas, 19% in urban not studying at all: Survey||There have been "catastrophic consequences" of the prolonged school closure in the country due to Covid-19, with over 37 per cent of students in rural areas not studying at all and 48 per cent not being able to read more than a few words, a recent survey has claimed. The School Children's Online and Offline Learning (SCHOOL) survey, titled "Locked Out: Emergency Report on School Education", involving nearly 1,400 students from underprivileged households was conducted in August in 15 states and union territories. It was released on Monday. "The picture that emerges from this survey is absolutely dismal. In rural areas, only 28 per cent of children were studying regularly at the time of the survey, and 37 per cent were not studying at all. The results of a simple reading test are particularly alarming: nearly half of all children in the sample were unable to read more than a few words," it said. The corresponding figures for students studying regularly, not studying at all, and unable to read more than a few words in urban areas were 47 per cent, 19 per cent and 42 per cent, respectively, the survey claimed. The main findings of the SCHOOL survey are focused on the relatively deprived hamlets where children generally attend government schools. Schools and other educational institutions across the country have been closed for over a year and a half since the onset of the pandemic. Following a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation, several states are reopening the schools in a phased manner from September. As per the report, the proportion of children who were studying online regularly was just 24 per cent and eight per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively. Lack of money, poor connectivity, or no access to smartphones were some of the reasons behind the "very limited" reach of online education among sampled students, the survey noted. "One reason for this is that many sample households (about half in rural areas) have no smartphone. But that is just the first hurdle: Even among households with a smartphone, the proportion of children who are studying online regularly is just 31 per cent in urban areas and 15 per cent in rural areas. Smartphones are often used by working adults, and may or may not be available to school children, especially the younger siblings (only nine per cent of all SCHOOL survey children had their own smartphones)," it explained. Even among the underprivileged households, the figures were "much worse" for Dalit and Adivasi families than for others, be it for online education, regular study, or reading abilities, claimed the survey. For instance, only "four per cent" of rural SC/ST children were studying online regularly, in comparison to 15 per cent among other rural children. Barely half of them were able to read more than a few letters in the reading test, the survey added. According to the survey, an overwhelming majority of parents felt that their child's reading and writing abilities declined during the lockdown. Even among urban parents with "online children", the proportion who felt so was as high as "65 per cent". "In the sample as a whole, only four per cent of parents felt that their child's reading and writing abilities had improved during the lockout – something that should have been the norm. The proportion of parents who felt that their child had adequate online access was just 23 per cent in urban areas and eight per cent in rural areas," it said. Among rural SC/ST parents, a mammoth "98 per cent" wanted schools to reopen as soon as possible. However, according to the report, reopening of schools, which is still being debated, is just the "first step" and it will take years of patient work to "repair this damage". "Even preparations for that first step (such as repairing school buildings, issuing safety guidelines, training teachers, enrolment drives) are virtually invisible in many states. After that, the schooling system needs to go through an extended transition period not only to enable children to catch up with a reasonable curriculum but also to restore their psychological, social and nutritional wellbeing. As things stand, the system seems to be heading towards business as usual when schools reopen – this is a recipe for disaster," it warned. The survey conducted in 15 states and union territories -- including Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- was a joint effort of nearly 100 volunteers across the country. The report was prepared by a coordination team, including the likes of economists Jean Drèze and Nirali Bakhla.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/37-students-in-rural-areas-19-in-urban-not-studying-at-all-survey-1027971.html
07-09-2021||National||Case against IAS officer for sending inappropriate WhatsApp sticker to woman journalist||A case was registered against an IAS officer in Kerala for sending an inappropriate message to a woman journalist. N Prasanth was booked under IPC 509 for insulting modesty of a woman. A journalist with a vernacular daily complained that Prasanth sent insulting replies and stickers when she made some query on Whatsapp regarding a news story. The incident took place in February and the case was registered on the basis of a petition given by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists to the Chief Minister. Prasanth, who is a 2007 batch IAS officer, was a quite popular officer and was even widely referred to as 'Collector bro'. Police told PTI that the case has been registered in the incident after obtaining legal advice on the issue. "We have registered a case under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code," police said. The section deals with the offence of insulting the modesty of any woman, utters any word, makes any sound or gesture, or exhibits any object, intending that such a word or sound shall be heard, or that such gesture or object shall be seen, by such woman, or intrudes upon the privacy of such woman. Prasanth, the Managing Director of Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), was caught in a political controversy early this year after the corporation signed an MoU with a US firm on deep sea trawling. The reporter from a vernacular daily texted Prasanth introducing herself and sought a reply on the controversy. In the screenshots of the WhatsApp messages that were circulated, the journalist could be seen asking whether it was a good time to talk regarding a news story. To this Prasanth replied with just a sticker. When she replied saying the story was not to harm him, and asked him to give a statement regarding the controversy, he replied with an inappropriate and obscene sticker. A complaint was filed with the police by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ). The state government later in May had ordered a probe against the 2007 batch IAS officer for his alleged misbehaviour. (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-against-ias-officer-for-sending-inappropriate-whatsapp-sticker-to-woman-journalist-1027987.html
07-09-2021||National||SC declines to consider ex-KSPCB chairman's plea against resignation||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to consider a plea by a former chairman of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board against a notification relieving him from the post based on a resignation letter addressed to the Chief Minister. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana rejected the plea by Dr M Sudheendra Rao who claimed some loose sheets of papers containing his signature were misused to fabricate the resignation letter. Senior advocate V K Shukla, appearing for Rao, contended forged document was treated as resignation letter of the chairman, who was qualified as an engineer and rendered his services as consultant to the Union government and several other organisations. The court, however, pointed out that the petitioner has already filed a criminal complaint in this regard, the police investigated the matter and filed a 'B' report. The counsel, then, asked the court to direct the state government to consider a representation sent by him against acceptance of resignation on May 2. The court allowed this plea.  Rao has challenged the validity of the Karnataka High Court's order, which dismissed his plea against acceptance of the resignation letter. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-ex-kspcb-chairmans-plea-against-resignation-1027995.html
07-09-2021||National||Mumbai court temporarily blocks game based on Salman Khan's hit-and-run incident||A Mumbai civil court has ordered temporary restraint on access to an online mobile game titled 'Selmon Bhoi', allegedly based on a hit-and-run incident involving Bollywood actor Salman Khan. Civil court judge K M Jaiswal passed the order on Monday and a copy of it was made available on Tuesday. The court restrained the makers of the game, Parody Studios Pvt Ltd and its directors, from disseminating, launching, re-launching and recreating the game or any other content relating to the actor. The court also directed the makers to immediately take down/ block/ disable access to the game from Google Play Store and all other platforms. "Upon watching the game and its images, it prima facie matches with the identity of the plaintiff (Khan) and to the hit-and-run case connected to the plaintiff," the court said. It further said Khan had never given his consent for the game. "When the plaintiff has not given his consent for developing of the game, which is very similar to his identity and the case against him, certainly his right to privacy is being deprived and his image is also being tarnished," the order said. The court added that the game developers used Khan's identity and popularity for commercial gain. Khan had filed an application in the court last month against the developers of the game, claiming that the name and images displayed in the game appeared to be his caricature version. The application claimed that the game "Selmon Bhoi" is phonetically the same as Khan's popular name amongst his fans, "Salman Bhai". "The game developers intentionally gained a commercial advantage by exploiting the personality rights of our client without seeking our client's consent," said the actor's application filed through law firm DSK Legal. The court directed the developers to file their affidavit to Khan's plea and posted the matter for further hearing on September 20. The Bombay High Court in 2015 acquitted Khan of all charges in the 2002 hit-and-run case. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-court-temporarily-blocks-game-based-on-salman-khans-hit-and-run-incident-1028008.html
07-09-2021||National||Chhattisgarh CM's father arrested for 'evict Brahmins' from India remark||The Raipur Police have arrested Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel from Delhi in a case registered against him for allegedly making derogatory remarks against a community, an official said on Tuesday. The CM had strongly disapproved of the remarks allegedly made by his 86-year-old father and said nobody is above law. "Nand Kumar Baghel was arrested and brought from Delhi to Raipur on Tuesday," Raipur Additional Superintendent of Police Tarkeshwar Patel said. He was produced in a local court, he said, without divulging more details. The case against Nand Kumar Baghel was lodged on Saturday night at the DD Nagar police station in Raipur on a complaint filed by the 'Sarv Brahmin Samaj' against him. He was charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence against the state or against public tranquility), police had said. The outfit, in its complaint, alleged that the CM's father recently made a controversial appeal to people to boycott Brahmins by terming them as "foreigners", and asked people to not let them enter their villages. The organisation also accused Nand Kumar Baghel of asking people to "evict" Brahmins from the country. The organisation had said a video of the purported comments of the CM's father was available on social media platforms. According to the police, Nand Kumar Baghel reportedly made the remarks while addressing an event in Uttar Pradesh recently. After controversy erupted over the alleged remarks of his father, the chief minister had said he was pained and asserted nobody was above law in his government and police will take appropriate action in the matter. “The remarks made by my father Nand Kumar Baghel against a specific class have come to my attention. The comments have hurt the sentiments of the class as well as (affected) social harmony and I am also pained by it,” Bhupesh Baghel had said in a statement. “Nobody is above law under my government even if he is the chief minister's 86-year-old father,” the Congress CM had said, adding an appropriate legal action will follow. He said the Chhattisgarh government respects every religion, caste and community and their sentiments, and gives equal importance to everyone, the statement added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-cms-father-arrested-for-evict-brahmins-from-india-remark-1028010.html
07-09-2021||National||India Ratings maintains stable outlook on banking sector in FY22||Domestic rating agency India Ratings on Tuesday maintained a stable outlook on the banking sector for 2021-22 while it expects an increase in stressed assets in retail and MSME segments by end-March. It estimates gross non-performing assets (GNPA) of the banking sector to be at 8.6 per cent and stressed assets at 10.3 per cent for fiscal 2021-22. "We have maintained a stable outlook on the overall banking sector for the rest of FY22, supported by the continuing systemic support that has helped manage the system-wide Covid-19 linked stress," the rating agency said in its mid-year banks outlook released on Tuesday. Banks will continue to strengthen their financials by raising capital and adding to provision buffers which have already seen a sharp increase in the last three to four years, it said. The agency said its stable outlook on large private banks indicates their continued market share gains both in assets and liabilities, while competing intensely with public sector banks (PSBs). Most have strengthened their capital buffers and proactively managed their portfolio. Outlook on PSBs takes into account continued government support through large capital infusions (Rs 2.8 lakh crore over FY18-FY21 and further Rs 0.2 lakh crore provisioned for FY22), it said. The agency has a negative outlook on five banks (about 6.5 per cent of system deposits), driven primarily by weak capital buffers and continued pressure on franchise. It estimates that the asset quality impact in the retail segment has been higher for private banks with a median rise of over 100 per cent in gross NPAs over Q1 FY21 to Q1 FY22 (about 45 per cent for PSBs). "Banks have also undertaken restructuring in retail assets (including home loans), which could have postponed an immediate increase in slippages. Overall stressed assets (GNPA + restructured) in the segment is expected to increase to 5.8 per cent by end-FY22," the report said. It said the MSME sector has been under pressure with demonetisation, introduction of GST and RERA, slowing down of large corporates and now Covid-19. However, the government has supported the segment by offering liquidity under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) and restructuring, it said adding that it expects that beginning Q3 FY22, a portion of such advances would start exiting moratoriums a part of which could slip. GNPAs of MSMEs is expected to increase to 13.1 per cent by end-FY22 from 9.9 per cent in FY21. Stressed assets similarly would increase to 15.6 per cent from 11.7 per cent. For corporate segment, the agency estimates GNPAs to increase to 10.2 per cent and stressed asset to increase to 11.3 per cent. The rating agency has kept its FY22 credit growth estimates unchanged at 8.9 per cent for FY22, supported by a pick-up in economic activity post Q1 FY22, higher government spending especially on infrastructure and a revival in demand for retail loans. 2NBFCs) and housing finance companies (HFCs) for the second half of FY22. It said non-banks have adequate system liquidity (because of regulatory measures), sufficient capital buffers, stable margins due to low funding cost and on-balance sheet provisioning buffers. These factors provide 'enough cushion to navigate the challenges that may emanate from a subdued operating environment leading to an increase in asset quality challenges due to the second covid wave impacting disbursements and collections for non-banks', it had said. Check out the latest videos by DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ratings-maintains-stable-outlook-on-banking-sector-in-fy22-1028012.html
07-09-2021||National||India continues to 'lag way behind' in Covid vaccination: Fitch Ratings||Fitch Ratings on Tuesday said India continues to "lag way behind" in Covid vaccination, and the negative outlook on sovereign rating signifies the rising debt-to-GDP ratio. In April 2021, Fitch affirmed India's sovereign rating at 'BBB-' with a negative outlook. The outlook was changed to 'negative' from 'stable' in June last year on grounds that the pandemic had significantly weakened the country's growth outlook and exposed the challenges associated with a high public-debt burden. Addressing the Global Sovereign Conference 2021, Asia-Pacific, Fitch Ratings Senior Director, Head of Asia-Pacific Sovereign Ratings, Stephen Schwartz said vaccination is the key to economic recovery across the world. "The (APAC) region which was so successful in containing the virus early on, got behind the curve when it came to rollout of vaccines. Singapore really stands out now with 80 per cent of its population being vaccinated. But many countries in the region like Vietnam, Thailand and India continue to lag way behind and as a result continue to have periodic restrictions," Schwartz said. Over 70 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far in India. The country has administered more than 1 crore doses daily in 3 out of the last 11 days. Schwartz further said the negative outlook in India's ratings is on account of rise in debt-to-GDP ratio and uncertainty about the "trajectories". The debt-to-GDP ratio stood at 72 per cent in 2019 and the agency expects it to rise above 90 per cent of GDP over the next five years. In its presentation, Fitch said there could be a negative trigger for sovereign rating in case of failure to reduce the fiscal deficit to a level consistent with putting government debt-to-GDP ratio on a downward trajectory. The fiscal deficit for current fiscal year which began April 1 has been pegged at 6.8 per cent. As per the glide path for fiscal consolidation announced in the Budget, the government plans to bring down the fiscal deficit to 4.5 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025-26.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-continues-to-lag-way-behind-in-covid-vaccination-fitch-ratings-1028015.html
07-09-2021||National||SC orders release of a man held in Karnataka jail since 2006||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the release of a man from Mumbai, incarcerated since 2006 in Kalaburgi jail, after reducing his life imprisonment to the period already served by him in a case related to recovery of a pistol and two hand grenades.  However, it convicted him for the offences of waging war against the country and others and sentenced him to life term. On his appeal, the Karnataka High Court confirmed his conviction only to the offences under the Explosive Substances Act and the Arms Act and upheld his sentence to life imprisonment. On Tuesday, acting on his appeal, a bench presided over by L Nageswara Rao directed for release of convict Abdul Reheman alias Shami Ahmed after reducing his sentence to the period already undergone by him. The top court passed its order after hearing arguments of senior advocate Siddharth Dave and Farrukh Rasheed on behalf of the convict on the point of the sentence. Reheman was arrested on March 30, 2006, after he alighted from Chennai-Mumbai train at Gulbarga Railway station. He was found in possession of one pistol, two hand grenades, and books in Urdu and audio and video cassettes. Subsequently, he was made to undergo brain mapping and narco-analysis tests but the court found that there was no evidence produced to suggest that he was a member of a terrorist organisation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-release-of-a-man-held-in-karnataka-jail-since-2006-1028017.html
07-09-2021||National||46% rise in complaints of crimes against women during January-August this year||An analysis of the National Commission for Women (NCW) statistics showed that there has been a 46% rise in complaints of crimes against women during January-August this year against the same period last year. While a total of 19,953 complaints were registered between January and August this year, the corresponding figure for the same period last year was 13,618. Women from Karnataka have filed 350 complaints with the NCW this year so far, with Bengaluru district topping the list of ignominy accounting for 62.28% of the total complaints from the state. The Bengaluru Rural district comes a distant second with 26 such complaints followed by Mysuru (16) and Dakshina Kannada (14), according to NCW statistics. Every month, the number of complaints reaching the NCW was rising in the state except for May and June. While there were 37 complaints in January it rose to 44 each in March and April but fell down to 40 and 35 in May and June. It however rose to 49 in July and 50 in August, the highest for any month this year. So far, 12 complaints have reached the NCW this month. A comparison with 2020 shows that Karnataka had recorded a total of 467 cases for the whole year. This year has shown an increase in the rate of complaints reaching the NCW -- the first eight months of this year saw 338 complaints reaching the women's rights watchdog while that was 305 last year during the same period. If one takes the statistics this year till the first six days of September, the total number of complaints has been 20,740 with Uttar Pradesh accounting for half of the cases at 10,484 followed by Delhi (2,240) and Maharashtra (1,007). Karnataka is ranked eighth in this list while its neighbouring state Tamil Nadu was ahead at seventh position with 375 complaints while its other neighbours Kerala (321), Telangana (154) and Andhra Pradesh (146) had less complaints. If one takes the national level figures month-wise, July received the maximum number of 3,248 complaints, which is the highest in a month since June 2015.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/46-rise-in-complaints-of-crimes-against-women-during-january-august-this-year-1028025.html
07-09-2021||National||Political parties should set example, avoid gatherings: Uddhav Thackeray||Political parties should avoid holding public gatherings in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday. He was addressing, through video link, an event to dedicate several public projects of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation in the district. Union Minister of State and BJP leader Kapil Patil also attended the program virtually from Delhi. Parts of Kalyan fall in his Bhiwandi Lok Sabha constituency. "Political parties including the Shiv Sena should avoid public gatherings in view of the coronavirus threat," the chief minister said on this occasion. "We should set an example for people by observing discipline," said the Sena chief. The chief minister also said that at the moment he would prefer to open "Arogya Mandir (health facilities) rather than religious temples, apparently referring to the opposition BJP's agitation seeking reopening of temples in Maharashtra. "Temples can be opened in a phased manner," he said. To Patil's demand that certain roads in the area which are in a poor shape be handed over to the Union government for better development and maintenance, Thackeray said he did not mind doing so. There would always be political differences but when it comes to working for people, "we are all Jan Sevak," the chief minister said. "I can't believe that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and I had come to Kalyan together during your election campaign," Thackeray said to Patil, referring to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the Shiv Sena and BJP were allies. Now that Patil was part of the Union government, the state government can approach him for any Maharashtra-related work, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/political-parties-should-set-example-avoid-gatherings-uddhav-thackeray-1028026.html
07-09-2021||National||Panel member asks CJI to release report on farm laws||Amid intensified protests against the three farm laws, one of the members on the Supreme Court-appointed committee on the laws has asked the Chief Justice of India to release the panel’s report and share it with the government. Anil Ghanwat, president Shetkari Sanghatana, in a letter to the CJI said: “The report addressed all apprehensions of the farmers. The committee was confident that the recommendations will pave the way to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation." He said that as a member of the committee, especially representing the farmers’ community, he is pained that the issue raised by the farmers has not been resolved so far and the agitation is continuing. "I feel that the report has not been given any attention by the Supreme Court. I am humbly pleading the Supreme Court to kindly release the report for implementation of its recommendations for peaceful resolution of the stalemate to the farmers' satisfaction at the earliest," Ghanwat said. The top court had suspended the implementation of the three farm laws and constituted a committee to report on these laws on January 12, this year.  Ghanwat was nominated as one of the members of the committee to represent the farming community. The committee was given two months to submit its report on the three laws.  After consulting a large number of farmers and several stakeholders, the panel submitted its report before March 19.  “The committee incorporated the opinions and suggestions of all stakeholders with the aim of maximum benefit to the farmers.  The committee initially comprised four members: Bhupinder Singh Mann, National President, Bhartiya Kisan Union and All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi, Agricultural Economist, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, Agricultural Economist and Former Chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, President, Shetkari Sanghatana. Mann, however, resigned. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panel-member-asks-cji-to-release-report-on-farm-laws-1028027.html
07-09-2021||National||Rajnath approves increase in financial powers of armed forces for revenue procurement||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday approved the expansion of financial powers to the armed forces for revenue procurement to cut delays in making purchases for operational preparedness and quickly meet requirements of the field formations. The defence ministry said the delegated financial powers of vice chiefs of the services have been increased by 10 per cent subject to an overall ceiling of Rs 500 crore. It said the primary focus of the enhanced delegation of financial powers is to empower field commanders and other officials to procure equipment and "war-like stores" in a speedy manner for urgent operational necessities and meeting essential sustenance requirements. A new schedule on the hiring of aircraft and associated equipment has been introduced for the Indian Air Force which includes the hiring of air-to-air refuellers. Singh described the decision on expanding the financial powers as "another big step towards defence reforms". The ministry said the enhanced delegation of financial powers to functionaries in service headquarters and lower formations would result in quicker decision-making at all levels and ensure better planning and operational preparedness. "Another big step towards defence reforms has been to strengthen security infrastructure. Financial powers have been devolved to field formations with focus on operational preparedness; promote ease of doing business and jointness among Services," Singh tweeted. The last such enhancement at all levels for the defence services was done in 2016. "A general enhancement of up to two times has been approved for the competent financial authorities (CFAs). In certain schedules, this enhancement at field formations is in the range of up to 5-10 times on account of operational requirements," the ministry said in a statement. "Delegated financial powers of vice chiefs of the services have been increased by 10 percent, subject to an overall ceiling of Rs 500 crore," it said. The ministry said the financial powers of Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee (CISC) as CFA has been enhanced substantially and aligned with that of the vice chiefs of the services. "New CFAs have been added namely Deputy Chief of Army Staff, Master General Sustenance, ADG (Procurement)/DG Air Operations/DG Naval Operations, etc in service headquarters and in the field formations on account of reorganisation/restructuring/functional requirements," the ministry said. It said new financial powers have been introduced for Navy and the Indian Air Force for their field commanders in line with the existing "Army schedule on 'Army Commanders Special Financial Powers'". "A new schedule on the hiring of aircraft and associated equipment has been introduced for Indian Air Force which includes the hiring of Air to Air re-fuellers," the ministry said. For the Indian Navy, powers for replenishment of disaster management equipment and materials have been delegated to the command level for immediate response to natural disasters and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) operations. The ministry said an enabling provision of emergency financial powers to the field formations below command level for the defence services has now been incorporated in the emergency powers schedule that till present was available to vice chiefs and C-in-Cs (Commanding-in-Chief)/equivalent.  Check out the latest videos by DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-approves-increase-in-financial-powers-of-armed-forces-for-revenue-procurement-1028029.html
07-09-2021||National||Tagore, Kalam statues in Tamil Nadu colleges; govt to set up social media cell||Statues of Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore and former President A P J Abdul Kalam will come up at the prestigious Queen Mary’s College and Anna University in Chennai, the Tamil Nadu government said as it announced installing statues and building of new auditoriums in memory of several freedom fighters.  Making a slew of announcements in the Assembly, Minister for Information and Publicity M P Saminathan also announced setting up of a Journalists’ Welfare Board and an Rs five-lakh cash award every year for journalists who are working for the under-privileged sections of the society in memory of former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi. The minister said the solatium provided to the family of a journalist who dies in the line of duty is being increased to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 3 lakh while announcing that the government will provide financial assistance to young journalists for pursuing higher studies.  Statues of ten personalities, including Tagore and Kalam, will be installed in various places at a cost of Rs 1 crore. Kalam’s statue at Anna University, the premier engineering college in the state, is significant as the former President mentored students at the institute by staying in a hostel room before his ascension to Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2002. Statues of freedom fighters Veerapandia Kattabomban, and Marudhu Brothers will be installed in Chennai, while the bust of Anjalai Ammal and Keezhapaluvur Chinnasamy will come up at Cuddalore and Ariyalur respectively.  Saminathan announced that a statue will be erected at the Government Guest House in Chepauk in memory of Dravidian stalwart V R Nedunchezhian, who had served in the cabinets of C N Annadurai, M Karunanidhi, M G Ramachandran, and J Jayalalithaa.  Statues in memory of Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy, Moovalur Ramamirthan, and Dr Mu Varadarasanar will come up at Pudukkottai, Mayiladuthurai, and Ranipet districts, the minister announced. The minister also said the sound and light programme will be introduced at the fort of Veerapandia Kattabomban on 75 years of India’s Independence.  Other announcements include naming the Chief Engineer’s office complex in Pollachi in Coimbatore district after former Union Minister C Subramanian and construction of an auditorium in the complex at Rs 4 crore. The minister said a social media cell is being set up to take the government’s initiatives to the people through Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube among other platforms.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tagore-kalam-statues-in-tamil-nadu-colleges-govt-to-set-up-social-media-cell-1028032.html
07-09-2021||National||Death during surgery can't be automatically assumed negligence on part of doctor: Supreme Court||If a patient dies during surgery, it cannot be automatically assumed that the medical professional was negligent and there should be appropriate medical evidence to prove the same, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and A S Bopanna made the observation while setting aside an order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) which held a doctor guilty of medical negligence. "It is clear that in every case where the treatment is not successful or the patient dies during surgery, it cannot be automatically assumed that the medical professional was negligent.   "To indicate negligence there should be material available on record or else appropriate medical evidence should be tendered. The negligence alleged should be so glaring, in which event the principle of res ipsa loquitur (a doctrine or rule of evidence in tort law that permits an inference or presumption that a defendant was negligent) could be made applicable and not based on perception," the bench said. The apex court was hearing an appeal challenging an order passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) which held the doctor guilty of medical negligence and has directed payment of Rs 17 lakh with interest at the rate of nine per cent per annum from the date of filing the complaint till the date of payment. The top court noted that in the instant case, apart from the allegations made by the claimants before the NCDRC both in the complaint and in the affidavit filed in the proceedings, there is no other medical evidence tendered by the complainant to indicate negligence on the part of the doctors who, on their own behalf had explained their position relating to the medical process in their affidavit to explain there was no negligence. As per the case, a patient visited the hospital on October 8, 1996 and was diagnosed with kidney stone in her right kidney and Hydronephrosis of Grade II in the left kidney. She was advised to undergo surgery by the treating surgeon. Accordingly, the patient admitted herself on December 6, 1996 and the doctor informed the patient as also her husband that both the kidneys could not be operated at the same time due to the severe damage and they were advised that as per the medical practice, the less affected kidney, that is the left kidney would be operated on in the beginning since complete removal of the right kidney cannot be ruled out. Further the apex court noted that the doctor performed the surgery of the left kidney, which was a successful operation and as per the say on behalf of the hospital and the doctors, the condition of the patient improved by December 12, 1996 due to which the possibility of the second surgery to the right kidney was considered. The necessary tests conducted by the anaesthetist, the physician and the surgeon resulted in clearing the patient for the second surgery, it added. The second surgery was prepared to be conducted on December 16, 1996 and a standard procedure was also followed during the first surgery but on the present occasion the condition of the patient deteriorated, the blood pressure fell and pulse became feeble. The cardiac respiratory arrest was noticed but despite the best efforts, the patient expired on December 23, 1996. According to the appeal, an issue arose with regard to the payment of the balance medical bills and when the same was demanded the husband of the deceased, who was a union leader held a demonstration along with the workers at the hospital which resulted in a criminal complaint being filed against the hospital and also a magisterial enquiry was conducted. The top court said that the patient underwent the same process of being administered anaesthesia for the first operation and the operation had been performed successfully. The apex court said that though in the second operation, the patient had suffered a cardiac arrest, the subsequent processes had been conducted and the patient had also been moved to the CCU whereafter the subsequent efforts had failed. "The patient had breathed her last after a few days. As already noted, there was no contrary medical evidence placed on record to establish that the situation had arisen due to the medical negligence on the part of the doctors," the bench said. The bench said there was no medical evidence available before the NCDRC on the crucial medical aspect. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-during-surgery-cant-be-automatically-assumed-negligence-on-part-of-doctor-supreme-court-1028038.html
07-09-2021||National||Faceless assessment: FinMin eases rules for authentication of e-records submission||The finance ministry on Tuesday said electronic records submitted through registered account of taxpayers in the income tax portal shall be deemed to have been authenticated by the taxpayer by electronic verification code (EVC). The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) amended income tax rules on Monday to ease authentication of records submitted in faceless assessment proceeding. The ministry said the amended rule provides that electronic records submitted through registered account of the taxpayers in the income tax department's portal shall be deemed to have been authenticated by the taxpayer by electronic verification code (EVC). "Therefore, where a person submits an electronic record by logging into his registered account in designated portal of the income tax department, it shall be deemed that the electronic record has been authenticated by EVC...," it said. The ministry said this simplified process would also be available to companies, or tax audit cases and they are mandatorily required to authenticate the electronic records by digital signature. "In order to provide the benefit of the simplified process of authentication by EVC to these persons (such as companies, tax audit cases, etc.) , it has been decided to extend the simplified process of authentication by EVC to these persons also," the ministry added. Hence, assessees who are mandatorily required to authenticate electronic records by digital signature shall be deemed to have authenticated the electronic records when they submit the record through their registered account in the Income tax department's portal. Legislative amendments in this regard would be brought in due course. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faceless-assessment-finmin-eases-rules-for-authentication-of-e-records-submission-1028048.html
07-09-2021||National||Writing judgments is an art, involves skilful application of law & logic: SC||Observing that writing judgments is an art that involves skilful application of law and logic, the Supreme Court on Tuesday said a judicial decision should be coherent, systematic and logically organised to trace the facts to a logical conclusion. The top court, while setting aside an order of the Allahabad High Court order that granted bail to a murder convict, said the judicial opinion is to be written in such a way that it elucidates in a convincing manner and proves the fact that the verdict is righteous and judicious. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said every judgment contains four basic elements -- statement of material (relevant) facts, legal issues or questions, deliberation to reach a decision and the conclusive decision. "A judgment should be coherent, systematic and logically organised. It should enable the reader to trace the fact to a logical conclusion on the basis of legal principles. It is pertinent to examine the important elements in a judgment in order to fully understand the art of reading a judgment," the bench said. The top court said “Judgment” means a judicial opinion that tells the story of the case, what the case is about, how the court is resolving the case and why. "Judgment is defined as any decision given by a court on a question or questions or issue between the parties to a proceeding properly before court. It is also defined as the decision or the sentence of a court in a legal proceeding along with the reasoning of a judge which leads him to his decision," it said. The apex court said a judgment replicates the individuality of the judge and therefore it is indispensable that it should be written with care and caution. The bench agreed that the judges may be overburdened with the pending cases and the arrears, but at the same time, quality can never be sacrificed for quantity. "Unless judgment is not in a precise manner, it would not have a sweeping impact. There are some judgments that eventually get overruled because of lack of clarity. Therefore, whenever a judgment is written, it should have clarity on facts; on submissions made on behalf of the rival parties; discussion on law points and thereafter reasoning and thereafter the ultimate conclusion and the findings and thereafter the operative portion of the order," the bench said. The reasoning in the judgment should be intelligible and logical, it said. These observations were made by the top court while delivering a judgement on an appeal filed by UP resident Shakuntala Shukla challenging an order passed by the Allahabad High Court granting bail to five accused in a murder case. The bench said that in the impugned order passed by the high court there is a total lack of clarity on the submissions, which part of the order is submission, which part of the order is the finding and/or reasoning. "There must be clarity on the final relief granted. A party to the litigation must know what actually he has got by way of final relief. The aforesaid aspects are to be borne in mind while writing the judgment, which would reduce the burden of the appellate court too. "We have come across many judgments which lack clarity on facts, reasoning and the findings and many times it is very difficult to appreciate what the judge wants to convey through the judgment and because of that, matters are required to be remanded for fresh consideration," the bench said. Therefore, it is desirable that the judgment should have clarity, both on facts and law and on submissions, findings, reasonings and the ultimate relief granted, it said. The bench said the high court shall be very slow in granting bail to the accused pending appeal who are convicted for the serious offences like murder.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/writing-judgments-is-an-art-involves-skilful-application-of-law-logic-sc-1028050.html
07-09-2021||National||Quality of judgement can't be sacrificed for quantity: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the judgement must be written with clarity, care and caution. Though the judges may be overburdened with the pending cases and the arrears, quality can never be sacrificed for quantity, it said. "Unless the judgment is not written in a precise manner, it would not have a sweeping impact. There are some judgements that eventually get overruled because of lack of clarity," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The court said whenever a judgment is written, it should have clarity on facts, submissions made on behalf of the rival parties, discussion on law points, reasoning and the ultimate conclusion and the findings and thereafter the operative portion of the order.  "The reasoning in the judgement should be intelligible and logical. Clarity and precision should be the goal. All conclusions should be supported by reasons duly recorded. The findings and directions should be precise and specific. Writing judgements is an art, though it involves skilful application of law and logic," the bench said.  The top court made these observations while disapproving Allahabad High Court's judgements granting bail to four convicts Swaminath Yadav, Surendra Kumar Pandey, Jhingur Bhar and Vikrama Yadav in the murder case of Kripa Shankar Shukla in Ballia district in 1995.    It found "a total lack of clarity" in the High Court's judgement as to which part of the order was submission, which part was the finding or reasoning. Even the submissions on behalf of the Public Prosecutor have not been noted, though a detailed affidavit was filed by the State opposing the bail applications. Allowing a plea by Shakuntala Shukla, wife of the deceased, the court directed the four convicts to surrender, saying the High Court committed a grave error in releasing them on bail pending appeals against their conviction and sentence. It pointed out the High Court ought to have considered the seriousness of the offence and the gravity of the accusation and conduct of the accused in giving threats to the witnesses during the trial and even thereafter. The High Court failed to note that the accused have undergone only eight months sentence against the life term imposed by the trial court.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quality-of-judgement-cant-be-sacrificed-for-quantity-sc-1028058.html
07-09-2021||National||Muslims can never become majority in India as their fertility rate decreasing: Digvijaya Singh||Claiming the fertility rate of Muslims is falling in India, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday said the population of Muslims can never increase in a manner that they will become a majority community outnumbering Hindus. Addressing a conference on the communal harmony organised jointly by Congress, Left parties and trade unions in Indore, Singh gave the analogy of demon Ravan and his ten heads to slam the "communal" BJP and RSS. "On one hand Sangh workers spread poison (of communalism) and on the other hand, Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat says the DNA of Hindus and Muslims is the same. I challenge Bhagwat for an open debate," Singh said as he accused the people associated with the Sangh of spreading false propaganda on this subject. Taking a swipe at right-wing leaders and organisations, the Rajya Sabha MP said false propaganda is being spread that due to the "continuous increase in the population of Muslims through polygamy they will become a majority community in India while Hindus will be reduced to a minority within the next 10 years". “I challenge Bhagwat and small RSS pracharaks for a public debate on this subject. I will prove that Muslims can never become a majority community in this country leaving behind Hindus as the fertility rate of Muslims is decreasing. “Anyway, it is becoming difficult due to inflation for a common man to sustain his wife and children born to her. In such circumstances, which Muslim can (afford to) have a family of four wives and children born to them?" he asked. Targetting the BJP and its ideological parent RSS, Singh said "the words and actions of BJP and RSS never match". "Ravan had ten faces and he used to speak different things through them. The condition of the Sangh and BJP is the same. On the one hand, Sangh activists spew venom while on the other hand Sangh chief Bhagwat says that the DNA of Hindus and Muslims is the same," he said. If the DNA of Hindus and Muslims is the same then why the communal hatred is being spread and what is the need for issues like "love jihad", the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister asked. Singh alleged the Sangh and the BJP are following the "divide and rule" policy of the British to divide Hindus and Muslims and "spreading lies and illusions" in the country. Referring to the thrashing of a bangle seller by a group of people in Indore, Singh said it's the Sangh's mentality is to attack a weak person and not to touch strong people. “The poor man (Tasleem Ali) who had come to sell bangles from Uttar Pradesh was first beaten up, then he was made an accused (on a complaint of sexual harassment filed by a minor girl). The thought to book him under POCSO Act hit the police three days after the (thrashing) incident," he said. Ali (25) was thrashed by a mob in the Govind Nagar area here on August 22 apparently for concealing his original name, a video of which went viral on social media. He was arrested on August 25 for allegedly sexually harassing a 13-year-old girl as well as for alleged Aadhaar Card forgery. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslims-can-never-become-majority-in-india-as-their-fertility-rate-decreasing-digvijaya-singh-1028060.html
07-09-2021||National||Dr Reddy's starts supply of Sputnik V first doses||Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Tuesday said it initiated supply of the first dose component of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V to partner hospitals all over the country. The development came following the announcement that Panacea Biotec supplied the first shipment of the second component of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine manufactured by it for sale in India. Dr Reddy's earlier suspended the supply of the first dose of Sputnik V following supply constraints from Russian Direct Investment Fund. A Dr Reddy's spokesperson also said the supply of the first does is followed by equivalent quantities of the second dose component. "As announced by our partners, the RDIF and Panacea Biotec, supply of the second dose component manufactured by Panacea Biotec has now commenced. Dr Reddy's has initiated supply of the first dose component to partner hospitals all over India followed by equivalent quantities of the second dose component," the spokesperson said. With more batches of the second dose component to follow from the manufacturing site, Dr Reddy's expects the momentum and supply to continue, the official added. Dr Reddy's is in a pact with RDIF to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-reddys-starts-supply-of-sputnik-v-first-doses-1028067.html
07-09-2021||National||SC-appointed SIT removes security from 25 people hit by Godhra riots||The Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT), which probed nine major cases of post-Godhra riots such as Naroda Patiya and Gulberg Society massacre cases, has removed security cover from 25 persons who were affected by riots and the Sabarmati Express train burning case in 2002. Many of them were under security cover for over 18 years. SIT officials said that state police as well as Central Industrial Reserve Police (CISF) have been informed to recall the detachment deployed with 25 persons. Officials said that the decision was taken following a review in which it was found that these persons were neither witnesses nor had any threat perception. There were 36 security personnel who were guarding these people.  "We did a security review recently and found that 25 people didn't have any security threat. They were neither the witnesses nor had faced any intimidation, assault or any other threat related to the case. We informed the concerned Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) to approach these people and help in case of any threat and provide them security if required," A K Malhotra, who is heading the SIT, told DH when contacted. As of today, 143 persons are under police protection that includes eyewitnesses, lawyers who took up victims' cases, former principal sessions judge Jyotsna Yagnik, who passed the judgement in the Naroda Patiya massacre case convicting former BJP minister Maya Kodnani, witnesses who turned hostile, among others. There are a total of 167 policemen and CISF personnel who are deployed for their protection round the clock. Among those whose security has been withdrawn is Lallan Chaurasiya and his wife Janaki Devi, who were witnesses in the Godhra train burning case. Besides, SIT also discontinued security for Firozkhan Pathan, a survivor of the Gulberg Society Massacre case. Pathan's father Saeed Khan and brother Imtiaz, who were the star witnesses in the case, are still under police protection. Firozkhan Pathan was not available for comment. His brother Imtiaz said that "Security was provided to Firoz after he was threatened by some of the accused back in 2003. Although he has not faced any intimidation from any of the accused but there are many persons within our community who are threatening him for lodging a case against Teesta Setalvad."  Three policemen had been deployed in Firozkhan's security. Sources said that the SIT also "discovered a nexus" between policemen and the protectees. "In many cases, we found security men absent from work without official approval and in connivance with the protectees. In some cases, the location of the guards were found to be at their native places while they claimed to be on duty. No complaint was ever made to us. Apart from no threats to these people, we also found that security cover was being misused and hence it was removed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-appointed-sit-removes-security-from-25-people-hit-by-godhra-riots-1028068.html
07-09-2021||National||Have Shikhar Dhawan & Ayesha Mukherjee got divorced?||Cricketer Shikhar Dhawan and wife Ayesha Mukherjee have apparently decided to get divorced after 9 years of marriage.  Mukherjee on Instagram made a post explaining how it feels to be divorced twice. However, she did not mention Dhawan in the post, and that left many confused if the duo actually got divorced or it was just she putting out her thoughts. "Divorce means choosing myself and not settling and sacrificing my own life for the sake of a marriage", read an excerpt from her post. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-shikhar-dhawan-ayesha-mukherjee-got-divorced-1028078.html
07-09-2021||National||Sarma government to form new panel to implement Assam Accord||The Assam government on Tuesday announced that it will form a committee comprising ministers and members of the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) for preparing a roadmap within three months to implement the Assam Accord. A six-year agitation demanding identification and deportation of illegal immigrants was launched by the AASU in 1979. It had culminated with the signing of the Assam Accord on August 15, 1985, in the presence of the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. After a meeting between the AASU and Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma along with senior ministers of the state government, Implementation of Assam Accord Minister Atul Bora said both sides decided to form a committee to implement the pact. "The meeting took place in a very cordial atmosphere. It was decided that a committee will be formed to prepare a roadmap. The CM will give names of our ministers and the AASU will give their names," Bora told reporters here. To take forward the discussion and finalise formation of the panel, both sides will meet again on Wednesday in an informal manner. AASU Chief Adviser Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharya said the committee will have three state ministers and five members of the student body. "This committee will consider all the clauses of the Assam Accord and how those can be implemented. It will prepare a roadmap within the next three months," he added. The AASU and the people of the state want a permanent solution to the problem of indigenous people, and the meeting discussed that in a cordial manner, Bhattacharya said. The Assam Accord says, among other things, that names of all foreigners coming to Assam on or after March 25, 1971 would be detected and deleted from electoral rolls and steps would be taken to deport them. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sarma-government-to-form-new-panel-to-implement-assam-accord-1028082.html
07-09-2021||National||India will take 9 more months for full vaccination, avoid congregations during festivities: Kiran Mazumdar Shaw||India has done a tremendous job on the vaccination drive but it will take at least nine more months to fully vaccinate all adults, Biocon Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said on Tuesday. The sector veteran also warned that the country is on the cusp of another wave of Covid-19 and needs to be very careful about large scale congregations during the upcoming festivities, pointing out that the jump in infections in Kerala was attributable to the Onam festival. "Another nine months minimum to give at least two doses of the vaccine to the eligible population," she said at an event organised by IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Shaw further said the Serum Institute of India (SII) has done a commendable job of supplying 600 million of the 650 million doses administered till now and added that both SII and other firms will ramp up production fast to meet the requirement. India exported the vaccine when it could, but had to restrict the same when a requirement was felt domestically, she said, adding that there is a massive vaccine inequity the world over. She also expressed surprise that some nations have started speaking about a third dose at a time when many of the developing or less developed countries are yet to get the first one for their citizens. "If nations just want to look after themselves, I can tell you they are not looking after themselves unless they look after every other country," she warned. Shaw said if a booster dose is required within six months, it means that the durability of the response generated is not as good as was deemed to be and more data was required, preferably collected over a year, before coming to a conclusion. Meanwhile, she rued that there is "shrinking" of talent pool available for the industry because of inadequate investment in skilling. "Many sectors lack the advanced skills that we need to compete globally. In our own sector, while we are doing very well, we need to have a much larger talent pool. "Unfortunately, the talent pool has remained where it was and in many cases, it is shrinking because we have not invested in expanding the talent pool," she said. Biocon has started an initiative to train students under a module prepared in association with a US-based institute which makes graduates industry-ready in three to four months, she said, adding that over 2,000 such students have been trained and successfully placed across the pharma sector. The company focuses its environment, social and governance efforts on health equity, purposeful employment and ethical business practices, Shaw said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-take-9-more-months-for-full-vaccination-avoid-congregations-during-festivities-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-1028089.html
07-09-2021||National||India to host G-20 summit in 2023, Piyush Goyal appointed sherpa for grouping||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has been appointed as India's Sherpa for the G20, an influential grouping that brings together the world's major economies. Making the announcement, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Tuesday that India will hold the G20 presidency from December 1, 2022, and will convene the G20 leaders' summit in 2023 for the first time. The next G20 Summit is scheduled to take place from October 30 to 31 under the Italian presidency. Goyal replaces Suresh Prabhu as India's G20 Sherpa. "Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for Commerce and Industry, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, and Textiles, has been appointed as India's Sherpa for the G20," the Ministry of External Affairs said. Prime Minister Modi has been leading India's representation at G20 summits since 2014. India has been a member of the G20 since its inception in 1999. "India will be holding the G20 presidency from December 1, 2022 and will convene the G20 Leaders' summit in 2023 for the first time," the MEA said. "India will be part of the G20 Troika (preceding, current, and incoming G20 Presidencies) from December 1, 2021 till November 30, 2024," it said in a statement. G20 brings together 19 of the world's leading economies and the European Union, with its members accounting for more than 80 per cent of global GDP, 75 per cent of global trade and 60 per cent of the global population, according to MEA. The G20 member nations are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-host-g-20-summit-in-2023-piyush-goyal-appointed-sherpa-for-grouping-1028093.html
07-09-2021||National||Karnataka Chief Minister Bommai meets B L Santhosh||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday met BJP National General Secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh and discussed state politics. The CM along with Irrigation Minister Govind Karjol was closeted with Santhosh for more than 40 minutes. Reacting to the meeting, the CM told reporters that he discussed only the party issues with him. "While explaining the recently concluded city corporations elections, issues related to strengthening the party were also discussed," the CM said. The CM, who was in Delhi to meet Union Ministers and attend the marriage reception of Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi's daughter, said he has not discussed the filling up of vacant berths in his Cabinet with Santhosh. Host of the state ministers including Irrigation Minister Govind Karjol, Housing Minister V Somanna, PWD Minister Halappa Achar, Sugar Minister Sankar Patil Munenakoppa and others came to Delhi and attended the reception. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-chief-minister-bommai-meets-b-l-santhosh-1028105.html
07-09-2021||National||Nepal sends diplomatic note to India on Mahakali river incident, violation of Nepali air space||Nepal has sent a diplomatic note to the Indian government over the disappearance of a Nepali man in the Mahakali river last month reportedly in the presence of Indian paramilitary force SSB and the alleged violation of Nepali airspace by an Indian helicopter. Jaya Singh Dhami, 30, belonging to Byas municipality of Darchula district bordering India, on July 30 fell into the Mahakali river, which flows along Nepal's western border with India, as he was trying to cross it with the help of a rope. According to Nepalese media reports, he fell into the river and went missing as the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel allegedly cut the rope from the other side of the border river. A probe committee set by Nepal's Home Ministry has said that India's SSB was present during the incident. “Nepal's Foreign Ministry sent a diplomatic note to the Government of India through Indian Embassy, Kathmandu regarding the matter,” an official at the foreign ministry here confirmed on the condition of anonymity. The issue has been raised by both the opposition as well as the ruling party cadres and leaders for weeks, which observers opine exerted pressure on the Sher Bahadur Deuba government to finally take the decision to send the diplomatic note. The matter relating to an Indian Airforce helicopter allegedly flying over Nepalese airspace was also raised in the letter, said the foreign ministry sources. The foreign ministry wrote the diplomatic note to India after receiving a letter from the home ministry regarding the report by a government probe committee into the missing of the Nepali man. The probe committee has recommended to take up the issue with the Government of India through diplomatic channels and take action against the culprit as well as provide compensation to the family of the victim. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-sends-diplomatic-note-to-india-on-mahakali-river-incident-violation-of-nepali-air-space-1028113.html
07-09-2021||National||Indian Railways plans to run 261 Ganpati Special trains||For the convenience of passengers during the Ganapati festival and to clear the extra rush during the festive season, Indian Railways will run 261 Ganpati Special trains to various destinations on special fare. The Central Railway is running 201, Western Railway 42 and Konkan Railway 18 Ganpati Special trains.  These trains have already started services from the last week of August and shall run till 20 September 2021.  Also, sleeper class coaches are augmented in various trains originating from Mumbai to clear the rush. Only passengers having confirmed tickets will be permitted to board these special trains.  Passengers have been requested to adhere to all norms, SOPs related to Covid-19 during boarding, travelling and at the destination. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-plans-to-run-261-ganpati-special-trains-1028114.html
07-09-2021||National||India, Australia to focus on expanding strategic ties at 2+2 dialogue||India and Australia are expected to focus extensively on further ramping up the overall defence and security ties and boost strategic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific at their inaugural two-plus-two ministerial dialogue here on September 11, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh are scheduled to hold the dialogue with Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne and Defence Minister Peter Dutton, they said. As the two senior Australian ministers are visiting in the backdrop of the Taliban's capture of power in Afghanistan, the issue is likely to figure in separate meetings Jaishankar and Singh will have with their counterparts. The focus of the talks at the two-plus-two dialogue is expected to be on boosting overall cooperation in the Indo-Pacific in the face of China's growing military assertiveness in the region, the people cited above said. Both Australia and India are part of Quad or Quadrilateral coalition that resolved to work towards ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The other two members of the Quad are the US and Japan. The people cited above said expanding bilateral cooperation in areas of maritime security is expected to be another area of focus at the two-plus-two dialogue. The two-plus-two dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers was instituted as part of an overall goal to expand strategic cooperation between the two countries. India has such a framework for talks with a very few countries including the US and Japan. The defence and military cooperation between India and Australia is on an upswing in the last few years. In June last, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The Australian Navy was part of the recent Malabar naval exercise that also featured navies of India, the US and Japan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-to-focus-on-expanding-strategic-ties-at-22-dialogue-1028115.html
07-09-2021||National||Centre should work towards ending farmers' protests: BKS||RSS affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) on Tuesday said the Modi government should work towards ending the nine-month long protests against the three farm laws, contending that no agitation should run too long. At the same time, BKS national general secretary Badri Narayan Choudhary said it did not approve of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha's (SKM) mode of protests, which appeared to be more political in nature than related to raising farmers' issues. “We do not question the right of the SKM to protest, but no farmer can leave their farms to participate in indefinite protests. It is a different matter for rich farmers,” he said. Choudhary said the BKS will carry out nationwide protests on Wednesday demanding a law to bring “profitable prices” for every crop which should be based on different agro-climatic zones. “The minimum support price (MSP) is a hoax. The MSP regime benefits only a couple of states, and farmers in other parts of the country are deprived of it,” he said. Choudhary said the BKS had submitted a memorandum to the government on August 11, seeking a “profitable price” for every crop and purchases – at wholesale markets or by private traders – should be at these rates. He said the BKS had waited till August 31 for a response from the government and were forced to launch a demonstration to press for their demands. “BKS volunteers will carry out protests at every district headquarters and submit a memorandum to district collectors listing out the demands,” Harpal Singh Dagar, chairman of the Delhi unit of BKS said. Dagar dismissed SKM leader Rakesh Tikait's allegation that the BKS protest was an attempt by the Modi government to undermine the nine-month long agitation on the borders of the national capital. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-work-towards-ending-farmers-protests-bks-1028116.html
07-09-2021||National||Eight months into vaccination, Covaxin production is yet to pick up||As India touched the milestone of administering 70 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Tuesday, the shortage of Covaxin eight months into the campaign has emerged as a source of concern raising questions on the manufacturer’s and the Centre’s claim of ramped up production of the homegrown shot. As on Tuesday 8 pm, the country's Covid-19 vaccination campaign had administered around 61.7 crore doses of Covishield made by the Serum Institute of India using the Oxford University-AstraZeneca technology, as against 8.36 crore doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, developed in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, Pune – a constituent laboratory of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer initially produced 90 lakh doses every month, which was augmented to 2 crore doses by May, the Union Health Ministry had informed the Supreme Court. While the ministry had expected a further increase in production (5.5 crore doses by July) and informed the top court accordingly, there are now questions on whether such expectations were realistic. Assuming a production volume of 90 lakh doses for four months (January to April) and two crore doses since May, Bharat Biotech should have produced more than 11 crore doses by now. But usage of 8.36 crore and the pipeline of possibly another 1-1.5 crore doses would mean a shortage of nearly two crore doses of Covaxin as of now. The shortage becomes more pronounced if one takes into account the company’s claim of having a stockpile of 2 crore doses in January days after it received the regulatory approval for emergency use authorisation. "There were glitches in the scale-up process and the company was over-confident with their claims,” a top government official told DH on the condition of anonymity. Despite repeated requests, Bharat Biotech did not respond to DH queries on the production shortage issues. Inadequate supply of Covaxin limits the Centre’s ability to inoculate 94.47 crore target population with two doses of the Covid vaccines by December 2021 with more evidence emerging on the efficacy of the double dose against the highly contagious Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. "Suppose you are used to cooking for 10 people and then one day you have to cook for 100 people. Only increasing the ingredients by 10 times will not help. The entire process has to be recalibrated,” the government official explained without divulging the specifics of the glitches. Bharat Biotech has five production units at Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Pune, Malur and Ankelshwar. The last one, which produced the first batch in August is expected to start commercial supply Covaxin from September. In July, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul had stated that “production (of Covaxin) was a little behind expectations, but issues have been addressed", adding that the production it had planned will be achieved. “There was a lag time in Covaxin production. I hope it picks up now,” added the government official. Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-months-into-vaccination-covaxin-production-is-yet-to-pick-up-1028118.html
07-09-2021||National Politics||Internal strife hindering Cong's outreach to people: Jakhar||Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Monday said the wrangling within the party's state unit was hampering the "vital process" of taking the state government's “landmark achievements” to people ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. He expressed concern over the party cadre's “inability” to fully leverage a major government decision like doubling of social security pension. The state government has recently announced doubling the social security pension from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500. His statement came amid the ongoing power tussle between the camps of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Speaking at his native village Panjkosi here, Jakhar said the increase in pension from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500 is a major decision by the state government to alleviate suffering of the needy. He, however, said that he had been concerned about the party not being able to fully propagate the recent significant decision. "We need to take these decisions to every household so that people could be more aware about these,” Jakhar said appealing to the Congress leadership and cadre that it is time to act unitedly to take the government's achievements to people on the ground so that party could win the next assembly elections and form the government in the state again. "It is time we should tell people that the government chosen by them has doubled their pension amount while during the 10 years of the Shiromani Akali Dal, the pension remained stagnant at Rs 250 and was only increased in the last year of the Badal government's tenure. The Amarinder Singh-led government has increased it three times in five years from Rs 500 to 1,500," Jakhar said in a statement. Jakhar, who has been replaced by Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief, said Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi have directed them to take the state government's achievements to the people. "Due to lack of coordination in the party, we are unable to take these achievements amongst the public,” he said. He appealed to the party leadership to be united and tell people about the party's achievements in the four-and-a-half years and requested them to not indulge in creating troubles. He said, “All of us must come together to fight polls unitedly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/internal-strife-hindering-congs-outreach-to-people-jakhar-1027810.html
07-09-2021||National Politics||Congress to bring law against lynching if voted to power in UP||The Congress will prepare a proposal for bringing a law against mob lynching and send it to the President if voted to power in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the party said Monday. National chairman of Congress' Minorities Department, Imran Pratapgarhi, said the party resolved to set up a legal cell in its minorities department for solving problems of the minority community through legal means. Pratapgarhi said this while addressing the 'Parivartan Sankalp Sammelan', organised by the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee Minorities Department. State Chairman of the Minorities department Shahnawaz Alam, in his address, said if Congress came to power, it would make a law against mob lynching. A 16-point resolution was also issued on the occasion which said that the Congress would withdraw cases registered during the anti-CAA and anti-NRC protests and give compensation. All the riots that took place during the regime of Samajwadi Party in the state would also be investigated, it said. National Secretary and joint in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Dheeraj Gurjar stressed on the importance of becoming a partner in the real development of the state. Congress is “the only party”, which can give momentum to the pace of development, he said. People of all religions can remain safe, Gurjar said, adding that when people of all castes and religions stand together under the flag of Congress, Uttar Pradesh would be able to become 'Uttam Pradesh’. UPCC president, Ajay Kumar Lallu, who presided over the conference said only Congress was raising the voice of the people and their interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-bring-law-against-lynching-if-voted-to-power-in-up-1027828.html
07-09-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Farmers' protest spells trouble for BJP ahead of polls||The massive show of strength by farmers at a kisan mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar has triggered unease within the BJP with the party hitting out Rahul Gandhi “firing from the shoulders” of farmers at the Modi government. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra refrained from commenting on the farmers’ rally at Muzaffarnagar and merely stated that the Modi government was committed to the welfare of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-farmers-protest-spells-trouble-for-bjp-ahead-of-polls-1027848.html
07-09-2021||National Politics||Postpone NEET exam, let students have fair chance: Rahul Gandhi to Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called for the postponement of the NEET examination and alleged that the government is "blind" to students' distress. The former Congress chief also urged the government to let the students "have a fair chance" in the exams. Gandhi's remarks come a day after the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. The advocate for the petitioners argued that the medical entrance exam NEET-UG 2021 be deferred as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. "GOI is blind to students' distress. Postpone NEET exam. Let them have a fair chance," Gandhi tweeted. GOI is blind to students’ distress. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/postpone-neet-exam-let-students-have-fair-chance-rahul-gandhi-to-centre-1027985.html
07-09-2021||National Politics||BJP's strategy to douse 'Jat' anger: A university in Aligarh after 'Jat' king||In a move aimed apparently at dousing the anger in the electorally-influential 'Jat' community, which is at the forefront in the ongoing farmers' agitation against the new farm laws, the BJP government in the state has decided to establish a university in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh town, about 400 kilometres from here, after Mahendra Pratap Singh, a 'Jat' king, who still commands huge respect in the community. According to the sources in the BJP here, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation stone of the university on September 14. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls said that a university after Mahendra Pratap Singh would be established in Aligarh. Many have claimed that the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) was built on the land donated by Singh. Saffron outfits as well as BJP leaders have been demanding that the AMU be rechristened after Singh. Sources said that the decision to start the construction of the proposed university was aimed primarily at countering the ongoing farmers' agitation by placating the powerful 'Jat' community. Almost all the important farmer leaders and office bearers of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) hailed from the 'Jat' community. The BKU leaders have declared that they will campaign against the BJP in the Assembly polls in UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab due early next year. The success of Sunday's 'Kisan Mahapanchayat', which was organised by the BKU, had ruffled the BJP. ''Though the decision to set up a university after Mahendra Pratap Singh was taken two years back, we have decided to start its construction before the model code of conduct kicks in,'' said a senior UP BJP leader told DH here on Tuesday. Although the BJP leader rejected the contention that the decision had anything to do with the farmers' agitation or the 'Jats', sources in the party said that it could soothe their ruffled feathers. ''Mahendra Pratap Singh is widely respected by the Jat community... they had been demanding a university after his name,'' said the saffron party leader. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-strategy-to-douse-jat-anger-a-university-in-aligarh-after-jat-king-1027992.html
07-09-2021||National Politics||India Youth Congress national president Srinivas BV arrested in Goa for leading protest march to CM's house||India Youth Congress national president Srinivas BV was among 40 Congressmen, including state Congress working committee president Aleixo Sequeira, who were arrested for trying to lead a march to Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's official residence to protest against rising unemployment and inflation.  The arrests followed a lathi charge by the Goa Police on the protesting Congress workers, who had earlier staged a protest meeting to condemn the rise in unemployment and high prices of essential goods.  State Congress president Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat have condemned Srinivas' arrest.  "The Congress and Indian Youth Congress office-bearers had decided to stage a morcha to CM's house. It was a silent agitation. But when the workers were stepping out for the march, the police stopped him. They gave slogans, police ordered lathi-charge without reason and arrested our top leaders," Kamat said. Srinivas was in Goa to chair a national executive of the IYC over the last two days.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-youth-congress-national-president-srinivas-bv-arrested-in-goa-for-leading-protest-march-to-cms-house-1028071.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Adityanath highlights work done by BJP govt for increasing farmers' income||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday highlighted the work done by the BJP government for increasing the income of farmers. He said exemplary work has been done in the agriculture sector under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and now a database of farmers across the country will be prepared in which all the schemes run for the welfare of farmers will be linked. Three districts of Uttar Pradesh -- Mathura, Mainpuri and Hathras -- have been included in the pilot project, Adityanath said during a conference which was attended by the chief ministers of other states. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal had also attended the virtual conference. "Soil health cards have been issued for the first time in the country. Besides providing one and a half times of the cost to farmers under the Minimum Support Price, financial assistance has been made available under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi," a statement quoting the chief minister said. Thanking Tomar and Goyal for organising the conference, Adityanath said the event would help the states in formulating a strategy regarding agriculture and farmers' welfare. The prime minister's goal of doubling the farmers' income will be successfully achieved by successful implementation of the strategy thus created, he said. The conference comes a day after thousands of farmers had gathered on Sunday at a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, where BKU leader Rakesh Tikait called Modi and other BJP leaders "rioters" and said the party should be given a drubbing in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. He had also targeted the Yogi Adityanath government in UP over sugarcane prices. The mahapanchayat was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar in protest against the Centre's controversial farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-highlights-work-done-by-bjp-govt-for-increasing-farmers-income-1027825.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||65-year-old man shot dead in violent clash in UP village||A 65-year-old man was shot dead and another person injured when two groups clashed over a minor dispute in a village here, police said on Tuesday. The clash began as an argument among children in Shahpur Dagar village in the Asmoli area here on Monday evening, but soon their elders intervened and it took a violent turn, Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra said. Abdul Razzak died of a gunshot wound, and Asim, who allegedly shot him, also sustained injuries in the clash and is hospitalised, he said. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination, and a probe is underway, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/65-year-old-man-shot-dead-in-violent-clash-in-up-village-1027896.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti 'placed under house arrest', calls out 'fake' claims of normalcy||Minutes after being placed under house arrest, regional PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti Tuesday said that New Delhi was concerned about rights of Afghan people while “denying the same to Kashmiris.” While sharing pictures of her locked residence, Mehbooba tweeted: “GOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris. Ive been placed under house arrest today because according to admin the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy (sic).” Earlier on Sunday Mufti had lashed out at the government for not allowing separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani family to conduct his last rites. Restrictions were imposed and internet and mobile services were suspended immediately after the demise of Geelani on Wednesday night. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-placed-under-house-arrest-calls-out-fake-claims-of-normalcy-1027900.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Pilot camp plans massive show of strength on his birthday||Amid the factions running deep in the ruling Congress in Rajasthan, the former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot camp is all busy to show its strength by planting a total of 10 lakh saplings in the desert state on the occasion of his 44th birthday which falls on Tuesday (September 7). Also, a poster put up in Baran district has become a talking point as many veterans from CM Ashok Gehlot camp are seen greeting Pilot on his birthday. These include Cabinet Minister of Mines Pramod Jain Bhaya, MLA Panachand Meghwal, Nirmala Sahariya among others. Surprisingly, it is yet to be known who put up this poster in the district. Meanwhile, Pilot's birthday is being celebrated as a major show of strength as his followers this time have announced to plant saplings for two days. A target to plant 5,000 saplings in each constituency has been set, according to which 10 lakh saplings will be planted in the state on Monday and Tuesday. On Tuesday, many programmes have been organised to celebrate Pilot's birthday which include blood donation among others. In fact, the Pilot camp has also launched a video titled 'Rajasthan of my dreams' which is the most discussed topic in the state. The Pilot camp is sharing this video aggressively. The 57-second video showcases a developed Rajasthan and connects it with Pilot's dream. Sources have confirmed that a large number of Pilot supporters will gather at his residence on Tuesday to wish and greet him on his birthday. Social media handles are running abuzz with pilot's birthday programmes. Sachin Pilot has been pitching for cabinet expansion to ensure his followers get positions in the government and party organisation. Rajasthan In Charge Ajay Maken has been giving assurances that cabinet expansion will happen soon. However, all deadlines have fallen flat and a deadlock still continues between the two camps in Rajasthan which is being led by CM Ashok Gehlot and former CM Pilot. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pilot-camp-plans-massive-show-of-strength-on-his-birthday-1027902.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Minor girls paraded naked in village to please rain god; NCPCR seeks report||At least six minor girls were paraded naked in a village in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district as part of a ritual to please the rain god and get relief from the drought-like situation, officials said on Monday. Taking cognisance, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also sought a report from the Damoh district administration about this incident which occurred on Sunday at Baniya village under the Jabera police station area, about 50 km from the Damoh district headquarter, in the Bundelkhand region. A district official said a response will be submitted to the NCPCR. Damoh superintendent of police (SP) DR Teniwar said the police received the information that some young girls were paraded naked to appease the God of rains as part of local practice and prevailing social evils. “Police are investigating this incident. Action will be taken if it is found that girls were forced to go naked,” he said, adding villagers believe that this practice may result in rain. According to beliefs, young girls are made to walk naked with a wooden shaft rested on their shoulders with a frog tied to it. Women accompanying these girls sing bhajans to praise the rain god, he said. Damoh collector S Krishna Chaitanya said the local administration will submit a report in this regard to the NCPCR. He said the parents of these girls are also involved in this incident and they will be made aware of such superstitious practices. The district collector said none of the villagers complained about this 'ritual'. "In such cases, the administration can only make the villagers aware about the futility of such superstition and make them understand that such practices don't yield desired results," he told reporters. Meanwhile, two videos of the incident have surfaced. In one of the video clips, girls (looking aged around 5 years) without clothes are seen walking side by side with a wooden shaft resting on their shoulders with a frog tied to it. A group of women singing bhajans follows the procession. In another video, some women can be heard saying that this ritual was being performed as the paddy crop is drying in the absence of rains. “We believe that this will bring in rains,” they can be heard telling the person who recorded the incident. These women said they will collect raw food grain from villagers during this procession and then cook food for 'bhandara' (group feast) at a local temple. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-minor-girls-paraded-naked-in-village-to-please-rain-god-ncpcr-seeks-report-1027904.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||14-year-old girl sexually harassed in Uttar Pradesh village||A 14-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly sexually harassed and abused with casteist slurs in a village here, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place under the Budhana police station limits two days back, and the accused was arrested, Additional Superintendent of Police Atul Shrivastava said. He said a case has been registered under relevant sections of the law.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-year-old-girl-sexually-harassed-in-uttar-pradesh-village-1027914.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Farmers gather in Karnal for mahapanchayat; officials hold talks with their leaders||An 11-member delegation of farmer leaders was invited to hold talks with the district administration in Karnal on Tuesday as protesters in large numbers assembled for a mahapanchayat and later planned to gherao the district headquarters. Senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, have arrived in Karnal for the mahapanchayat demanding action against the police lathicharge on farmers on August 28. These senior leaders will be part of the talks with the administration and have said that they will raise various demands during the interaction. "We are talking to a delegation of farmers,” Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav told PTI over the phone. Officials said details of the meeting will be shared later. Meanwhile, security arrangements have been beefed up in Karnal as the farmers have planned to gherao the mini-secretariat. There is heavy deployment of Haryana Police as well as central forces in Karnal, while security forces in adequate strength have also been deployed at the new Anaj Mandi here where farmers are holding the mahapanchayat and plan to move towards the mini-secretariat, they said. Officials said vehicular traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National highway was plying normally in the morning. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni had earlier in the day appealed to the farmers to assemble at the Anaj Mandi in a peaceful manner. “Next course of action will be decided at the mahapanchayat,” Chaduni had said in a video message. However, a statement issued by Haryana Police and Karnal district administration said some people had reached the new Anaj Mandi armed with lathis and iron rods, which does not show “good intention” on their part. “Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, iron rods, which does not show good intention on their part,” according to the statement. The statement said police and district administration have spoken to farmer leaders who have tried to persuade such elements to leave the venue, “but they are not listening to their leaders”. “Karnal district administration and police is warning such mischievous elements not to take the law into their hands and maintain public order. All such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law,” it said. Braving inclement weather in the morning, farmers reached the new Anaj Mandi riding tractors and motorcycles. Senior police officials have been put on duty at the new Anaj Mandi. There is also heavy barricading and deployment of security forces at the mini-secretariat. A day ahead of the proposed gherao of the mini-secretariat by the farmers, central forces were deployed, mobile internet services suspended and prohibitory orders banning gathering of people were imposed. The Haryana government, which had earlier ordered suspension of mobile internet services here from Monday 12:30 pm to Tuesday midnight, decided to suspend these services in four adjoining districts -- Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat districts with effect from 12 am to 11:59 pm on Tuesday. Forty companies of security personnel, including 10 companies of central armed police forces, have been deployed in Karnal district where local authorities have also imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, officials said. The SKM, an umbrella body of farmer outfits protesting against the farm laws, had threatened to lay siege to the Karnal district headquarters on Tuesday if its demands were not met. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department. Chaduni said a meeting with district administration officials was held here on Monday, but after failing to get any satisfactory response about their demands they decided to hold a mahapanchayat on Tuesday before proceeding to the mini-secretariat to gherao it. He had earlier sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge. He also demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of a farmer who died after allegedly sustaining injuries in the lathicharge. However, the administration here claimed that the farmer was not injured in the police action but had died due to a heart attack.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-gather-in-karnal-for-mahapanchayat-officials-hold-talks-with-their-leaders-1027942.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Academicians, writers ask DU to reinstate texts by Mahasweta Devi, Bama, Sukirtharani in syllabus||Over 1,100 academicians, writers and civil society members have written to Delhi University's acting vice-chancellor, urging him to reinstate the works of Mahasweta Devi, Bama and Sukirtharani in the English (Honours) syllabus. The petition came a few days after the teachers of English in the university made the same plea and accused the Oversight Committee of making a "complete mockery of all democratic and due processes" while drafting the syllabus. The petition has been signed by the likes of writers Arundhati Roy and Vikram Chandra, actors Sharmila Tagore and Shabana Azmi, filmmaker and writer Adoor Gopalakrishnan and filmmaker Anand Patwardhan. "The exclusion of Bama and Sukirtharani is a blatantly casteist act as it discriminates against contemporary Dalit women authors in a core paper on women's writing, Surely, to delete, without any justification, two living Dalit women authors is a rare example of political disregard, omission and marginalisation of existing living writings... "Both Bama and Sukirtharani are contemporary Tamil writers, is it not important to teach and know, in a central university located in Delhi, the regional diversity of India," the petition questioned. Mahashweta Devi's short story Draupadi, which has been dropped from the syllabus, revolves around a Dalit woman who is picked up by the police on the accusation of being a Naxal and is then raped. "The charges against Mahasweta Devi's Draupadi are based on an inadequate understanding or deliberate misreading of the nationally and internationally acclaimed author. Rape of women is a heinous reality. Many literary texts draw attention to it and some English, European and American narratives of rape are included in the syllabus. Are we to turn a blind eye to its empathetic articulation by Indian authors," it said. The university, in a statement on August 26, had said that a careful perusal of the present syllabus brings out the "inclusive nature of the syllabus" under reference in terms of its diversity of content and inclusion of pioneering works of renowned scholars of both national and international fame, without consideration of their religion, caste and creed. "The university subscribes to the idea that the literary content forming part of the text in a language course of study should contain materials which do not hurt the sentiments of any individual and are inclusive in nature to portray a true picture of our society, both past and present," the statement read. Stating that three contemporary women authors can be dropped "so easily" from a core paper on women's writing was a sign of deep worry, the letter demanded the reinstatement of the dropped texts. "The reasons given and not given for the deletions are prejudicial and misogynistic in intent as no sound academic reasons have been provided," they said.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/academicians-writers-ask-du-to-reinstate-texts-by-mahasweta-devi-bama-sukirtharani-in-syllabus-1027964.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to honour Tokyo Paralympics medal winners||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked officials to prepare a plan to honour all those who made the country proud with their performance at the Tokyo Paralympics. "In Tokyo Paralympics, excellent performance of the sportspersons made the country proud. Along with medal winners from UP, all those who won a medal for the country should be honoured at a public function," the chief minister said while addressing a meeting here. "In this programme, all ‘Divyang’ players from 75 districts of the state should be invited. It will be a morale booster for them. A detailed plan should be prepared for this event," the chief minister said. The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier announced a cash award of Rs 2 crore for Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, Rs 1.5 crore each for silver medallists, Rs 1 crore for each member of the men's hockey team that won the bronze medal and Rs 50 lakh for each member of the women's hockey team. The event was held in the state capital in which all the medalists were honoured. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-honour-tokyo-paralympics-medal-winners-1027970.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||2013 Muzaffarnagar riots cases: Eight years on, over 1,100 acquitted, just seven convicted||Eight years since the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013, 1,117 people accused in 97 cases related to murder, rape, robbery and arson among others connected to the violence have been acquitted over lack of evidence. Seven people were convicted in a single case related to the murder of two youths, Sachin and Gaurav, in Kawal village in the district. This, together with the stabbing to death of another person, Shahnawaz, on August 27, 2013 by six people had triggered the riots, according to police. A special investigation team (SIT) was set up by the state government to look into the riots cases. According to officials of the SIT, police had registered 510 cases against 1,480 people and filed chargesheets in 175 cases. An official of the SIT said that over the years, 97 cases have been decided by a court which has acquitted 1,117 people accused in those due to lack of evidence. The prosecution has not filed an appeal in any of these cases, he said. The seven people convicted in the Kawal village double-murder case were sentenced to life imprisonment. The SIT could not be file chargesheets in 20 cases under sections 153A and 295A of the IPC since it did not get permission for prosecution from the state government. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to withdraw 77 cases related to the riots, but the court has given permission for withdrawal in just one case which is against 12 BJP leaders, including Uttar Pradesh minister Suresh Rana, BJP MLA Sangit Som, former BJP MP Bhartendu Singh and Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Sadhvi Prachi. SIT officials said 264 accused in the riots cases were facing trial at present. Over 60 people were killed and more than 40,000 displaced during the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2013-muzaffarnagar-riots-cases-eight-years-on-over-1100-acquitted-just-seven-convicted-1027981.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||A change of heart before UP polls for Mayawati: No statues, parks this time if elected||For BSP supremo Mayawati, who was nurturing dreams to come to power in next year's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, it appeared to be a case of 'once bitten twice shy'. Indicating a change of heart, Mayawati, on Tuesday, declared that she would not build memorials, statues or parks if her party returned to power in the state after the 2022 assembly elections. The polls are due to be held in March next year. ''I will focus on the development of the state if the BSP forms the next government... the government will not construct memorials, parks or statues this time,'' Mayawati said while addressing the 'Prabuddh Sammelan' (Brahmin Sammelan) in Lucknow. ''Our efforts will be to change the face of UP not to build statues or parks,'' she remarked. The BSP supremo had, in her previous stint (2007-2012), got several memorials and parks constructed after 'Dalit icons in the state capital of Lucknow and other parts of the state despite widespread criticisms. She had also got her own statues installed at the memorials and parks. According to the official sources, her government had spent over Rs 1,400 crore on the memorials, statues and parks. Mayawati appeared to admit that her decision to build the memorials and statues backfired and her party was routed in the subsequent elections in the state. In the 2017 assembly polls, the BSP could secure only 19 of the 403 seats. Her party's strength in the assembly was reduced to seven after a dozen of her MLAs either defected to the other parties or were expelled. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-change-of-heart-before-up-polls-for-mayawati-no-statues-parks-this-time-if-elected-1028000.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Atiq Ahmad, wife join Owaisi’s AIMIM||Jailed gangster and former MP Atiq Ahmad and his wife on Tuesday joined AIMIM in presence of its chief Asaduddin Owaisi drawing a sharp reaction from the BJP which said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will not allow "Jinnah's jehadi mentality" to flourish in Uttar Pradesh. While Atiq's wife Shaista Praveen joined the AIMIM at a press conference here, Atiq Ahmad joined the new party in absentia. Owaisi inducted former Samajwadi Party leader Ahmad and his wife claiming that the SP Muslims SP and Bahujan Samaj Party used Muslims as slaves in their parties. Defending his decision to induct Ahmad, who has several criminal cases lodged against him, Owaisi also asserted that even several BJP leaders are facing several cases. "In UP, 37 per cent BJP MLAs have criminal cases. 116 BJP MPs have serious criminal cases and most of them have cases related to crime against women," Owaisi said. The BJP sharply reacted to his assertion and the development. “Giving protection to a notorious like Atiq Ahmed in the name of providing protection to the community, inducting him and his wife in AIMIM shows Owais’ mentality. But keep in mind that Yogi Ji will not allow Jinnah's jehadi mentality to flourish in UP," BJP Kannauj MP Subrat Pathak said in a tweet in Hindi. पहले अयोध्या से चिढ़कर पुराना नाम फ़ैज़ाबाद इस्तेमाल करना और अब सम्प्रदाय के नाम पर अतीक अहमद जैसे दुर्दांत अपराधी को संरक्षण देते हुए उसकी पत्नी को AIMIM में शामिल करना ओवैसी जैसों की मानसिकता को दर्शाता हैलेकिन ध्यान रहे योगी जीUP में जिन्ना बाली जेहादी मानसिकता पनपने नहींदेंगे While inducting Ahmad and his wife in AIMIM, Owais also said his party has made all booth-level preparations to contest 100 out of total 403 assembly seats in UP. "Muslims used to do 'gulami' (slavery) of Samajwadi Party and BSP and raise slogans in their favour and to make their government. But when it comes to giving them participation, they did not talk," he said "The AAP, SP, BSP did not want anyone from the Muslim community to emerge as a leader. As I am talking of giving participation to Muslims, they are feeling uncomfortable," he said. "When it comes to giving participation and representation to the Muslims, they say it will increase communalism. The SP-BSP contested elections together, yet the BJP won. Muslims had given them votes. Where all those votes have gone?" he said. Owaisi asserted that his party's objective is to defeat BJP, Owaisi said he is with Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party and other parties are also with them. On giving tickets to Hindus, Owiasi said, "The OBCs are our brothers, we will give tickets to Dalits also and they will win.” A five-time legislator and one-time MP Ahmad, now over 60 years, has more than 90 criminal cases, including those of murders, abductions, illegal mining, extortion, intimidation and fraud, against him. He is lodged in a Gujarat jail. He was shifted there from Uttar Pradesh on the Supreme Court's directions in 2019. Till now, police have taken action on his properties worth more than ₹200 crore. These actions were taken against Atiq Ahmed under the Gangster Act Besides demolishing the buildings, illegally built by Atiq and his men, the Allahabad district administration has also attached his several properties and those of his associates. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/atiq-ahmad-wife-join-owaisi-s-aimim-1028007.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Hardline Hurriyat Conference announces Masrat Alam as Geelani’s successor||Days after the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, Hurriyat Conference announced that incarcerated Masrat Alam Bhat will be the new chairman of the separatist amalgam. A statement of the hardline faction of the Hurriyat said that the amalgam took the decision at a meeting held in Srinagar on Tuesday. “Considering the challenges, Hurriyat members have consulted through different mediums and have unanimously agreed that Masrat Alam Bhat will be made the chairman,” it said. Apart from Bhat’s ascension, Shabir Ahmad Shah and Ghulam Ahmed Gulzar were elected as vice-chairmen, and Molvi Bashir Ahmed Irfani as the general secretary of the Hurriyat, it added. Nonagenarian Geelani passed away at his uptown Hyderpora residence on September 1 and was buried the same night a few hundred meters away from his home. He had formed the hardliner faction of the Hurriyat in 2003 and was his lifetime chairman. But despite him resigning as its chairman last July, the separatist amalgam had not announced a new head until Geelani’s death. The appointments are temporary till elections are held according to the Hurriyat constitution, the faction said. Who is Masrat Alam Bhat? Bhat, who was charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in October 2019, is at present lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail. He rose to prominence during the 2008 Amarnath land row agitation. His role in the unrest put him into the public eye and realizing his newfound political clout, the authorities arrested him for 21 months. Days before 2010 summer unrest broke out in Kashmir in which 120 protesters were killed in security forces firing, Bhat was released from the prison. For the next four months, he spearheaded the protests in Kashmir by formulating the protest calendars. He was finally arrested in October 2010 and remains under detention since then. In 2013 Alam was not released even after the Supreme Court disposed of his petition and ordered that no fresh detention order should come against him for a week, to give him time to mount a legal defence. Bhat, an alumnus of Kashmir’s prestigious missionary school Tyndale Biscoe, was first arrested in 1990 and was released more than a year later, in November 1991. He was detained for a second time in 1993 and kept in custody for more than four years and was released in February 1997. The 50-year-old, a resident of the old city Zaindar Mohalla in Srinagar, has been unapologetically pro-Pakistan and anti-India voice. He has proudly claimed that he has been a stone thrower since his childhood, maintaining that throwing stones was the only form of resistance for the Kashmiri people. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hardline-hurriyat-conference-announces-masrat-alam-as-geelani-s-successor-1028019.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Central Vista project: CPWD receives approval for diversion of 'forest land'||The Central Public Works Department has received approval from the Union Ministry of Environment's Regional Empowered Committee (REC) for the diversion of 8.11 hectares of “deemed forest” land, for the construction of three office buildings under the Central Vista redevelopment project in the national capital. At present, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) stands on the site. The final approval for the diversion of forest land is to be granted by the central government. In August, the Delhi government had recommended the proposal for approval of the REC “in larger public interest subject to the conditions laid by the forest department”. Since the place has more than 250 trees per hectare at the site, the area was treated as “deemed forest” and required approval for diversion for non-forest activity under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Of the existing 2,219 trees at the site, the CPWD seeks to transplant 1,734 and retain 485 trees. The three office buildings, which will be part of the Common Central Secretariat, are to be built at a cost of Rs 3,269 crore, with Rs 139 crore set aside for five years' maintenance. The CPWD has informed the Delhi Forest department that it will transplant trees at NTPC Eco- Park, Badarpur, while compensatory afforestation will come up at Dwarka in Delhi. The Central Government wanted to build Central Vista with Common Central Secretariat to accommodate 51 ministries with modern facilities. The CPWD wanted to demolish some of the existing buildings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-project-cpwd-receives-approval-for-diversion-of-forest-land-1028088.html
07-09-2021||North and Central||Ramlila to be held in physical form this year in Delhi: Organisers||Over 60 Ramlila organisation committees have decided to hold the event in its physical form this year in Delhi and they have the nod of DDA, MCDs and ASI to use their grounds, Lav Kush Ramlila Committee secretary Arjun Kumar said on Tuesday. The representatives of the Ramlila committees met the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) vice chairman and commissioners of the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs), who have allowed booking of their grounds, he claimed. Delhi Dharmik Mahasangh, general secretary and BJP leader Ashok Goel said a delegation will soon meet the Delhi lieutenant governor and the Union minister of state for home to seek their help to allow holding of Ramlila in the wake of a “controlled” situation Covid-19 in the city. The mahasangh is an umbrella organisation of Ramlila committees in the national capital. Sources in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation said while NDMC authorities have given verbal approval to hold Ramlila events on its grounds and parks, the final call will be taken by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on the modalities. The authority, at present, prohibits any sort of religious gatherings. The number of visitors could be restricted to the venues or other protocols need to be followed, they said. Multiple calls and text messages to DDA officials did not elicit any response. "Over 60 committees met today at the Jhandewalan temple and it was decided that we will hold Ramlila celebrations this year, for which all organisers have to take permission to book DDA, MCD or ASI (Archaeological Society of India ) grounds," Kumar said. Booking of grounds has been started by the DDA and the MCDs, Delhi Dharmik Mahasangh general secretary Goel claimed. According to the latest Covid guidelines, the DDMA prohibits any sort of religious gatherings in the national capital. Kumar added that now they only needed permission and license from the Delhi police to organise Ramlila. The new DDMA guidelines should be issued in a few days, he said. "We hope the DDMA guidelines will allow Ramlila, perhaps with distanced seating and fairs may not be allowed. Now that bookings for grounds are open, we are hopeful," he added. Even though the Delhi government had allowed Ramlila celebration last year with strict guidelines, most organisers had refrained from holding the event due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ramlila-to-be-held-in-physical-form-this-year-in-delhi-organisers-1028119.html
07-09-2021||Oasis||Fortitude in the face of adversity||A Hindu temple standing at a quarter of a mile into the sea at Waterloo in Trinidad is not just any monument but a testament of the human spirit and one man’s fortitude. The Shiv Mandir, known as ‘Temple in the sea’ was conceptualised and created single-handedly by Sewdass Sadhu, a Benaras native who set out to create a holy place in the land of his destiny. His parents reached the Gulf of Paria off Trinidad coast as indentured labourers in 1908 with the seven-year-old boy, Sewdass. After his parents’ demise, Sewdass finished the remaining serving period of the indentureship. From 1926 onwards, with the savings from his meager wages, they came back to India every few years to worship at the holy shrines. But in the 1930s, as the travel costs went beyond his reach, he decided to create a holy place in Trinidad by the calm Gulf of Paria, perhaps making it his holy Ganges. Sadhu chose a piece of unused swampland next to a sugar factory and built a modest temple. When the sugar company noticed the construction on its land, Sewdass was dragged to court, fined and jailed. When he came out of prison, he decided to build his temple in the sea, as the sea is 'no man’s land’. With tenacity as his capital, he started collecting broken bricks from a brick factory and dumped them into the sea to make a walkway. He became a familiar figure carrying two buckets in the handlebar of his cycle transporting sand and cement. It took 25 years for him to single-handedly build the temple in the sea surrounded by water. The temple stood as a celebration of Sewdass Sadhu’s mental strength and courage against all odds.  The postscript to this story is astonishing. In 1970 Sewdass visited his homeland where suddenly he breathed his last due to a heart attack. With time, due to sea erosion, the temple was damaged. In 1994, Rampersad, a third-generation Trinidadian of indenture ancestry took the initiative to rebuild Sadhu’s temple. Eighteen months later, on December 10, 1995, the Sewdass Sadhu Shiv Mandir was consecrated, with Sewdass Sadhu’s statue standing on the shore as a witness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/fortitude-in-the-face-of-adversity-1027813.html
07-09-2021||Opinion||The Tuesday Interview | ‘NEP will strengthen govt institutions, private institutions are scared’||Taking the lead among states, the Karnataka government’s swift move to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) at the undergraduate level has ruffled the Opposition and left academic circles divided. Regardless, the state government is chalking out plans to implement NEP at the primary and secondary school levels, too, Higher Education Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, who is spearheading the implementation of NEP, tells DH’s Rashmi Belur. The Opposition is resisting NEP implementation and has dubbed it ‘Nagpur Education Policy’. How will you address the apprehensions? The NEP, per se, is not new and has been in discussion for seven years. In fact, our former CMs Siddaramaiah and HD Kumaraswamy were aware of it. After nationwide discussion and debate on various platforms, the NEP got cabinet approval in December 2020. There is no need for the uproar now as the implementation of the policy needs at least 15 years. Also, the policy will be implemented in phases. If the opposition leaders have any apprehensions, the government is always ready to clarify and discuss in detail. As a policy, the NEP should have been debated in the legislature before its rollout. However, it was neither discussed nor there was an assent from the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of state-run universities. Did the government hush it up? Like any other policy finds its way, we have also implemented the NEP from this academic year. The Governor’s assent is not necessary. But as and when we make structural and administrative changes, we will definitely place it before both the Houses and obtain the assent of the Governor. Also, there is nothing against the students in the policy as the Opposition is alleging. If the opposition leaders raise the issue in the House, the government will go all out to clarify and explain those queries. At a time when a majority of the central universities are taking a cautious line and keeping fingers crossed, why was the Karnataka Higher Education department zealous in rolling out NEP? The decision to implement from this academic year was not taken in a hurry. In fact, the NEP itself had the objective of being implemented from the 2021-22 academic year. We have only stuck to the NEP schedule. Why should Karnataka or Higher Education department be blamed if the central universities and other institutions fail to fall in line? Academic circles are abuzz with talk that NEP is Dr Ashwath Narayana’s way to score over his opponents in the party and that it emerged more as an egoistic decision. How do you counter this? If they (academicians) think that doing good work is like taking advantage or mileage, then I cannot help it. The NEP, being a single policy for the whole country, is divided in Karnataka. While it is being implemented in higher education, the government is planning separate implementation at the primary and secondary education levels. Primary and secondary education is not excluded from the NEP purview as we are chalking out plans. The NEP will be implemented separately because the departments have separate ministers and administration. This does not mean we are dividing the policy in any way. There is no question of leaving out any stakeholder in this. Everybody will be taken onboard. Students are at the centre of the policy and major stakeholders of the NEP. However, the government seems to have ignored the students while educating people about the policy. Your thoughts? We have made available all the information to the students and student organisations. During the admission, they have been told in detail about the policy. For any student, earlier, the programme was nothing but a course and set of combinations. But now it will be choice-based and students have the freedom to select the subject according to their interests. No inconvenience is caused to the students at any level. During the first year, digital and skill-enhancing courses are made available. Students have clarity from the beginning of the course itself about what they are studying. I reiterate once again that NEP is for the good of students and indeed a shot in the arm. By the time they reach their final year, they will be clear about their career perspectives and goals. We have even set up a helpline for students to clarify their doubts. Are private and deemed-to-be universities kept out of NEP? The deemed-to-be universities do not come under us. All the other higher education institutions come under the purview of the state government, including private universities and autonomous institutions, and shall follow and implement NEP from the current academic year. This has been communicated to all higher education institutions in the state and they are all implementing it and they are all members of our Higher Education Academy. There is also talk that NEP paves way for privatisation in the higher education sector… Privatisation is happening even now, but there is no room for it under the NEP. The NEP is a boon, and the greatest opportunity to strengthen government institutions. We are attracting students to government institutions by giving them devices, by enabling smart classrooms. The private institutions are already scared and staring at closure. Representatives of some of the private institutions have even shared their fear of closure. If not for the BJP-led government at the Centre, would you have taken the same interest in implementing NEP? Being a responsible citizen and Higher Education Minister, I definitely would have shown and demonstrated the same interest and enthusiasm as I cannot hold back something which is so good for students and society. The students who have joined undergraduate programmes this year will themselves talk about the benefits in the coming days. The NEP provides students with an option to ‘exit’. The academia is concerned that this may bring down the Gross Enrollment Ratio. The exit option provided under NEP will avoid dropouts in higher education. After giving students an exit option, the policy also allows them to come back later and they can rejoin the same course. The policy is flexible and every institution in the country will become like the IITs and IIMs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-tuesday-interview-nep-will-strengthen-govt-institutions-private-institutions-are-scared-1027814.html
07-09-2021||Opinion||Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat and MAJGAR||Indians in general, and voters in Uttar Pradesh in particular, vote their caste. And farmers coming together to vote for their sectional interests, overcoming their caste allegiances, is rare. Why should then Sunday's rally in Muzaffarnagar worry the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)? It should be because, in the 1960s, Chaudhary Charan Singh's political genius knitted an alliance of intermediate peasant castes of western UP. If it happened then, can't it happen now? One needs to go a few years back, to April 10, 2014, to understand the subtext of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait bellowing the twin slogans of "Allahu Akbar" and "Har Har Mahadev" from the stage in Muzaffarnagar. Ten-Lok Sabha seats across 11 western Uttar Pradesh's Jat belt districts, including Muzaffarnagar, voted on April 10, 2014. Amit Shah was the BJP's election in-charge of UP. A couple of days later, at an informal chat with journalists at the BJP headquarters, Shah had a spring in his step and a smile on his face. He was confident the BJP was on course to win 60 of UP's 80 seats. The most that the BJP had ever bagged in UP was 57 in 1998. Feedback from cadres on the first phase of polling in UP, on April 10, had convinced Shah of a pachua bayar, a west wind, rising from western UP and blowing across the state to sweep UP's 80 seats in favour of the BJP. The BJP and its allies won 73 seats. But that day, with election results still a month away, Shah's confidence was founded in the social realities of the region. The communal riots of August 2013 in Muzaffarnagar had severed whatever had remained of Chaudhary Charan Singh's MAJGAR social alliance. In the 1960s, Charan Singh constructed an alliance of peasant castes of Ahirs (Yadavs), Jats, Gujjars and Rajputs, abbreviated to AJGAR. It eventually also included Muslims.  These castes of the middle peasantry had benefitted from Green Revolution. But they also had common concerns with agriculture and shared the same social milieu in their villages, which brought them together on election days. Charan Singh emerged as their unquestioned leader, and his exit from the Congress also meant the party's inexorable decline started in UP politics post-1967.  The MAJGAR alliance weakened in the years after his death, but the Jat and Muslim unity survived. Charan Singh's successors, son Ajit Singh and grandson Jayant Chaudhary, enfeebled that too in 2009.  For the Lok Sabha polls that year, their party, the Rashtriya Lok Dal, allied with the BJP. It severed the Jat and Muslim social alliance. And the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots sounded its death knell. The BJP built on its success of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections in the 2017 Assembly polls, winning 135 of 148 seats of the region. With many Jats in the armed forces, the Pulwama and Balakot incidents influenced the voting patterns in the area in the 2019 Lok Sabha. Seven-year itch? In 1989, Mahendra Singh Tikait, father of BKU leaders Naresh and Rakesh Tikait, held a 40-day agitation to return an abducted Muslim girl, Nayeema. It was also usual for Tikait senior to ensure separate enclosures for offering namaz and singing bhajans during his prolonged agitations, including on Delhi's Boat Club lawns in 1988. In January this year, as the farmers' movement seemed to peter out, Muslim leaders of western UP gave the call to the community to support the two Tikait brothers. They attended the mahapanchayat that Naresh Tikait, the elder of the two brothers, organised in January at their native village Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar. The leaders of the two communities decided to let bygones be bygones. The question is whether this rediscovered brotherhood percolates down and reflect in the voting pattern in the Assembly polls six months from now. Or will one potentially polarising incident engulf the region in another round of communal violence?  Muslims comprise 25 per cent, and Jats are 17 per cent of western UP's population. In the panchayat polls held in April, the RLD and SP supported candidates defeated several of the BJP's candidates in the region.  Across UP, people are upset with the increase in cooking gas prices and inflation. Would the people have forgotten the deaths from Covid-19 and official mismanagement in six months?  The Yogi Adityanath government has time on its hands to repair the damage. It could increase the state advised price (SAP) for sugarcane. The Centre and state government could increase the quantum and numbers covered under the PM Kisan Nidhi. In the run-up to the UP Assembly polls in 2017, the BJP had promised a farm loan waiver. Other steps the state government is reportedly mulling include reducing power tariffs and more Jats and Gujjars in UP's council of ministers. Would all of this be enough? Is it too late for the BJP to stop the western winds of change that might blow across UP in February 2022? Many believe the opposition in UP is too weak to take on Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath-led BJP. But as Chaudhary Charan Singh and Mahendra Singh Tikaith showed those many years back, the people of India can throw up surprises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/muzaffarnagar-mahapanchayat-and-majgar-1027862.html
07-09-2021||Opinion||Odisha: Naveen Patnaik wakes up to Sangh Parivar's growth||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is growing in strength in Odisha through its social welfare work, especially schools, which outfits affiliated with the Sangh Parivar run to prepare a generation of youth devoted to Hindutva. The increase in numbers and popularity of educational institutions run by the Sangh Parivar poses a challenge to the state government-run and government-aided schools. To repair the reputation of government-run schools and attract more students, the state government recently launched an initiative to revamp these in a phased manner. Starting with 50 high schools in Hinjili, the constituency of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, the Odisha government has announced to transform 5,000 high schools in the state in the next three years. The state government project comes in the wake of the growing popularity of schools run by the Shiksha Vikash Samiti (SVS), affiliated with Vidya Bharati, the educational wing of the RSS, and also of private English medium schools. The SVS schools and private English medium schools charge for admission and collect monthly fees, while education is free in the government-run schools. In 1977, the Sangh Parivar established Odisha's first Saraswati Shishu Mandir in Bhubaneswar. Interestingly, it ran the school from a government quarter in the capital city. The setting up of SVS schools coincided with the deterioration of the standard of government-run schools because of lackadaisical supervision. The entry for RSS affiliated outfits into Odisha was easier then since the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the earlier avatar of the Bharatiya Janata Party, had merged with the then ruling Janata Party. Since then, SVS schools have witnessed a steady increase. The SVS currently runs a total of 1,367 schools in Odisha. Of these, 1,007 are Saraswati Shishu Mandir primary and upper primary schools, and the remaining 360 are Saraswati Shishu Vidya Mandir high schools. There are a total of 14,63,756 students enrolled and 17,000 teachers employed with these schools. Besides, the SVS is also running five higher secondary schools in different parts of the state and a degree college at Nilakantha Nagar in the southern Odisha town of Berhampur in Ganjam, the chief minister's home district. The SVS schools with Odia language as the medium of instruction also teach other books of their choice and the government-approved curriculum.  Their performance has been better than government-run and aided schools due to better monitoring and discipline, which most parents appreciate. The academic results of these schools are also better than government-run schools. Along with these SVS schools performing well, Odisha has seen a growth in the number of RSS shakhas. Currently, 1,932 shakhas are functioning in the state. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat was on a five-day trip to the state last month to meet the Sangh Parivar functionaries. The Sangh Parivar has divided Odisha into two sectors – 16 coastal districts clubbed as the Purba Pranta (eastern region) with 1,132 Shakhas and daily attendance of 25,000 volunteers, and the Paschim Pranta (western region) with 14 interior districts, which have 800 shakhas with attendance of 20,000 volunteers. The increase in SVS schools and RSS shakhas was sharper when the BJP was in power in the state as an alliance partner of the ruling Biju Janata Dal for nine years, from 2000 to 2009. Patnaik's plan The Patnaik government plans to improve school infrastructure with better classrooms, e-libraries, advanced science labs, clean drinking water, hygienic toilets and sports facilities.  For the state's aspirational middle class that prefers to send their children to English medium schools, the state government has established 250 Adarsha Vidyalayas in each block. It will eventually cover all 314 blocks. These schools start their intake of students from middle school onwards, and instead of the State Board, these are affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education. The state government has proposed to set up model schools for meritorious students. However, the Patnaik government's plan could take years to complete. In the interregnum, the SVS schools are likely to increase. The RSS and its several affiliated outfits are growing in strength as well and expanding their footprint at the grassroots level. Will all of this contribute to the BJP's ambition to win the next round of Assembly and Lok Sabha polls in Odisha in 2024? That is hazardous to predict. What one can say with certainty is that many of the party's workers developed an affinity for Hindutva while studying in the SVS schools.  (The writer is a Bhubaneswar based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/odisha-naveen-patnaik-wakes-up-to-sangh-parivars-growth-1028037.html
07-09-2021||Panorama||China’s rocky relationship with the environment||As many of us know, the world is in the midst of a climate change catastrophe. Greenhouse gases (GHG) are chiefly responsible for this. More than a quarter of all global greenhouse gas emissions come from China. Between 2014 and 2019 carbon dioxide emissions by China increased by 0.9% per year. While each country is struggling to reduce its emissions under the 2015 Paris accord, China seems oblivious to the climate change threat. China is now the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, toppling even the United States and the European Union. China’s indifference to the environment predates the industrial era. During the Qing dynasty (1644-1911), the country was ravaged by population growth, land conversion, soil erosion, deforestation and poor health conditions. During those times, rampant deforestation coupled with soil erosion impacted China’s agriculture. Heavy military spending and corruption led the empire into the arms of imperialistic western powers. This undermined the ecological resilience of the nation. Nature hit back with drought and famine between1876 and 1879, resulting in the death of millions. Industrialisation started making its mark in China by 1877 with the introduction of railways in Shanghai. Imperialistic expansions of Western powers in China resulted in a weak, corruption-ridden economy at the start of the 20th century. China is the world’s second-largest oil consumer as well as the world’s largest producer and consumer of coal. The country produced a massive 3280 million tonnes of industrial waste between 2013 and 2016. Plastic pollution Plastic pollution is another problem negatively impacting the global environment. Plastics degrade into microplastics and can be biomagnified in fishes, crabs, mollusks, and other crustaceans. Humans consume this microplastic-laced seafood, causing substantial health impacts. Globally, nations are now joining hands to manage this aggravated situation. In 2019, China alone produced 31% of the world’s plastics. With China’sglobal dominance, Chinese plastics can percolate into every nation across the globe. China has a negative impact on wildlife conservation. We are currently passing through a ‘mega extinction’ phase partly because of the over-exploitation of natural resources and illegal wildlife trade. With current extinction rates, half of the earth’s higher life forms may go extinct by 2100. Chinese myths and beliefs are partly responsible for this catastrophe. In China, illegal wildlife trade for animal body parts is common. Eating animal parts is believed by some people to enhance male virility. India and Southeast Asian countries supply China’s increasing demand for animal parts. Both Myanmar and Thailand are the main crossroads for entry of these items into Chinese markets. Demands for tiger bones, claws, other tiger body parts as well as rhino horns and pangolin scales are driving these animals to extinction. While most nations work towards protecting these species, a readily available Chinese market makes it difficult to halt this illegal trade. The world is facing an imminent mega extinction: Our watercourses are clogged by plastics, our air is poisoned by greenhouse gas emissions and our livelihoods are destroyed by climate change-induced droughts, flooding, and extreme weather. All international agencies must work hand in hand to enforce policies to control these global environmental phenomena. China must take an active role in enacting environmentally friendly policies.  (Authors are Associate Professor and Dean at Jindal School of Environment and Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University, Haryana)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/china-s-rocky-relationship-with-the-environment-1027815.html
07-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Learning lessons for life||Teachers’ Day for me is an occasion for not only a celebration but also reflection. I recall with gratitude how much I have gained, over the past four decades, from a great many students. Perry stands out in my memory. In 1978, I was teaching English at the college in Delhi where I had studied earlier. Every evening, I would painstakingly prepare for my lectures the following week. I was a bit nervous when it came to my B A English Honours students who were in their final year. There was only a slight age difference between us, and I could not afford to falter. Prospice, Robert Browning’s beautiful poem on facing the end with courage, posed a challenge. In keeping with its title (Latin for ‘looking forward’), I was eager to expound it. ‘Fear Death?’ I read aloud, proceeding to point out how the poet answers his rhetorical question through striking images. I had reached the stanza in which Browning declares his readiness to confront the ‘Foe’ without eyes ‘bandaged’ when I heard giggles emanating from around the room. Perry was playing with the pigtails of the girl in front of her, and the class was distracted. I was young and had yet to acquire that cardinal virtue of a teacher, tolerance. Viewing the prank as a personal affront, I glared at Perry and said things that I shall always regret. Perry went on to shine academically, eventually becoming a lecturer at the selfsame institution: her alma mater and mine. A few years later, she was bravely battling cancer. "I need Browning’s faith and fortitude," she said with a smile, when we met shortly before she passed away. I tearfully told her that she possessed both in abundance. I learned more from Perry than I taught her. I might have introduced her to Prospice, but she exemplified its heroic spirit, summed up in these lines: I was ever a fighterSo one fight moreThe best and the last!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/learning-lessons-for-life-1027811.html
07-09-2021||Second Edit||A lack of sense and sensibility of history||Jallianwala Bagh is part of the country’s terrible colonial history and the massacre of hundreds of unarmed countrymen by Gen Reginald Dyer’s troops there is etched deep in the national mind. The memory of the event, which happened 102 years ago, has troubled generations of Indians. Countless people have visited the venue of the massacre, which has remained a solemn and sombre site reminding the visitors of the cruelty and callousness of Gen Dyer and his men, who fired on people in an enclosed space after blocking the only entrance and exit. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated what’s now a renovated memorial and said that it would remind the new generation about the history of the place and inspire them to learn about the past. Historical and archaeological places and monuments and artistic objects need to be protected against the ravages of time and nature and damage caused by human beings. Restoration, renovation and recreation are the three main processes employed for that. The changes made at Jallianwala Bagh have invited the criticism that they have robbed the historic site of its spirit through renovation and recreation, while what was at best needed was some restoration. Historians, architects, artists and many others who have known the place have said that the original character of the memorial has been lost and a glitzy, entertainment-oriented structure has come up there. The additions include four new galleries, a lotus pond, a new memorial column and a sound-and-light show. The original narrow entrance, which starkly reminded a visitor of death, is now peopled with some statues that do not convey the tragic sense that pervaded there. The well into which the people had jumped to escape death is covered with a transparent barrier. Many other changes that have been made are also thought to be wrong and inappropriate. The whole project has been dubbed as “Disneyfication” of a monument. The basic idea behind restoration of any such place should be to undo any physical damage that has happened and to prevent any damage in future. The ethos and character of the place should be maintained. Making such changes as would turn them into tourist destinations meant for enjoyment and entertainment is to trivialise them and to diminish their historical value. The simplicity and starkness of Jallianwala Bagh had to be retained to keep the memories about the massacre simple and stark. Beautification is a questionable idea, because the beauty that was sought to be created there may only have served to dim its truth. Sabarmati may well be the next victim of the lack of a sense of history and good taste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-lack-of-sense-and-sensibility-of-history-1027819.html
07-09-2021||South||After opposition's Save AP Roads campaign, Jagan orders road repairs once the monsoon recedes||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has blamed “the improper maintenance” during his predecessor Chandrababu Naidu's regime for the bad condition of the roads in the state. Reddy had come to power over two years back, in May 2019. With rains worsening the road infrastructure especially in some interiors where traveling has become a back-breaking venture, the opposition TDP and Jana Sena have accused the Reddy government of neglecting the thoroughfares essential for public commute. The Jana Sena Party led by Pawan Kalyan had last week launched a campaign focused on the awful state of the roads. While staging demonstrations at such spots, the JSP activists have also been posting pictures of ram-shackle roads from across all the districts with the hashtag #JSPForAP_Roads. The JSP has alleged that its party men were assaulted by the ruling YSRCP cadres in police presence, during one such peaceful protest at Amudalavalasa in Srikakulam district on Saturday. “Such incidents took place in other places too like Nandigama. While we are democratically requesting the government to repair the roads that have become death traps, police cases are foisted against our activists,” Kalyan stated on Sunday. On Monday, CM Reddy held a review on the roads etc infrastructure and directed the officials to focus on repair of roads once the monsoon recedes. Reddy, according to the CMO officials, said that his government has laid a special focus on repairing the damaged roads and “has also set up a special fund for the purpose.” The CM instructed for the completion of pending approach roads near the bridges. Officials informed Reddy that plans are underway for the construction of new roads with a Rs 6,400 crore financial assistance from the New Development Bank. “The YSRCP government has opened its eyes and started thinking about the road repairs and construction only after Janasena has exposed how bad the roads are in the state through the social media platforms. Lakhs of people have reported hardships due to these bad roads,” Kalyan said in a statement on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-oppositions-save-ap-roads-campaign-jagan-orders-road-repairs-once-the-monsoon-recedes-1027851.html
07-09-2021||South||Close contacts of child who died of Nipah test negative for virus||In a massive relief to Kerala, eight persons with symptoms of Nipah tested negative for the virus. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Tuesday that three samples each from the eight were tested at NIV and the results were negative. Test results of five more symptomatic persons are awaited. A total of 251 persons were found to be on the contact list of the 12-year-old boy, who died on Sunday, hailing from Chathamangalam in the suburbs of Kozhikode in Kerala. As many as 54 among them were in the high-risk group. Among the 251, 129 were health workers. Those who tested negative included the child's mother and health workers. "The samples of parents and healthcare workers, who were symptomatic, have been tested negative. It's a moment of relief that the results of those who were in close contact with the child came out negative," the minister said at a press meet. George said there are currently 48 people in the high risk category who are at a medical college isolation ward and their health condition is "stable". Out of the 48, 31 persons are from Kozhikode, four from Wayanad, eight from Malappuram, three from Kannur and one person each from Palakkad and Ernakulam districts. The minister also informed the media that more samples will be tested on Tuesday. The health department on Monday said 251 contacts of the child had been identified, of which 129 are healthcare workers. The department has been on a high alert since the 12-year-old boy from Kozhikode succumbed to Nipah virus infection on Sunday. The area within a three-kilometre radius from the house of the deceased child has been declared a containment zone. This includes wards from five panchayats. The health departments in four districts -- Kozhikode, neighbouring Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad -- have been put on high alert. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/close-contacts-of-child-who-died-of-nipah-test-negative-for-virus-1027880.html
07-09-2021||South||Why this 3BHK house in Kerala is going viral on social media||A three-bedroom house with three toilets, living area, kitchen, work area and open area at Kollam district in Kerala has become viral on the social media as the house has been constructed on 2.25 cents of land. A contemporary elevation makes the 700 square feet house all the more attractive. The construction cost of the house was around Rs 12 lakhs. But what makes the house priceless is the plight of its owner and the support he received from his friends and well-wishers in realising his dream. Manjukuttan G, a state secretary of the Youth Congress, dreamt of just a safe shelter for his family comprising himself an aged mother as his shack like house was about to collapse any time. His friends and well-wishers who came across the plight of Manjukuttan, who hailed from a very weak financial background, helped him realise his dream in a better manner. “What I just had was this v-shaped 2.25 cents land and shack-like house. Even as I had no money, I was forced to dream of a house as during the last rains myself and my mother were remaining sleepless inside the house in fear,’ says Manjukuttan, a native of Karunagapally, about 30 kilometres from Kollam city. With neighbours granting permission for relaxations in mandatory setback area, his architect friend Akhil and contractor friend Shafeek helped him realise his dream without remuneration. A ten feet high front door spruced up the elevation of the house that uses the boundary walls of the plot as sidewall. It has living/visitors room, two bedrooms, a toilet, kitchen and work area on the ground floor and one bath attached bedroom on the first floor. A common toilet was provided on the open area on the backside of the house. The housewarming was held on August 31 and Congress senior leaders including AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy, former opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and opposition leader V D Satheesan visited the house. With video and photos of the house going viral on social media, there are lot of visitors to Manjukuttan’s dream home these days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-this-3bhk-house-in-kerala-is-going-viral-on-social-media-1027989.html
07-09-2021||South||DA hike for Tamil Nadu govt employees advanced to January 1, 2022: CM Stalin||The enhanced Dearness Allowance to government employees and pensioners would be advanced by three months and it shall be implemented with effect from January 1, 2022, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced in the Assembly on Tuesday. In the revised budget (2021-22), the increase in DA for employees and pensioners was announced from April 1, 2022, he said. However, considering representations received from associations of government employees, the DA hike would be implemented for them and pensioners from January 1, 2022, despite serious fiscal constraints, the Chief Minister said. The move would benefit 16 lakh government employees and pensioners and the advancement of the DA hike would entail an additional expenditure of Rs 1,620 crore for three months and for a year the expenditure shall be Rs 6,480 crore. An office-bearer of a government employees association said that the DA is expected to be raised on par with the Centre's announcement of 11 per cent in sync with the practice so far. "Usually, the state government announces the DA hike soon after the Centre's announcement. This is the first time we are witnessing such a scenario," he told PTI. The associations of government employees have been demanding a 11 per cent DA increase. Effective July 1, 2021, the Centre had announced a 11 per cent increase (17 per cent to 28 per cent) in DA and Dearness Relief to Central government employees and pensioners respectively. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/da-hike-for-tamil-nadu-govt-employees-advanced-to-january-1-2022-cm-stalin-1028009.html
07-09-2021||South||Kerala plans video surveillance at jewellery shops to curb tax evasion||In a bid to check tax evasion by gold merchants, the Kerala government is considering the option of live video surveillance at jewellery shops apart from intensifying surprise checks. The fresh move has triggered resentment from the thousands of gold merchants in Kerala, which is one of the thriving markets of the yellow metal. A fall in the tax revenue from gold has prompted the state government to tighten its grip on gold merchants. The fresh moves are also a sequel to Kerala’s long-pending demand for introducing e-way bill for gold. A meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to intensify inspection by tax officials at jewellery shops. The Chief Minister explored the option of imposing video surveillance at major jewellery shops with tax officials and police getting access to the CCTV units of the shops. Irked by the moves, All Kerala Gold and Silver Merchants Association representatives said that the government’s fresh moves would aggravate the harassment already being faced by the merchants from tax enforcement officials.  According to sources, Kerala's tax revenue from gold that used to be above Rs. 600 crore came down to nearly Rs. 250 core after the introduction of GST. Kerala has around 7,000 registered jewellery merchants. Gold smuggling to Kerala from other countries through airports is also considered to be alarmingly high.  The state government has been demanding that e-way bill should be introduced for gold, citing that the lack of e-way bill was the major reason for tax evasion. However, the gold merchants of some states like Gujarat were opposing it citing security risks involved while transporting gold as an e-way bill could make details of the gold movement known to others. The state government is also in the process of introducing e-way bill for the intra-state movement of gold. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-plans-video-surveillance-at-jewellery-shops-to-curb-tax-evasion-1028023.html
07-09-2021||South||Night curfew, Sunday lockdown in Kerala to be withdrawn||Kerala government has decided to lift the night curfew and total shutdown on Sundays as well as to reopen higher education institutions as part of easing the restrictions imposed in view of Covid. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that residential educational institutions for those above the age of 18 would be allowed to function, provided all teachers and students take at least one dose of vaccine. The institutions should be following a bio-bubble model.  Higher education institutions will reopen from October 4 for final year degree and post-graduate classes. Students who take at least one dose of vaccine would be allowed. Vaccination to school teachers would be also given priority as part of efforts to reopen schools, especially for tenth and plus-two classes. The Chief Minister said that the state was witnessing a decline in Covid's intensity. The seven-day average TPR of the state came down and only around 13 per cent of the infected were requiring hospitalisation. Vaccination was also progressing well with 76.15 per cent of people above the age of 18 getting at least one dose and 28.73 per cent getting both doses. The TPR reported in the state on Tuesday was 15.87 per cent, with 25,772 fresh cases, which is also low compared to previous days. International experts who attended a meeting convened by the Chief Minister recently had suggested that the state could ease the restrictions as the severity of the infection in the state was coming down. The state had witnessed a surge in Covid cases by the end of August after the Onam festival. At present 2.37 lakh persons in the state were Covid infected of which only 32,935 were in the hospital. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/night-curfew-sunday-lockdown-in-kerala-to-be-withdrawn-1028033.html
07-09-2021||South||Ban on Ganesh Chaturthi festivities only to avoid spike in Covid-19 cases: CM Stalin||Rejecting a demand by BJP to allow the public celebration of Vinayagar Chaturthi in the state, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday said the state government imposed a ban on the installation of idols in public places only to avoid a spike in Covid-19 infections.  Stalin also cited the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kerala after the state government relaxed restrictions during Onam and Bakrid, reminding that the Tamil Nadu government has imposed a ban on all religious festivals till September 15. Acknowledging that potters who make Ganesha idols would lose their business this year too, Stalin announced Rs 5,000 as a relief to 3,000 potters who specialise in making the idols during Ganesh Chaturthi. This would mean that the 3,000 potters would get Rs 10,000 as relief this year if one adds the Rs 5,000 they get as relief every year during monsoon season. The Chief Minister made the announcement as he reiterated his government’s decision to ban religious festivals while responding to BJP MLA ‘Nainar’ Nagendran’s demand that Vinayagar Chaturthi celebrations be allowed.  “The Union Government sent a circular asking all state governments to take steps to ensure that people don’t crowd at public places till September 30, 2021. The courts have also stressed the same point. Kerala relaxed rules for Onam and Bakrid and that led to a spike in fresh cases. We have not been able to completely control the spread of Covid-19 yet,” Stalin said.  He added that the ban was limited to public celebrations while people can celebrate the festival inside their homes. This is the second consecutive year that Tamil Nadu has banned celebrations of Vinayagar Chaturthi in public due to Covid-19.  Stalin’s reiteration comes a day after TN BJP chief K Annamalai criticising the DMK government for not allowing celebrations of Vinayagar Chaturthi while “neighbouring states” have allowed. He also said BJP workers will install 1 lakh Vinayagar idols outside their houses and perform poojas on September 10. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ban-on-ganesh-chaturthi-festivities-only-to-avoid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-cm-stalin-1028036.html
07-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu seeks 1 crore additional Covid-19 vaccines||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday demanded one crore additional Covid-19 vaccines apart from the monthly allocation from the Centre to achieve 100 per cent vaccination among the eligible population in districts bordering Kerala and for the smooth conduct of a mega vaccination drive planned for September 12. In a letter to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian said the state was administering about 5 lakh doses per day for the last 7 days and if one goes by the trend, the current supplies will run out in the next four days.  Of the 6.06 crore eligible population in Tamil Nadu, as many as 2.63 crore people have received the first dose, while 68.91 lakh beneficiaries have received both doses of the Covid vaccine.  “The remaining eligible population above 18 years in Tamil Nadu who need to be vaccinated with the first dose are 3.44 crore and the persons due for their second dose is about 18.89 lakhs as of 05.09.2021,” Subramanian told Mandaviya.  Informing the Union Minister about the state’s mega vaccination drive planned for September 12 to administer 20 lakh vaccines, Subramanian demanded additional one crore doses of Covid vaccines and an equal number of 0.5 AD Syringes or 1ml/2ml syringes to the state. This is in addition to the already committed 1.04 crore doses for September. Subramanian also referred to the higher positivity and higher number of cases reported dally in Kerala and stressed the need for achieving 100 per cent vaccination in Coimbatore, Dindigul, Kanyakumari, Tenkasi, The Nilgiris, Theni, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur and Virudhunagar districts. “It estimated that 65.76 lakh population in the nine districts have to be given first dose vaccine,” the minister said, adding that the state is planning to further increase the pace of vaccinations as it realises that the large unvaccinated eligible population continues to make Tamil Nadu vulnerable for Covid cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-seeks-1-crore-additional-covid-19-vaccines-1028043.html
07-09-2021||South||Don’t print photos of leaders on school bags, textbooks: Madras High Court to Tamil Nadu govt||The Madras High Court on Tuesday asked the Tamil Nadu government to stop printing photographs of Chief Ministers and other political functionaries in schools bags, textbooks, and stationery items distributed for free to government school students.  A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu passed the order while hearing a PIL that sought directions to the government on the issue.  "It is abhorring that school books or school bags meant for school-going children who do not have a right to vote would carry photographs of public functionaries even if the functionary is the Chief Minister of the State,” the bench said.  The bench also asked the state government not to misuse public funds for printing photographs of leaders. “The State should ensure that such practice is not continued in future," the court added.  The court’s observation comes a fortnight after Chief Minister M K Stalin asked the School Education Department to distribute bags with photographs of former Chief Ministers J Jayalalithaa and Edappadi K Palaniswami. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told the Assembly that Stalin gave the go-ahead as changing the photographs would cost Rs 13 crore to the exchequer.  Stalin has also done away with the practice of printing the photographs of the Chief Minister on the certificates awarded to Best Teachers on Teachers’ Day. Even the tokens issued for distributing Rs 4,000 as Covid-19 relief and the bag containing 14 grocery items distributed to ration card holders did not have the photograph of the Chief Minister.  It has been the practice of political parties in Tamil Nadu to print photographs of their leaders in school bags and certificates among other things when they are in power.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/don-t-print-photos-of-leaders-on-school-bags-textbooks-madras-high-court-to-tamil-nadu-govt-1028055.html
07-09-2021||South||BJP wants Andhra Pradesh governor's intervention to make CM Jagan lift curbs on Ganesh festivities||The Andhra Pradesh BJP has sought the intervention of Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan for lifting the Andhra Pradesh government imposed curbs on the Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations. The saffron party's leaders and cadres are agitating against the ban on pandals and public festivities imposed by the YSRCP administration because of the Covid-19 threat. The BJP leaders are terming these restrictions as the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government's “clear discrimination towards Hindus and their sentiments.” “The government has recently allowed the installation of alams at ashoorkhanas during Muharram and allowed 30-40 people gather in the majlis. Few days back, we have witnessed large-scale gatherings for paying tributes to late chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy. The CM himself had personally participated in those gatherings,” said the BJP leaders in their memorandum to the governor on Tuesday. BJP has pointed that the local body elections were conducted in the state amidst the Covid-19 second wave earlier this year. “Now, schools and colleges are opened and even theatres are operating. Many public and private events are being conducted. But surprisingly the Andhra Pradesh government has imposed a ban on Ganesh pandals,” said Somu Veerraju, state BJP chief. The BJP has also brought to the governor’s notice an incident in Guntur where Ganesh idols on sale were seized by the municipal officials and allegedly taken away in a garbage truck. “It is shocking to note that in many places the idols made by artisans are being destroyed depriving them of their livelihood and carried away in garbage trucks,” the BJP said in the letter terming such incidents as an affront to the revered Hindu god. The saffron party is pointing out that "in neighbouring Telangana, no permissions are required to set up Ganesh pandals. Even in Karnataka, the government has issued guidelines allowing the celebrations adhering to Covid-19 protocol.” Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-wants-andhra-pradesh-governors-intervention-to-make-cm-jagan-lift-curbs-on-ganesh-festivities-1028079.html
07-09-2021||South||TTD resumes free Sarva-darshanam from Wednesday, initially for Chittoor residents only||The common man's wait for the darshan of Lord Venkateshwara has ended as the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has decided to resume the Sarvadarshanam tickets issuance on a trial basis from Wednesday. The quota is limited to 2,000 tokens per day and would be initially issued only to the residents of Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, where the famed Hindu shrine is located. The Tirupati temple officials had stopped issuing the free darshan tickets/tokens in mid-April citing the alarming rise in Covid-19 second wave cases. But the online sale of Rs 300 special darshan tickets continued and the daily quota was hiked to 8,000 tickets recently. However, the number of pilgrims availing darshan daily has been over 20,000 lately, which the officials say includes the VIP break darshans (Rs 500 per head) early in the mornings and the arjitha seva ticket allottees. TTD had faced criticism for “the revenue generation model” while keeping the poor devotees away from Tirumala citing Covid-19 threat. Defending their decision, a senior official had earlier told DH that the Sarvadarshan token counters in Tirupati had incidents of crowding “raising fears of Covid-19 cases surge again in the temple town.” On Tuesday, TTD issued a statement saying that free tickets would be issued from 6 am onwards at the Srinivasam complex in Tirupati. Officials appealed to the devotees to observe all the Covid-19 rules while collecting their tokens. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-resumes-free-sarva-darshanam-from-wednesday-initially-for-chittoor-residents-only-1028122.html
07-09-2021||State||Classes 6-8 reopen to poor response in unaided schools||Physical classes for 6th to 8th standard resumed from Monday after a gap of almost 18 months but the response was not as good as it was for class 9 and on day one. Some schools reopened classes only for 8th standard. The response was poor at private unaided schools, specially in cities like Bengaluru. Mid and budget schools witnessed a good turnout with 50 to 60 per cent attendance on day one. According to representatives of private school managements, only a set of parents are reluctant to send kids to schools. “Parents who have paid fees are sending children to school. A majority of the absentees are those who have not paid the fees,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Primary and secondary education minister B C Nagesh visited some schools in Bengaluru and welcomed students with flowers and toffees. “Students are coming to schools after 18 months and are very happy. Schools have been instructed to follow all Covid-19 safety measures. We are accommodating only two students per desk and wearing mask is mandatory along with a consent letter from parents,” said Nagesh. The minister said the government will decide on reopening class 1 to 5 after the response for classes 6 to 8 and also based on the opinion of the Technical Committee for Covid-19. “I had interacted with students during the offline classes and children were happy to attend offline classes,” said the minister.  Schools did not reopen for offline classes in Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada.   “Parents are confident to sending children to schools as they are aware about the all safety measures in place for high school students,” said principal of a private unaided school. “While we are very excited to welcome back students of classes 6–8, we will begin in a methodical way with shortened days after ensuring the health and safety measures are followed by students. We have started with class 7 from today and classes 6 and 8 will be back to campus from the coming week. We now look forward to the decision to bring back younger students from classes 1–5 back to campus too,” said Shweta Sastri, managing director, Canadian International School.  “We will open for in a phased manner from next week considering the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival. We support the government in this initiative as classroom learning is very important for children and will also get them physically active once again. The need to reopen is very real and felt by students, parents, teachers, and school leaders worldwide. What we need right now are clear SOPs that can ensure smooth reopening of schools and building trust among parents,” said Niru Agarwal, sTrustee, Greenwood High International School.  According to the Department of Primary and Secondary Education’s data, the attendance for class six across the state was 29.35 per cent, while it was 28.05 per cent in class seven and 23.22 per cent for class eight. Officials pointed out that the attendance was much higher but due to their busy schedule, teachers could not upload the data. “Compared to urban areas the attendance at rural areas was better and we are expecting more students in coming days, specially after the festive season,” said an official from the department.   Sharing their experience, students said that they are very happy to back on campuses. Gagan, a class 7 student said, “It’s been so long that I had visited the school, met my friends and teachers. I am so excited to be back in campus.” Sagar, another class 8 student said, “My parents were not ready to give consent, but I managed to convince them because they use to take me out for all most all family events and also for shopping. I am sure I will be more safe at my school.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/classes-6-8-reopen-to-poor-response-in-unaided-schools-1027821.html
07-09-2021||State||Karnataka CM hints at BJP-JD(S) joining hands to gain power in Kalaburagi corporation||The BJP and JD(S) are most likely to form an alliance to take control of the Kalaburagi City Corporation, where no party managed to get a clear majority, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Tuesday. Bommai said this a day after a JD(S) delegation led by former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy met him. In the 55-member Kalaburagi civic body, the halfway mark is 28. The BJP has 23, the Congress 27, JD(S) four and there is one Independent. “There was no detailed discussion. I said we should go together. They said they will discuss it locally. Having said that, they showed interest in joining hands,” Bommai said of his meeting with the JD(S) delegation. “In all likelihood, the JD(S) and BJP will form a majority in Kalaburagi,” he said. If the alliance comes through, then the BJP will be poised to take control of all three city corporations that went to polls and whose results came out Monday: Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi. Delhi visit Bommai, who is scheduled to visit New Delhi, said he would meet Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari and Housing & Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. “I will meet Gadkari to discuss some public works and national highway proposals. With the finance minister, I will discuss funding for Centrally-sponsored schemes. And, there are urban housing programmes and metro extension matters that I will discuss with Puri,” Bommai said. This will be Bommai’s fourth visit to the national capital since taking charge as CM over a month ago. Bommai specified that he will not discuss filling up four vacant Cabinet berths. “That won’t be discussed this time,” he said. Nipah virus On the government’s readiness to deal with the Nipah virus, Bommai said the state’s borders with Kerala were already sealed. “We have ramped up vaccination and testing. So, we will take tighter measures. We have asked experts to study the Nipah virus and recommend precautionary measures needed. We’re observing,” he said. Potholes With rains slamming Bengaluru, the infamous potholes have mushroomed across the city. A 75 year-old differently-abled man died after his two-wheeler ran over a pothole in the city on Monday night. Reacting to this, Bommai said the BBMP chief commissioner had instructions to fill up potholes “as soon as the rains subside.” Bommai added that this would be done on a war footing. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-hints-at-bjp-jds-joining-hands-to-gain-power-in-kalaburagi-corporation-1027916.html
07-09-2021||State||No discussion on filling vacant Cabinet berths during Delhi visit: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who went to New Delhi on Tuesday, said that he won't not discuss filling up four vacant Cabinet berths with the BJP central leadership during this visit. “That won’t be discussed this time,” he said. He said he would meet Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari and Housing & Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri.  "I will meet Gadkari to discuss some public works and national highway proposals. With the Finance minister, I will discuss funding for centrally sponsored schemes. And, there are urban housing programmes and metro extension matters that I will discuss with Puri,” Bommai said.  On the government’s readiness to deal with the Nipah virus, Bommai said he had asked experts to study and recommend precautionary measures that are needed. "The state’s borders with Kerala are already sealed. We have ramped up vaccination and testing. So, we will take tighter measures," he said.  With rains lashing Bengaluru, the infamous potholes have mushroomed across the city. A 75-year-old differently abled man died after his two-wheeler ran over a pothole in the city on Monday night. Reacting to this, Bommai said the BBMP chief commissioner had instructions to fill up potholes "soon after the rains subside." Bommai added that this would be done on a war footing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-discussion-on-filling-vacant-cabinet-berths-during-delhi-visit-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1027924.html
07-09-2021||State||MES defeat in Belagavi unfortunate: Shiv Sena||Rattled by the defeat of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), the Shiv Sena has slammed the BJP leaders from the state who are rejoicing the defeat of Marathi people in Belagavi civic polls. “It is unfortunate,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said speaking about the defeat of MES candidates in the elections in Belagavi that is often seen as a matter of prestige for Maharashtra. “The conspiracy of the Karnataka government to get the Marathi manoos in Belgaum defeated so that they lose their claim over the city is unimaginable,” he said. It may be mentioned, Maharashtra claims 814 villages along the borders in Belgaum, Karwar, Nippani, Bidar and wants them to be included in the state - as a large population here speaks Marathi. However, the two neighbouring states are in a dispute and the matter is pending with the Supreme Court. Hitting out at BJP leaders, Raut said: “It’s okay your party won. But you are rejoicing the defeat of Marathi manoos. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? There is unease in many places of Maharashtra over the defeat of MES…..never before this kind of betrayal had been seen.” Raut pointed out that “lakhs of people” have sacrificed their lives for “Marathi pride” and “self-respect in Belgaum”. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mes-defeat-in-belagavi-unfortunate-shiv-sena-1027958.html
07-09-2021||State||Power supply to Karnataka's rural households in 100 days: Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar||Karnataka Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar on Tuesday announced a new programme in which all rural households devoid of electricity will be given connections in the next 100 days. “In the next 100 days, houses constructed in rural areas that have not been able to get power supply will be powered up,” Kumar told reporters. Known as Belaku, the programme will power up rural households without requiring a no-objection certificate from the local bodies, Kumar said. “All houses will be given electricity supply.” Kumar said officials had instructions to prepare an action plan for the work needed to be done over the next 100 days in both Energy and the Kannada & Culture departments. Another programme that will be taken up on mission mode over 100 days is the setting up of more than 60 sub-stations through the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. “This will help provide uninterrupted power supply for seven hours to agricultural pumpsets, especially in north Karnataka,” Kumar said. Further, the minister has set a 30-day time limit for farmers’ borewells to be electrified. “Farmers are given bore wells under the Ganga Kalyana scheme. But, there’s a delay in the power supply. No farmer should be forced to visit our power offices,” he said. The government is also thinking of installing recharge centres for electric vehicles in districts and tourist attractions, Kumar said. To trim expenditure, Kumar said there was a plan to install prepaid electricity metres in all government offices. “This is a preliminary thought. There are bill-related problems in government offices and the financial burden is increasing for us,” he said. Artist database In 100 days, Kumar said the Kannada & Culture department would prepare a database of all artists in the state. “There are thousands of talented artists. Some manage to reach ministers, some connect with officials and some reach Bengaluru. Thousands remain behind in villages. So, we want to have a comprehensive data bank,” he said. The minister pitched for Rajyotsava awardees to be selected without them having to apply. “The process of identifying achievers should be done across the state,” he said. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/power-supply-to-karnatakas-rural-households-in-100-days-energy-minister-v-sunil-kumar-1027982.html
07-09-2021||State||Covid positivity rate comes below 2% in Karnataka districts bordering Kerala||As a result of initiation of stringent measures by the state government, the Covid positivity rate in the bordering districts of Kerala has come down to less than 2 per cent. The bordering district of Dakshina Kannada recorded 1.99 per cent of positivity, whereas Kodagu recorded 1.95 per cent positivity rate. According to the latest statistics released by the health department on Monday evening, the Covid positivity rate in all districts of Karnataka state has come down below 2 per cent. The government is considering more than 2 per cent of Covid positivity rate as serious in terms of imposition of curfew, restrictions, allowing festivals and opening of schools. The government is likely to take decisions pertaining to the bordering districts. The state government was worried as Dakshina Kannada district, which sees a huge influx of people from Kerala overtook state capital Bengaluru in terms of Covid positive cases at one point of time. The government also took a decision to quarantine all people coming from Kerala state for seven days. Udupi (1.31 per cent), Hassan (1.21 per cent), Mysuru (1.13 per cent), Kolar (1.11 per cent), Shivamogga (0.92 per cent), Chikkamaglur (0.89 per cent), Uttara Kannada (0.73 per cent), the districts which recorded more number of cases also shown less Covid positivity rate. The number of Covid cases in Kolar, Dharwad, Gadag, Ramnagar, Kodagu, Bellary, Chikkaballapur, Chamarajnagar, Vijayapur, Koppal and Bengaluru Rural districts are seeing rise number of Covid positive cases when compared to earlier figures. However, 18 districts of the state recorded less number of Covid cases. The positivity rate in the state as per the statistics released by the health department on Monday was 0.69 per cent. The new Covid positive cases reported were less than 1,000 (973) in the entire state. Four districts reported zero cases, while in 10 districts the Covid positive cases stood in single digits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-positivity-rate-comes-below-2-in-karnataka-districts-bordering-kerala-1027984.html
07-09-2021||State||95 out of 248 oxygen plants commissioned in Karnataka; rest by Sept-end, says Sudhakar||Out of the 248 oxygen generation plants allotted to Karnataka through various sources, around 120 PSA (pressure swing adsorption) plants have been installed as of date but only 95 have been commissioned so far.  Another 25 plants are awaiting commissioning. The state aims to commission these plants by the end of September 2021, Health Minister K Sudhakar told DH.  This is important in the context of the massive oxygen supply problems faced by hospitals in Karnataka during the peak of the second wave.  As many as 31 plants are ready with civil and electrical works and are ready to receive the plants. Remaining facilities are in various stages of progress. Sudhakar said it was a multi-stakeholder process involving numerous donors and vendors, and with huge demand for the oxygen generation plants across the country, there have been delays in supply of PSA plants.  "The monsoon has also affected civil and electrical works in some of the plants," he said. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), on the other hand, says during non-Covid times, their oxygen consumption was one-fifth of what it is during Covid times, and wants the government to identify one vendor zone-wise as the hub to supply oxygen cylinders to spokes, i.e., smaller hospitals with less than 100 beds.  Apollo Hospitals Jayanagar's medical superintendent Dr Govindaiah Yatheesh, president-elect of PHANA, said: "We had asked hospitals to assess oxygen consumption during the second wave's peak and asked them to enlist two vendors with one of them as a backup. This is at the institutional level. We want the government to back the contingency plan."  The problem in the possible third Covid wave will be for hospitals with less than 100 beds, said PHANA oresident Dr H M Prasanna. In a June 8 circular, Health Commissioner Dr K V Trilok Chandra directed all private hospitals of the state to instal oxygen plants on their premises within four months (by October) to avert any oxygen crisis.  Hospitals with more than 100 beds should have capacity to produce at least two times their oxygen requirement. Hospitals with 50 to 99 beds should meet at least their normal requirement, the circular said.  "This circular is not scientific. During non-Covid times, our consumption is one-fifth of what the government has suggested to set up now. Whoever invests in oxygen plants will have them idling later. We've spoken to the health minister to rescind the circular but he says it is the Centre's mandate. We will write to the Government of India via the Indian Medical Association," Dr Prasanna said.  Check out DH's latest videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/95-out-of-248-oxygen-plants-commissioned-in-karnataka-rest-by-sept-end-says-sudhakar-1028018.html
07-09-2021||State||Nipah virus: Karnataka govt asks districts to strengthen surveillance and preparedness||With confirmed cases of the Nipah virus (NiV) infection reported recently in neighbouring Kerala, the Karnataka government on Tuesday directed districts bordering that state to strengthen the surveillance and preparedness. It said that all those coming from Kerala should be monitored for symptoms like fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain, convulsion, diarrhoea. A 12-year-old boy died of the Nipah virus infection at Kozhikode in Kerala on September 5. The test results of eight people, including the child's parents and health care workers, who came in close contact with him, returned negative. The Kerala government had put the health departments in four districts -- Kozhikode, neighbouring Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad -- on high alert. "In view of confirmed cases of Nipah virus (NiV) infection reported recently in the neighbouring state of Kerala, it is imperative to strengthen the surveillance and preparedness in the larger interest of Public Health in Karnataka also, with special focus in the districts bordering Kerala -- Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Mysuru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagara," the government advisory said. Issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Jawaid Akhtar, it gave certain instructions to be implemented by district administrations to ensure the well being of the community, that includes monitoring those coming from Kerala for symptoms. Also, necessary public awareness should be spread among the public on Nipha, it said, adding that a systematic surveillance system is a necessary method to identify clusters of encephalitis cases, resulting in early detection of Nipah outbreaks. The advisory said suitable samples have to be collected with all necessary precautions from suspected, probable and contacts and sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for laboratory confirmation. As there is no known treatment or vaccine available, Ribavirin, an antiviral, may have a role in reducing mortality among patients with encephalitis caused by Nipah virus disease, it further said, adding that intensive supportive care with treatment of symptoms is the main approach for managing the infection in people. The advisory instructed district authorities to send the daily reports, even if Nil, in a prescribed format, to the Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare Services, Arogya Soudha, Bengaluru. District Authorities should take all the necessary measures as instructed and as per the local situation, it added. Stating that Human Nipah Virus (NiV) infection is an emerging zoonotic disease, the health department said that in India, two outbreaks in humans were reported from West Bengal and neighbouring Bangladesh in 2001 and 2007. Further, confirmed cases and deaths were also reported from Kerala during the outbreak in 2018. Large fruit bats of the Pteropus genus are the natural reservoir of the Nipah virus, whose cases tend to occur in a cluster or as an outbreak. In general, the case-fatality rate is estimated at 40-75 per cent. However, this rate can vary by outbreak and can be up to 100 per cent, it added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nipah-virus-karnataka-govt-asks-districts-to-strengthen-surveillance-and-preparedness-1028021.html
07-09-2021||State||Diversion of labour welfare funds for private quota vaccines irks trade unions||The labour department’s decision to spend Rs 15.6 crore of the Construction Workers’ Welfare Fund to purchase 2 lakh vaccine doses from the state’s private quota of Covid vaccines has not gone down well with trade unions. The trade unions have questioned why free vaccine doses are not being provided to the labourers under the government quota, when there is no shortage of vaccines for now. The All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), in a statement, said, “This decision is highly improper and looks to enrich private hospitals at the cost of workers instead of facilitating vaccines from the government.” State committee member of AICCTU, Maitreyi Krishnan, told DH, “If the Labour Commissioner is saying there’s surplus funds, then why can’t the same money be used to provide laptops to children of construction workers so that they can attend online classes hassle-free? When funds can be used for housing and education, why pay for private quota vaccines?” General secretary of AICCTU, P P Appanna, said the Karnataka State Construction Workers Unions’ Coordination Committee had submitted a memorandum to the Labour over the ‘misuse’ of funds. “Apart from 30 lakh construction workers, the plan is to vaccinate 10 lakh migrant workers too. This amounts to paying around 400 private hospitals Rs 624 crore at Rs 780 per dose to administer the vaccines to workers,” he said. “Majority of the workers haven’t been given ration kits, medical kits, permanent houses and education. When these funds can be used for all these welfare activities why pay for private quota vaccines? In 2021-22, a budgetary allocation of Rs 2,688.90 crore has been made and we have asked for a probe into why expenditure has been made without calling for tenders. Already there is a lot of scope for corruption here, paying for private quota vaccines is another way of exhausting these funds needlessly,” he said. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said, “We haven’t invested money on a large scale. Initially, only 1.5 lakh labourers were vaccinated under the government quota. Both the central and the state government were of the opinion that waiting for government quota vaccines will cause a delay in achieving substantial coverage and that the Labour department should take up vaccination of labourers.” “If the state government gets more vaccines, we will take it from the government quota itself. We will reduce our purchase from the private sector henceforth as now vaccines are being supplied by the Centre,” Hebbar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/diversion-of-labour-welfare-funds-for-private-quota-vaccines-irks-trade-unions-1028045.html
07-09-2021||State||Karnataka reports 851 Covid-19 cases, 15 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 851 fresh Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,56,988 and the toll to 37,441. The day also saw 790 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,02,089. Bengaluru Urban accounted for most of the new cases (248), as the city saw 362 discharges and three deaths. The total number of active cases stood at 17,432, a health department bulletin said. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.71 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.76 per cent. Behind Bengaluru Urban in the fatality count was Dakshina Kannada (4), Kodagu, Mysuru and Shivamogga reported two each, followed by others. Among fresh cases, Dakshina Kannada reported 227, Udupi 74, Mysuru 53, Chikkamagaluru 49, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,39,972, followed by Mysuru 1,76,623 and Tumakuru 1,19,514. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,16,873, followed by Mysuru 1,73,361 and Tumakuru 1,17,728. Cumulatively a total of 4,45,68,501 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,18,791 were on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-851-covid-19-cases-15-deaths-1028059.html
07-09-2021||State||Blackmail charge by MLA false, says IAS officer||Munish Moudgil, Commissioner for Survey, Settlement and Land Records has said the allegations of MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, that an IAS officer was blackmailing him to withdraw his charges in the cloth bag scam, is a total lie. Mahesh had levelled the charge while speaking to media here on Monday. “I ordered a survey on August 31 over allegations of MUDA and government land encroachment, other irregularities. The press meet on the bag scam was convened by Mahesh on September 3. This itself exposes the lie,” Moudgil said. “I have discharged my duties as Survey Commissioner in ordering a survey on allegations made in writing by a petitioner. As a matter of principle, I believe and uphold that any allegation must be enquired and decided on merit. The statement of Mahesh is false”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/blackmail-charge-by-mla-false-says-ias-officer-1028083.html
07-09-2021||State||Justice R B Budihal appointed KSAT chairman||Justice R B Budihal, former judge of the Karnataka High Court has been appointed as chairman of Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal (KSAT). A notification stated that the appointment will be for a period of four years from the date of assumption of charge or till attaining 70 years of age or until further orders, whichever is the earlier. Check out DH's latest videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/justice-r-b-budihal-appointed-ksat-chairman-1028087.html
07-09-2021||State||HC dismisses petition against 'Cauvery Calling'||The High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition questioning the ‘Cauvery Calling’ project, of planting saplings along the Cauvery river bed. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said that planting saplings on barren government land is not a crime and no statutory provision is shown barring citizens from planting trees on government land.  In the 2019 PIL, the petitioner had sought directions to restrain Isha Outreach of Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, from collecting money from the public and planting saplings on government land without due permission. The petition was subsequently converted into a suo motu. The bench observed that a categorical statement has been made by the state government that the project is not a government project and planting of saplings is not being carried out on public land. “In case such a view is taken that planting trees on government land is prohibited, it will create havoc and a large number of plantations which are going on government land by NGOs without any motive will come to a standstill,” the court said. The bench referred to an Apex Court judgment on the effects of loss of forest cover. “Therefore, the only remedy available to save mankind and planet earth is afforestation, which is being done by respondent 3 (Isha Outreach). The efforts by the respondent 3, certainly requires appreciation,” the bench said. The PIL contended that Isha Outreach cannot be allowed to collect money from the public, which intends to plant 253 crore saplings along the Cauvery basin on public donation of Rs 42 per sapling. The petition alleged that the project has falsely claimed that both the union government and Karnataka government have approved the project. On October 15, 2020, the bench converted the petition into suo motu after the petitioner justified his stand of sending an e-mail to a television channel, stating that airing of the programme on Cauvery Calling would amount to contempt of court. Subsequently, it was informed to the court that the order converting the PIL into a suo motu petition was challenged before the Supreme Court.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-dismisses-petition-against-cauvery-calling-1028095.html
07-09-2021||State||Heavy rain: River Bhima in spate, standing crops damaged in Bidar||Incessant rains lashing Bidar district over the past few days have caused extensive damage to crops. River Bhima is in spate as about 95,000 cusecs of water has been released from Sonna barrage in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district. The inflow into the barrage has increased following heavy rain in its catchment area and release of water from dams in neighbouring Maharashtra. Kangaleshwara and Veeranjaneya temples near the Bhima river bridge in Yadgir have submerged.  The showers during intervening nights of Monday and Tuesday wreaked havoc in Bidar and paralysed normal life also. Rainwater entered the low-lying areas in Aurad town. Vehicular movement was stopped for about two hours on a bridge in Belakuni as water was flowing over the bridge. Green gram and urad crops were also damaged. In Humnabad taluk, walls of as many as 42 houses collapsed following the rains. As water was released from Karanja dam, hundreds of acres of agriculture lands were inundated in Sonal, Kalagapur, Khed and other villages of Kamalanagar taluk. Water level in Manjra river has increased following the release of water from Karanja and Chuluki nala. Water is flowing above the bridges cutting off road connectivity between some villages. Kalaburaagi district too has been receiving good rain for the past few days. Several tanks in Chincholi taluk have filled to the brim. Following an increase in inflow into Nagaral and Chandrampalli dams, water is being discharged from the reservoirs. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heavy-rain-river-bhima-in-spate-standing-crops-damaged-in-bidar-1028098.html
07-09-2021||State||Nipah outbreak: High alert in 5 districts||Karnataka on Tuesday sounded high alert after the outbreak of the Nipah virus in neighbouring Kerala a few days ago. The administrations of border districts such as Dakshina Kananda, Udupi, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru and Kodagu have been asked to monitor all the arrivals from Kerala for various symptoms like fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain and diarrhoea. The district health officers have been directed to launch a systematic surveillance system method to identify clusters of encephalitis cases. All samples from the suspected, probable and contacts shall be sent to NIV, Pune for laboratory confirmation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nipah-outbreak-high-alert-in-5-districts-1028111.html
07-09-2021||State||Karnataka requests Centre to notify extra 50 days of work under MGNREGA in 13 flood-hit districts||Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa on Tuesday requested the Centre to notify additional 50 days of work under the rural jobs guarantee scheme MGNREGA in 13 flood-affected districts of the state. Eshwarappa, who met Union Rural Development Minister Giriraj Singh in Delhi, also demanded early clearance of unskilled wage due of Rs 781.64 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. In the meeting, Eshwarappa informed the Central minister that heavy rainfall has caused widespread loss to livelihood and property in several districts of Karnataka in the last few months. "As a result, the state government has declared 61 blocks of 13 districts flood-hit," he said. Stating that the timely release of MGNREGA scheme funds by the Centre helped greatly during the pandemic, the minister said the state government has not only disbursed wages amounting to Rs 2030.57 crore so far in the current fiscal but also ensured timely payment of wages in 99.67 per cent cases. However, there is still outstanding unskilled wage dues of Rs 781.64 crore as of September 2, he said. Further, Eshwarappa demanded the Centre to sanction additional 90 clusters to the state under the ambitious Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Rurban Mission (SPMRM) to replicate the success across other districts. He also demanded an additional allocation of 1,700 km of road under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY)-3. Currently, eight clusters that have been identified under the SPMRM have been performing well, he added.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-requests-centre-to-notify-extra-50-days-of-work-under-mgnrega-in-13-flood-hit-districts-1028112.html
07-09-2021||State||Bommai asks Centre to expedite Bengaluru suburban rail project||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday met Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and requested him to expedite the Bengaluru Suburban Rail project. After the meeting, Bommai said, "Several issues were discussed with the minister. Administrative approval has been given to the suburban rail project but a concession agreement between Karnataka and the Ministry of Railways is still to be signed. I requested the minister to finalise the agreement." Bommai said he also discussed the new Hubbali-Ankola railway line project which is stuck in the High Court as it has been challenged by green activists. "Even though the state has made a fresh DPR (detailed project report) as per green rules, this has been challenged. The stay (obtained by environmental activists) should be vacated so that work can commence," he said. This line is crucial to connect central and north Karnataka to the west coast. The proposed line will connect the Konkan railway near Ankola and provide the much-needed link between coastal, central and north Karnataka, he said. In a presentation made to the Union Minister, Bommai said the state government is planning to develop a major port in Karwar under the public-private partnership model. "Private investors who are showing keen interest in port development are demanded to execute the Hubbali-Ankola railway line as it is the basic requirement for the port to be economically viable," he said. JSW Steel Ltd has come forward to even share the cost of this project with Railways, he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-asks-centre-to-expedite-bengaluru-suburban-rail-project-1028120.html
07-09-2021||State||Kalaburagi: 4 JD(S) corporators to meet HDK today||Four newly-elected JD(S) corporators have reached Bengaluru to meet former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday to hold talks with him regarding alliances to form the body in Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike (KMP).  The polls to KMP threw up a hung house in the 55-member body. While Congress emerged as the single-largest party, BJP came second with 23 seats. The JD(S) won four seats, emerging as kingmaker. The magic number to take control of the Palike is 28.  Sources said the four corporators are likely to meet Kumaraswamy on Wednesday morning. Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi-4-jds-corporators-to-meet-hdk-today-1028135.html
07-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Public advised to defer plans to visit Kerala till October-end: Karnataka govt||ln view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Kerala, Karnataka government on Tuesday advised public to defer their plans to visit the neighbouring state till the end of October, if there is no emergency or urgency, with a view to avoid third wave of Covid-19 and in larger interest of public health. The government in an advisory has also advised all administrators or principals of the educational, nursing, paramedical institutions to instruct their wards who have not yet returned to Karnataka from Kerala, to defer or postpone their return till the end of October. Similar advice has been given to all administrators or owners of hospitals, nursing homes, offices, hotels, factories, industries, etc. The advisory signed by Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Jawaid Akhtar, further asked the administrators or owners to advise their wards not to travel to Kerala till the end of October. Noting that in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Kerala, special measures are already in place for arrivals from there, the state health department said, it has been observed that students and employees arriving from the neighbouring state though bringing negative RT-PCR reports, they are testing Covid positive during repeat tests and number of such cases are considerably high in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/public-advised-to-defer-plans-to-visit-kerala-till-october-end-karnataka-govt-1028044.html
07-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cops harassing us, jewellers' body tells Karnataka home minister||Representatives of the Karnataka Jewellers' Association met Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Tuesday and alleged harassment by the police against small jewellers. They petitioned the minister to ensure that the jewellers are not "extorted" and standard operating procedures are issued by the Home Department based on High Court directions on the investigation against jewellers. Speaking to DH, former JD(S) MLC TA Sharavana, who is the president of the Association, said policemen had demanded payment in gold from jewellers in Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts. "Such cases of harassment have increased in the last one week," he said. One accused in a theft case is taken to several shops in the guise of investigation. Then the traders are harassed and threatened with false cases against them if payment is not made, the MLC alleged. In many cases, policemen have gone in plain clothes and in vehicles registered in other states to harass jewellers. "If any trader is in the wrong, the police are free to take action against them legally. But, threatening and extorting them is not right," he said. He alleged that several sub-inspectors from stations in Bengaluru and Kolar were behind the harassment. "I have also filed a complaint with DG&IGP and the Bengaluru city police commissioner," Sharavana added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-harassing-us-jewellers-body-tells-karnataka-home-minister-1028066.html
07-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After Ranganthittu, Karnataka eyes Ramsar tag for three more wetlands||Weeks after the state government sent a proposal to the Centre seeking Ramsar site tag for the Ranganathittu bird sanctuary in Mandya district, the forest department has added three more wetlands to the pipeline: Aghanashini estuary in Uttara Kannada, Magadi-Shettikeri tanks in Gadag and Ankasamudra in Ballari. The move comes as a big boost towards protection of habitats of birds, some of which travel thousands of kilometres to reach Karnataka. Being a signatory to the Ramsar convention, an international agreement for conservation of wetlands, India has 46 Ramsar sites. Karnataka had so far been absent from the draft national action plan to protect wetlands. Loss or degradation of habitat has been seen as a major cause of endangerment to biodiversity and the Ramsar recognition seeks to address the same. Over the last two years, officials are trying to make up for the lost opportunities. As part of the efforts, the government recently proposed to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), seeking Ramsar recognition for Ranganathittu bird sanctuary. Once approved, it will be binding on the state and the Centre to protect the 1279.26 acres of Ranganathittu, recognised by the Bombay Natural History Society as a bird area of national importance.  “We are keen on getting Ramsar recognition for three other wetlands that have representative features. Our proposals will be forwarded by the state government to MoEF, which will recommend the same to Ramsar committee,” a senior official said. The Magadi-Shettikeri tanks host bar-headed geese that travel 3,500 km from Mongolia. Several other species, totalling about 6,000 birds, visit the wetland during the winter. While experts have spoken of harmonious relationship between birds and human population in the area, officials have noted conflict situations, including trapping of birds and the trampling on eggs by cattle. The Aghanashini estuary spread over 1,1861.1 acres has diverse habitats from mangrove and mudflats to sand flats and shallow marshes. Of the 130 species of birds it hosts, 40 per cent are migratory visitors. “Protecting the estuary is not only important for birds, but also for the welfare of 7,500 families whose livelihood is dependent on the ecosystem,” the official said. Ankasamudra, the man-made wetland in Ballari, has no permanent source of water, but supports a rich diversity of birds. A survey last December recorded 141 birds, including eight in the red list of the International Union of Conservation of Nature, three endangered by illegal trade and 83 recognised under the Wildlife Protection Act. Ornithologist Dr S Subramanya, who has been nominated as the compiler for the proposed Ranganathittu Ramsar site, said getting the Ramsar tag was a long-drawn process and requires meticulous work at several stages. “Once we get preliminary approval, we will provide detailed documentation on the site, as required by the Ramsar secretariat. After a thorough scrutiny of all the information, we will get the final approval,” he said. Speaking about the department’s efforts to get recognition for three more wetlands as Ramsar sites, he said: “This gives hope for the future of these ecosystems and goes a long way in the conservation of wetland biodiversity, more specifically for the birds using the central Asian flyway.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-ranganthittu-karnataka-eyes-ramsar-tag-for-three-more-wetlands-1028102.html
07-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai meets FM; seeks wider implementation of NABARD, SIDBI schemes in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and requested for wider implementation of schemes like 'one district, one product' operated by agencies NABARD and SIDBI.         Emerging from the meeting, Bommai said, "I have requested the FM to ensure NABARD and SIDBI implement the schemes like 'one district, one product' and microfinance in a big way in our state."         Sitharaman assured him that she will direct NABARD and SIDBI officials on the matter and promised to visit the state after the concerned schemes were implemented fully in Karnataka, Bommai said.         These schemes are important for skill development and creating employment opportunities for scheduled caste and scheduled tribes people and self-help groups, among others, he added.       The two agencies implement several schemes and they should be implemented in every district of the state, he said, adding that a representation in this regard was made to the finance minister.       The chief minister also discussed the state's GST collection and pending compensation dues.       During the meeting with Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, the CM requested the setting up a new Divisional office of the Railways at Kalaburgi. Though the districts of Hyderabad Karnataka region have been categorised as backward regions and granted special status under 371 (J) of the constitution, the demand for setting up Divisional headquarters has not been fulfilled. He also requested the Minister to merge railway projects in the Raichur, Yadgir and Bidar under the ambit of the South Western Railway (SWR) from the current South Central Railway headquarters at Secunderabad. The Chief Minister requested Vaishnaw to bring Mangaluru city railway projects and Kalburgi region projects under the South Western Railway and to take up the long-pending Hubballi-Ankola railway line.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-meets-fm-seeks-wider-implementation-of-nabard-sidbi-schemes-in-karnataka-1028117.html
07-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Court-monitored elections for democracy to survive in country: Konaraddi||Senior JD(S) leader N H Konaraddi demanded court-monitored elections across India henceforth as Election Commissions (both state and central) have lost their independence and are working under the influence of governments. Speaking to media persons on Tuesday after resigning from the National General Secretary post of the party, Konaraddi took responsibility for JD(S)'s humiliating defeat in the Hubbali-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike polls. He said that so far only district administration officials and police department personnel were working under the influence of the ruling parties in the state. But as per latest trend, even the EC is under the influence of the governments, he said. He gave the example of how only the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) received the softcopy of the voters' list from the election commission, while the opposition leaders had to content themselves with the hard copy. “BJP using a software was able to contact voters and improve their voting percentage,” he said and also questioned the ‘unscientific’ delimitation process that ensured Muslim voters were divided to ensure BJP benefited from it. Konaraddi said democracy can only survive in the country if the elections are held under the watch of courts. He suggested that the Supreme Court monitor the Lok Sabha elections, High Courts supervise the Assembly elections and taluk and district courts supervise the urban local bodies polls. Taking responsibility The former MLA from Navalgund said in spite of running spirited campaigning for the HDMP polls, the party failed to secure the set number of seats. “We were hopeful of winning 7-8 seats in the polls. However, we are disappointed that we could win only one seat. As the head of the campaigning, I take the full responsibility of the debacle and resign from the National General Secretary post,” he said. He added that senior party leaders including party supremo H D Deve Gowda, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and party president H K Kumaraswamy will take a call on supporting either BJP or Congress in HDMP and Kalaburagi City Corporation. “I would prefer the party to support a secular coalition in these two corporations,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/court-monitored-elections-for-democracy-to-survive-in-country-konaraddi-1028127.html
07-09-2021||West||Bullet Train to run through undersea tunnel to save Thane creek mangroves: RTI reply||Amid apprehensions of mangrove destruction due to the Bullet Train project, the government seems to have found an undersea tunnel way in Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) to save the sea plants, an RTI response reveals. No felling of mangroves or other trees are necessary in the reserved forests in TCFS in Vikhroli or Thane areas for the execution of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Railway Project as the line is planned through an underground tunnel in this section, the State Mangrove Foundation said in response to a query from NGO NatConnect Foundation. Expressing happiness at this assurance, NatConnect Foundation director BN Kumar said: “Our endeavour is to see to it that mangrove chopping has to be totally avoided in the execution of the Bullet Train project.”  It was originally planned to cut over a lakh of mangroves and the numbers have been brought down to 54,000 and later to 32,000.   NatConnect has already written to  President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and even JICA ,which is financing the project requesting to save the mangroves.  The JICA responded saying it would closely monitor environmental compliance by NHR. Development should not beat the cost of environmental destruction, Kumar said in a press statement.   Meanwhile, another piece of interesting news on the Bullet Train front is that the landing point at Thane will be under the mangroves.  The land site identified for the Thane station was infringing upon the mangroves of the west. As a result, the building that houses the platform at the high speed railway (HSR) station coming up at Thane had to be disconnected from the main building. Realising that the environmental guideline prescribes that the passengers cannot get down in the middle of the mangroves, the NHSRCL formulated a unique arrangement. “Passengers disembarking from the train at Thane will have to walk along a passage created underneath the viaduct, which will take them from the platform to Thane Station passenger building, also called the Station Entrance Building (SEB), which is being constructed just outside the restricted area,” the corporation update said. Located at a distance of about 600 metres, the SEB will contain all the passenger facilities, such as ticketing, security, toilets, parking, drop-off bays and integration with other modes of transportation.The alignment of the MAHSR corridor features a 21 km-long tunnel, a part of which is going to run under the sea bed. This is going to be the first undersea tunnel to come up in the country. The tunnel will start from Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex station and come out at Kalyan Shilphata, of which about 7 km would run under theThane creek, an ecologically-sensitive zone that is home to a wide variety of rare flora and fauna. About 1.8 km of this tunnel will be constructed under the sea bed, while the remaining part on either side would lie under the mangroves on either side of Thane creek. The entire 21-km stretch will be constructed using a combination of two techniques – New Austrian Tunnelling Method (NATM) to carve out 5 km of the tunnel and Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) for the remaining 16 km. NHSRCL plans to get 3 TBMs for the tunnelling process. Each of the TBMs will progress at a speed of 200-300m per month.The reason for using both techniques is to save time as well as remove the requirement for a shaft in the area, some of which falls under the sea bed and some under a flamingo sanctuary and mangroves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bullet-train-to-run-through-undersea-tunnel-to-save-thane-creek-mangroves-rti-reply-1027893.html
07-09-2021||West||Konkan districts get heavy rainfall||The Raigad and Ratnagiri districts of the coastal Konkan belt has received heavy overnight rainfall on Tuesday resulting in inundation at several places. In several places, over 200 mm rainfall was reported, according to the data collected from the stations of the IMD and the rain gauge of the district administration. The fresh bout of rainfall comes when the preparations of the Ganesh festival are in full swing. The Murud village received 475 mm of rainfall followed by Harnai (368 mm), Dapoli (357 mm), Burondi (270 mm), Dabhol (235 mm) Anjarle (226 mm) and Chiplun (207 mm). “In the last 24 hours, heavy to very heavy rainfall has been reported in parts of Raigad and Ratnagiri,” according to KS Hosalikar, Head, Climate Research and Services, Pune. Parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) too received rainfall in the wee hours, however, there was no impact on road or rail traffic. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/konkan-districts-get-heavy-rainfall-1027906.html
07-09-2021||West||Over 1,600 mosquito-breeding spots found in Navi Mumbai in July-August: Civic body||More than 1,600 mosquito-breeding spots were found in Navi Mumbai in the last two months of the current monsoon season and local civic authorities have asked health officials to step up measures to prevent cases of malaria and dengue in the township, officials said on Tuesday. Besides, from January to August this year, eight cases of dengue and 12 of malaria were detected in the Navi Mumbai township here in Maharashtra, they said. The statistics were revealed on Monday during a review meeting held by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation Commissioner Abhijit Bangar with senior civic officials, NMMC spokesperson Mahendra Konde said. In July and August this year, the NMMC authorities inspected 4,12,907 houses and found mosquitoes breeding in 1,644 houses, the official said, adding that 695 mosquito-breeding spots there were destroyed and disinfectants were sprayed in 949 other locations. During the survey, several spots with garbage and stagnant water on the terraces of buildings were also found. Citizens were asked to remove the trash and ensure that water does not collect in their homes and other open spaces, he said. The official further said between January and August this year, 55,157 blood samples of citizens were tested and the results of eight of them came out positive for dengue and 12 for malaria. The civic authorities conducted sanitisation and disinfection of the houses where such patients were found, he said. During the review meeting on Monday, the civic chief asked the health department officials to step up measures to prevent cases of malaria and dengue in Navi Mumbai, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-1600-mosquito-breeding-spots-found-in-navi-mumbai-in-july-august-civic-body-1027913.html
07-09-2021||West||Inform about bad AQI days, says civil society||In a first-of-its-kind campaign, concerned citizens, civil society organisations across Maharashtra have demanded that Urban Local Bodies (ULB) mandatorily issue timely health advisories publicly, to alert citizens on ‘bad air’ days, which will help save vulnerable groups from severe health impacts of air pollution. The joint call to action comes from non-attainment cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chandrapur and others reeling under poor air quality, and not just during winters. Bad air days are when the air quality index (AQI) -- pollutant measuring indicator -- rises beyond the safe limit for any location falling either under the poor, very poor or hazardous AQI levels. An online campaign has been initiated on September 7, the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies. In its second year since its inception, the theme for 2021 is ‘Healthy Air, Healthy Planet’, which emphasises the health aspects of air pollution, especially considering the Covid-19 pandemic. Maharashtra has a total of 19 non-attainment/ million plus cities under the National Clean Air Action Plan (NCAP), the highest for any state in the country. A non-attainment city is one that does not meet the prescribed air quality standards set by the Union environment ministry. Bhagwan Kesbhat, Founder of Mumbai based Waatavaran Foundation and member of Maharashtra Clean Air Collective- a collaborative network of organizations, individuals, institutions working towards the common objective of clean air said that this is a pan India citizen-led online campaign.  “Using this online petition, citizens will be demanding timely public health advisories be issued widely in the mainstream public domain so that we all can not only protect ourselves but also our loved ones when the air quality in the city deteriorates. The campaign also demands proper implementation of the Clean Air Action Plan across all 18 non-attainment cities,” stated Kesbhat. Nagpur-based Leena Buddhe, who heads the Centre for Sustainable Development (CFSD), stated, “Being surrounded by coal-fired power plants the air quality is seen to deteriorate in both summer and winter but most of the citizens are unaware about the AQI levels or the health impacts of being exposed during peak pollution hours. The health advisories will benefit all, especially senior citizens and children who go for early morning walks, cycling or running in areas that are highly polluted,” she said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/inform-about-bad-aqi-days-says-civil-society-1027931.html
07-09-2021||West||Maharashtra’s IT sector to be mapped||In a mammoth exercise vis-a-vis Maharashtra’s Information Technology (IT) sector, the government has decided to prepare district-wise databases for the better formation of the policies and taking calls on crucial issues. The data would include details like total companies and organisations and people working in a district, location details, infrastructure, facilities, working space, co-working capabilities and so on. Minister of State for IT and Home Satej Patil has requested NASSCOM, Software Export Association Pune (SEAP) and other industry associations to help out the state government in creating district wise databases. It may be mentioned, industrialist Anand Deshpande has suggested that the State government should develop tier 2 and 3 cities and towns in a way that they attract the employees to work from there while in the Work From Home mandate. He has suggested that the State government should ensure that employees working for leading players in the IT industry should get facilities available in the cities of their corporate offices, in these tier 2 and 3 cities to retain this workforce. “We are also planning to start government-run well-equipped Nodal centres where IT employees can come and work for their respective companies. All ideas are welcome in this regard,” Patil said. The Minister had recently announced that the Maharashtra government was chalking out an IT policy to focus the development of tier 2 and 3 cities to attract IT companies. Patil in a virtual conference had said recently, “Mumbai and Pune have been leading in the IT sector and have been saturated due to migration to these cities. We now want to take this progress to tier 2 and 3 cities like Nagpur, Satara, Amaravati, Latur, Nanded and others by giving incentives to the industries. The industries will be incentivised with various facilities through a separate IT policy. We have come out with a RFP model to facilitate the sector with a simplified procurement process.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-s-it-sector-to-be-mapped-1027933.html
07-09-2021||West||Bailable warrant issued against Param Bir Singh||In a big development that increases the problems of senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh, a Commission of Inquiry has issued a bailable warrant against him for skipping the proceedings. Singh, an IPS officer of the 1988-batch, is a former Mumbai Police Commissioner and current Commandant-General of Home Guard. The Maharashtra government in March 2021 has formed the Commission headed by Justice (retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to probe allegations of bribery and misuse of office levelled by Singh against then state home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. Singh has alleged that Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore for now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. The commission had earlier issued summons to the officer several times asking him to appear before it but Singh had failed to do so. Before the arrest warrant, the commission had imposed fines on Singh thrice – Rs 5,000 in June and Rs 25,000 on two occasions in August for failing to appear before it. The panel will hear the matter on September 22. It may be mentioned that Deshmukh (72), a veteran politician, is now facing a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bailable-warrant-issued-against-param-bir-singh-1028004.html
07-09-2021||West||Pune court orders framing of charges in Dabholkar case||Eight years after rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar was killed, a Pune court on Tuesday ordered framing of charges against five accused in the case, who have been booked for murder and act of terror.  Dabholkar, 67, rationalist and anti-superstition activist, Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS), was shot dead on 20 August 2013,  by two unidentified gunmen near Omkareshwar temple in Pune.  Initially, the Maharashtra Police investigated the case. However, later it was taken over by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The five accused, who would stand trial are Virendra Sinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, Vikram Bhave and Sanjiv Punalekar. While Dr Tawde, Andure, Kalaskar and Bhave faces sections 302 (murder), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, relevant sections of the Arms Act and section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (punishment for the terrorist act), Punalekar, a lawyer faces section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence or giving false information to screen offender) of the IPC.  The accused are associated with an extreme right-wing group. The charges are expected to be framed on 15 September. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-court-orders-framing-of-charges-in-dabholkar-case-1028035.html
07-09-2021||West||Use Ganesh festival to urge people to get vaccinated: Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that the state's most popular Hindu festival, Ganesh Chaturthi, should be used to urge people to vaccinate themselves, even as he said that vaccination should be an integral part of the conversations around the festivals.  "Don't just ask if you have eaten neurios for Chaturthi, ask whether the person has taken a vaccine too. We will be able to promote vaccination during Chaturthi," the Chief Minister said. Neurios are a popular fried and stuffed sweetmeat that is synonymous with the festival in Goa.  "Do forget to get yourself tested just because you feel you might miss out on the Chaturthi festival. It is OK if you skip Chaturthi festivities for a year, but get yourself tested for your own sake and more importantly for your children. We have not vaccinated our children yet," Sawant added.  The Chief Minister also said that instead of just greeting friends and family with a warm handshake during the festival, people should first enquire whether they have vaccinated themselves.  "Before shaking hands, ask him if he has taken a vaccine or not. That is the need. It is important to ensure that you are secure even before shaking hands with someone. If we ask such a question, we will be able to create awareness among everyone," the Chief Minister said.  Sawant also said that Goa needed to be on the alert like the states of Kerala and Maharashtra, which have witnessed an increase in the number of Covid cases of late.  "We are fully prepared, but people also have to be fully prepared. No one had thought that the second wave would strike to such a degree.  We need to be alert," Sawant told a government function here.   "Our neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Kerala have alerted their people because the maximum cases at present are in Kerala and Maharashtra. Maharashtra has started imposing the curfew in a big way," the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/use-ganesh-festival-to-urge-people-to-get-vaccinated-goa-chief-minister-pramod-sawant-1028052.html
