08-09-2021||First Edit||A fifth column within the fourth estate||The concern expressed by the Supreme Court over the proliferation of fake and communally coloured news in a section of the media, particularly web portals and social media platforms, highlights a problem that demands attention, and a solution if the democratic State and its guiding ideals are to survive. The bench, headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana, made its observations while hearing some petitions that sought action against some news channels for their sensational coverage of the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi last year. The meeting was dubbed as a ‘Covid super spreader’ and the blame went beyond the Jamaat to the Muslim community as a whole and was used to polarise society. It even fed into the fears about the pandemic. Apart from social media, some TV channels also fanned the fire by resorting to hateful and prejudiced communal propaganda over the Tablighi “danger”. The court observed that there was no control over the web portals and no accountability for the platforms. Both individuals and institutions are at the receiving end. “They can publish anything, and anybody can start a TV channel”. The government told the court that the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which have controversially tried to control the media, would offer a solution. But this is a solution worse than the problem, and thus undesirable. The government has till now not taken any step to check communalisation of the media, and of the national discourse. Its policies and actions and words of ministers and ruling party members have contributed to the growth of the trend in the country. Since the government itself is involved in the situation, it cannot claim to be a neutral umpire and arbitrator in solving the problem of communalisation of the media and society. It should also be noted that most of the social media forums and other platforms that resort to communal propaganda are those that support the government and the ruling party. The problem is complex because freedom of expression, protection of the values of democracy and the use of advanced technologies are all involved in it. The solution cannot be the simple expedient of the government assuming unusual powers to control the media. Free media is integral to democracy, and the expansion and enlargement of the media should ideally strengthen democracy. But a growing section of it is actually weakening it, functioning less like the “fourth estate” that is the watchdog of democracy and more like a “fifth column”, undermining the media landscape and thus democracy itself from within. This contradiction, which is part of a bigger contradiction of the tools of democracy being used against itself, has to be confronted in all its complexity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-fifth-column-within-the-fourth-estate-1028267.html
08-09-2021||In Perspective||Task of rebuilding schools begins now||The prolonged closure of schools will have its inevitable aftermath, in multiple ways. The opening of schools will not automatically solve the problem; in fact, it can only commence the process of rebuilding the school system which is in disarray now. It is not going to be easy. We need a well-designed strategy to undo the damage done by the absence of proper schooling for more than a year. To begin with, let us disabuse ourselves of the notion that online teaching has been an effective substitute for in-person (physical) schooling. Though home-schooling has been in vogue in some countries, its efficacy is in serious question. In our country, it was tried for the first time, with varied results owing to the reach of technology. There is absolutely no doubt that schools will face a huge challenge with reopening. School-readiness itself is the first issue. Are the schools equipped to deal with the situation? Schools need to be cleaned up and sanitised. Staff, both teaching and non-teaching, have to be vaccinated, and should be observing all the required protocols. Well-ventilated classrooms and a limited number of students are recommended. Students need constant guidance to observe Covid protocols. Parents, too, have an active role to play. They should have had both doses of vaccination. They should ensure that nobody with any symptoms comes into contact with their children. Children should be motivated to go to school regularly once schools open. There can be cases of school-shyness amongst the younger children. This has to be handled by parents with great care. School counsellors can play a significant role to make the school congenial to learning. They can guide and motivate both teachers and children when they face problems of adjustment. Where counsellors are not available in the school system, senior teachers themselves have to play this role effectively. Malnutrition among children is an issue that was not addressed all through the Covid crisis. School closure has resulted in lots of children from poor families going malnourished. This has to be addressed urgently. Opting for half-day school should not result in depriving children of their lunch. Even if school is only for the morning session, children from economically weaker sections should be provided breakfast and lunch as being planned by some states. Children who are under-nourished or malnourished often lag behind in studies. This is an obvious outcome as hungry children cannot concentrate their minds. Their brain development may have suffered. What about teachers? Yes, they are going to bear the brunt of the long closure of schools. They will be the real catalysts during this transition process. They have a tough job on hand. They have to take care of the hygiene and safety aspects of the school and the children. They have to bring the children back to learning mode from which they have been long disconnected. This will be the toughest task teachers will face. Classroom discipline will have taken a huge downslide. Many children will have attention-span issues. The socialisation skills of children may have to be refreshed and strengthened. All these must start from the word go. It’s going to be a stupendous job that calls for enormous patience, great physical prowess and unlimited resourcefulness. Only a teacher with deep commitment can pass muster in this situation. Teachers need training, counselling and a lot of emotional support to undertake this task. The authorities, government or private, have to take effective steps to hand-hold teachers when they take on this onerous responsibility. Teachers therefore are at the coalface, and they are going to walk through a furnace for a few months. They need the parents’ empathy, and support too. It’s not a small task, but for the committed teacher, it will be a pleasant challenge. The sense of accomplishment will truly be great when at last the battle is won. As nation-builders, the time has come for teachers to rededicate themselves to the cause of rebuilding their schools. Nothing can give them a greater sense of self-worth and fulfilment than reclaiming the children who are now in the wilderness. This is a golden opportunity for them to prove that ‘a teacher affects eternity’. School leadership has a decisive role to play. Emerson said, “An institution is nothing but the lengthened shadow of one man”, and so the success of a school is an index of the leadership acumen of its head. This will be an acid test for them. They should motivate their staff to go the extra mile and do their part with utmost dedication and relentless enthusiasm. If all the above factors synthesise and work in harmony, there is no doubt that we can reclaim the learning rhythm of our schools and recreate the vibrant academic climate of our schools. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/task-of-rebuilding-schools-begins-now-1028268.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nipah scare: Surveillance strengthened in Dakshina Kannada||The district administration has strengthened surveillance in Talapady check post, following Nipah scare in neighbouring Kerala. Along with checking Covid-19 negative certificate from daily commuters, the health department has started checking for any symptoms related to Nipah.  The officials are also looking into the supply of fruits to the district from Kerala. Assistant Commissioner of Police Ranjith Bandaru said that body temperature is being checked through thermal scanning. People with any symptoms of Nipah will be sent back, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nipah-scare-surveillance-strengthened-in-dakshina-kannada-1028159.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Call for simple Ganeshotsava celebrations in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M Kurma Rao called upon people to celebrate Ganeshotsava in a simple manner without pomp. Large gatherings are banned. The festival should be celebrated without processions and cultural programmes, he said. Holding a virtual meeting of officials on Tuesday, Rao said the government guidelines need to be followed strictly to prevent the outbreak of a third wave of Covid-19 infection. “Ganesha festival may be organised at temples, houses or in open places with a gathering of not more than 20 people. Ganesha idols to be installed at public places and homes should be less than 4 ft and 2 ft respectively,” he said. The Ganeshotsava organisers should furnish RT-PCR negative reports and should have taken vaccines. The organisers should ensure that people follow social distancing and other Covid-appropriate behaviour. Devotees should be allowed to enter only after thermal scanning, the deputy commissioner said.  Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Naveen Bhat said that PDOs should strictly adhere to the government guidelines. In Dakshina Kannada too, the district administration has directed organisers to hold Ganeshotsava but restricted it to rituals.  Though the Karnataka government’s guidelines allow five-day celebrations for Ganeshotsava across the state, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has plans to limit celebrations to three days only. There will be no permission for pandals at public places and the idols should be installed inside temples, halls and houses with limited gatherings, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/call-for-simple-ganeshotsava-celebrations-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-1028232.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vacant posts of PSIs across state to be filled by year-end: Home Minister Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that process to fill empty posts in the Police Department and strengthen manpower was in progress and by the end of the calendar year, vacant posts of police sub-inspector will be filled across the state. Jnanedra informed reporters on the sidelines of the passing-out parade of KSRP recruits here on Wednesday that the Police Department had vacancies of 33,000 posts during the last five years. During the tenure of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and incumbent Basavaraj Bommai, the process to fill 16,000 vacant posts had commenced and 4,000 posts would be filled by year-end. He said police have been facing challenges of modern-day crimes and thrust has been given to upgrade the force by providing them modern equipment and technology to ensure that criminals were brought to book. The government has been releasing funds as per the needs for equipment and modernisation. Regarding the case of missing gold from the premises of Yamakanamaradi police station wherein senior police officials were suspects, Jnanendra said, none would be spared irrespective of their position. Investigation of the case was in progress, hence he would not comment on it. He also denied that names of some of the accused have been dropped from the chargesheet in the Bengaluru drug case wherein names of celebrities and actors have cropped up. "We have not dropped any names and investigations were in progress. There was no question of dropping any names irrespective of their political links," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vacant-posts-of-psis-across-state-to-be-filled-by-year-end-home-minister-jnanendra-1028294.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Crime incidents on the rise in Hassan||The rising crime incidents in Hassan city and taluk in the past few days have created anxiety among the people. Miscreants assaulted an old couple with lethal weapons at Maranahalli village in the taluk and escaped with a gold chain weighing 30 gm on Tuesday. The injured are being treated at the district hospital. In another incident, a drunken brawl between two unidentified persons, resulted in serious injuries of a person, at Nitturu in the taluk. It is alleged that there was an argument between the two in an inebriated condition, when one hit the other with a club. He sustained serious head injuries and was admitted to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences and is said to be critical. A video clip of this has been circulated on social media. Miscreants broken open the door and escaped with gold ornaments worth Rs 6.4 lakh, at Nandini Layout, in Hassan city, on Sunday. The residents of the house had gone to Bengaluru a few days ago. The burglary came to light when they returned home. A shop near Shankaranahalli Gate was broken into and a laptop, cash and other materials stolen, in Hassan city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/crime-incidents-on-the-rise-in-hassan-1028297.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Step-father rapes 12-year-old daughter; booked||In a tragic incident, a step-father reportedly raped his 12-year old daughter and another man abused her sexually at a village near Maluru in Thirtahalli taluk. The incident came to light only recently. The 36-year old man, who had deserted his first wife, had met a widow while he had gone to work as a daily wage labourer. He later married the woman, who had a daughter. The man, however, sexually abused the girl while her mother had gone out for work. Another man, who was the girl's neighbour, had raped her when both her mother and step-father had gone out for work. After physical classes resumed, a teacher in her school noticed that she was dull. Upon asking what made her dull, the girl narrated the incident to her. Based on this, Maluru police registered a case against the step-father and neighbour under POCSO Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/step-father-rapes-12-year-old-daughter-booked-1028302.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi ULB polls: Political activities shift to Bengaluru||Political activities to form Kalaburagi City Corporation body have shifted to Bengaluru as four newly-elected JD(S) corporators met former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and JD(S) supremo H D Devegowda in the city to discuss the alliance in the 55-member Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike (KMP). The election held to KMP has thrown up a hung house. While Congress emerged as the single largest party by winning 27 seats, the BJP came second with 23 seats. JD(S) won four and one seat was grabbed by an Independent. The magic number to take control of KMP is 28. As no party failed to get a clear majority, the JD(S) emerged as the kingmaker. Including a Congress MLA, an MLC and an RS member, the total count of the grand old party will be 30 (27 corporators). BJP's total count, including two local MLAs, three MLCs and an MP, will be 29. One Independent corporator is learnt to have extended his support to the BJP. Total seats from both Congress and BJP are 30 each. Hence, JD(S), which won four seats, has emerged as the kingmaker. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge has spoken to the JD(S) supremo seeking the latter's support for KMP. On the other hand, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is learnt to have spoken to Kumaraswamy over going together in Kalaburagi. A clear picture of with whom the JD(S) will have a truck to form the body in Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike is expected today (Wednesday). Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-ulb-polls-political-activities-shift-to-bengaluru-1028321.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jumbos waylay sugarcane-laden lorry||A video clipping of three elephants stopping a sugarcane-laden lorry and devouring it has gone viral on social media. The incident is said to have occurred near Karepalam on the Bengaluru-Dindigul national highway passing through the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve area in Tamil Nadu. Several lorries transport sugarcane to Tamil Nadu on the highway. Though it is common for the elephants on the roadside to pull a bunch of sugarcane from the passing lorry, such an incident is rare. The video clip shows one jumbo pulling sugarcane from the right side of the vehicle, while the other from the left side. The passers-by have videographed the same and have uploaded it on social media. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jumbos-waylay-sugarcane-laden-lorry-1028484.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tribal boy killed in tiger attack||A 13-year-old tribal boy was killed in a tiger attack on Wednesday at Veeranahoshahalli range which comes under Nagarahole forest limits. The deceased is Ganesh, son of Kariaiah and Lakshmi and resident of Iyyanakere tribal hamlet. Ganesh has five sisters and four brothers. According to sources, he had gone to attend nature's call at a 100-metres distance from his house in the morning. When he did not return for a long time, the family searched for him and found his body inside the forest. Pug marks of a tiger were found in the region recently and the tribals suspect that it might be the same tiger. A person was killed in a similar tiger attack at Neralakuppe hamlet around six months ago. Iyyanakere tribal hamlet adjoins Veeranahosahalli forest and the houses of the tribals are very near to the elephant trench. The residents often enter the forest. Tiger Project director Mahesh Kumar visited the spot and assured compensation as per norms to the affected family. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tribal-boy-killed-in-tiger-attack-1028485.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Two-day state BJP core committee meet in Davangere from September 18||State BJP's two-day core committee meeting will be held in Davangere on September 18 and 19. It will be the first such state-level meeting after Basavaraj Bommai took charge as the chief minister.  Speaking to media persons here on Wednesday, State BJP General Secretary N Ravikumar said the first day's meeting would be held in Apoorva Resort in the city which would be attended by senior leaders including State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP vice-presidents and office-bearers of state units.  He said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would attend the second day's meeting slated to be held in Trishul Convention Hall in the city on September 19. BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh, BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, MPs, MLAs and state-level leaders would be present in the meeting.  He said the issues related to strengthening of the party across the state, organisation strategies and the measures to be taken to strengthen the party's hold in regions where BJP is not so prominent would be discussed. He said there was an impression that BJP would witness chaos after Yediyurappa stepped down from the post of chief minister. But everything passed off smoothly and cabinet expansion was also held smoothly. There is no dissidence in BJP. The party will head three corporations -- Hubbali-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburgi. The party's internal survey had predicted the same results. He said voters have backed BJP in Kalaburgi. The voter turnout there was 49 per cent. The party would have got a majority if the voter turnout had increased by another 2 per cent, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/two-day-state-bjp-core-committee-meet-in-davangere-from-september-18-1028363.html
08-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Kalaburagi: JD(S) councillors want Mayor’s post||Four JD(S) councillors of the Kalaburagi City Corporation, who are being chased by the Congress and BJP for an alliance, are said to have decided that they will join hands with the party that offers them the Mayor’s post. The recent election to the 55-member Kalaburagi civic body threw up a fractured mandate. The Congress won 27, the BJP 23, JD(S) 4 and one Independent. The halfway mark is 28, elevating the JD(S) councillors to the status of ‘kingmakers’. The four councillors arrived in Bengaluru on Wednesday and met JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. “The decision has to be made now by the Congress and the BJP on who will give us the Mayor’s chair,” Nasir Hussain Ustad, the JD(S) minority wing president from Kalaburagi told reporters. Ustad said this was not unprecedented. “Earlier, the Congress and JD(S) came together and gave the Mayor’s chair to the KCP, which had just one councillor,” he said. According to Ustad, the situation remains fluid. “For any alliance to happen, it should be for the full 5-year term and the JD(S) should play an active role in development,” he said. “It has to be a JD(S) mayor in the first term at least. Should it be a JD(S) mayor for three terms or not is still undecided,” he added. Ustad also took a dig at the Congress. “The Congress had the opportunity for many years, but development did not take place. Our aim is that the JD(S) should be a part of the development agenda in Kalaburagi,” he said. After the poll results came out earlier this week, both Congress and BJP have been trying to stick a pact with the JD(S) to wrest control of the Kalaburagi City Corporation. Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge reached out to Gowda, whereas Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai held talks with Kumaraswamy. It is also reported that Gowda and Kumaraswamy may not be on the same page. While Gowda is inclined towards allying with the Congress, Kumaraswamy seems to be swaying towards the BJP. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kalaburagi-jds-councillors-want-mayor-s-post-1028450.html
08-09-2021||Main Article||Animal spirits? More like herd instinct||After a firestorm over the article in the RSS-aligned Panchajanya magazine that called IT company Infosys “anti-national”, the RSS has come out to formally disassociate itself from the remarks and added for good measure that the magazine is not its organ. Political messaging works best when it is straightforward and simple, so a blunt attack and a tactical retreat are as much in good stead as is the equally blunt counter from the Congress that calling Infosys anti-national (for delays and breakdowns in the income tax portal executed by Infosys) is in itself an anti-national act. While this sparring goes on, no one need miss the silence, even the surrender, of what is euphemistically called India Inc., the one on whose shoulders the RSS-BJP have placed much hope to take the nation forward—from a would-be revolutionising of farmlands through the massive privatisation enabled by the new farm laws to the big “asset monetisation” that is now in the headlines. These corporate biggies, the government appears to believe, have the muscle, the money, the drive and the belief to put India on a bold new path, with the added advantage of having neither any political ambition nor a protestor’s voice. They are safe bets to rely on. They prefer, it seems, backrooms where deals are done, accommodation is provided and business flowers. The story then is that Infosys is out to break the nation. While the target this time is Infosys, let there be no doubt that they are in the same boat as others – silence is golden and the rest is business as usual! The question to ask is, can such a business sector provide the vigour, the vibrancy and the innovation required to make India a private sector-led powerhouse of the future. Surely, one important ingredient is developing the art and skill and courage of asking tough questions, and this is a package that is either encouraged or discouraged. In India, it is the latter, as much in business as it is in the Indian way of life, and this puts its own brakes on what business models so fashioned can deliver at a time of intense, even unprecedented, change. If this is the central make-up of a leadership, then the entire ecosystem is being led by not business leaders who can stand upright but a bunch of interests and moneybags that are entrenched, familiar and familial, all equipped to play safe in their personal interests, not bold in the public interest. In fact, while there are honourable exceptions, the bulk of business is feared to be of the kind that actively discourages questioning within the business itself. Like it or not, many still run internally like the BJP of today! It is not surprising then that India, with its largest supply of engineers in the world, is largely a nation of testers and coders, world-class even if they are, not a nation of innovators who can dazzle with their dream products and services. This isn’t the stuff tomorrow’s businesses will be built of. It isn’t the path to sustainable growth, to new models or to meeting the needs of India’s vast majority, many of them still living in poor conditions and with meagre incomes. Not asking questions is but one side of the story of subservience. The other side is the bribery and chicanery we saw when controls went loose and deals of all manner were signed leading to short-term growth and a long-term crunch that left the banks with a pile of non-performing assets (NPAs) that at one point crossed Rs 10 lakh crore. So, all in all, this paints a dismal picture of the state of our businesses. Not all are of this variety, but the big picture would paint the entire class in unfavourable light. Of course, there is the case that this government is particularly vengeful and it is best not to speak out and land in trouble. There is merit in that argument, except that acquiescence, silence and mute spectatorship is the lot that has characterised business play across all governments in India, not just this one and its sharper dictatorial bent.  This unfavourable image of business has seeped into the Indian mindset as well. Consider that farmers are protesting not to privatise ‘mandis’, among other things, saying they have no faith in the private operator which is slated to take over. It is the same thinking that drives a section of Indians even today to prefer the safety of a government job, and the agitation for more caste-based reservations in government jobs, which, on the whole, should be declining if the government is to hire less, become more efficient and the private sector is to truly blossom. There is, of course, no doubt that the business class has played a part in the building of India. It will be required to play an even bigger part tomorrow. For this, we do not need businesses that dabble in politics or oppose elected governments but we do need businesses that stand up for something larger than self-aggrandisement. We do not need businesses that, as is historically recorded, “made their fortunes under Pax Britannica and there was a feeling of gratitude for the British” (to quote the business historian Gita Piramal, Business & Politics in India: A Historical Perspective) but we do need those who stand for the ideals of Gandhi and his vision for the poorest Indian. It is also true that we need the firing of “animal spirits” that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman spoke of earlier in the year, inviting investments to drive India back to the path of high growth. Her call was for marching ahead, exploring and investing boldly based on intuition, optimism and the belief in India’s destiny. But can bold moves come from someone with a bent spine? That is one reason why we may continue to live with herd instincts, not animal spirits. (The writer is a journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR. Views are personal) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/animal-spirits-more-like-herd-instinct-1028269.html
08-09-2021||National||TRS govt is a government of lies: BJP MP Tejasvi Surya||Hitting out at the ruling TRS in Telangana over its promises, including jobs to unemployed youth, BJP MP and BJYM president Tejasvi Surya on Tuesday said it is a "government of lies" which should be voted out in the next assembly elections in 2023. Surya, who addressed a public meeting at Sangareddy town on Tuesday night as part of Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar's ongoing state-wide 'padayatra', alleged that unemployment grew ever since the TRS assumed power. Asking people whether the promises of TRS like providing three acres of land to Dalits, jobs to unemployed youth and two bedroom houses to poor have been fulfilled, he claimed that the TRS government is a government of lies. "It is a government of lies. A government that lies to the people. We should dislodge such a government. That should be the resolve of Yuva Morcha," he said. The 'Praja Sangrama Yatra' of Sanjay Kumar is a war cry against the ruling TRS, he added. The TRS government is encouraging anti-national forces by engaging with the AIMIM, he claimed. A resolution was passed in the assembly against the CAA, he said. "Minority appeasement has been going on every day and night since the last six years. The vehicle is TRS'. But, the driver is 'Razakar'," he said. Surya, who also attacked the TRS over its alleged family rule and suicides of unemployed youth, called upon the Yuva Morcha activists to strive to make the 'padayatra' of Kumar a success and to fight against the "corrupt government of TRS and AIMIM". Addressing the gathering, Sanjay Kumar said the BJP, if voted to power in the 2023 elections, would bring a population control bill on the lines of the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. Observing that the BJP is not against any religion, he said his party, however, would resist if the backward classes, SCs and other poorer sections were troubled.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trs-govt-is-a-government-of-lies-bjp-mp-tejasvi-surya-1028186.html
08-09-2021||National||India should not do business with this Taliban govt: Yashwant after Afghan caretaker cabinet named||As the Taliban announced a caretaker Cabinet, former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha on Tuesday said India cannot and should not do business with the government formed in Afghanistan. The Taliban Tuesday announced a caretaker Cabinet, giving top posts to Taliban personalities who dominated the 20-year battle against the US-led coalition and its Afghan government allies. Mullah Hasan Akhund has been named as the Interim Prime Minister, while Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who had led talks with the United States and signed the deal that led to America's final withdrawal from Afghanistan, will be one of two deputies to Akhund. "India cannot and shd not do business with this Taliban govt in Afghanistan," Sinha tweeted after the news of the forming of a caretaker government came in. India cannot and shd not do business with this Taliban govt in Afghanistan. Sinha's remarks come weeks after he, in an interview to PTI, said India should be "open-minded" about dealing with the Taliban and suggested that it should open its embassy in Kabul and send back the ambassador. Noting that the people of Afghanistan have great love for India while Pakistan is not popular among them, Sinha had said that the Indian government should not conclude that the Taliban will place itself "in Pakistan's lap" as every country furthers its own interests. Sinha was the foreign minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government but became a critic of the Modi government and quit the BJP. He is currently vice president of the Trinamool Congress. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid was quoted by media reports as saying that Amir Khan Muttaqi will be Afghanistan's acting foreign minister while Mullah Yaqoob, son of Taliban's founder Mullah Omar, will serve as the acting defence minister.  Sirajuddin Haqqani, the leader of the Haqqani Network, will serve as acting interior minister in the interim government, the reports said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-not-do-business-with-this-taliban-govt-yashwant-after-afghan-caretaker-cabinet-named-1028187.html
08-09-2021||National||97 life term convicts granted bail after 20-year jail||The Supreme Court has granted interim bail to 97 life term convicts who have undergone more than 20 years of sentence in Agra and Varanasi jails. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J K Maheshwari sought a reply from the Uttar Pradesh government in three weeks as advocate Rishi Malhotra, representing the petitioners, contended that not releasing the prisoners was a violation of the 2018 policy and it was akin to subjecting the prisoners to illegal detention.  "Since the petitioners have been in jail for over 20 years, they shall be released on ad interim bail subject to the terms and conditions to be imposed by the trial court to its satisfaction,” the bench said. The petitioners had argued that according to the 2018 state government policy, which was framed under Article 161 of the Constitution, they were entitled to be released. However, in July 2021, the state government amended the policy, restricting its benefits to those who had attained an age of 60 years. The petitioners claimed the amendment defeated the rights of the convicts even though they have already undergone more than the required period of their sentence as stipulated in the 2018 policy. Check out DH's latest videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/97-life-term-convicts-granted-bail-after-20-year-jail-1028190.html
08-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Achhe Din' of students still 'loading'||There have been "catastrophic consequences" of the prolonged school closure in the country due to Covid-19, with over 37 per cent of students in rural areas not studying at all and 48 per cent not being able to read more than a few words, a recent survey has claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-achhe-din-of-students-still-loading-1028199.html
08-09-2021||National||Afghanistan’s embassy in India refuses to pledge allegiance to Taliban’s government in Kabul||The Embassy of Afghanistan in New Delhi has refused to pledge its allegiance to the government the Taliban announced in Kabul on Tuesday. Hours after the Taliban announced its government in Kabul, the Embassy of Afghanistan in the capital of India stated that it did not represent the new regime. The embassy will continue to represent the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in India and not the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan established by the Taliban, said Abdulhaq Azad, a spokesperson of the war-torn country’s diplomatic mission of New Delhi. “The Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in New Delhi will continue to provide services to the citizens of Afghanistan in India,” Azad told the DH in New Delhi. Not just India, diplomats posted in the embassies of Afghanistan in many capitals around the world appear to be reluctant to pledge allegiance to the Taliban regime in Kabul. The acting Prime Minister of the Taliban’s government in Afghanistan, Mullah Hasan Akhund, and the acting Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani are among the ones who are under UN sanctions. Ashraf Haidari, Afghanistan’s ambassador to Sri Lanka, slammed the new government announced by the Taliban in Kabul on Tuesday. He pointed out in a tweet from Colombo that the new government was led by people under the United Nations sanctions, driven by the clerics, included no women and represented only one ethnic community out of 55 in Afghanistan. He also underlined that the new government announced by the Taliban had no religious and sectarian diversity and was hand-picked by a foreign power. He, however, did not directly refer to Pakistan, which had allegedly created the Taliban in 1990s, helped it survive the US military offensive over the past 20 years and facilitated its resurgence over the past few years – in order to gain a “strategic depth” in Afghanistan and edge against India. Said T Jawad, Kabul’s envoy to Moscow, retweeted a video of protests by Afghans in front of the Embassy of Pakistan in the capital of his country. Tahir Qadiry, Afghanistan’s ambassador to Poland, posted on Twitter a picture of a militant brandishing his gun to stop men and women protesting against the Taliban in Kabul. Shukria Barakzai, Kabul’s envoy to Oslo, also retweeted pictures and videos of protests against the Taliban. The Taliban took over Kabul on August 15 after occupying most of the provincial capitals across Afghanistan in a swift military blitz, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. Soon after the Islamist militants marched into Kabul, President Ashraf Ghani fled the capital city, marking the collapse of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Ghani’s Vice President Amrullah Saleh, however, on August 18 declared himself from Panjshir Province as the caretaker President, claiming continuation of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, which had come into existence with the adoption of the new Constitution in 2004. The Taliban on August 19 last declared the restoration of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, which had ceased to exist after the US military offensive in the wake of the 9/11 attacks had overthrown Mullah Omar’s Government in Kabul in 2001. The militants also raised from the presidential palace in Kabul the Emirate’s white flag with Islamic oath Shahada written on it in black. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-s-embassy-in-india-refuses-to-pledge-allegiance-to-taliban-s-government-in-kabul-1028202.html
08-09-2021||National||Pakistan continues to foment culture of violence at home, across its borders: India at UN||Slamming Pakistan, India said the country continues to foment a "culture of violence" at home and across its borders as it hit out at Islamabad for using the platform of the United Nations for hate speech against it. "A Culture of Peace is not just an abstract value or principle to be discussed and celebrated in conferences, but needs to be actively built into global relationships between and among member states," First Secretary in India's Permanent Mission to the UN Vidisha Maitra said in the UN General Assembly Tuesday during the high-level forum on the Culture of Peace 'Transformative role of the Culture of Peace: Promoting Resilience and Inclusion in Post-Covid Recovery'. "We have witnessed yet another attempt today by the delegation of Pakistan to exploit a UN platform for hate speech against India, even as it continues to foment a 'culture of violence' at home and across its borders. We dismiss and condemn all such efforts," she said. India's strong response came after Islamabad's envoy to the UN Munir Akram raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and spoke about the late pro-Pakistan leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani in his remarks in the General Assembly hall that focussed almost entirely on India and not on the forum's theme. Maitra said there can be no doubt that terrorism, which is a manifestation of intolerance and violence, is the antithesis of all religions and cultures. "The world should be concerned by terrorists who use religion to justify these acts and those who support them in this quest," she said. Underlining that India will continue to spread the message of humanity, democracy and non-violence, she said India reiterates its call for the application of the principles of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality to form the basis of discussions in the United Nations especially on the issue of religion. "The United Nations including UN Alliance of Civilizations and Member States should refrain from selectivity on such issues which hinders a Culture of Peace," she said. While noting that the Covid-19 pandemic has underscored the interconnectedness and interdependence of humankind like never before, she said even during the pandemic, "we have witnessed an upsurge in intolerance, violence, and terrorism.” "Even in the midst of the pandemic, we face the 'infodemic' challenge which has been responsible for a rise in hate speech and in seeding hatred within communities," she said. Last year in June, India along with 12 countries had co-sponsored the Cross-Regional Statement on "Infodemic" in the Context of Covid-19 – a first of its kind statement by UN Member States. Maitra told the high-level forum that the principles of democracy, pluralism, compassion, cultural diversity, dialogue and understanding form the basis of the Culture of Peace. "India is called a country of 'unity in diversity'. Our concept of pluralism is based on our ancient ethos of 'Sarva Dharma Sambhav' which means 'equal respect for all faiths'," she said, as she referred to the 1893 speech by India's great philosopher Swami Vivekananda at the Parliament of World Religions in Chicago where he had impressed upon India's civilisational ethos of accepting the greatness of all religions. "India is not just the birthplace of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism, but is also the land where the teachings of Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Zoroastrianism have taken strong root," she said. "Culture of Peace is the cornerstone of any global order to build inclusive and tolerant societies. Since the adoption of the UN Declaration and Programme of Action in 1999 at Bangladesh's behest, the Culture of Peace agenda has provided an effective blueprint for multilateral action to promote solidarity and understanding," she said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-continues-to-foment-culture-of-violence-at-home-across-its-borders-india-at-un-1028222.html
08-09-2021||National||India, Russia to discuss Afghanistan crisis at NSA level meeting||India and Russia are set to discuss the Afghan crisis following the takeover of the war-torn nation by Taliban forces. India's Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that the Secretary of the Security Council of the Russian Federation, General Nikolay Patrushev, has arrived on Tuesday on a two-day visit for a high-level India-Russia inter-governmental consultation on the invitation of India's National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval. The two top security officials are likely to discuss the Afghan situation. This consultation is a follow-up to the telephonic conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on August 24, when the two leaders said the two strategic partners will work together and directed the senior officials of their respective countries to remain in touch on the developments in Afghanistan. Patrushev is also expected to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, the MEA further said. After the Modi-Putin conversation, Russia had said that the two leaders expressed the intention to enhance cooperation to counter the spread of terrorist ideology and drug threat emerging from Afghanistan. Both leaders also agreed to set up a permanent bilateral channel for consultations on the issue. On Monday, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev also reiterated that there is ample scope for cooperation between India and Russia on Afghanistan and both sides have been in regular touch with each other on the latest developments in the war-torn country. He also said that Russia is equally concerned like India that the Afghan soil should not be a source of spreading terrorism to other countries and there is an apprehension that the terror threat may reach the Russian territory as well as Kashmir. Earlier on August 26, the Afghan situation was discussed in detail when Deputy NSA Pankaj Saran visited Moscow to meet Russian NSA Nikolay Patrushev and Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov. Following this, the two countries had agreed to step up coordination amid the unfolding situation in Afghanistan following troops pullout by the US and NATO. Russia was a key player in pushing for the Afghan peace process before the Taliban captured power in Kabul on Augusta 15 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-to-discuss-afghanistan-crisis-at-nsa-level-meeting-1028224.html
08-09-2021||National||37,875 new Covid-19 cases, 369 deaths in India||India logged 37,875 fresh cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,30,96,718, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The active cases have declined to 3,91,256 comprising 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. The death toll has climbed to 4,41,411 with 369 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.16 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last nine days while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.49 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 75 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,22,64,051. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 70.75 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/37875-new-covid-19-cases-369-deaths-in-india-1028230.html
08-09-2021||National||Supreme Court upholds Centre's power to extend ED Director Sanjay Kumar Mishra's term||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the Union government's power to extend the tenure of Enforcement Directorate's chief beyond a period of two years. The court, however, made it clear that extension to the officers, already superannuated, should be done in rare and exceptional circumstances. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai dismissed a petition filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of NGO 'Common Cause' seeking quashing of November 13, 2020 order extending tenure of ED Director Sanjay Kumar Mishra to three years after amending the previous order for his appointment to two years. The bench said it does not intend to interfere with the extension of tenure of Mishra as it is coming to an end in November, 2021. The court noted the Centre's justification for extending tenure of Mishra to three years since important investigations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act are at a crucial stage in trans-border crimes and such a decision was taken following the recommendation made by the high-powered committee formed under the Central Vigilance Commission Act.  "Though we have upheld the power of the Union of India to extend the tenure of Director of Enforcement beyond the period of two years, we should make it clear that extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases," the bench said. The court also said reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate the completion of ongoing investigations only after reasons are recorded by the committee. "Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of Director of Enforcement after attaining the age of superannuation should be for a short period... We make it clear that no further extension shall be granted to Mishra," the court said. The court rejected a contention by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the NGO that the extension of tenure was vitiated by the malice in law. The petitioner submitted that Mishra, an Indian Revenue Officer, attained the age of superannuation in May, 2020. His initial tenure of two years came to an end on November 19, 2020. Any further extension of his tenure was illegal as he was not holding any post equivalent or above the rank of Additional Secretary to the Union government, it claimed. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-upholds-centres-power-to-extend-ed-director-sanjay-kumar-mishras-term-1028246.html
08-09-2021||National||Kashmir youth sets Guinness record for cycling from Kashmir to Kanyakumari||A 23-year-old from Kashmir has made his mark in the Guinness Book of World Records for cycling from Srinagar to Kanyakumari in just eight days, covering a distance of 3,600 kilometres. Adil Teli, who hails from Budgam, completed the Kashmir to Kanyakumari ride in eight days, 1 hour and 37 minutes, breaking the previous record of eight days, 7 hours and 39 minutes by Om Mahajan. His long and grueling journey began from the iconic Ghanta Ghar at Lal Chowk on March 22 this year and ended way south of the country in Kanyakumari on March 30. Teli first represented Jammu and Kashmir at the national level in 2013. From then on, his involvement in cycling increased. Besides realising his passion, Teli also speaks of lacking facilities in progressing in his profession. "But I was determined to make cycling my profession, and I also knew that to achieve this I need to work hard," he told news agency ANI. Teli's commitment to long-distance cycling started when he pedaled the mountainous Srinagar-Leh stretch, covering 440 km in 26 hours. This feat, he has said, motivated him to realise his capabilities. Even though there is adventure and thrill associated with the sport, cycling involves formidable fitness and training that not many can commit to. Besides endurance, cycling is also expensive, which involves pricy gear and equipment. "But my parents never made me feel that they will not be able to afford all that because of a financial crisis. They always supported me," he said. Although he started to plan a year before he began his journey, Teli had a lot of prep work to do before embarking on the record-breaking feat. Among the key resources required are sponsors who are willing to support Teli in his ride. Besides sponsors, Teli will also needed professionals like a physiotherapist, nutritionist, cameraman and a documentary maker. On Day 1, in Srinagar, Teli withered heavy rains. He thanked the administration for opening up the new Banihal tunnel so that he could go unhindered. He said the ride was risky in bad weather with a constant threat of landslides on the highway. Once he completed the journey, Teli withered swelling in his knees and sunburns from riding for hours on the open roads of National Highway 44, the longest highway in India. "Tears rolled down my mother's cheeks at the flagging of my longest cycling expedition, it gave me strength throughout the journey," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-youth-sets-guinness-record-for-cycling-from-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-1028263.html
08-09-2021||National||Courts can’t presume that all Covid deaths during second wave were due to negligence: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that courts cannot presume that all deaths due to Covid-19 in the second wave of the pandemic were due to negligence as it refused to entertain a plea seeking compensation for the kin of the victims by treating it as medical negligence. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli asked the petitioner Deepak Raj Singh to approach the competent authorities with his suggestions. The bench said, “To assume that each death due to Covid-19 took place due to negligence is too much. The second wave had such an impact across the country that it cannot be presumed that all deaths happened due to negligence. Courts cannot have a presumption that all Covid deaths happened due to medical negligence, which your petition does”. The top court referred to a recent verdict of June 30, in which it had directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons, who died due to Covid-19. It said, “in that verdict the court has taken a view with regard to humanity and not due to negligence. The government is yet to come out with the policy. If you have any suggestion with regard to implementation of that policy, you can approach the competent authority”. At the outset, advocate Sriram Parakat, appearing for the petitioner, said that his petition is different as it brings into account an element of negligence and compensation for the deaths which have happened due to medical negligence. The bench noted that since the petition was filed in the month of May, a lot of developments have taken place. “We have taken suo motu cognizance on Covid preparedness and a National Task Force has been constituted by this court which is looking into several aspects,” the bench said. The bench further told Parakat that, “It was such a wave that it affected the entire country” and the court cannot make a general presumption of medical negligence. The top court, while disposing of the petition, asked the petitioner to withdraw his plea and amend it and if any suggestions are there, then the petitioner can approach the competent authority.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-can-t-presume-that-all-covid-deaths-during-second-wave-were-due-to-negligence-sc-1028277.html
08-09-2021||National||Supreme Court refuses to consider plea for door-to-door Covid vaccination in India||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it is not feasible to allow a plea for door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination and the court cannot pass a general direction to scrap the existing vaccination policy. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli asked the petitioner Youth Bar Association, to present its suggestions before a competent authority. The plea asked the court to pass a direction allowing door-to-door Covid-19 jab for the disabled and people belonging to weaker sections of society. The bench, however, said the vaccination drive was already in progress and over 60% of the population has been administered the first dose. "With one brush you want an order for the entire country,” the bench asked the petitioner, adding that it is matter of governance and it cannot scrap the existing policy. It said in Ladakh the situation is different from Kerala and in Uttar Pradesh the situation is different from any other state. “In urban areas, situation is different from rural areas. There are different kinds of problems in every state in this vast country," the bench added  The petitioner’s counsel submitted that health ministry should be asked to consider a representation in a time bound manner in this regard. The bench said it understood that the ministry officials are under pressure during these testing times. “They have to look for oxygen supplies across the country, besides looking into other aspects,” the court added. The bench also said the court was already monitoring the situation under suo motu proceedings. The bench further emphasised that in the backdrop of the diversity in the country, it is not feasible to pass general directions. “Any directions passed should not impinge upon the existing vaccination policy of the government," it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-consider-plea-for-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-in-india-1028287.html
08-09-2021||National||New coal plants could hit India's renewable energy goal||The proposed new coal-based power plants with a total output of 27 GW could jeopardise India's target of 450 GW renewable energy (RE) by 2030, according to a new report. These surplus “zombie” plants - assets that would be neither dead nor alive -- would require Rs 2,47,421 crore ($33 billion) of investment, but are projected to lie idle or operate at uneconomic capacity factors due to surplus generation capacity in the system, according to the report by Ember and Climate Risk Horizons. Aditya Lolla, Ember’s senior analyst, said: “As India recovers from the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, how the country uses scarce public resources will be absolutely crucial. By avoiding these unnecessary “zombie” coal plants, India can not only save lakhs of crores of rupees but also lower power costs and reiterate its commitment to the success of its clean energy transition goals". According to Abhishek Raj of Climate Risk Horizons, “Once incurred, these wasted investments will lock DISCOMs and consumers into expensive contracts and jeopardise India’s renewable energy goals by adding to the system’s overcapacity. The smart option is to divert these resources to renewables and storage to build a cheaper, more resilient grid for the future.” The analysis by energy experts at Ember and Climate Risk Horizons demonstrates that India doesn’t require new coal capacity beyond the 33 GW of new coal plants already being built, to meet demand growth by FY 2030. Even with aggressive projections of 5% annual growth in power demand, the analysis shows that coal-fired generation in FY 2030 will be lower than in FY 2020, as long as India achieves its 450 GW renewable energy and other non-coal targets. The report finds that over 300 GW of renewable energy commitments have already been made by India’s public and private power generators. Furthermore, India can meet peak demand in FY 2030 even if it retires its old coal plants and stops building new coal beyond those under construction, according to a press statement released here. By FY 2030, India will have a total “firm” capacity of about 346 GW in addition to 420 GW of variable renewable capacity to meet an estimated peak demand of 301 GW. Daytime peak demand would be easily met with India’s huge planned solar capacity while the report shows that evening peaks will be most effectively met by additional battery storage, at a lower cost than building new coal. The analysis reveals that switching investment from coal projects to renewables and battery storage would save the Indian power system an additional Rs 43,219 cr ($4 billion) a year from 2027 onwards in terms of reduced power purchase cost -- in addition to capex savings -- without sacrificing the power system’s ability to meet future demand. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-coal-plants-could-hit-indias-renewable-energy-goal-1028295.html
08-09-2021||National||Centre approves Rs 10,683 cr PLI scheme for textiles||The Union Cabinet Wednesday approved a Rs 10,683 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the textiles sector with an aim to boost domestic manufacturing and exports. The incentives will be provided to the industry over a period of five years. The scheme will help create direct employment for more than 7.5 lakh people and help pave the way for participation of women in large numbers. The government expects that the scheme will result in fresh investment of above Rs 19,000 crore and additional production turnover of over Rs 3 lakh crore in five years. The scheme has been approved for man-made fabrics. It is a part of the overall announcement of the scheme for 13 sectors made earlier during the Union Budget 2021-22, with an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore. Incentives worth Rs 10,683 crore will be provided over 5 years. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said that fabric and garments made from these fibres would be a focus of the scheme so that world-class facilities are built in the country. He also said that the government was also working on free trade agreements (FTAs) with the UK, the US, EU that will help the textile sector in getting a level playing field in these markets."So far, we have primarily focused on cotton textile. But 2/3 share of the international textile market is of man-made and technical textile. This PLI scheme has been approved so that India can also contribute to the production of man-made fibers. We hope that this decision will produce some global champions. The factories based around aspirational districts or Tier-3 & Tier-4 cities will be given priority. It will especially benefit Gujarat, UP, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana etc," said Goyal. Reacting to the decision, Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) Chairman A. Sakthivel said that the scheme will result in fresh investment of gigantic proportions, expand manufacturing capacities and enhance exports multifold. "It will make India a key player in the global textile value chain with focus on high-value MMF products. Besides, it will promote industrial development in backward regions of the country," he said. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-rs-10683-cr-pli-scheme-for-textiles-1028301.html
08-09-2021||National||Actress booked for violating customs in Kerala||An actress in Kerala has been caught up in a row over posing for a photograph in a traditional snake boat associated with a temple wearing footwear. A police case was registered against her on charges of triggering provocation and she was also facing threats and abuse over social media. Nimisha Bijoy, a Malayalam TV serial actress, courted the controversy after posting the photographs in the snake boats, known in Malayalam as 'Palliyodam', at Aranmula in Pathanamthitta. The snake boats are used for the water procession of the Aranmula Parthasarathy Temple. Hence the actress entering the snake boat wearing footwear and posing for photographs had not gone down well with a section of devotees. Based on a complaint of the Palliyodam Seva Sangham that manages the snake boat, the police registered a case under IPC section 153 for wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause a riot. A statement of the actress would be taken shortly, said the police. Meanwhile, the actress on Wednesday alleged that even as she removed the pictures from social media and stated that she entered the snake boat wearing footwear due to ignorance about the customs, she was being abused and threatened by many on social media. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actress-booked-for-violating-customs-in-kerala-1028304.html
08-09-2021||National||Only 1% poor students in rural India watched educational TV: Survey||Nearly one-third students in poor households in urban and rural India were not attending online classes regularly because they did not have their own smartphone, a new survey has found. The survey found that only 8 per cent students from underprivileged households in urban parts of the country watched educational broadcasts on television channels, while the proportion was just 1 per cent in rural hamlets. The School Children’s Online and Offline Learning (SCHOOL) survey, conducted in August this year, covered 1,362 poor households in 15 states. The findings are presented in a report ‘Locked Out: Emergency report on School Education’. The survey found that in rural areas, only 8 per cent were studying online regularly, 37 per cent were not studying at all, and about half were unable to read more than a few words. The reasons were that many students did not own a smartphone, mobile connectivity was poor, they did not have the money to pay ‘data’ packages, schools were not sending study material or online education was too hard to grasp for some. An overwhelming majority of parents -- 98 per cent in rural hamlets and 90 per cent in urban slums -- wanted the schools to reopen as soon as possible, the survey found. Even among the underprivileged households, the figures were “much worse” for Dalit and Adivasi families than for others, be it for online education, regular study, or reading abilities, claimed the survey. For instance, only 4 per cent of rural SC/ST children were studying online regularly, in comparison to 15 per cent among other rural children. In urban areas, about half of the children currently enrolled in Grades 3-5 were unable to read more than a few words, while in rural areas, 42 per cent were unable to read a single word. Schools and other educational institutions across the country have been closed for over a year and a half since the onset of the pandemic. As the pandemic ebbed in parts of the country, several states have started reopening schools in a phased manner from September. A majority of children – 51 per cent in urban areas and 58 per cent in rural areas – had not met their teacher at all during the 30 days preceding the survey. However, the survey also found initiatives by some teachers of convening small group classes in the open, recharging phones of students who were short on cash, or even lent their phones for online study. The survey conducted in 15 states and union territories – including Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal – was a joint effort of nearly 100 volunteers across the country. The report was prepared by a coordination team of economists that include Jean Drèze and Nirali Bakhla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-1-poor-students-in-rural-india-watched-educational-tv-survey-1028327.html
08-09-2021||National||Govt hikes wheat MSP by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal for 2021-22 crop year||The government on Wednesday hiked the minimum support price for wheat by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal and for mustard seed by Rs 400 to Rs 5,050 per quintal for the current crop year. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. MSP (Minimum Support Price) is the rate at which the government buys the grain from farmers. Currently, the government fixes MSPs for 23 crops grown in both kharif and rabi seasons. Sowing of rabi (winter) crops begins from October immediately after the harvest of kharif (summer) crops. Wheat and mustard are major rabi crops. According to an official release, the CCEA has approved increase in the MSP for six rabi crops for the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) and 2022-23 marketing seasons. Wheat MSP has been increased by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal for this crop year from Rs 1,975 per quintal in the 2020-21 crop year. The cost of production of wheat is estimated at Rs 1,008 per quintal, the release said. The government procured a record wheat of over 43 million tonne during 2021-22 rabi marketing season, as per the official. Check out latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-hikes-wheat-msp-by-rs-40-to-rs-2015-per-quintal-for-2021-22-crop-year-1028335.html
08-09-2021||National||Can't presume all Covid-19 deaths during second wave caused by medical negligence: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that presuming all deaths caused by Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic were due to negligence would be "too much". A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said that although the second wave had an impact across the country, it cannot be presumed that all deaths occurred due to negligence. "Courts cannot have a presumption that all Covid deaths happened due to medical negligence," the bench, also comprising Justices Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said. The top court refused to entertain a plea for compensation to the kin of the victims by treating the case as medical negligence. The court asked advocate Sriram Parakat, representing the petitioner, Deepak Raj Singh, to approach the competent authorities with his suggestions. It also referred to the top court's June 30 judgment, directing the National Disaster Management Authority to frame appropriate guidelines within six weeks for ex-gratia assistance for family members of persons who succumbed to Covid-19. The top court said the decision for compensation was taken in regard to humanity and not due to negligence.  "The government is yet to come out with the policy. If you have any suggestion with regard to implementation of that policy, you can approach the competent authority," the bench told the counsel. The bench noted that the top court has already taken suo motu cognisance on Covid preparedness and a national task force has been constituted by it to examine several aspects. The bench emphasised that it is not possible to make a general presumption of medical negligence as the reason behind deaths due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-presume-all-covid-19-deaths-during-second-wave-caused-by-medical-negligence-sc-1028356.html
08-09-2021||National||No muzzling of press, but can't create separate avenues for journalists: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it does not want freedom of the press to be muzzled but it cannot create a separate avenue for journalists to approach it directly for quashing of the FIRs. A bench of Justices L Nageswara  Rao, B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna, however, granted two months protection to news portal 'The Wire' and three of its journalists Seraj Ali, Mukul Singh Chauhan and Ismat Ara in three separate FIRs registered by the Uttar Pradesh police over some of the news reports. As the petitioners asked the court to quash the FIRs, the court said they should have approached the High Court first before coming to the Supreme Court. "We are aware of fundamental rights and don't want freedom of press to be muzzled," the bench said, adding that allowing their plea would open a Pandora's box. The court asked petitioner 'Foundation for Independent Journalism', the company running 'The Wire' and others to approach the High Court with their plea. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-muzzling-of-press-but-cant-create-separate-avenues-for-journalists-sc-1028359.html
08-09-2021||National||Looking at procuring 350 aircraft over next two decades: IAF chief||The Indian Air Force is looking at procuring around 350 aircraft in the next two decades, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Wednesday. In an address at a conference on the Indian aerospace sector, the Chief of Air Staff also talked about the need for developing asymmetric capabilities to bolster the IAF's overall strength in view of challenges from China. "Looking at the northern neighbour, we have to have niche technologies which must be built in-house by our own industry for reasons of security," the IAF chief said. Emphasising that India becoming self-reliant in the defence sector is crucial for dealing with various challenge, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the IAF is looking at procuring around 350 aircraft from within the country in the next two decades. At the same time, he noted that it is a rough projection. The IAF chief also said the Tejas light combat aircraft project has instilled confidence in the aerospace industry in India and that it has huge potential to grow further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looking-at-procuring-350-aircraft-over-next-two-decades-iaf-chief-1028360.html
08-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: States grapple with how to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi safely||Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-states-grapple-with-how-to-celebrate-ganesh-chaturthi-safely-1028362.html
08-09-2021||National||UP seeks urgent listing of plea in SC against Karnataka HC order quashing notice to Twitter official||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday asked the Supreme Court to urgently take up its petition against the Karnataka High Court's decision to quash a notice of personal appearance issued to the then Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari for probe into a viral video case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana saying the petition filed last month has yet not been listed for hearing. "Let us see it. We will give a date," the bench said. The UP government has filed a special leave petition against the Karnataka High Court's order of July 23, quashing the notice as mala fide. Maheshwari has last month been transferred to the US as a senior director in the Revenue Strategy and Operations department of the social media company.  He also filed a caveat, seeking a hearing before the top court before passing any order. On June 24, the Karnataka High Court had granted protection from arrest to Maheshwari in an FIR lodged by Loni Police in Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad Police issued notice to Twitter MD asking him to appear at Loni Police Station for questioning on a probe related to the viral video of the assault. Earlier, Twitter India officials had informed the police they are ready to be available for questioning via video conferencing which was rejected by the police. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claimed that he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant ''Jai Shri Ram'' on June 5. The police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest. The police have maintained the assault took place because the accused were unhappy about the ''tabeez'' (amulets) sold to them by Saifi, a resident of adjoining Bulandshahr district, and ruled out any communal angle in the case. In the video that triggered a nationwide reaction, Saifi purportedly says he was attacked by some young men and forced to chant ''Jai Shri Ram''. But, according to the district police, he has not made any such allegations in his FIR lodged on June 7, two days after the incident. The June 15 FIR stated that the Ghaziabad Police had issued a statement with facts of the incident but despite that the accused did not remove the video from their Twitter handles. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-seeks-urgent-listing-of-plea-in-sc-against-karnataka-hc-order-quashing-notice-to-twitter-official-1028365.html
08-09-2021||National||HC grants time to Centre to file reply on plea challenging Rakesh Asthana’s appointment as Delhi CP||The Delhi High Court Wednesday granted time to the Centre to file reply to a petition challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPC officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh allowed the plea by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for granting some more time to file the response and listed the matter for further hearing on September 16. The high court, which had on September 1 issued notices to the Centre and Asthana on the petition, issued a fresh notice to the IPS officer as it was not served to him due to want of payment of process fee by the petitioner. The bench was hearing the PIL by Sadre Alam, a lawyer, against the appointment of Asthana along with an intervention application by an NGO which has challenged the appointment before the Supreme Court. Advocate B S Bagga, representing Alam, apologised for the delay and assured the court that the process fee would be deposited during the day. During the brief hearing, advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing the NGO - Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), reiterated that Alam's petition was mala fide and a “complete copy-paste” of his plea pending before the apex court. He said the court should see whether this kind of mala fide petition should be entertained. Mehta said he was in agreement with Bhushan and this practice of copy-paste must be deprecated. He commented however that if Bhushan makes plea public before filing it, nobody is to be blamed. To this, Bhushan replied that most of the information was in the public domain. The petitioner has sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him. The plea also sought initiation of steps for appointing Delhi Police Commissioner strictly in accordance with the direction issued by the Supreme Court earlier. “The impugned orders (of MHA) are in clear and blatant breach of the directions passed by the Supreme Court of India in Prakash Singh case as respondent no.2 (Asthana) did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months; no UPSC panel was formed for appointment of Delhi Police Commissioner; and the criteria of having a minimum tenure of two years has been ignored,” the plea said. The Centre had earlier contended before the high court that “intermeddlers” cannot be allowed to challenge the appointment of Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner, saying “This is not Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Maidan.” Mehta had sought time to respond to the petition on merit and said the court has to hear the “affected officer” as well before any order is passed. Bhushan had earlier also raised the issue that Alam’s petition was copy-paste of his plea pending before the apex court. He had clarified that he did not intend to argue before this court as the NGO's plea was pending before the Supreme Court. The petitioner’s counsel had maintained that the plea was not a product of “copy-paste”. The petition claimed the High-Powered Committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister and the Leader of Opposition, in its meeting held on May 24, 2021, rejected the Central government's attempt to appoint Asthana as the CBI Director on the basis of the six-month rule as laid down by the Supreme Court in the Prakash Singh case. The appointment of Asthana must be set aside on the same principle, it said. The petition with similar prayers which has been filed by CPIL before the Supreme Court has urged to direct the central government to produce the July 27 order it issued, approving the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT cadre. The petition has also urged the apex court to set aside the Centre's order to extend Asthana's service period. On August 25, the Supreme Court had asked the high court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it against the appointment of the senior IPS officer as Delhi Police Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-time-to-centre-to-file-reply-on-plea-challenging-rakesh-asthana-s-appointment-as-delhi-cp-1028369.html
08-09-2021||National||Centre may let foreign investors buy up to 20% in LIC IPO||The Indian government is considering allowing foreign institutional investors to buy up to a total of 20 per cent in state-owned Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), a government source said on Wednesday, as it presses ahead with a stake sale. The listing of LIC is set to be India's biggest ever initial public offering (IPO), with the government aiming to raise up to Rs 90,000 crore ($12.2 billion) from its stake sale. At present, even though foreign institutional investors are allowed to hold up to 74 per cent of private insurance companies and up to 20 per cent of state-owned banks, they are not permitted to own shares in LIC. Enabling this would allow foreign pension funds, insurance companies and mutual funds to participate in the IPO of India's largest life insurer. The government is keen to complete the listing this financial year to help with budgetary constraints and late last month selected 10 merchant banks out of the sixteen that had bid to kick-start the process. In total, the merchant banks will earn a fee of around  Rs 10 crore ($1.36 million), higher than the token fee charged on some IPOs of state-owned firms in the past, but still significantly lower than fees for private listings. For instance, food delivery startup Zomato paid about Rs 228 crore in fees for listing earlier this year, according to Dealogic. The low fee, however, has not been a deterrent, with nearly all the major banks barring Morgan Stanley queuing up. "We can’t care less about what is the money that is being offered. It is the biggest IPO in recent times and will be probably the biggest, say for another 5 years," said a merchant banker. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-let-foreign-investors-buy-up-to-20-in-lic-ipo-1028374.html
08-09-2021||National||Union Cabinet clears signing pact between ICAI, CAAR||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the signing of a memorandum of understanding between chartered accountants' apex body ICAI and Chamber of Auditors of the Republic of Azerbaijan (CAAR). The signing of the MoU would help in establishing mutual cooperation in the areas of member management, professional ethics, technical research, professional accountancy training, audit quality monitoring and advancement of accounting knowledge, among other areas, an official release said. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) is a statutory body. The CAAR was set up to regulate the audit profession in Azerbaijan. The signing of the MoU was cleared by the Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Both ICAI and CAAR intend to strengthen cooperation in the areas of training of audit, finance and accounting professionals. Further, the two entities intend to cooperate in the fight against corruption and money laundering, the release said. "ICAI and CAAR also intend to undertake a study on application of new innovative methods in the field of audit and accounting, including application of blockchain, smart contract system, transition from traditional accounting to cloud accounting," it added. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-clears-signing-pact-between-icai-caar-1028388.html
08-09-2021||National||Centre sticks to September 15 deadline for putting financial bids for Air India||The government will stick to the September 15 deadline for investors to put in bids for buying national carrier Air India, an official said. This is in stark contrast to the extension of deadline for preliminary bids five times. Salt-to-software conglomerate Tata Group was among the "multiple" entities that had put in preliminary bids for buying loss-making Air India in December last year. After analysing the preliminary bids, eligible bidders were given access to the Virtual Data Room (VDR) of Air India for doing due diligence, following which investors' queries were answered. Following that, in April the government had initiated the process for inviting financial bids and fixed September 15 as the deadline for putting in bids. The official said once the bids come in by September 15, the government will decide on the reserve price. The deal is expected to be closed by December-end. In July, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh had informed Parliament that financial bids for the carrier will be received by September 15. The government is selling its entire 100 per cent stake in Air India that has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The stake sale process got delayed due to the pandemic and the government had extended five times the deadline to submit preliminary bids for the national carrier. The airline, which started as a mail carrier in 1932, will give the successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of the low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services at major Indian airports. With previous attempts since 2017 failing to get any significant interest, the government had this time sweetened the deal by giving freedom to potential suitors to decide how much of the airline's debt they want to take on as part of the transaction. Previously, the bidders were required to take over the entire Rs 60,074 crore debt. Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sticks-to-september-15-deadline-for-putting-financial-bids-for-air-india-1028396.html
08-09-2021||National||Man hit by actor Rajat Bedi's car dies; cops add section 304-A of IPC in FIR||The pedestrian who was injured in a road accident involving Bollywood actor Rajat Bedi's car in suburban Andheri died during treatment, police said on Wednesday. Following the death of the injured victim on Tuesday late night, D N Nagar police have added section 304-A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code in the FIR registered against the actor, an official said. The actor is not yet arrested, he said. "The accident victim Rajesh Baudh, a labourer, was declared dead in the Cooper Hospital where he was being treated for the last two days," the official said. The incident occurred on Monday evening near a temple in Andheri when the actor was on his way home, according to police. The pedestrian, who was in an inebriated condition, suddenly came into the middle of the road and got hit by the actor's car before the latter could apply brakes. The actor took the injured person to the nearby Cooper Hospital and then went to D N Nagar police station where he informed about the incident to on-duty police officer, police had said. Police had registered a case against the actor under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others). Bedi has acted in several films, including Hrithik Roshan-starrer "Koi...Mil Gaya", and "Partner", which featured Salman Khan.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-hit-by-actor-rajat-bedis-car-dies-cops-add-section-304-a-of-ipc-in-fir-1028399.html
08-09-2021||National||Balaji Telefilms shareholders reject salary hike for Shobha, Ekta Kapoor||The shareholders of Balaji Telefilms have rejected a proposal to hike the remunerations of Managing Director Shobha Kapoor and Joint Managing Director Ekta Kapoor in the recently concluded AGM. The two extraordinary proposals for the hike in remuneration could not get required approval from the shareholders in the annual general meeting of the company held on August 31, 2021. According to a regulatory filing, both proposals “have not been passed as the votes cast against the resolution are more than those cast in favour of the resolution”. However, it passed the other extraordinary proposal to appoint as Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company for a term of five consecutive years with effect from February 11, 2021, it added. As per the rules, such extraordinary proposals need approval by 75 per cent of votes in the AGM. The proposal to approve the payment of remuneration to Shobha Kapoor, Managing Director of Balaji Telefilms, for a further period of two years with effect from November 10, 2021, got only 43.23 per cent votes and 56.76 per cent voted against it. While the proposal for a salary increase for its Joint Managing Director Ekta Kapoor received 44.54 per cent votes in favour and 55.45 per cent votes went against it. Meanwhile, the third extraordinary proposal for the appointment of Jason Kothari was approved by 99.77 per cent votes. According to the latest annual report of the company Shobha Kapoor, wife of actor Jeetendra, has received a total remuneration of Rs 2.09 crore, which includes a salary of Rs 1.95 crore along with a prerequisite of Rs 7.62 lakh. Billionaire Mukesh Ambani led Reliance Industries Ltd owns a 24.91 per cent share in the company. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/balaji-telefilms-shareholders-reject-salary-hike-for-shobha-ekta-kapoor-1028400.html
08-09-2021||National||Centre approves procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for IAF||The Cabinet Committee on Security on Wednesday cleared a long-awaited deal to purchase 56 C-295MW transport aircraft from Airbus at a cost of around Rs 21,000 crore (nearly $2 billion), clearing the decks for the Indian Air Force to replace its ageing Avro fleet. While 16 aircraft will be delivered in flying condition from Spain within 48 months of the signing of the contract, the remaining 40 will be manufactured in India by a Tata-Airbus Consortium within ten years. All 56 aircraft would be installed with the indigenous Electronic Warfare Suite. With the CCS nod in the pocket, the Defence Ministry will now start commercial negotiations involving the IAF, Airbus and the Tata group, hoping to close the deal at the earliest. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company, ending decades of monopoly that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited enjoyed. For Airbus, it is the first defence contract after the 1960s, when it bagged a deal to supply Cheetah and Chetak helicopters to India. The European aircraft manufacturer was earlier shortlisted in three Indian programmes, none of which materialised. Even the C-295MW programme received the Defence Ministry’s nod in 2016 but it did not lead to a commercial contract due to several factors including resistance from the public sector. The opposition from the PSU was there from the very beginning when former Defence Minister A K Antony started the Avro-replacement programme involving a private company. A transport aircraft of 5-10 tonne capacity with contemporary technology, C-295MW is much superior to the slow-moving Avro. Also, it has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para dropping of troops and cargo. The programme would provide a major boost to the domestic aviation industry by offering a unique opportunity for the Indian private sector to enter into the technology-intensive and highly competitive aviation industry, a defence ministry official said. Since a large number of aircraft parts, sub-assemblies and major component assemblies are to be manufactured in India, the C-295 manufacturing programme is expected to act as a catalyst in employment generation in the aviation sector. According to a Defence Ministry analysis, the programme can generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities with more than 42.5 lakh man-hours of work within the aerospace and defence sector of India. Before completion of deliveries, a top-class servicing facility for C-295MW aircraft will be set up in India to act as a regional Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft operating in the region. "Airbus welcomes the decision of the Cabinet Committee on Security on the procurement of 56 C-295 aircraft and looks forward to signing and executing the contract jointly with the Tata Group," a company spokesperson said reacting to the CCS decision.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-procurement-of-56-c-295mw-transport-aircraft-for-iaf-1028407.html
08-09-2021||National||Cabinet may soon approve revised PLI scheme for auto sector||The government is believed to have slashed the outlay for the automobile sector under the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to about Rs 26,000 crore and the proposal is expected to be approved by the Union Cabinet soon, sources said. Last year, the government had announced a PLI scheme for the automobile and auto components sector with an outlay of Rs 57,043 crore, earmarked for five years. The sources did not disclose the reason for revising the scheme to Rs 25,938 crore, but stated that the focus is now more on battery electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. The Cabinet may take up the proposal for consideration next week, one of the sources said. Component segments which are expected to be covered under the scheme include automatic transmission assembly, electronic power steering system, sensors, super capacitors, sunroofs, adaptive front lighting, automatic braking, tyre pressure monitoring system, and collision warning system. Auto industry body SIAM has earlier stated that the scheme announced by the government will increase competitiveness and take the growth of the sector to the next level. The scheme for the sector is part of the overall production-linked incentives announced for 13 sectors in the Union Budget 2021-22 with an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore. The PLI scheme will help bring scale in key sectors and create and nurture global champions. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-may-soon-approve-revised-pli-scheme-for-auto-sector-1028411.html
08-09-2021||National||Taliban will have to follow true Sharia that guarantees rights of all: Mehbooba Mufti||The Taliban, which has taken over the reins of Afghanistan, must follow true Sharia, which guarantees rights of all, including women, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said on Wednesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan last month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. It took over Kabul on August 15 and on Tuesday, unveiled a hardline interim government led by Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund. "Taliban has come to the fore as a reality. Its image in the first time in power was that of anti-human rights. If it wants to govern Afghanistan, it will have to follow the true Sharia law as laid down in the Quran which guarantees rights of women, children and elderly," she told reporters after a function here. If the Taliban follows the example of governance set by Prophet Muhammad in Madina, it will set an example for the world, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said. She said that the Taliban should shun the hardline interpretation of Islam and Sharia if it wants to do business with the international community. "If it does not, it will make matters difficult for the people of Afghanistan," Mehbooba added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-will-have-to-follow-true-sharia-that-guarantees-rights-of-all-mehbooba-mufti-1028424.html
08-09-2021||National||IRCTC to launch India's first luxury cruise liner from September 18||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will start India's first indigenous cruise liner from September 18, the railway PSU said on Wednesday. "IRCTC has joined hands and signed the agreement with Cordelia Cruises being operated by M/s Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt. Ltd for promotion and marketing of the first indigenous luxury cruise in India. This is another incredible luxury travel offering under IRCTC's umbrella of tourism services to the public," the railway PSU said in a statement. "Cordelia Cruises is India's premium cruise liner. It aspires to promote and drive the cruise culture in India through experiences that are stylish, luxurious, and most importantly, inherently Indian. It is a cruise liner for Indians catering to the way Indians love to holiday," it said. IRCTC said guests on board the ship will have an experience of sailing to some of the best Indian and international destinations like Goa, Diu, Lakshadweep, Kochi, and Sri Lanka. Cordelia Cruises is starting its first journey from September 18 and in its first phase will sail through Indian destinations with its base at Mumbai, while later from May 2022 the cruise will be shifted to Chennai and set sail to destinations in Sri Lanka like Colombo, Galle, Trincomalee and Jaffna. Some of the popular tour itineraries of Cordelia Cruises are: Mumbai-Goa-Mumbai, Mumbai-Diu-Mumbai, Mumbai-At sea-Mumbai, Kochi-Lakshadweep – At sea – Mumbai, Mumbai–At sea–Lakshadweep– At sea –Mumbai among others. "While travelling on Cordelia Cruises, one can enjoy lot of recreational and leisure activities such as restaurants, swimming pool, bars, open cinemas, theatre, kids area, gymnasium," the statement said. As per Covid-19 protocol, crew members are fully vaccinated and daily health checks for the crew members, hourly sanitisation of the facilities, air-filtration and social distancing norms would also be followed. The number of guests will also be limited according to the official mandate by the government. There is also a fully-functional medical centre on board the cruise equipped with all the required medical essential items. Beside the luxury cruises in India, IRCTC is also in the process of signing agreements with all major international cruise liners and will provide their bookings on its web portal as soon as the Covid-19 situation normalises and the international cruises start their operations. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-to-launch-indias-first-luxury-cruise-liner-from-september-18-1028437.html
08-09-2021||National||Looking at procuring 350 aircraft over next two decades: IAF chief||The Indian Air Force is looking at procuring around 350 aircraft from the domestic aerospace industry in the next two decades that include the 83 Light Combat aircraft Tejas, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Wednesday. In an address at a conference on the Indian aerospace sector, the Chief of Air Staff also talked about the need for developing asymmetric capabilities to bolster the IAF's overall strength in view of challenges from China. "Looking at the northern neighbour, we have to have niche technologies which must be built in-house by our own industry for reasons of security," he said, stressing on the need to make 'Aatmanirbharta' (self-reliance) the most important and strongest pillar of national security. Emphasising that India becoming self-reliant in the defence sector is crucial for dealing with various challenges, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the IAF is committed to supporting the domestic industry. "From my perspective, we are at least looking at 350 odd aircraft over the next two decades and it includes the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA)," he said at the seminar organised by the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) and the Centre for Air Power Studies (CAPS). Later, he said clarified the number of aircraft he referred to will include those being made by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). The Chief of Air Staff said the LCA programme has redefined military aviation and it will make the core of the aerospace industry in terms of budget and ecosystem. "The level of automation achieved by the support of the industry has given the strength to act fast, decide fast and react fast," he said. In February, the government sealed a Rs 48,000 crore deal to procure 83 Tejas light combat aircraft from state-run aerospace behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, in the biggest ever indigenous defence procurement programme. The aircraft is a potent platform for air combat and offensive air support missions while reconnaissance and anti-ship operations are its secondary roles. "The Tejas has generated a kind of confidence required to get on any project," the IAF chief said. Referring to the AMCA (advanced multi-role combat aircraft) project, he said it is in the advanced stages of preparations. The AMCA will be a fifth-generation medium weight deep penetration fighter jet and it is expected to significantly bolster the IAF's air power capability. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria also said that the IAF is taking a series of initiatives including procuring next-generation jammers, anti-drones systems to deal with challenges from rogue UAVs. He said a number of orders have been placed with the domestic industry for procuring drones, counter-drone systems, radars and jammers. Serious concerns over threats from enemy drones first emerged in June when two drones were used by suspected Pakistan-based terrorists to attack the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu. In his address, Jayant D Patil, President of SIDM, spoke about the potential in the manufacturing of unmanned aerial vehicles and highlighted that development in this sector would bring in a revolution in the aerospace industry. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looking-at-procuring-350-aircraft-over-next-two-decades-iaf-chief-1028438.html
08-09-2021||National||Sukhbir Singh Badal gets bail in forgery case||A court here on Wednesday granted interim bail to Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in a forgery case, involving allegations that his party submitted a false undertaking to seek recognition from the Election Commission of India. Badal, who appeared before the court in Hoshiarpur, got bail on a personal bond and surety of Rs 1 lakh each. Social activist Balwant Singh Khera had filed a complaint against Badal and others in 2009, alleging that the SAD has two constitutions, one that it submitted to the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other to the Elections Commission of India (ECI) to seek recognition as a political party. He had alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate principles of socialism and secularism, whereas it continued its activities as a 'Panthic' party and participated in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections. The court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Rupinder Kaur fixed September 28 as the next date of hearing in the case. Badal's counsel appealed for exempting him from personal appearance on the next date but the court asked him to move an application in this regard on the same day. On September 2, the court of Additional Sessions Judge Jatinder Pal Singh Khurmi had directed Badal to surrender in the trial court here on or before September 13 to get interim bail, subject to his furnishing a personal bond and surety. Badal had moved an application for interim bail, saying no custodial interrogation of him was required and a co-accused in the case, Daljit Singh Cheema, is already on bail. Police had booked Badal under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sukhbir-singh-badal-gets-bail-in-forgery-case-1028441.html
08-09-2021||National||'UK, India in sweet spot as trade negotiations begin'||The UK and India are in a "sweet spot" of global trade dynamics as negotiations for a free trade agreement (FTA) begin in the coming weeks, according to Britain’s trade minister in charge of the bilateral talks. Liz Truss, UK Secretary of State for International Trade, revealed that the public consultation process ahead of the trade negotiations attracted "huge interest” from businesses across the UK and its completion last month means that FTA negotiations can now begin. Addressing a special reception hosted by the Lord Mayor of London to celebrate the UK-India Economic Partnership on Tuesday evening, the minister confirmed that both sides will “hammer out” the details during the upcoming visit of Commerce and Industry minister Piyush Goyal to the UK and Europe next week. "We just completed our consultation on an Indian trade deal, which saw huge interest from businesses across the country. We are now going to begin negotiating a free trade agreement,” said Truss. “I see the UK and India in a sweet spot of the trade dynamics that are building up… We are looking at a comprehensive trade agreement that covers everything, from financial services to legal services to digital and data, as well as goods and agriculture. We think there is strong possibility for us to get an early agreement, where we lower tariffs on both sides and start to see more goods flowing between our two countries,” she said. Pointing to the post-Brexit scenario as the UK’s chance to set out an independent trade policy outside the European Union (EU), the senior Cabinet minister flagged India as the “big, major opportunity” ahead following 68 trade deals clinched by Britain since leaving the economic bloc. She also referenced her visit to India earlier in the year, including a tour of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune which is in a UK tie-up to produce the Oxford University and AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines, as she highlighted collaboration in the field of science and tech as a sign of things to come as that trade route between the UK and India is deepened. "Like the UK, India is a science and tech superpower… the Serum Institute of India provides two-thirds of the vaccines that inoculate children around the world. That is truly a tremendous achievement,” said Truss. “Working with India will help enhance the UK’s position as a global hub for digital and services. But for me it’s about more than that: it’s about two democracies who share values, share an approach to working together to the benefit of both of our populations,” she said. "In every possible way, we have a hugely strong relationship between our two nations and all I can see is things moving in the right direction. It’s vitally important that as we want to recover from the Covid crisis across the world, we see more free enterprise and free trade,” she noted. The trade minister also laid out some developing trends that hold out great promise for the India-UK relationship, including the growing digitisation of global trade. "The other big trend we are seeing is the growth in the Indo-Pacific region, where a lot of our trade negotiations are oriented towards. India is expected to have more middle-class consumers than the US by 2030, and they would want to buy the finer things that Britain supplies – whether that’s financial services, insurance, computer technology, high-value food and drink or indeed our advanced manufacturing products,” she pointed out. Both the minister and the Lord Mayor, William Russell, underlined the Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP) agreed between Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson at their virtual summit in May as setting out an ambitious roadmap to at least double bilateral trade by 2030. "The most innovative and dynamic part of our relationship is in the financial professional services and we at the City of London have done a lot to support that part of the relationship,” said the Lord Mayor – the leader of the financial hub of the UK capital. "This relationship is only getting stronger, whether that’s through the India-UK 2030 Roadmap announced earlier this year by our Prime Ministers or the work of individual businesses like Barclays Bank, who have invested nearly GBP 300 million to expand their operations in India,” he said. Describing the bilateral ties as the “investment opportunity of a generation”, the Lord Mayor highlighted the key priorities for the UK-India relationship as enhanced mobility and resumption of business travel between both countries, doubling of financial professional services trade in the next decade and increased green investments to support India’s sustainability and decarbonisation agenda.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-india-in-sweet-spot-as-trade-negotiations-begin-1028449.html
08-09-2021||National||Air India to operate non-stop Hyderabad-London flight||Air India is set to commence its first ever non-stop service between Hyderabad and London, with the first flight arriving here from the UK capital on Thursday. The same flight will depart to London on September 10 strengthening the connectivity on the India-UK sector, a press release from the carrier said. The flight will operate twice a week with a Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft with a capacity of 256 seats, including 18 in Business Class and 238 in Economy Class configuration. The flight from Hyderabad to London will operate twice a week on Mondays and Fridays. The total flight time on this route will be 10 hours and 30 minutes from Hyderabad to London and 9 hours 20 minutes from London to Hyderabad, depending on the wind speed and other conditions on that particular day, the release said. At present, Air India operates non-stop flights to London from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Amritsar, Kochi, Ahmedabad and Goa. Air India has been playing a major role in the Government’s epic 'Vande Bharat Mission' and Air Transport Bubble Arrangement to fly people, left stranded due to the air route restrictions, back home. So far, Air India has flown over 40 lakh people and, the mission continues, it added.  Check out the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-to-operate-non-stop-hyderabad-london-flight-1028451.html
08-09-2021||National||PM, Prez Kovind express anguish over Assam boat tragedy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed anguish over the boat tragedy in Assam and said that all possible efforts are being made to rescue the passengers.  Modi tweeted, "Saddened by the boat accident in Assam. All possible efforts are being made to rescue the passengers. I pray for everyone's safety and well-being." Saddened by the boat accident in Assam. All possible efforts are being made to rescue the passengers. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being. President Ram Nath Kovind also said on Wednesday he was deeply pained to hear about the loss of lives in a boat accident in Assam’s Jorhat district. “My thoughts go out to the victims, survivors and their families. Rescue and relief efforts are on to save as many lives as possible,” he said. Deeply pained to hear about the loss of lives in a boat accident in Jorhat, Assam. My thoughts go out to the victims, survivors and their families. Rescue and relief efforts are on to save as many lives as possible. “Deeply pained to hear about the loss of lives in a boat accident in Jorhat, Assam. My thoughts go out to the victims, survivors and their families. Rescue and relief efforts are on to save as many lives as possible,” Kovind tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-prez-kovind-express-anguish-over-assam-boat-tragedy-1028452.html
08-09-2021||National||Govt signs peace pact with NSCN led by Niki Sumi, accused of killing 18 Army soldiers in 2015||The Centre on Wednesday signed a ceasefire agreement with a faction of the Naga insurgent group NSCN led by Niki Sumi against whom the NIA had announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh for allegedly killing 18 Indian Army soldiers in Manipur in 2015. According to the Home Ministry, the peace pact will come into effect from September 8 for one year and more than 200 cadres of this group have surrendered with 83 weapons Sumi was the prime accused in the killing of 18 Indian Army soldiers in Manipur in 2015 and the National Investigation Agency had announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh for his arrest. A Home Ministry statement said that the ceasefire agreement is a significant step in Naga peace process and making the Northeast insurgency-free. "In fulfilling the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of 'Insurgency free and prosperous North East' and in a significant boost to Naga peace process, under the guidance of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the government of India enters into a ceasefire agreement with National Socialist Council of Nagaland (K) Niki Group," it said. The ceasefire agreement and agreed ceasefire ground rules were signed on Wednesday. In December last year, the NSCN-K, led by dreaded militant Niki Sumi, had announced a ceasefire and said that the outfit has contacted the central government for initiating peace dialogue. The home ministry statement said the government of India has already signed a framework agreement with NSCN-IM and ceasefire agreements with other Naga groups namely, NSCN-NK, NSCN-R and NSCN-K-Khango. The three outfits are breakaway factions of dominant groups NSCN-IM and NSCN-K Earlier, the central government had signed an agreement with NLFT(SD) in August 2019 by which 88 cadres along with 44 weapons surrendered in Tripura. In January 2020, with the signing of the Bodo agreement, more than 2,250 cadres of insurgent groups, including all factions of NDFB, along with 423 weapons and a huge quantity of ammunition surrendered in Assam and joined the mainstream. On February 23, 2021, 1,040 leaders and cadres of various underground Karbi groups of Assam surrendered along with 338 weapons and it was followed by the signing of the Karbi Anglong agreement on September 4, 2021. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-signs-peace-pact-with-nscn-led-by-niki-sumi-accused-of-killing-18-army-soldiers-in-2015-1028453.html
08-09-2021||National||India, Russia discuss Afghan situation, refrain from criticising Taliban for lack of inclusivity||India and Russia on Wednesday discussed the situation in Afghanistan, but refrained from directly criticising the lack of inclusivity in the new Taliban government in the conflict-ravaged country, or atrocities on people protesting against the militant organisation and its mentors in Pakistan. New Delhi conveyed to Moscow that Pakistan had a ‘special responsibility' to prevent use of the territory of Afghanistan for exporting terror to India and the Central Asian nations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval had a meeting with his counterpart in the Russian government, Nikolai Patrushev, in New Delhi and expressed “deep concerns” over developments in Afghanistan, where the Taliban had taken over the national capital after occupying many provinces in a swift military campaign taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States. Doval hosted Patrushev just a day after the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) chief William Burns visited New Delhi and met him as well as other officials to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. The National Security Advisor had last week also played host to the chief of the United Kingdom’s intelligence agency, MI6, Richard Moore in New Delhi. “The importance of defining parameters of the future state structure of Afghanistan by the Afghans themselves, as well as the need to prevent the escalation of violence, social, ethnic and confessional contradictions in the country, were emphasised,” the Embassy of Russia in New Delhi said, in a statement issued after Doval-Patrushev meeting. A source in New Delhi said that the top security czars of India and Russia had convergence of views on the need for Taliban to adhere to its promises of not allowing the territory of Afghanistan to be used to threaten or attack any other country or to export the menace of terrorism. They expressed concern over radicalisation and extremism, and the presence of international terrorist groups in Afghanistan, as well as threat emanating from terrorism to Central Asia and India. Doval and Patrushev also discussed flow of weapons left behind by the United States to the terrorist groups within and beyond the boundaries of Afghanistan, a source said. India and Russia also shared concerns over the possibility of Afghanistan becoming hub of opium production and trafficking. India emphasised Pakistan's links with Taliban and other international terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan. Doval highlighted during his discussion with Patrushev the links of Pakistan’s military spy agency Inter Services Intelligence with terror organisations based in and outside Afghanistan, including the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM). He also expressed New Delhi’s concerns over security of minorities, including Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-discuss-afghan-situation-refrain-from-criticising-taliban-for-lack-of-inclusivity-1028470.html
08-09-2021||National||Withdraw Doordarshan transfers, Siddaramaiah tells Centre||Karnataka's Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday urged Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting Anurag Thakur to withdraw the transfer of Doordarshan cameramen from Karnataka and other regional language centres to Hindi.  “Regional Doordarshan channels are dependent on camera crew for the content to cover regional issues & programs. Transferring camera crew to Delhi will lead to reduced programs in regional languages including Kannada,” Siddaramaiah said in a tweet.  Regional Doordarshan channels are dependent on camera crew for the content to cover regional issues & programs. Transferring Camera crew to Delhi will lead to reduced programs in regional languages including Kannada. “These transfers by the Ministry at the behest of BJP leaders are an attempt to promote Hindi & undermine all other languages. I urge Thakur to immediately withdraw the transfer & strengthen regional Kendras for the promotion of regional languages & content,” he said.  3/3 However, a Doordarshan source said Siddaramaiah must have been misled. “This is not at all a Hindi issue. All cameramen from the south have been transferred as part of an HR rationalization. Some of them are unhappy claiming that their tenure isn’t complete. Some have even moved CAT for a stay. But, the policy is to effect transfers every four years. The Bengaluru office was crowded anyway,” the source said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/withdraw-doordarshan-transfers-siddaramaiah-tells-centre-1028474.html
08-09-2021||National||WHO asks India, others to step up immunisation among children||The World Health Organisation on Wednesday asked India and its neighbours in South East Asia to rapidly accelerate the routine immunisation programme with lakhs of kids – mostly Indian - suffering from lack of vaccination since the beginning of the pandemic last year. “The vulnerability to vaccine preventable diseases has increased with the pandemic disrupting essential immunization services and surveillance for vaccine preventable disease. Though efforts are being made, much more needs to be done specially at the sub-national levels,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia said at the 74th Regional Committee meeting in Kathmandu. Recalling the strong progress made until the onset of the pandemic, she said by 2019 the south east Asia region was at its historically best position with 91 per cent coverage with three doses of DTP vaccine. Ten of 11 countries including India had achieved more than 90 per cent DTP3 coverage. But routine immunisation services were among the first casualties of the pandemic. India’s DTP coverage that rose steadily to reach 91 per cent in 2019 dipped to 85 per cent a year later. In July, a WHO-UNICEF study showed that nearly 3.5 million Indian children missed their vaccination in 2020 -- the highest in the world. The number of such missing children was 1.4 million in 2019. For the WHO south east Asia region, the number of unvaccinated or partially vaccinated children increased to 4.9 million as against 3 million in 2019. Surveillance of vaccine preventable diseases was also affected. The estimated coverage with the first dose of measles-containing vaccine in the Region fell to 88 per cent in 2020 compared with 94 per cent in 2019. Similarly, coverage with the second dose of measles-containing vaccine declined to 78 per cent in 2020 compared with 83 per cent in 2019. For India where 2.6 crore babies are born every year measles remains a big concern, as well as outbreaks of diseases like diphtheria which can spread quickly where people are unvaccinated. The Covid-19 pandemic also resulted in surveillance gaps in several countries and delayed implementation of mass vaccination campaigns and other immunisation-related activities, the WHO said in a statement. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-asks-india-others-to-step-up-immunisation-among-children-1028481.html
08-09-2021||National Politics||BJP sounds poll bugle, appoints election in-charges in 5 states||Sounding the Assembly poll bugle, BJP on Wednesday named Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan as party's election in-charge of the politically-sensitive Uttar Pradesh while his cabinet colleague Gajendra Shekhawat, Pralhad Joshi, Bhupendra Yadav and Devendra Fadnavis have been tasked with Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa. The appointments were cleared by BJP president J P Nadda. Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa are slated for Assembly polls early next year. Pradhan will be assisted by seven co-incharges, including Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur, Ministers of State Sobha Karandlaje, Arjunram Meghwal and Annapurna Devi, Rajya Sabha MPs Saroj Pande and Vivek Thakur and former Haryana Minister Captain Abhimanyu. The BJP also announced six region-wise in-charges --- Lok Sabha MP Sanjay Bhatia will look after Western UP, while Brij will have Bihar MLA Sanjeev Chaurasiya as its in-charge. BJP National Secretary Y Satyakumar will be Awadh in-charge, while senior leader Sudhir Gupta will be Kanpur in-charge. National Secretary Arvind Menon will look after Gorakhpur and UP co-incharge Sunil Ojha will lead Kashi region. In Punjab, Shekhawat will be assisted by Union Housing Minister Hardeep Puri, and Minister of State Meenakshi Lekhi and Lok Sabha MP Vinod Chawla as co-incharges. West Bengal Lok Sabha MP Locket Chatterjee and National spokesperson Sardar RP Singh will be co-incharge in Uttarakhand, assisting Joshi. Yadav will have Minister of State Pratibha Bhowmik and Assam Minister Ashok Singhal as co-incharges in Manipur. Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Fadnavis will be assisted by Union Minister G Kishan Reddy and Minister of State Darshana Jardosh. The BJP is looking to retain Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur in the polls while it is hoping for a better performance in Punjab where it is left without an ally after Akali Dal snapped ties with the NDA over the three contentious farm bills. BJP may also lose some seats in Uttarkhand but would not have trouble in forming a government, the survey has claimed, adding that Congress could lose Punjab, which it is ruling at present.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-sounds-poll-bugle-appoints-election-in-charges-in-5-states-1028252.html
08-09-2021||National Politics||Is Mayawati eyeing repeat of 2007 by wooing Brahmins?||Ahead of the all-important Uttar Pradesh elections next year, Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati has gone all out to woo the Brahmin community in the state, seeking a successful replication of her strategy in the 2007 elections, when she came to power with a remarkable mandate.  Among her flagship campaigns for the elections are the "prabhudh varg sammelans" -- BSP rallies headed by Mayawati. These rallies, tweaked to the current political atmosphere in Uttar Pradesh, are first cousins of the 2007 Brahmin bhaichara meetings the Dalit leader held across the state to woo the Brahmin community, who account for about 12 per cent of the electorate.  At one of the BSP's public meetings, a clear shift from the party conventions of the past was seen. A sizeable number of people in saffron robes were present, blowing conch shells and chanting hymns, before the start of Mayawati's speech. This indicated the party's all out efforts to win Brahmin's support for gaining clear majority in the 2022 elections. Many experts point out that Mayawati is eyeing a repeat of 2007 when Brahmins came in support of her to counter the swelling muscles of the Yadavs, who were led by Mulayam Singh Yadav.   15 years ago, Mayawati was seen as a rising political leader with support from various groups. Muslim community too backed her after her open outreach. Everything lined up for her astoundingly in 2007. Recently, at one of her rallies, the former chief minister gave a call for forging strong unity among Dalits and Brahmins so that the results of 2007 could be repeated. But political dimensions have changed rapidly in the state. Support for Mayawati has diminished over the years, with Muslims in the state withdrawing their support, seemingly due to her "pandering" to the BJP. First of the "prabhudh varg sammelans" kickstarted by BSP leader Satish Chandra Mishra, a Brahmin, began in Ayodhya, the political home-ground of the BJP, sparking some speculations of an understanding between the two parties.  With a deeply divided Opposition and an aggressive campaign from the BJP, there is little certainty over which way the wind will blow.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-mayawati-eyeing-repeat-of-2007-by-wooing-brahmins-1028358.html
08-09-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi a 'pseudo expert' with misplaced sense of entitlement: Dharmendra Pradhan||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday hit back at Rahul Gandhi for demanding the postponement of medical entrance exam NEET, saying the Congress leader was a "pseudo expert" with an "overflowing vanity and a misplaced sense of entitlement". Criticising Gandhi for "questioning the wisdom" of the Supreme Court and experts on the NEET schedule, Pradhan said that "yuvraj (prince)" should stick to "his expertise of concocting lies than issuing statements on matters he has no understanding of". The minister's response came after the former Congress President called for the postponement of the NEET examination as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. Alleging that the government is "blind" to students' distress, Gandhi had urged the Centre to let students "have a fair chance" in the exams. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. "Rahul Gandhi perceives himself to be an expert on everything without having an iota of knowledge. Overflowing vanity & misplaced sense of entitlement of a failed crown prince is no alibi to meddle into the schedule of examinations, give undue stress & make the students suffer," Pradhan tweeted. "Even the Hon’ble Supreme Court has not entertained the plea to reschedule the #NEET examination citing the deferment as being unfair to a large number of students. "What makes @RahulGandhi the ‘pseudo expert’ question the collective wisdom of the bench and actual experts?" he added. A section of medical aspirants has been demanding postponement of the exam citing the schedule of NEET closely clashing with several other exams. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 improvement and compartment exams are set to be held between August 25 to September 15. The next day after the medical exam is the mathematics exam on September 13. Other state-level entrance tests such as Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MHT CET) 2021, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Karnataka CoMEDK, Odisha JEE are also scheduled around the same time. While ICAR is scheduled to be held on September 13, MHT CET 2021 will be held from September 4 to 10 and from September 14 to 20 and CoMEDK will be on September 14. "Yuvraj should stick to his expertise of concocting lies, peddling half-truths and being the antagonist to anything progressive, rather than issuing sweeping statements on matters he has no understanding of," Pradhan further said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-a-pseudo-expert-with-misplaced-sense-of-entitlement-dharmendra-pradhan-1028391.html
08-09-2021||National Politics||SP, BSP chiefs' foolishness made Narendra Modi PM twice: Asaduddin Owaisi||Narendra Modi became the prime minister of the country twice because of the foolishness of the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party chiefs, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi asserted on Wednesday. He made the assertion in response to the two parties’ presidents, Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati, earlier dubbing him as the “vote spoiler” for their parties. Owaisi made the claim while addressing a public rally during his ongoing tour of Uttar Pradesh, aimed at consolidating his electoral position months ahead of the assembly poll in the politically crucial state. "Narendra Modi became the prime minister of the country twice because of the 'nasamjhi' (foolishness) of Akhilesh (Yadav) and Mayawati," Owaisi said, addressing a public meeting in Odara village of the Sultanpur district. A day earlier, he had launched his party's campaign for the upcoming state assembly elections in Ayodhya. Sultanpur, situated about 140 km from the capital Lucknow, is believed to be built by Lord Rama's son Kush. Contesting the allegations that by fighting polls in UP, Owaisi would spoil votes of the BJP's rivals, the Hyderabad MP asked "when you all (Muslims) voted for Akhilesh Yadav's party, how come a BJP candidate won from here in the last assembly polls?” “Similarly, how did the BJP won the Sultanpur Lok Sabha seat in 2019 when no AIMIM candidate had contested from here?” he asked. Making a scathing attack on the Samajwadi Party president, Owaisi asked, "Are Muslims your slaves?” "The BJP did not win the two consecutive general elections in 2014 and 2019 with the Muslims votes as they got only six per cent of their votes in the two polls," the AIMIM chief said, seeking to junk SP's claim that Owaisi was jumping into the UP poll fray to eat into their votes and to help the saffron party. The Hyderabad MP said his party has been contesting elections across the country to safeguard Muslims’ interest and pointed to their victory at three Lok Sabha seats of Hyderabad, Aurangabad in Maharashtra and Kishanganj in Bihar in the 2019 election. "We defeated BJP in Hyderabad, despite Modi and Amit Shah making several trips to drum up support for the saffron party," the four-time MP said. Seeking to establish rapport with Muslim voters, the AIMIM leader said he wants the minority community to have a strong voice in the state assemblies and Parliament to champion their cause. "SP and BSP have only sucked your blood," he alleged. Taking a dig at UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he said, “The Centre had provided Rs 116 crore for the welfare of minorities in UP but he has spent only Rs 10 crore out of it.” "I had raised the issue in Parliament while Akhilesh maintained silence over the issue," he quipped. Owaisi, who has announced that the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen would contest 100 seats in the 2022 assembly elections, launched his poll campaign from Ayodhya on Tuesday. Attacking the Samajwadi Party, Owaisi alleged that Muslims have been "cheated" in the name of secularism and declared that he has come to Uttar Pradesh to defeat the BJP. "Our first effort is that the Muslim leadership should be developed in the country’s biggest state Uttar Pradesh," he said, starting his political campaign in the poll-bound state from Ayodhya on Tuesday.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-bsp-chiefs-foolishness-made-narendra-modi-pm-twice-asaduddin-owaisi-1028466.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Kisan Mahapanchayat: Meet, march, gherao in Karnal||The Mahapanchayat called by the protesting farmers started early on Tuesday morning ended in front of the Karnal Deputy Commissioner's office with union leaders holding a meeting in front of the mini-secretariat to decide their future course of action. The Kisan Mahapanchayat was organised to demand an FIR and strict action against SDM Ayush Sinha, who on August 28 had instructed the police to beat the protesting farmers. A video-clip of Sinha ordering the force to hit the farmers had stirred a row after it went viral on social media. As hundreds of protesters gathered in Karnal to support the farmers' demand, an 11-member farmers' delegation met the Karnal Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police at the mini-secretariat to submit a memorandum of their demands, which also included a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job to the next of kin of Sushil Kajal, a farmer from Gharunda who received head injuries in the lathicharge and died later due to a heart attack, along with a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the wounded persons. The delegation was led by farmer union leader Rakesh Tikait, political activist Yogendra Yadav, Karnal-based Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnaam Singh Chaduni, BKU president Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Sidhupur) member Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Ajay Rana and Darshan Pal, among others. However, the meeting with the district officials ended inconclusively as they turned down all of the farmers' demands. Post the meeting, Yogendra Yadav told the media, "Our talks with the DC and the SP were held in three rounds. It was attended by 15 representatives. All we demanded was strict action against the IAS officer who ordered lathicharge on August 28. We didn't seek any compensation. However, the authorities didn't agree to even that." Quoting Mahabharata, Yadav said, "Just like the Pandavas in Mahabharata, who asked for five villages, we asked the authorities to at least suspend the SDM for his August order. "However, the authorities are supporting the IAS officers' move. They said 'theek hi kiya unhone ne' (he did the right thing). In the end, we asked them to at least suspend the officer before an enquiry is completed, but they didn't even agree to this demand of ours." It was after the farmer union leaders reached the Mahapanchayat site that they unanimously decided to march towards the mini-secretariat to gherao the area, which was followed by hundreds and thousands of protesters beginning the 7 km journey from the Anaj Mandi to the district administration building. A heavy traffic jam was witnessed in Karnal due to the march, as farmers flooded the NH44. The protesters were first stopped by the police at Namaste Chowk. However, they were allowed to move ahead following a short discussion with the police. Riding on tractors, the farmers were seen carrying 'lathis' (sticks) to the gherao area. On their way to the secretariat, some protesters also removed a barricade obstructing their path. However, after reaching the mini-secretariat in Karnal, the farmers staged a 'dharna' (sit-in) in front of the district administration office. Despite the news of arrests and detention of farmer union leaders at Namaste Chowk, they maintained that no one was arrested or detained by the police on their way to the secretariat. Meanwhile, in what could only be referred to as an act of kindness, local residents living nearby Karnal's mini-secretariat area distributed water bottles and food to the protesting farmers. The farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in the Parliament last year for over nine months now. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kisan-mahapanchayat-meet-march-gherao-in-karnal-1028213.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Supertech twin towers: A reminder to ills plaguing housing sector||Real estate developer Supertech’s twin towers at plot number 4 in Section 93A at Noida, part of the National Capital Region, stood as a stark reminder of all the ills plaguing the housing sector in the country. It came as no surprise that the Supreme Court on August 30 swung a hammer to order demolition of the two 40-storey buildings constructed at Emerald Court Group Housing Society within three months at the cost of the developer and with a refund of money along with interest to flat buyers. Built in gross disregard to all norms and mandatory guidelines, it was found T-16 was not a part of the original plan sanctioned in 2005 after the Noida authorities initially allotted a plot of land measuring 48,263 sq mt to the developer for the housing project. As per the original plan of 2005, 14 towers of nine floors were to be constructed. However, the plan was revised in 2006, 2009 and 2012 in “unholy nexus” and “nefarious complicity” with the authorities, increasing the number of towers to 17 with 40 floors and raising the height of the building to 121 metres. Thus, garden area and open space, meant for original flat buyers, were encroached upon and minimum distance norms between the towers were breached. It was an alert, Residents Welfare Association, which decided to fight with the “economic might of developer” and “legal authority of planners” by approaching the Allahabad High Court for quashing the revised plan for construction of T-16 (Ceyane) and T-17 (Apex) and the demolition of the structures. It also wanted Noida authorities not to sanction any further building plans in Emerald Court without the consent of all residents. A brazen attempt to stonewall the RWA’s bid was made before the high court when Noida authorities refused to disclose the sanctioned plan and other information on denial of consent by the developer, though a copy of each plan has to be made available at the site as per the rule. It was only at the instance of the high court, such information was provided to the RWA. The high court finally on April 11, 2014, allowed the plea by the RWA and directed for demolition of two towers.  When the developer and Noida authorities filed the appeal, the top court with their consent appointed the government-owned National Buildings Construction Corporation Ltd, which examined various facts and concluded that two towers are not compliant with regulations.   The developer, for its part, primarily contended the regulation related to the distance between two building blocks can’t govern the distance between the T-1 and T-17, which formed a part of the same block. It also claimed construction was carried out with sanction from the authorities and 600 people had already purchased the flat. During the long proceedings, reports from IIT Delhi and Roorkee were called which recommended the minimum distance required to provide ventilation, direct sunlight, means of rescue and prevent the spread of fire. Going through various building regulations, the top court concluded that the authorities made no effort to ensure compliance with the law, causing a brazen violation of the flat purchaser’s rights, which “cannot point to any conclusion, other than the collusion between Noida and the appellant...for monetary gain”. It was found that the violation of mandatory distance between building blocks and the movement space resulted in infringement of rights of the apartment owners and posed a serious risk to the safety of their apartment blocks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supertech-twin-towers-a-reminder-to-ills-plaguing-housing-sector-1028217.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Bihar Congress leader Sadanand Singh passes away||Former Bihar Assembly speaker and veteran Congress leader Sadanand Singh died here on Wednesday after prolonged illness, party sources said. He was 76. Singh breathed his last at a hospital here where he had been admitted for more than a month. A die-hard Congressman, Singh made his debut in 1972 winning the Kahalgaon assembly segment which he came to represent a number of times during his five-decade-long political career. An OBC leader in a party which has been associated mostly with the upper castes, he was chosen for the speaker’s chair by the party leadership in 2000 when it was seeking to reinvent itself by projecting a pro-backward image in alliance with the RJD. Later, he also served as the leader of the Congress legislature party in the state but gave up electoral politics ahead of the assembly polls last year when his seat went to his son Shubhanand Mukesh. The party, however, lost the seat to the BJP. Condolences have been pouring in from across the political spectrum for Singh. Those who have expressed grief over the demise include Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, former chief ministers Lalu Prasad and Jitan Ram Manjhi besides leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-congress-leader-sadanand-singh-passes-away-1028243.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Ganesh Chaturthi festivities banned in public in Delhi to avoid Covid-19 surge||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at public places in the national capital have been barred by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In an order issued on Tuesday, the DDMA said that district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police will ensure that idols of Lord Ganesha are not set up in a tent or pandal. It should be ensured that crowds do not gather at any religious or social place, the DDMA said, adding permission will also not be granted for any procession. The DDMA advised people to celebrate the festival at home. Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated this month and considering the prevailing restrictions on gatherings and congregations and the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that the celebrations of the festival may not be allowed in public places, the order stated. The festival will be celebrated from September 10 to 19. The DDMA also directed district magistrates and District DCPs to convene meetings with religious, community leaders and Ganesh Chaturthi Festival Samitis before the festival to get their cooperation to maintain the law and order and harmony and also to sensitise the public for compliance of guidelines and instructions issued for combating the infection. All kinds of gatherings and congregations are presently prohibited in the national capital by the DDMA. Even the recent Janmashtami celebrations were muted in the national capital with devotees not being allowed to visit religious places as part of the preventive measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. However, the DDMA is yet to take a call on the holding of Ramlilas even as over 60 Ramlila organisation committees have decided to hold the event in its physical form this year following the nod from DDA, MCDs and ASI to use their grounds. The national capital on Tuesday recorded a death from Covid-19, the first this month, and 50 fresh cases of the infection, with the positivity rate being 0.07 per cent. The cumulative number of cases stands at 14,38,041. Of this, over 14.12 lakh patients have recovered from the disease.The death toll due to the disease is at 25,083. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ganesh-chaturthi-festivities-banned-in-public-in-delhi-to-avoid-covid-19-surge-1028259.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Farmers stay put outside Karnal secretariat, refuse to budge until demands are met||A large number of farmers stayed put outside the gates of the district headquarters on Wednesday as they remained firm on their demand for action against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who ordered a police lathi-charge on a group of peasants last month. Locked in a showdown with the Haryana government over the lathi-charge, the farmers squatted at the gates of the mini-secretariat on Tuesday evening after talks with the local administration failed. Many spent the night outside the mini-secretariat. The protesters are demanding action over the police lathi-charge on August 28. Their main demand centres around Sinha, former Karnal SDM. He was later transferred out as part of a larger bureaucratic shuffle. The officer, whose suspension farmers' union leaders are demanding, was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" if the protesters crossed the line. About 10 protesters were hurt in the clash with police as they tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Their leaders also claimed that a farmer died later, an allegation rejected by the administration. A number of farmers along with many leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) spent the night outside the main entry of the mini-secretariat. In the morning, volunteers at the protest site were seen preparing tea and serving breakfast. "We are not going anywhere from here until our demands are met," Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni told reporters on Wednesday. On the demand for Sinha's suspension, he said, "First, we are saying transferring him is not a punishment. We are also saying when farmers are booked for even road blockade, why not take action against the officer who ordered (police) to break heads. Is there any law under which such an order can be given?" The movement of traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala NH-44 remained normal. Security had been beefed up here on Monday, a day before farmers' mahapanchayat, and central forces deployed. The gherao began on Tuesday evening, several hours after farmers from Haryana and neighbouring states reached Karnal's New Anaj Mandi for the mahapanchayat, riding tractors and motorcycles. They marched on foot from the mahapanchayat venue to the mini-secretariat about five km away. Protest leaders Rakesh Tikait and Yogendra Yadav are also at the gherao site. Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav had on Tuesday said that the administration had invited the farm leaders for another round of talks and that it was hopeful of resolving the issue. The Home Department has extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal until Wednesday midnight as the situation is "still volatile". Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) banning gathering of people have been imposed in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-stay-put-outside-karnal-secretariat-refuse-to-budge-until-demands-are-met-1028274.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM to cook lavish meal for Olympians||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will be donning the chef's hat for a dinner he will be hosting on Wednesday evening for athletes from the state who won medals at the Tokyo Olympics and star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra from Haryana. The dinner will be hosted at Singh's farmhouse at Siswan in Mohali. "From Patiala cuisine to pulao, lamb, chicken, aloo & Zarda rice, CM @capt_amarinder will prepare each of these delicacies himself to keep his promise to Punjab Olympic medal winners (& Neeraj Chopra) at the dinner he's hosting for them tomorrow!" the CM's media advisor, Raveen Thukral, said in a tweet on Tuesday. Chopra, from Khandra village near Haryana's Panipat, produced a second-round throw of 87.58 metres in the javelin throw finals to stun the athletics world. He became only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics, outperforming the field by quite a distance to notch up the first track-and-field games medal for the country. Singh had promised to cook for the Olympic medal winners during a felicitation ceremony for them last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-to-cook-lavish-meal-for-olympians-1028276.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Women now allowed to join NDA, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Union government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that a "historic" decision has been taken to allow the induction of women into the armed forces through the National Defence Academy (NDA) for permanent commission. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said that it was extremely glad to know that armed forces themselves took the decision to induct female cadets in NDA and Indian Naval Academy (INA), though the court has been periodically nudging the authorities to do so as they were the best suited for it. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, submitted before the bench that the Centre took the decision on Tuesday after consultation with three service chiefs that the women would be granted permanent commission through the NDA and INA. "There's a good news. The decision has been taken at the highest level of forces," she said, adding it would be pathbreaking and generational reform. The bench said the court would like the defence forces to take a "more pro-active approach towards gender equality" instead of the court directing them to do so. "It is not a happy situation for us. Armed forces are respected forces of this country but on gender equality, they have to do more," the bench said. The officer sought two weeks to put on record an affidavit. She also sought status quo on this year's examinations conducted by the UPSC as it would require procedural and infrastructural changes. The exam, scheduled to be held on September 5 has been postponed to November 14. The court asked Bhati to put the statement on record as to what the government is doing now and what it is planning to do in future and posted the matter for consideration on September 22.  "Reforms cannot happen in one day, we are conscious of that. We want progress to be made. We must have some timelines. You may go at a comfortable pace but redressal must take place. We do hope armed forces value the important role women are performing," the bench said. The court was hearing a plea by advocate Kush Kalra to allow women to take part in the NDA exams for permanent commission. Earlier, in an interim order on August 18, the top court allowed women to take the NDA exam while slamming the Indian Army for the decisions that are based on "gender discrimination". The petitioner claimed denial of opportunity to women candidates to enrol at the NDA was violative of Articles 14, 15, 16 and 19 of the Constitution. He has relied upon the apex court's judgement directing extension of permanent commission to women officers inducted through the Short Service Commission. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-now-allowed-to-join-nda-centre-tells-supreme-court-1028278.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC transfers probe into death of Tihar inmate Ankit Gujjar to CBI||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday transferred to the CBI the investigation into the alleged murder of Tihar inmate Ankit Gujjar Justice Mukta Gupta directed that the case file be sent from the Delhi Police to the CBI and sought a status report from the central agency before the next date of hearing on October 28. The judge stated that she has passed directions to the Director-General of Prisons with respect to “the laxity in providing proper treatment” and facilitating police probe. A detailed copy of the order is awaited. Gujjar, 29, was found dead inside his cell in Tihar jail on August 4. In the petition seeking transfer of investigation from the Delhi police, the family of the deceased inmate alleged that Gujjar was being harassed by jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”. Filed through lawyers Mehmood Pracha and Shariq Nisar, the petition alleged that the jail authorities in Tihar were operating an “organised extortion syndicate” and the police was trying to manipulate the investigation in order to save and shield the culprits.  It claimed “culpability of the entire administration” on the grounds that the CCTV were allegedly ordered to be shut down by an official at the time of when the deceased was beaten.  On August 18, the court had sought status reports from the Delhi Police and jail authorities on the plea. The Delhi Police claimed that the investigation by local police was ongoing in a fair manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-transfers-probe-into-death-of-tihar-inmate-ankit-gujjar-to-cbi-1028282.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah hopes Taliban run 'good govt' in Afghanistan||While advising the Taliban to respect human rights and carry out justice, regional National Conference president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah Wednesday hoped that they would run a good government in Afghanistan. “The Taliban must protect human rights in Afghanistan and build good relations with the rest of the world,” he told reporters while speaking at a ceremony commemorating his father and NC founder Sheikh Abdullah’s death anniversary. Octogenarian Abdullah further went on to say that he hopes the Taliban follows the Islamic code while ruling the war-ravaged nation. In contrast, his son and NC vice president Omar Abdullah slammed the centre when the Indian envoy in Qatar visited Taliban commander Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai for the first time in public. Senior Abdullah also said that his party will not shy away from participating in the Assembly polls “but Centre must first restore statehood before announcing elections.” “I don’t know when elections will be held. (But) whenever they are held, we won’t shy away and rather participate and win as well. The Centre must first restore statehood before holding polls,” he said. The former CM said that his party was committed to fight for the restoration of statehood and Article 370. “There is no change in our stance. We are fighting and will continue to fight,” he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-hopes-taliban-run-good-govt-in-afghanistan-1028296.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya resigns||Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya resigned on Wednesday, two years before completing her tenure.  She tendered her resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind, a Rajbhawan official said.  She has resigned for personal reasons, he said. Maurya was sworn in as the governor of Uttarakhand on August 26, 2018, taking over from Krishna Kant Paul at the end of his five-year tenure.  She had completed three years in office as the governor last month.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-governor-baby-rani-maurya-resigns-1028308.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||UP BJP MP says Centre will not repeal farm laws||Amid the ongoing protests by farmers against the Centre's farm laws, BJP MP Virendra Singh Mast said the government will not withdraw the three legislations. The laws were not made to be withdrawn later, the MP from Uttar Pradesh's Ballia said on Tuesday. Thousands of farmers from across the country, particularly Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi borders, including Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, since November last year to demand the repeal of the three farm laws and a new law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. "The government will not withdraw the new farm laws. They were not made to be withdrawn later," Mast said. "If a law passed in Parliament is withdrawn due to protests on roads, what will be its (Parliament's) standing?" he asked. Mast, however, said he will welcome suggestions in the interest of farmers and agriculture. Farmers claim that the farm laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- will do away with the MSP, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government maintains that these laws are pro-farmer. Over 10 rounds of talks between the government and farmer leaders have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-mp-says-centre-will-not-repeal-farm-laws-1028315.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||After UP, Delhi and Noida see surge in viral fever cases||Doctors in the National Capital Region are seeing an increase in cases of viral infection in children. This comes after last week, Uttar Pradesh reported a spike in cases of viral fever, dengue, and malaria. Firozabad has become a hotspot, with a majority of cases being reported from there.  Doctors in Delhi have blamed seasonal influenza for the surge in infections. In accordance with guidelines, these people are tested for Covid-19 and has returned negative test results. Currently, 7 out of 10 cases are causing fever due to the flu. Dr Nitin Gupta, Director, General Pediatrics of a children's hospital spoke to the publication and said, "We are in midst of an outbreak of viral fevers. We are getting a lot of viral fever cases in children. Almost 25 per cent of our OPDs consist of children coming down with fever commonly with symptoms like cold, cough and fever." He also added that there are simple virals and in few cases H3N2, which is a form of swine flu. Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, Noida said that six children have been admitted to the hospital with viral fever and one case is of dengue. "We are getting almost 30 patients daily in OPD with complaints of viral fever," he added. In Uttar Pradesh, areas such as Bareilly, Budaun, Moradabad, and Philbit districts of Rohilkhand region. Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Budaun district hospital Vijay Bahadur Raj said that they are receiving 1,100 to 1,400 outpatients every day and most of them complain of symptoms resembling viral fever.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-up-delhi-and-noida-see-surge-in-viral-fever-cases-1028326.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||70 Union ministers to visit Jammu and Kashmir between September 9-October 5||As part of the Centre's special public outreach programme, 70 Union ministers will begin their visit in a phased manner to Jammu and Kashmir from September 9 to October 5. In the first phase of the visit Smriti Irani, Arjun Munda and Mahinder Nath Pandey will be among the 28 ministers who will visit the J&K. They are scheduled to visit across the length and breadth of the union territory during which they will listen to the grievances of people and inform them about the welfare schemes taken by Narendra Modi government for J&K. Sources said the ministers on their return to New Delhi will submit reports to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The MHA and PMO will then forward issues raised by the people and pointed out by the Union ministers in their reports to J&K administration for addressing them, they said. Reports said the public outreach programme was originally planned to take place in July and August. However, it was postponed because of the Monsoon session of Parliament and the 75th Independence Day celebrations. Sources said the Union ministers will also try to allay the fears created among the people by the opposition parties that their rights have been snatched after the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A. Earlier in January 2020, 36 Union ministers visited as part of direct outreach by the central government to the people of J&K. Pertinently, in the past few weeks, members of 13 Parliamentary Standing Committees (PSCs) have visited the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was also on a week-long tour of Ladakh and Kashmir in late August while a number of ministers also visited Leh. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/70-union-ministers-to-visit-jammu-and-kashmir-between-september-9-october-5-1028329.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand independent MLA Pritam Singh Panwar joins BJP||Uttarakhand independent MLA Pritam Singh Panwar, who was a Minister in the Harish Rawat-led Congress government till 2017, joined the BJP on Wednesday, months ahead of the Assembly polls. Panwar joined the party in the presence of Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani, BJP National Media in-charge Anil Baluni and Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik here. A participant of the agitation demanding a separate Uttarakhand state, Panwar presently represents Dhanaulti Assembly seat and had been an MLA in 2002 and 2012 from Yamunotri. He was earlier part of Uttarakhand Kranti Dal. He said he was joining the party inspired by the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-independent-mla-pritam-singh-panwar-joins-bjp-1028340.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Natural farming breathes new life into abandoned apple orchard in Shimla||An almost deserted apple orchard at the regional horticulture research station of Dr Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Solan is full of lush fruit trees and inter-crops thanks to a unique natural farming technique. Promoted by the Himachal Pradesh government under the “Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana (PK3Y)”, the Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF) technique, has turned the orchard at the research station in Mashobra near here productive. SPNF is non-chemical natural farming concept given by Padma Shri Subhash Palekar and is based on farm inputs prepared from urine and dung of indigenous cows in the farm itself. It reduces the cost of cultivation drastically as the farmer is not required to buy inputs from the market. “The SPNF intervention on the orchard with the same old plants, which had to be abandoned some years back for lack of resources, has shown encouraging results over the last two years. With the use of natural inputs like jeevaamrit and ghanjeevaamrit prepared from dung and urine of desi cow, the overall health of the orchard has improved,” said Associate Director at the Research Station, Dr Pankaj Gupta. Seven apple varieties are growing in the orchard under SPNF, including gala, origon, and red chief. Executive Director, PK3Y, Dr Rajeshwar Singh Chandel visited the orchard earlier this week and said besides apples, the university is also doing some experiments on vegetable crops. Two young agriculture researchers, Shahzad Prabhoo from Maharashtra and Carole Durand from France, accompanied Chandel for exposure. The apple orchard measures less than one hectare and the research station proposes to bring more area under the SPNF shortly. The PK3Y had funded Rs 67 lakh to the research station for the scientific trial on SPNF technique, along with setting up of infrastructure, in 2019 and Rs 19 lakh in 2020. The research station has also kept a 'pahari' cow to follow SPNF in toto and plans to buy two more indegenous cows at the farm. The apple orchard, which was giving negligible returns for many years for want of any application, gave estimated gross returns of around Rs 3,61,162 per hectare in 2019 after SPNF intervention, which increased to Rs 5,46,964 per hectare in 2020. “The terminal growth in the orchard had stopped and the soil quality was very poor. However, since we adopted the orchard for trial under SPNF technique, the terminal growth is revived and the soil structure (porosity, water retention and texture) has improved. The earthworm population has increased. The plants are now healthy and the leaf size is good,” said Dr Usha Sharma, Scientist, Plant Pathology at the research station, who is supervising the SPNF trial. “We will carry on with the experiment for five years to establish and validate the success of the technique. Many issues are still emerging in SPNF technique in the apple orchard and we are accordingly improvising,” she said. She said the beneficial mites in the orchard have increased with SPNF technique compared to the orchard managed by chemical farming. The SPNF has evidently given a new lease of life to the orchard as it has not only improved the apple plants, but has given an opportunity to go for inter-cropping in the same land. As a part of the SPNF experiment, the scientists took four crops alongside apples from the same orchard starting from peas to methi, beans and then rajma to supplement nutrients in soil and the overall economy. The model of revival of the apple orchard by SPNF technique has become an attraction for researchers and officials lately, who are visiting the place in good numbers for exposure. As many as 1,29,299 farmers have adopted the SPNF technique under the PK3Y since 2018 in Himachal Pradesh, involving an area of 7456 hectares. This includes 12,000 apple growers.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/natural-farming-breathes-new-life-into-abandoned-apple-orchard-in-shimla-1028346.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Congress MLC asks for 'chulha' at govt residence, says wood cheaper than LPG cylinder in Uttar Pradesh||A Congress MLC from Uttar Pradesh has asked to be provided with a 'chulha' instead of a gas stove at his government residence citing the high price of LPG cylinders. Congress MLC Deepak Singh put forth the demand in a letter to the incharge of the building in which he has been allotted a house, saying there is no chance of getting a respite from the high price of LPG before 2024. "Ensure arrangement of 'chulha' in the apartment allotted to me and all the three blocks in the multi-storey building in Dalibagh because as compared to the price of a cooking gas cylinder, wood and coal are cheaper," Singh said. An LPG cylinder worth Rs 975 needs to be refilled twice a month, while the cost of cooking food on a 'chulha' will be Rs 500 per month, he claimed. Singh claimed that the majority of the legislators living in his building also want this arrangement as there is no chance of getting a respite from the high price of LPG before 2024. A 14.2 kg cylinder of subsidised and non-subsidised LPG costs over Rs 900 in Lucknow, according to a price notification of oil companies. The Congress party has been attacking the government over the fuel price hike and demanding that the burden on the common man be eased by removing some of the taxes imposed by the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mlc-asks-for-chulha-at-govt-residence-says-wood-cheaper-than-lpg-cylinder-in-uttar-pradesh-1028366.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||SAD swaps two seats with alliance partner BSP in Punjab||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday decided to swap two seats with the BSP, its alliance partner for the Punjab Assembly polls next year. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party has given two assembly seats, Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala, to the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and taken back Amritsar North and Sujanpur assembly seats from it. The Shiromani Akali Dal had last month declared its two candidates from Amritsar North and Sujanpur constituencies. At that time, Badal had said the decision was taken with the consent of the BSP. Both Amritsar North and Sujanpur were among 20 seats given to the BSP as part of the seat-sharing arrangement between both the alliance partners. “SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that it has taken Amritsar North & Sujanpur seats back from BSP. In place BSP has been given Sham Chaurasi & Kapurthala assembly seats,” senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said on Wednesday. According to the alliance between both the parties for the 2022 assembly polls, the Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-swaps-two-seats-with-alliance-partner-bsp-in-punjab-1028367.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||BJP brings Ayodhya back into limelight ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||With the Uttar Pradesh government going all out to complete the ongoing projects for the development and renovation of Ayodhya and the likelihood of the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to attend the proposed mega 'deepotsav' (lighting of earthen lamps) before the Diwali festival, the religious town is once again in the limelight ahead of the next assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are due in March 2022. According to the reports, the district administration is planning to light 7.50 lakh earthen lamps on the occasion of 'deepotsav', a record of sorts, which will begin two days before Diwali. A prominent Bollywood art director has been contacted to make the set for the 'deepotsav' functions.  Although the district officials said that they had no knowledge about the visit of the prime minister, sources in the state BJP here said that PM Modi might visit the town to take part in the program. ''We plan to invite the Union ministers, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath besides the prime minister for the program,'' said a senior party leader. The state government has directed the district administration to work on the war footing to complete the projects aimed at renovating several religious spots in the town as well as the Ayodhya railway station. The work on the proposed Shree Ram Airport in Ayodhya is also likely to begin next month, sources added. The district administration has also planned to organise a mega 'Ramleela' (dramatic presentation of Lord Rama's deeds) in which BJP MP and Bhojpuri film actor Ravi Kishan will play the role of Parashurama. ''Ayodhya is the home of Lord Rama....the town is visited by millions of Hindu pilgrims....we want to change the face of Ayodhya, which was neglected by the previous governments,'' said BJP MP from Ayodhya Lallu Singh. Incidentally, the BSP had also launched its 'Prabuddh Sammelan' (Brahmin meets) from Ayodhya last month. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-brings-ayodhya-back-into-limelight-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-1028395.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||NC hits out at section of media for "falsely attributing" comments on Taliban to Farooq Abdullah||The National Conference (NC) on Wednesday hit out at a section of media for "falsely attributing" comments regarding Taliban to its party president Farooq Abdullah who had expressed hope that the new regime in Afghanistan would respect human rights and seek friendly relations with all countries. Some news channels had claimed that Abdullah had backed the Taliban government in Afghanistan, prompting the party to hit back, saying, "Backs? How? Falsely attributing things to Dr Farooq Abdullah that he never said is deplorable. "Twisting words and misrepresenting the intended meaning only exposes the so called 'channels' that manufacture stories with mala fide intention". Abdullah, during a brief interaction with media after paying respects at party's founder and his father Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah's mausoleum at Naseem Bagh here on his 39th death anniversary, was asked a question regarding the Afghanistan situation and its impact on Jammu and Kashmir. "Look Afghanistan is a different country and those who have come in power there have to take the responsibility of running the country. I hope that they will do justice to everyone and run a good government keeping in mind human rights and teachings of Islam. "At the same time, I would also like them to seek friendly relations with all countries," Abdullah said. Senior party leaders wondered about the motive behind the malicious attempt by a section of the media, especially electronic media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nc-hits-out-at-section-of-media-for-falsely-attributing-comments-on-taliban-to-farooq-abdullah-1028421.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir police carry out raids at houses of 4 journalists||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Wednesday seized laptops and mobile phones of four journalists, following raids at their respective houses here, officials said.  Raids were conducted at the residences of Showkat Motta, former editor-in-chief of a weekly magazine, Hilal Mir who is working for a Turkish media outlet, freelance reporter Azhar Qadri Shah Abbas and a reporter who has been associated with several local publications, they said. The journalists were later taken to Kothibagh police station where their laptops and mobile phones were seized for technical evaluation before being released, the officials said. Soon after their release, the journalists told their colleagues that they have been asked to report at the police station on Thursday again.  While police is tight-lipped about the searches, it is believed that the raids were part of investigation into a blog post that instigates people against the country and also seeks to malign the image of  nationalists in Kashmir, official sources said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-police-carry-out-raids-at-houses-of-4-journalists-1028465.html
08-09-2021||North and Central||Viral fever cases among children rising in Bihar||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, cases of viral fever among children are rising in Bihar and many of the patients have been hospitalised. Cautioning against unnecessary panic, doctors associated with major state-run facilities have assured people that there is no shortage of infrastructure at present. Symptoms of Covid-19 have not yet been seen among the children who are under treatment for viral fever, they said. In Patna, all four major hospitals —All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences — are crowded with children suffering from viral fever. Talking to PTI, Dr N R Biswas, Director and Vice-Chancellor, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS-Patna), said, the surge in viral fever cases among children has been reported in several hospitals in the state capital. The number of children affected with viral fever is also rising in other districts, including Muzaffarpur, Dr Biswas said. “But there is nothing to panic. It is a seasonal fever that happens every year. We are taking all possible measures to handle the situation. “At present, there is no shortage of beds in IGIMS, and we have sufficient oxygen cylinders for children,” he said. The state government is already on high alert and as of now, the situation is completely under control, Dr Biswas said. “We are quite hopeful that the number of viral fever cases among the children will soon start decreasing,” he said. However, some doctors at IGIMS believe that if the trend continues, it may lead to a shortage of beds in the paediatric ward, the senior doctor said. According to the health department, there is a provision of 70 beds in the paediatric ward of Bhagalpur Medical College and Hospital, and at present 53 children are being treated there. Patients from Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Siwan, Chapra, Gopalganj, West Champaran and East Champaran are undergoing treatment at the facility. In Gopalganj district, one child died of viral fever last week following which the district administration cancelled the leaves of all doctors and medical staff. In Hajipur of Vaishali district, around 20 children fell ill last week, out of which one died. At present, seven children are admitted to the special ward of Hajipur Sadar Hospital. Dr I S Thakur, Medical Superintendent of PMCH, told PTI, "At present, there is no shortage of beds in the paediatric ward of the PMCH. There is no doubt that the sudden increase in the number of viral fever, especially among the children, is a matter of concern, but we are fully prepared to handle the situation”. Symptoms of Covid-19 have not yet been seen among the children who are under treatment for viral fever, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/viral-fever-cases-among-children-rising-in-bihar-1028473.html
08-09-2021||Oasis||Don't burn bridges||Bridges are beautiful things. They are symbols of connectivity built in order to overcome not only the division and the separation of places but also the gulf that exists between people. They cover chasms and create unity of mind and heart. By building bridges, we establish contact between two things that are different. Building bridges, whether physical or emotional, takes time and effort. Unfortunately destroying them proves much easier. While a few hard strokes obliterate the former, all it takes are a few harsh words to break the latter. This is well-described by the phrase ‘burning bridges’. When you burn a bridge, you annihilate a means of getting across. Sadly, when a human bridge is destroyed, a good relationship is broken. Unfortunately burning bridges happens often and for many reasons. One way of preventing this is to be aware of how this happens. There are occasions in everyone’s life when others irk and provoke you, leaving you out of sorts. Then one over-reacts and makes remarks that wound the other permanently. ‘I’ll never talk to you again’ or ‘I have always hated you’ are some remarks that fly off the tongue. One could also indulge in unkind acts that the other least expects. Spreading rumours is another tactic. One of the worst ways of burning bridges is to write an accusatory letter. Rather strangely, this has its helpful side. An incident relating to Abraham Lincoln tells us how. An officer had disobeyed an order and had Lincoln’s secretary Stanton infuriated. He told Lincoln, ‘I’ll sit down, write him a letter giving him a good piece of my mind.’ ‘Do so,’ replied Lincoln. ‘Write to him now, while you still have it on your mind. Make it sharp. Cut him all up.’ Stanton wrote the letter and it was a furious one indeed. Then Stanton asked Lincoln, ‘Whom shall I send it by?’ ‘Send it!’ exclaimed Lincoln. ‘Why, you don’t send it at all! Tear it up. You have freed your mind of the matter and that is all that is necessary. You never send such letters to anyone. I never do.’ There is a wise saying that goes, ‘Those who know how to build bridges never fall into an abyss'. One may well add, ‘Don’t burn bridges.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/dont-burn-bridges-1028272.html
08-09-2021||Opinion||The Taliban can’t print cash and other Afghan business challenges||By Ajmal Ahmady There are optimistic suggestions that the hard-won integration of Afghanistan into the global economy will remain despite the ascendancy of the Taliban and the withdrawal of the US. A number of commentators have suggested that China — which the Taliban have declared their strongest ally — could become Afghanistan’s primary economic supporter and help the country stay part of the global system. That analysis is unrealistic. For one, it ignores the sanctions regime imposed by the international community on the Taliban. Those restrictions apply not only to financial transactions, but to business ones as well. All companies — not only banks — must comply with the framework against financing terrorism and money laundering. The central bank of Afghanistan (DAB) — which I presided over until the fall of Kabul in August — worked with its international partners to prohibit such transactions. Now, Afghanistan and DAB under the Taliban are likely to be treated as sanctioned entities by the rest of the world. In addition to the financial implications, there will be three additional consequences to this situation.  First, Afghanistan’s physical money supply will be impaired. This is because the central bank does not print its own currency: DAB typically receives afghanis produced by specialist firms overseas. The bank expected 2 billion afghanis in small-denominated notes from a Polish currency company in August. It had also signed a contract with a French firm for the supply of another 100 billion afghanis for the following year. I am relatively certain that these deliveries cannot be made. Second, the $7 billion Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India natural gas pipeline project (TAPI) will likely not proceed. This pipeline would have brought 33 billion cubic meters of natural gas annually from the Turkmen Galkynysh field — the world’s second largest — to  Pakistan and India. It would have generated a few hundred million dollars in transit revenues for the Government of Afghanistan. I know this issue well because for five years I was Afghanistan’s representative on the project’s board. I helped move the pipeline from just a vague goal conceived during the previous Taliban regime to a realistic project. Engineering work had been completed, bilateral agreements signed and the land acquisition process begun. The project company had short-listed a number of European firms to supply the steel piping, valves and construction work. We had even identified financing from various export credit agencies and insurance companies.  A Taliban delegation visited Turkmenistan earlier this year to assure the government there that a Taliban regime would provide security for the pipeline. I remember the visit because a car bomb exploded under the TAPI project manager in Kabul that same day. (Fortunately, he survived.) In any case, whatever assurances the delegation provided to Turkmenistan, the Taliban do not fully understand the complexities of the project. As a result of the sanctions regime and security concerns, European companies will not be able to provide equipment or the financing. They will certainly not be able to obtain insurance for the project. For now, the project has to be assumed to be dead. Third, hopes to profit from the country’s mineral resources have to be scaled back — or abandoned. This includes the Aynak copper mine, one of the largest untapped sources in the world, which the Metallurgical Corporation of China acquired rights to in 2008.  Or the Hajigak iron ore mine, a mine with world-class iron ore content, for which an Indian firm signed a contract. There’s also the Amu-Darya oil basin, where the China National Petroleum Corporation has the rights to drill. Each of these projects requires international financing and more. It is unlikely that any reputable company would involve itself in such projects now. The risks are simply too high. In addition, economic programs to support trade are likely to be curtailed. As economic adviser to the president of Afghanistan, I developed an air cargo support program that helped increase exports by more than $100 million per year. We exported pine nuts to China, fresh fruit to India, rugs to Turkey and handicrafts to Europe. However, with reduced fiscal space, it is likely that government support for these air corridors will become unsustainable.  There are analysts who suggest that the Taliban may turn to Islamabad for help. But Pakistan’s economy is hardly up to the challenge. Pakistan has only $20 billion in international reserves. Though this is double what Afghanistan has, Pakistan has to deal with a gross domestic product 14 times as large. What’s more, the country has a 90% debt-to-GDP ratio, high for a developing market. China has recently stepped back from investments in Pakistan due to security concerns. The Taliban will face the same economic challenges as the previous regime — but under sanctions and with much less international financial support. Afghanistan’s new rulers must face this reality, form an inclusive government and adhere to international standards. Otherwise, they will further impoverish themselves and the Afghan people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-taliban-can-t-print-cash-and-other-afghan-business-challenges-1028212.html
08-09-2021||Opinion||School lockdowns robbed a generation of upward mobility||By Andy Mukherjee, Economic lockdowns hurt output, but once they’re lifted, activity usually bounces back, and jobs return. School lockouts, by comparison, may have a longer and more pernicious effect.  A new survey of nearly 1,400 underprivileged school children across 15 Indian states raises some disturbing possibilities. A year-and-a-half of pandemic-related school closures, for instance, have created a four-year learning deficit. A student who was in Grade 3 before Covid-19 is now in Grade 5, and will soon enter middle school, but with reading abilities of a Grade 1 pupil.  Trying to narrow this gap would put enormous demands on a reluctant welfare state, while leaving it unaddressed would lop off from India’s “demographic dividend ” — the high growth the country can potentially achieve while it still enjoys a relatively youthful population. The School Children’s Online and Offline Learning, or SCHOOL, survey, overseen by a group of economists including Jean Dreze and Reetika Khera, shines a spotlight on the biggest losers of lockouts: the poor. At the family level, there is reasonably high access to smartphones: 77% in urban areas, and 51% in villages, just what one would expect in a country witnessing a digital revolution of sorts amid crashing handset and data prices. Yet, even among households that possess internet-enabled devices, the proportion of children who’re regularly studying online dwindles to 31% in cities and 15% in villages. The wage-earner’s claim on the phone clearly outweighs its utility as an educational device.   “The school has been closed ever since the pandemic began.” That was the sentence, in large typeface, that volunteer surveyors asked children to read in their local language. About 35% of Grade 3-5 students in cities and 42% of the cohort in villages couldn’t manage more than a few letters. From Wall Street, the view of technology-assisted learning in India looks very different. As China cracks down on private education, India is witnessing a surge of interest, with an estimated $4 billion flowing into the industry over the last 18 months. Byju’s, a startup valued at $16.5 billion, is in early discussions about an initial public offer. Smaller rivals like Eruditus and UpGrad raised money from investors last month. But the thriving edtech market caters mostly to the needs of the wealthier segments of the population. Those who make a precarious living from non-salaried occupations — and rank far from the top in Indian society’s caste hierarchy — can do little to change findings that show that, away from generally better-equipped urban schools, only 12% of children who have some access to online education participate in live lessons. As for those who’re consigned to the offline world, the biggest learning is from teacher-assigned homework, which even in cities covers just 39% of students. Homework without regular feedback has questionable pedagogic value, but that’s another matter. Delivery of education was lopsided even before the pandemic, but has become more so because of a yawning digital divide. Some Indian states are beginning to acknowledge that physical classes for primary and middle-school students have to resume without further delay. Otherwise, learning gaps may become impossible to reverse, causing higher dropout rates and concomitant social problems, including youth violence. Future productivity may suffer, and income inequality could worsen as a generation is robbed of a shot at upward mobility. Society must place at least some weight on the future of today’s disadvantaged children even as it deals with the immediate public health challenge.  The good news is that India’s poor haven’t given up on education. The SCHOOL survey notes that child labor is unusual among very young children, though among girls aged 10 to 14, a “large majority” are now doing some housework and, in villages, 8% of them had done paid work in the preceding three months. Before more families are tempted to bargain away their future for food, schools must reopen.    Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/school-lockdowns-robbed-a-generation-of-upward-mobility-1028235.html
08-09-2021||Opinion||Here is why Kashmir's Gupkar alliance has failed||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a conglomerate of political parties that had come together to restore Jammu and Kashmir's special status, has been on shaky ground ever since its formation in October 2020. After the alliance came into existence, the PAGD leaders said their priority was to struggle to restore Article 370 and not contest elections. But in November 2021, it decided to contest the District Development Council (DDC) polls jointly but did not give any reason for its changed stand. The National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), CPI (M), Awami National Conference (ANC) and People's Movement (PM) are the remaining constituents of the alliance. Earlier, the Congress, PC and incarcerated Engineer Rasheed-led Awami Ittehad Party (AIP) were also part of the alliance. "The PAGD has a diversity of ideologies, policies and individual opinions. Before joining the alliance, parties like the NC and PDP were fighting elections against each other," says Kashmir based political scientist Noor Ahmad Baba. He says this makes it impossible to keep the PAGD flock together and on the same page. The NC was not in favour of forming the PAGD as it didn't want to give a fresh lease of life to the already broken PDP. The PDP was "politically dead" following its alliance with the BJP in the J&K's last elected government before the central rule was imposed in June 2018. The NC leaders argue their party has been taken for a ride, and party interests are trumping the alliance's interests. The PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, according to the NC, had undermined the collective fight for J&K by pursuing a hardline politics "geared to resurrect her political career". For example, Mehbooba Mufti's statement last year that she wouldn't pick up the Indian flag. The NC did not endorse her recent statement asking the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee. On June 24, ahead of the all-party meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired in New Delhi, Farooq Abdullah also distanced himself from Mufti's statement on New Delhi resuming talks with Pakistan. "We are concerned only with our country," Abdullah said, rebutting Mufti. There is a method to Mufti's statements. She knows she has nothing to lose as most of the key leaders in her party have left and joined the Altaf Bukhari-led Apni Party. Many in the valley, including the PAGD constituents, understand that Mufti is again playing the separatist card to regain the public support she lost after forming the government with the BJP in 2015. Mufti built her political career by mourning the killings of Kashmir's militants at the hands of security forces. She would go and meet the families of slain militants, console their families and be recognised as someone who "cared" for the Kashmiri people and their larger political aspirations. People in the Kashmir Valley say she used the separatist sentiment to acquire votes. Then, she changed colours and sided with the BJP to form a coalition government, which many had then described as a "marriage of inconvenience" and an "unholy alliance". For the PDP, the revocation of Article 370 was a blessing in disguise. It gave the PDP an issue. The NC suffered the most as the party was expected to win the next round of the impending Assembly polls. The PDP's decision to form a government with the BJP had given an edge to the NC. If Article 370 was not revoked and Assembly elections took place on schedule, the NC would have won most of the seats in J&K, believe political observers. Consequently, during the last DDC elections, the PAGD bagged 110 seats. The NC led the way by winning 67 of these, while the PDP only managed to win 27 seats. "Had we not formed or joined this PAGD, we would have won all ten districts in Kashmir and four more in Jammu. And our relations with the Centre and the BJP wouldn't have turned sour'," news agency IANS quoted a senior NC leader and a former minister as saying. Many in Kashmir, including NC dissident Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi, argue that the PAGD has turned into an alliance of election preparations instead of fighting for what was "snatched" on August 5, 2019. Mehdi said that the PAGD had lost its way. "So far, I have not seen any political or legal action from the PAGD leadership to fight for the restoration of Article 370. The alliance has lost public support, and people do not even take it seriously." In July this year, the PDP stayed away from meeting with the Delimitation Commission. It even termed it "meaningless". On the other hand, a five-member NC delegation met the commission and submitted a memorandum. According to Kashmir based historian Professor Siddiq Wahid, the PAGD leadership has no clear plan. "The PAGD leaders initially sat under one umbrella to fight for the restoration of Article 370, but later they could not unite," Wahid said. Professor Wahid also admitted the lack of support for the PAGD on the ground. "The parties in the PAGD had some support before abrogation of Article 370. But now it seems they have lost much of their support, mostly in the valley." For example, after the all-party meeting with PM Modi in New Delhi, the PAGD spokesperson, CPI (M) leader, Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami, admitted that the leaders had expectations from the meeting in Delhi but returned empty-handed. Evidently, the PAGD leaders trying to unite under one umbrella to fight for the restoration of Article 370 have started to disintegrate within a short span of time. (The writer is a journalist based in Jammu and Kashmir) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/here-is-why-kashmirs-gupkar-alliance-has-failed-1028293.html
08-09-2021||Opinion||Afghanistan on BRICS agenda||On September 9, as the Chair of BRICS, India will host the 13th summit meet of leaders virtually, a new norm during the global health pandemic. A decade and a half back, when BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) was envisaged, it caught the world's attention. Five years later, when a fifth letter, an "S", was added to represent South Africa, it completed a card of five nations whose economies were on the path of emerging as engines for global growth. As it stands today, BRICS comprises these five countries whose leadership meets to take stock of progress on three pillars of peace and security, economics and finance, cultural and people-to-people exchange.  On the theme of "BRICS@15: Intra-BRICS cooperation for continuity, consolidation and consensus", India delineated four priority areas for its chairship - reform of the multilateral system, counter-terrorism, using digital and technological tools for achieving SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) and enhancing people to people exchanges. While each of the priority areas was put through its paces, the global scenario today is different. Countries now remain uncertain how the future unfolds, from dealing with the pandemic ravaged economies to the arrival of vaccines and graded push to open up restarted global engines. Needless to underscore, the leaders will exchange views on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and other current global scenarios. BRICS was a creation of member countries on the high path of growth. But over the years, they have taken different routes. China emerged as one of the strongest economies in the world. India remained on a steady course of progress with periodic drawdowns, with Russia following. The growth trajectory of the other two is nowhere near the projections of a decade ago. Can BRICS continue to readjust to emerging challenges, addressing individually and collectively? Afghanistan The Thursday Summit comes in the backdrop of a significant change in the political landscape in Afghanistan in which three of the BRICS member countries, China, India, and Russia, have a direct bearing.  With the Taliban now announcing a new government, the world is working out ways to come to terms with the new reality.   As the situation changed on August 15, when the Abdul Ghani government melted away, among the early movers were China and Russia, whose imprint in the strife-torn country is deep. The Summit's view on the BRICS counter-terrorism action plan will be of interest to the four priority areas. Its been firmed up by the representatives responsible for national security in each country.  Their meeting in late August finalised the roadmap to take forward the strategy adopted by the 12th Summit in Russia in 2020. Last month, Indian National Security Advisor Ajit Doval played host to his counterparts from the other four countries. The meeting focused on the emerging scenarios in Afghanistan, Iran, West Asia and the Gulf and threats from cybersecurity. The action plan, a key deliverable when India is in the Chair, aims to strengthen cooperation in combatting terrorism and its financing, internet misuse by terrorists, border controls, among others. Special emphasis is on the risk of illegal drug production and trafficking in the region. It will be interesting to watch how the action plan, when adopted, would translate, especially in the region. Afghanistan is a poppy cultivation centre and is considered one of the most significant illegal drug supply and trade sources.   On its part, India flagged cross-border terrorism and activities of groups like Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, which enjoy State support and threaten peace and security. These groups have launched attacks against India using the soil of a country in the neighbourhood, and New Delhi's concerns remain paramount. Health During a meeting of its finance ministers in June, there was a call to establish and operationalise BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre. The idea is interesting as three members – India, China and Russia – have developed indigenous vaccines to combat the virus. While efforts are on to combat the immediate challenge from Covid-19, a comprehensive healthcare system remains on the top of the agenda. Challenges in each of the BRICS countries are unique, and each can pool expertise to assist one another to collectively deal with 41 per cent share of the global population. Cyber security With the increasing footprint of a digital world in daily life, cyber security is an area that every country is working on and the BRICS as a group cannot be oblivious to these threats.  The number of instances of attacks and crimes committed using cyberspace is real. In August, India also hosted a workshop on digital forensics, which should allow the group to build up the existing capacity as BRICS agrees to fortify joint efforts by sharing information and exchanging best practices. As a leader in countries developing software, India enjoys a leadership role in this sphere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/afghanistan-on-brics-agenda-1028409.html
08-09-2021||Panorama||Good Samaritans in Covid times ||On September 5, the International Day of Charity, the world commemorated the death anniversary of a renowned missionary and humanitarian, after whom the United Nations declared the day thus in 2012. The memorial is, however, not an archetypal one associated with glittering gatherings. There are no stirring speeches highlighting her contribution to society.  On the other hand, she is remembered in private and through simple prayers within her congregation of nuns. She is fondly thought of, not in any dazzling imagery, but as that diminutive lady who came from a foreign land with love in her heart, to serve the poorest of the poor in a mission country. Her model as the Good Samaritan will continue to be relevant, and perhaps inspire several others, as it has during the pandemic. St Teresa of Kolkata, a mother to the millions of poor in our country and across the world where she later set up her convents, was an icon of the Good Samaritan. Her deep affinity to serve the poor and the love with which she achieved it could only be compared to that of the Lord Himself, to whom she had dedicated her life. "They never got dignity in their life, they should get dignity in their death, they should get the warmth of human touch,” was the supreme thought that St Teresa instilled in all who worked in her destitute homes. Hundreds of social workers who volunteered to work with her often referred to the experience of holding and caressing the sick and the dying as more of a spiritual experience than a social one. Perhaps, this spiritual experience could be compared to the experience that hundreds of our medical professionals went through during the past few months of the pandemic in our country. They put themselves on the line and worked selflessly and courageously, not as doctors, as nurses but more like saviours and angels in saving millions of lives. They have in fact put into practice what St Teresa would often say, “Be faithful in small things because it is in them that your strength lies.” St Teresa believed that nothing mattered as long as there was love deep within us. For, it was her belief that “intense love does not measure, it just gives.” It is heartening that in the middle of the century’s worst pandemic, there was this intense love that traversed the world together with the virus. Many better-placed people opened soup kitchens for the hungry and the poor. The financially better-off contributed money to specially created funds and other affected individuals. Bereaved families received heartfelt counselling and consolation. The old and the bed-ridden were cared for braving the inconveniences of lockdowns and curfew. Touching lives In the midst of a horrifying pandemic, good-natured people were found in plenty spreading love in keeping with St Teresa's words, “Spread love everywhere you go. Let no one ever come to you without leaving happier.” Indeed if there was happiness in these sad times of the pandemic, it came from the love of those who chose to spread happiness among the suffering and the needy. In October 2003, when the beatification—a process in the Catholic Church to confer sainthood on an individual—of St Teresa began, the then Pope John Paul II proclaimed, “I am personally grateful to this courageous woman whom I have always felt beside me. Mother Teresa, an icon of the Good Samaritan, went everywhere to serve Christ in the poorest of the poor. Not even conflict and war could stand in her way.” Indeed this very serving spirit was found in the past several months in the form of Good Samaritans who tackled a pandemic and its effects with profound acts of love.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/good-samaritans-in-covid-times-1028271.html
08-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Mic off, camera on, action. On-Air!||Words that have taken over our lives during the pandemic, especially for those who enjoy meeting/speaking to family and friends. Almost everyone I know, old or young, family or friends or colleagues, has taken to using the various e-platforms to communicate. Working from home has not only taught us lessons on how to effectively communicate/speak to people keeping in mind the limitations but also to restrategise our approach to communicate effectively. One thing that I have accepted is this: Lockdown or no lockdown, work continues and the new “avatar” of conducting meetings has taken new dimensions. I have shifted my “office” desk to my bedroom, though I do have a study space in the living area. That space belongs to my husband, who watches TV or is on the mobile for hours together. Usually, when I have a meeting I shut the room's door so that a message is sent to people that I am in a video meeting and hence No Entry. But I believe that this is not applicable to the support system at home. Last week I had a very important meeting where I was interviewing some candidates for a vacant post in my company. Since it was an interview I had requested the candidates to switch on their video camera and so had I. In the midst of asking some important questions (which could be like a tie-breaker), bang my door opens and my maid walks in with the mop and broom hoisted in each of her hands. In my excitement and eagerness to minimise the screen, I closed the meeting. When I logged in again, the candidate who was “uncomfortable” and squirming to answer some of the questions had a wee bit of a smile on his face. I was wondering why. When I saw the video later, I was shocked to see that my maid had stopped to peep into my computer. She was standing behind me, probably trying to figure out who I was speaking to. The image that appeared looked like I had the mop and the broom growing from behind my ears (the Satan’s look) and she was hovering over me like the guardian angel. No wonder the candidate was trying to hide his laughter since I must have been like a Satan to him. As a communicator by profession, the work-from-home model has given me new vistas and ideas on what to do and what not to do when you are on camera. The Covid-19 situation has given whole new challenges and insights to adapt to a new environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/mic-off-camera-on-action-on-air-1028413.html
08-09-2021||Second Edit||BBMP must treat sanitary workers better||The travails of sanitary workers, particularly garbage collectors, seem to be never-ending, with the BBMP remaining apathetic to their basic demands and denying them salaries for several months at a stretch. The workers have now gone on a flash strike demanding, among other things, regularisation of service and equal pay for equal work. In 2018, the BBMP introduced direct payment and biometric attendance for pourakarmikas, who are responsible for cleaning streets, following complaints of contractors either not paying them their full salaries or raising bogus bills against the names of non-existent workers. But drivers and assistants of auto-tippers, who lift thrash from households and public garbage bins and transport it to dump yards, continue to be under the mercy of contractors and are entitled to a much lower salary than pourakarmikas. With even these low salaries not being released, it has become a question of survival for these workers, who have come to depend on tips from households and free food provided by some generous restaurateurs. They are asking that they be treated on par with pourakarmikas.  Government employees have not suffered any salary cuts during the pandemic or lockdown and the central government has indeed even announced a 25% increase in dearness allowance, but pourakarmikas and garbage-lifters, who are expected to work without a break come rain or shine, continue to remain a neglected lot, denied of even basic amenities. Though pourakarmikas have been declared as frontline workers by the BBMP, they work under the most unhygienic conditions, without even minimum protective gear like gloves, leave alone hand-sanitisers. The workers, especially women, are put to great inconvenience in the absence of restrooms or hot water to wash themselves up after literally working in filth. They have also demanded a compensation of Rs 30 lakh to those among them who died of Covid-19 and Rs 10 lakh as life security upon retirement. Another demand is to increase the ratio of civic workers to population from 1:700 to 1:500, which is reasonable and just.  The manner in which civic workers have been treated is nothing short of a grave human rights violation. It is unfortunate that the BBMP has been inconsiderate towards its foot-soldiers, especially during the pandemic. The government and civic bodies across the state should immediately wake up to their plight, regularise their services and evolve an insurance scheme to take care of health exigencies, while also improving their working conditions. The people who risk their own lives to keep our cities clean cannot be treated as sub-human, denied of equity and fairness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bbmp-must-treat-sanitary-workers-better-1028266.html
08-09-2021||South||State swung into action against Nipah right from the start: Kerala CM||The moment the first case of Nipah was identified in the state, amidst the fight against Covid-19, the government swung into action and took all necessary steps, including forming committees, setting up a testing lab at Kozhikode Medical College and carrying out intensive tracing of contacts, to fight against the deadly virus, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday. Speaking to the media in the evening, he said the government immediately formed 16 committees to oversee the monitoring, sample testing, result management, contact tracing, operation of a travel system for the sick, infrastructure management and data analysis, for effectively preventing spread of Nipah. He said that presently there were 257 people on the contact list and of these, 141 were health workers and none of them have any serious symptoms. He also said that all the samples tested till then were negative for Nipah and more were being tested at the lab in Kozhikode Medical College as well as at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and their outcome was awaited. He said the lab at Kozhikode was set up overnight with the joint and active efforts of NIV Pune, NIV Alappuzha and the medical college where a pay ward block was converted for Nipah treatment and isolation. The other steps taken by the state were preparing a contact list and route map, making available ambulance facilities for those who were in contact with the 12-year-old boy who died of Nipah, recruiting additional staff and trained personnel and establishing a control room for coordinating everything related to Nipah, he said. Besides that all districts have been directed to be vigilant and to prepare a Nipah management plan if required, he said and added that an updated treatment and discharge guidelines have been released. The chief minister said that ICMR has assured to get monoclonal antibody from Australia for the state. Awareness campaigns have also been intensified in the Nipah affected areas and teams have been trained to conduct home visits and collect information, including symptoms, he said and added that an E-health software has been introduced share all the information about Nipah among all departments concerned and authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/state-swung-into-action-against-nipah-right-from-the-start-kerala-cm-1028201.html
08-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly passes resolution against CAA; demands its repeal||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday “unanimously” passed a resolution against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 by nudging the Union Government to repeal the law which is “not in tune with the secular principles” laid down in the Constitution. Chief Minister M K Stalin moved the resolution in the House asking the Union Government to protect and ensure that unity and communal harmony in the country by repealing the law.  While the BJP opposed the resolution and staged a walkout, AIADMK members were not present in the House when the business was taken up as they too staged a walkout alleging that they were not given the opportunity to raise “people’s issues.” PMK, an ally of AIADMK and BJP, supported the resolution. AIADMK, which voted in favour of the Bill in both houses of Parliament, made a volte-face by opposing the CAA weeks before Tamil Nadu went to assembly polls in April 2021. Tamil Nadu has joined states like Kerala and West Bengal in passing resolutions against CAA. “This August House considers that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, passed by the Parliament in the year 2019 is not in tune with the secular principles laid down in our Constitution and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India,” the resolution read. Stalin said the CAA prevents Muslims in neighbouring countries from getting the citizenship of India stressing that refugees should not be viewed from the prism of religion or race or country. “Showing partiality will not do any good to the refugees who leave their countries due to various reasons. This would only add to their sorrows,” he said. Passing a resolution against the CAA was one of the poll promises of the DMK. The move comes days after the Assembly passed a resolution against three farm laws. The resolution contended that a country should be governed taking into consideration the aspirations and concerns of the people belonging to all sections of the society. “But, it is clearly seen that the Citizenship Act was passed in such a way that it does not accord warm support to the refugees considering their plight, but instead discriminate them according to their religion and their country of origin. “Therefore, to protect and ensure the unity and communal harmony in this country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, this August House resolves to urge the Union Government to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019," the resolution said. Representatives of DMK’s allies supported the resolution after which Speaker M Appavu declared that the resolution was passed “unanimously” on the floor of the House. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-passes-resolution-against-caa-demands-its-repeal-1028264.html
08-09-2021||South||First batch of girl cadets take admission in Kerala Sainik School||For the first time in history after the foundation of the only Sainik School in the state in 1962, the first batch of girl cadets took admission in Sainik School Kazhakootam (SSKZM) here clearing All India Sainik School Entrance Examination (AISSEE 2021) for the academic year 2020-21. A special assembly was conducted in the school auditorium to welcome the first batch consisting of seven girls from Kerala, two from Bihar and one from Uttar Pradesh, to the Kazhak (Sainik School Kazhakootam) family, a Defence release said here on Wednesday. The Principal, Col Dhirendra Kumar addressed the cadets and conveyed his wishes for their stay in one of its kind of schools in the state. The school’s infrastructure has been changing significantly for the last one year to welcome the first batch of girls to the campus. Construction of a new house and dormitory was completed by the beginning of the academic year for them, the release said. Admission of girl cadets in Sainik schools was a successful experimentation in the academic year 2018-19 by Sainik School Society, in Mizoram and subsequently different states of the country took the initiative of admitting girls in their Sainik schools, promoting the spirit within girls to join armed forces and endorsing women empowerment. This year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his 75th Independence Day speech announced that all the 33 Sainik schools will ensure admission of girl cadets from the current academic year onwards. As per this, 10 perc ent of the total seats of each year’s admission will be reserved for girls in every Sainik school in the country, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-batch-of-girl-cadets-take-admission-in-kerala-sainik-school-1028317.html
08-09-2021||South||Nipah is synonymous with death, fear and isolation to this Keralite family||When the social media started buzzing that a deadly contagious disease had claimed the life of his 'ekkakka' (elder brother) three years ago, young Mohammed Muthalib felt agitated over the "fake news" about his family. Because, never ever in his life had he heard about a disease called "Nipah". By the time the 19-year-old college student learnt about its severity, the viral infection had robbed off four members of his family in a row pushing him and his mother Mariyumma into the depth of perennial sadness. As Kerala is once again reeling under Nipah scare, claiming the life of a 12-year-old boy recently, Muthalib recounted the tragedy that had befallen his family in 2018, saying the disease was equal to death, fear and social exclusion for them. "There were people who were scared to talk to us even a year after the deadly disease struck our family. I am not blaming anyone...We can understand the anxiety and stress they are undergoing," he told PTI. A native of Sooppikkada, a nondescript village in northern Kozhikode district, Muthalib had lost his father, two elder brothers and paternal aunt within days after the virus infection had hit the southern state for the first time in 2018. One of his deceased brothers was Mohammed Sabith, the first Nipah victim in the state. Though Sabith's death was not recognised as due to the infection initially, the sudden demise of Mohammed Salih, another youngster in the family, raised suspicion among the doctors and the expert examination of the samples had confirmed the prevalence of the viral infection in the state. Mariam, their paternal aunt who attended to Salih while he was at the hospital, also succumbed to Nipah subsequently. Though doctors had given hope about their 60-year-old father Moosa Musalyar initially, his condition deteriorated later and gave in to it finally. Another woman member also contracted the disease, but her life could be saved after she was rushed to a major hospital in Ernakulam district. "The trauma, my family underwent during those days, could not be explained in words. Five members had contracted the disease and four of them had succumbed to it in a row," he said. The young man said when Sabith started showing symptoms, everyone including the doctors took it as an ordinary viral fever initially. As he already had some other health issues, his death did not trigger any doubts even among relatives, the brother explained. When Salih also caught fever and developed similar symptoms, the medical fraternity started suspecting something big, he said. "The strange aspect is that my umma (mother) had nursed all of them. But, she was unaffected and never showed any symptom throughout the period," the man added. Not just the tragedy that struck the family and the fear of the disease, the isolation faced in the society was also a cause of agony for them for long. "When the deaths occurred one by one, me and umma had shifted to my uncle's house nearby. Around 30 people, all relatives, had to live together in that single house for several days as no one could step out out due to the fear of disease spread," Muthalib recalled. There were occasions when people had apprehensions to talk or shake hands with the members of the family even months after the disease affected us. "When my paternal uncle visited the mosque then, people were reluctant to give him the customary hug or handshake. Many would used to leave the place when he approached them to talk," he said. Due to the Nipah fear, many married girls of his maternal family could not go back to their marital house for months as the spouses' family asked them not to come, he said. However, Muthalib, a graduate in sociology, said the family had no qualms, as the anxiety and tension of people about the deadly disease was understandable. At one side when they faced societal isolation, there were many unknown people who came to their house from far away places only to console them and share their grief, he said. "A person from Malappuram travelled all the way to my village only to see my mother, consoled her and to say that his prayers were with us," the young man added. Recently, Muthalib and umma shifted to their unfinished new home near the old house. He said the state government had promised him a job after completion of his studies and is now knocking all the doors to get the assurance implemented to look after his mother, who could not afford anymore shock in her life. Besides the two sons, who had succumbed to Nipah, Mariyumma had lost her another son in a fatal road accident in 2013. "So, she is very scared when I go out of the house for anything," Muthalib said. He also urged everyone not to get panic over the spread of Nipah virus in their vicinity and completely abide by the health department directives. A 12-year-old boy had succumbed to the virus infection in Kozhikode last week, indicating the return of the deadly disease to the southern state again. At present, there were 257 people on the contact list and of these, 141 were health workers and none of them have any serious symptoms. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nipah-is-synonymous-with-death-fear-and-isolation-to-this-keralite-family-1028328.html
08-09-2021||South||Nilgiris police fast-track Kodanad case||Four years after an armed gang broke into the sprawling Kodanad Estate in the Nilgiris jointly owned by late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa and her long-time aide V K Sasikala, the Nilgiris District Police have launched a reinvestigation into the break-in and other deaths related to the incident. Efforts by ‘Anubhav’ Ravi, a witness in the case and an office-bearer of Nilgiris district AIADMK, to stall the reinvestigation have failed with the Supreme Court dismissing his plea seeking a stay on the fresh probe into the Kodanad break-in-cum-murder case. Ravi had knocked at the doors of the Supreme Court after the Madras High Court rejected a similar plea, maintaining that truth should come out in the case. Supreme Court refusing to interfere in the police’s decision to reinvestigate the sensational case comes as a setback to former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who has alleged that the new DMK government was trying to “frame” him in the case. Palaniswami had also led AIADMK MLAs in staging a walkout from the Assembly and petitioned Governor Banwarilal Purohit in this regard. His name had cropped up in the case in 2019 after the second accused, Sayan, alleged in 2019 that the then Chief Minister was involved in the case. However, Palaniswami had rejected the claims, though there was all-around criticism that the investigation into the case was botched up. The DMK had in its election manifesto included a “fair probe” into the case in the list of promises. Sources in the Nilgiris police told DH that reinvestigation will be launched into the break-in at Kodanad Estate, the mysterious death of main accused Kanagaraj, a former driver of Jayalalithaa, and a suicide of the systems manager at the estate. “The court orders are clear that we should get to the bottom of the case. The reinvestigation is on, and we have formed special teams for the purpose,” a senior police official said, adding that they have begun questioning the accused and others related to the case. The district police are likely to present a report on the fresh investigation in the case before the sessions judge when the case comes up for hearing on October 1. The heist-cum-murder at the Kodanad Estate in April 2017 is shrouded in mystery as Kanagaraj was killed in a road accident a few days after the incident and Sayan’s wife and daughter also lost their lives in an accident in Kerala. A few months later, the systems engineer at the estate was found hanging at his residence in Salem district. Kodanad was the summer retreat of Jayalalithaa since she and her long-time aide V K Sasikala bought the sprawling bungalow in Kothagiri in the early 1990s. The former chief minister would visit the bungalow often when her party, AIADMK, was occupying the Opposition benches in the assembly. Sayan and nine others are accused of breaking into the sprawling mansion owned by Jayalalithaa in 2017, months after her death, and killing a guard who was posted there. Police had then alleged that C Kanagaraj, Jayalalithaa’s former driver, and Sayan plotted the crime.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nilgiris-police-fast-track-kodanad-case-1028412.html
08-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to form SC/ST commission, DMK supports caste-based census: CM Stalin||Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday said the Tamil Nadu government will establish a commission for SC/ST on the lines of the National Commission for SC/ST. In a separate development, the Chief Minister also said that the DMK supports caste-based census and that he would soon write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. Making a slew of announcement with regard to SC/ST communities, the CM Stalin said that Rs 10 lakh will be awarded as an incentive to panchayats that follows the practice of common crematoriums or graveyards. He also said that Adi Dravidar Welfare Schools in the state would henceforth function under the Adi Dravidar Department instead of the School Education Department. VCK, a prominent Dalit party welcomed the announcements by Stalin.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-form-sc/st-commission-dmk-supports-caste-based-census-cm-stalin-1028436.html
08-09-2021||South||Ayurveda sector laments lack of adequate support for Covid-19 medicines||Even as evaluations conducted in Kerala found that Ayurveda medicines were quite effective in resisting Covid-19, the Ayurveda sector is lamenting over a lack of adequate support and promotion. According to an evaluation done by the State Ayurveda Covid-19 Response Cell, among 1.01 lakh people who took Ayurveda medicines while in quarantine following contact with Covid-positive from May 2020 to July 2020, only 0.34 per cent tested positive. During the same period, 1.67 per cent of those who did not take Ayurveda medicines tested positive. Similarly, among 9,855 persons with mild Covid infection who took Ayurveda medicines between December 2020 and January 2021, 95.87 per cent recovered without any complications. Only 0.45 percent persons had to be referred to advanced treatment and 0.36 percent required intensive care. A member of the State Ayurveda Covid-19 Response Cell told DH that the Ayurveda sector was allowed to treat Covid patients by October 2020 after it was found effective among those in quarantine. Even 99.1 per cent of those who took Ayurveda medicine for post-Covid medicine recovered in 30 days. But even then Ayurveda was not getting the attention and promotion it deserved. Kerala Health Minister Veena George even said in a written reply in the Kerala Assembly recently that no one who took Ayurveda treatment for Covid were found to have developed any other health problems. Founder and managing director of Thiruvananthapuram-based Pankajakasthuri Ayurveda Medical College, Dr J Hareendran Nair, said that a majority of Covid-19 patients who took Ayurveda treatment recovered in five to seven days. Those who have been taking Ayurveda medicines for other comorbid ailments were also found to be experiencing a very feeble effect of Covid-19. A herbal-mineral preparation developed by Pankajakasthuri for treating Covid-19 patients was pending approval after conducting proper clinical trials. The post-Covid diabetes in those who took Ayurveda treatment was also found to be low. The Padma Shri recipient said that the government should have given at least one-tenth of the prominence being given to modern medicine, to Ayurveda. The Ayurveda sector is not making any claims of fighting coronavirus. But the severity of the virus is being minimised by enhancing the anti-viral capabilities of human bodies by giving traditional medicine combinations. Ayurveda practitioners are respecting modern medicines. Similarly, the positive sides of Ayurveda treatment should be respected, he said. The Kerala government has decided to rope in the service of Ayurveda sector in fighting Covid in 2020 March and formed the State Ayurveda Covid-19 Response Cell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ayurveda-sector-laments-lack-of-adequate-support-for-covid-19-medicines-1028444.html
08-09-2021||South||Sasikala’s properties near Chennai attached under Benami Act||A sprawling bungalow and other properties belonging to ousted AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala were on Wednesday attached by the Income Tax department under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act. The properties are located at Payyanur village, near Siruthavar where J Jayalalithaa and Sasikala owns another bungalow that was also attached earlier this year, on the outskirts of Chennai. The Payyanur bungalow was bought by Jayalalithaa and Sasikala in 1994 from famous music composer Gangai Amaran, who is also the brother of Ilaiyaraja.  Income Tax authorities attached the bungalow and vacant land adjacent to the sprawling mansion in Payyanur on Wednesday. Several properties belonging to Sasikala and her family members were attached under the Benami Act in 2020 and 2021. Sasikala, her sister-in-law Ilavarasai, and Jayalalithaa’s foster son V N Sudhakaran underwent four years imprisonment in a disproportionate assets (DA) case linked with the former Chief Minister. However, Jayalalithaa’s conviction by the trial court could not be upheld as she had passed away by the time Supreme Court delivered its verdict on appeal against Karnataka’s High Court exonerating her in the case. Kodanad Bungalow, which is now at the centre of a raging row over the heist-cum-murder case, was also attached by the IT authorities in connection with the DA case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-s-properties-near-chennai-attached-under-benami-act-1028446.html
08-09-2021||South||Kerala to facilitate vaccine production amid rise in Covid-19 cases||After a week's gap, the daily fresh Covid cases in Kerala crossed the 30,000 mark on Wednesday and the TPR also witnessed an increase. While 30,196 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state, the TPR was 17.63 per cent. The number of active cases in the state is 2,39,480. During the last few days, Kerala was witnessing a declining trend in Covid cases, and the night curfew and lockdown on Sundays were lifted on Tuesday. It was also decided to reopen colleges partially from October 4. Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday decided to offer special support packages, including subsidies and financial assistance, to firms that intend to set up vaccine production facility in the state. A vaccine production zone would be set up at the Life Science Park in Thiruvananthapuram. A vaccine policy for the state would be also drafted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-facilitate-vaccine-production-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-1028458.html
08-09-2021||South||46 more from contact list of Nipah victim test negative for virus||Kerala seems to be coming out of a Nipah scare as 46 persons in the contact list of the 12-year-old boy who died the virus Nipah have tested negative. Health Minister Veena George said that 68 were under observation in the hospital. Among them, 12 persons were still showing mild symptoms. The state would continue its vigil against Nipah, she said. Meanwhile, the source of the infection was yet to be ascertained. Experts from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal are also likely to come down to Kerala. Specimen from many animals, birds and fruit samples were already collected and tested from Chathamangalam panchayat of Kozhikode where the disease was reported. While 10 persons, including family members of the 12-year-old boy who died of Nipah in Kozhikode, tested negative on Tuesday, 36 others in high risk contact were negative for the virus on Wednesday. The health department remained vigilant with officials visiting households to find anyone with symptoms. Those with even mild symptoms were kept in observation. Those who tested negative might be discharged soon. But they would be advised to remain in isolation. Around 200 others on the contact list are also in isolation. It included persons from other districts also. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/46-more-from-contact-list-of-nipah-victim-test-negative-for-virus-1028462.html
08-09-2021||South||IUML dissolves women students' forum||The Indian Union Muslim League has dissolved the state committee of its women students' forum, Haritha, after the women leaders refused to accede the demand to withdraw a petition against the male leaders for sexually-toned abuse. IUML leadership said on Wednesday that there was gross indiscipline on the part of Haritha leadership and hence it was being dissolved. A section of state committee leaders of the Haritha had recently petitioned the Kerala Women's Commission against Muslim Students' Federation leaders including state president P K Nawaz and Malappuram district secretary V Abdul Wahab. The women had alleged sexually-toned abuse by the leaders at a party meeting after Haritha leaders questioned some unilateral decisions of the MSF leadership. Though the IUML leadership pressed the Haritha leadership to withdraw the petition assuring action against the leaders, the women student leaders did not concede as no stringent action was taken against the accused leaders. Meanwhile, there were reports that the women leaders would move legally against the decision to dissolve the state committee. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iuml-dissolves-women-students-forum-1028471.html
08-09-2021||South||Man tries to set himself ablaze opposite TN Assembly, whisked away by cops||In an apparent security breach, a man tried to set himself ablaze on Wednesday on the "Kalaivanar Arangam" premises where the Tamil Nadu Assembly proceedings are held, but police personnel overpowered him in the nick of time and whisked him away from the spot. The man, who appeared to be about 45 years-old, was apprehended when he poured a petrol like liquid over himself soon after entering the sprawling complex. Water was also poured on him to make him wet, they said. "He is a native of Thanjavur. It seems he has some property related grievances in connection with a land parcel. When he approached authorities in his native town, they reportedly told him that it is a civil matter and he made this attempt to draw attention," a police official told PTI adding he is being questioned and a case would be registered. On how he gained access despite tight security measures, the official said he appeared to have "sneaked" into the Arangam premises using the entrance gate earmarked for media personnel. However, alert personnel caught him immediately, he said, but declined to elaborate on the apparent security breach. The incident created a flutter as the House was in session and the passage of a resolution against the CAA was among the official business transacted today in the Assembly. The Assembly proceedings are being held in the third floor hall of the Arangam complex and not in the Fort St George premises in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-tries-to-set-himself-ablaze-opposite-tn-assembly-whisked-away-by-cops-1028476.html
08-09-2021||State||Karnataka plans digital survey option for citizens||The Karnataka government is considering a plan to allow citizens to draw their own boundaries inside properties, a reform that has the potential to keep officials away from private lands as well as clear the huge backlog of applications for survey work. The Revenue Department under R Ashoka is still working out the modalities of this plan.  According to a senior officer, the plan is to let citizens draw lines on their properties on Dishaank, the government app that helps people identify land. The self-survey, the officer added, will be an optional feature and citizens can still make use of government-appointed surveyors.  Karnataka has 2.5 crore landholdings or plots. A survey becomes necessary when a plot has multiple owners and the boundaries need to be determined.  “Our people will prepare the digital sketch of the property. This digital sketch will be given to people and they can draw lines to indicate sub-plots,” the officer said, adding that the plan is to start this facility in the next 2-3 months. The digital sketches prepared by the government will be geo-referenced to ensure no one can draw lines on someone else's property. This is the 11E sketch, which outlines the portion of land that is up for sale and is a crucial document required for transaction. This sketch is prepared by a surveyor manually. Once a particular portion of land is surveyed, a survey number is generated.  The plan to allow citizens to survey their own land is a response to the huge pendency of applications: at least 1.92 lakh survey applications are stuck at various levels. In fact, Revenue Minister R Ashoka admitted recently that the pendency was so huge that the waiting time is 8-10 months.  “There are also chances of citizens facing harassment at the hands of surveyors. So, if this plan goes through, then surveyors need not visit private properties for survey work,” the officer said.  To make sure the right person does the survey on the Dishaank app, the government plans to make Aadhaar mandatory. “Any person whose name is in the record of rights, tenancy and crops (RTC) can do the survey. We will take Aadhaar and verify the name,” the officer said. However, the government has no plans yet to let citizens draw the outer boundaries of a plot (hudbusth). “The current plan involves letting citizens draw boundaries within a plot only,” the officer specified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-plans-digital-survey-option-for-citizens-1028145.html
08-09-2021||State||Nativity of Mary observed with traditional fervour in Dakshina Kannada||Devotees across the coastal district of Dakshina Kannada observed the feast of Our Lady of Nativity, or commonly known as Monthi Fest, with devotion on Wednesday. For the second consecutive year, the celebrations at churches were limited due to the restrictions following Covid-19 pandemic. Safety measures were followed in churches according to government's guidelines. All the faithfuls who attended the mass were wearing masks mandatorily in churches in Mangaluru. Rituals such as procession and offering of flowers by children were also restricted due to the pandemic. The Konkani-speaking Catholic community members observe September as “Thene Habba” or harvest festival every year. It is also an occasion marked by a thanksgiving mass for blessing a good harvest. Nine days before the main feast, people attend the nine days novena. Traditionally, during this period people have only vegetarian food.   Prior to the commencement of mass, the first corn from the field is brought to the Altar in a procession, which is blessed by the priest. Bunches of newly-harvested paddy stalks are blessed in the church and a sheaf is carried home by every Catholic. The feast is celebrated by serving vegetarian food comprising variety of items for meals. In his message, Mangalore Diocese Bishop Rev Peter Paul Saldanha said “The month of September makes us bubble with joy as we celebrate the birth of our Blessed Mother. The whole nature sparkles with greenery and is resplendent with colourful flowers. The children are in the limelight, and they teach us how to love Mother Mary. With Mary, everything is new. The family bond gets renewed, the blessed new corn comes into our homes, and all blessings of prosperity come along with it.” Further, he said, “A girl child who is the hope of the future of our families is honoured and protected. On this occasion, we must firmly resolve to pay attention to the wholesome health of our families. As we are living through the Year of Amoris Laetitia Family, we have a wonderful opportunity to attend to the needs of the family in the various vicissitudes of life.” The Bishop has appealed to the Parish Priests and the Commission for the Family to make extra efforts to visit the families in the Parish to support and empower them wherever needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nativity-of-mary-observed-with-traditional-fervour-in-dakshina-kannada-1028300.html
08-09-2021||State||Festive rush: Bengaluru-Hyderabad most sought after route in country||Ahead of Ganesha Chaturthi, travel demand between Bengaluru and Hyderabad has spiked, making the buses on the route the most sought after in the entire country, private bus aggregator redBus said on Wednesday. The company said on Wednesday that it expects more than 7 lakh seats to be booked during the festival season. Unlike last year, when bookings peaked five days ahead of the festival, the demand increased 10 days before Ganesha Chaturthi "indicating greater intent and certainty of travel", redBus said in a release. Within Karnataka, bus services from Bengaluru to Vijayapura and Belagavi are in high demand. "About 63% of the overall bookings are projected to come from tier-2 and tier-3 cities and towns, signifying increased penetration and digitisation across India," the company said. Bengaluru-Hyderabad has emerged top route among the interstate services, thanks to the relaxation of the rules for interstate travel. Opening up of the borders between states that witness high bus travel -- Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana -- has come as a major booster. "The passage between Kerala and Karnataka is still awaited," it added. Based on its booking data, the company said the top 5 states where it was witnessing high demand for travel during Ganesh Chaturthi were, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka. More than 2500 private bus operators and 21 State Regional Transport Corporations were gearing up to cater to the demand by running around 42,000 services on 53,600 routes. The company estimates that 54% of the current bookings are for travel within states and the remaining 46% for interstate travel. 73% of the current bookings have been made on Air-Conditioned buses. Prakash Sangam, chief executive officer of redBus, stated, “If we don’t witness a significant third wave, we expect to reach pre-Covid levels of activity on our platform by early next year. At the moment, Ganesh Chaturthi is helping revive demand for intercity travel which is welcome news for our industry “ Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/festive-rush-bengaluru-hyderabad-most-sought-after-route-in-country-1028353.html
08-09-2021||State||New ethics committee in Karnataka Assembly: Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri||A first-of-its-kind ethics committee of the legislature is likely to be formed during the upcoming Monsoon Session, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said Wednesday. The 10-day Monsoon Session is scheduled to start on September 13. Briefing reporters, Kageri said that the Rules Committee had held discussions for the formation of the ethics committee. "The ethics committee will be formed after relevant sections are added to the rules of procedure and conduct of business in the Legislative Assembly," he said. According to officials, a report containing details such as the mandate of the ethics committee will be tabled in the Assembly by the Speaker. Authorities were expecting the report to be tabled in the next session, provided the proposal is cleared by the Business Advisory Committee (BAC). The 'Best Legislator' award will be handed over at the end of the session. "We have formed a committee to pick a legislator for the award. The committee will consist of Chief Minister, Leader of the Opposition and others," he said.    Also, the prohibition on the general public to attend the session will be lifted. The Speaker had barred the public from the visitors' gallery of the Assembly since the pandemic in 2020. To a question on designated quarters for the Assembly Speaker, Legislative Council chairman and ministers, Kageri said that he was confident that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would address the long-pending issue. On complaints by Public Accounts Committee that officials from Health & Family Welfare Department furnished wrong information during hearings, Kageri said that he would check provisions and initiate action. 18 Bills A total of 18 Bills are lined up to be tabled in the upcoming session. Of them, 10 are new, four are to replace ordinances and four are pending in the Assembly. Prominent Bills include the Karnataka Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Gamblers, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Slum-Grabbers and Video or Audio Pirates (Amendment) Bill 2021, to bring more offences including land-grabbing, under its ambit. Also, the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Bill, 2021 will amend Section 276 CrPC 276 to introduce video conferencing as a mode to present witnesses. Other Bills deal with BWSSB, stamps and so on. Om Birla's address Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla will address both houses of the state legislature during the upcoming Monsoon Session on September 24. Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said that the address will be on the second half of the last day of the session.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-ethics-committee-in-karnataka-assembly-speaker-vishweshwar-hegde-kageri-1028426.html
08-09-2021||State||SC collegium recommends names of 10 for appointment as permanent judges in Karnataka HC||The Supreme Court Collegium has approved the proposal for appointment of 10 additional judges of the Karnataka High Court and two of the Kerala High Court as permanent judges.  A statement published on the top court's website said the Collegium on September 7, approved the proposal for appointment of Justices Shivashankar Amarannavar, M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai, and P Krishna Bhat as permanent judges. In a separate statement, the top court collegium also approved the proposal for appointment of following additional judges of the Karnataka High Court as permanent judges: Justice Maralur Indrakumar Arun, Justice Engalaguppe Seetharamaiah Indiresh, Justice Ravi Venkappa Hosmani, and Justice Savanur Vishwajith Shetty. Two additional judges of the Kerala High Court Justices M R Anitha and Justice K Nair Haripal were also recommended to be made permanent judges.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-collegium-recommends-names-of-10-for-appointment-as-permanent-judges-in-karnataka-hc-1028428.html
08-09-2021||State||STRR works to start in six months: CM Bommai after meeting Nitin Gadkari||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has assured to start the works of long-pending Satellite Town Ring Road (STRR) around Bengaluru connecting Dobaspet and Hosur in six months. The STRR, aimed at decongesting the traffic in Bengaluru, will be implemented by the National Highway Authority of India under Bharathmala Pariyojana with an investment of around Rs 15,000 crore. "The state government has decided to bear 30% cost amounting to Rs 1,560 crore towards land acquisition and about Rs 1,000 crore towards exemption of state GST on road construction material, especially steel, cement, sand and aggregates," Bommai told reporters in Delhi.  Since the land acquisition cost alone would be around Rs 7,500 crore, the Road Transport Ministry has been requesting the state to bear some portion of the cost.   "The state assured to complete the land acquisition quickly and Gadkari agreed to fast track the project and start the works in six months," Bommai said.  "A four-lane outer ring road would ease traffic pressure in Bengaluru city. Once the ring road works are completed, vehicles on NH going towards Tamil Nadu can directly go to Hosur from Dobaspet without entering Bengaluru city," he said. The CM added, "The central minister also assured to expedite the four laning of the Shiradi Ghat stretch of Hassan-Mangalore National Highway-75." The state also requested the Union minister to construct a tunnel at Shiradi Ghat stretch to avoid frequent disruptions of traffic movement due to damage of road because of heavy rain and landslides. Gadkari assured to discuss with the NHAI regarding building the tunnel, Bommai said. Among other projects, the CM sought expansion of Bijapur-Sankeshwar NH-5488 and the declaration of five state roads as national highways while discussing various road projects with the Union minister. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/strr-works-to-start-in-six-months-cm-bommai-after-meeting-nitin-gadkari-1028464.html
08-09-2021||State||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai meets BJP president J P Nadda||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday met BJP national president J P Nadda in Delhi and discussed the state's political development. CM Bommai, closeted with Nadda for about 20 minutes and briefed him about the Karnataka BJP's developments and also the outcome of the recently held city corporations' elections. However, Bommai did not discuss the expansion of his Cabinet to fill four vacant berths. Irrigation Minister Govind Karjol was also with the CM during the meeting. Bommai, who was in Delhi on a two-day tour, said that his meeting with Nadda was a courtesy call and discussed only strengthening the party in the state. When Bommai went to Delhi last month, he could not meet Nadda as the latter was not present in the national capital. On Tuesday, he also met BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-meets-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-1028477.html
08-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||MeitY constitutes task force to improve internet connectivity in Karnataka||The Union Ministry of IT has constituted a task force to improve internet connectivity in Karnataka districts. During the recent six district Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Karnataka by Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar, there were numerous requests to improve speed and access to internet connectivity in some parts of each district. "The Minister had promised a MeitY (Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology) taskforce would be sent to study the same in each district. In response to this commitment, a MeitY task force consisting of officers of National Internet Exchange of India (NIXI) and Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) has swiftly commenced their visit and work," a release from the Ministry said. The task force officials would visit each district and meet people. "They will also visit state government officials and submit a report to the Minister," the release added. Separately, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has also requested the Centre to allow setting up of Karnataka Optical Fiber Network (KOFN) and bear the total cost of Rs 4,300 crore. During his meeting with IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Tuesday, the CM said 25,000 government offices and institutions in Karnataka are facing internet connectivity problems. The previous chief minister had also flagged concerns about the state facing huge challenges in providing reliable government-to-government (G2G) and government to consumers (G2C) services due to the limitations of Karnataka State Wide Area Network (KSWAN). "I have requested the minister to increase the network and broadband to the state," Bommai told reporters. Bommai asserted that there is a need to set up KOFN as the Centre's BharatNet project has limited reach and availability. Seeking the Centre's support for the proposed KOFN, Bommai requested the Union Minister to bear the project cost of Rs 4,300 crore which includes maintenance of the network for 15 years. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/meity-constitutes-task-force-to-improve-internet-connectivity-in-karnataka-1028331.html
08-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka tops India in FDI investments in Q1: Murugesh Nirani||Karnataka attracted the highest foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first quarter of the current fiscal, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said Wednesday. According to Nirani, Karnataka got Rs 62,085 crore in FDI in the April-June quarter, which he said accounted for 48% in the national share. “Our state had attracted Rs 30,746 crore FDI in 2019-20 and stood third in the country. In 2020-21, we maintained the third spot by attracting Rs 56,884 crore,” Nirani told a news conference. Nirani hailed the government’s single-window platform Udyoga Mitra for being ranked as India’s top investment promotion agency. “The National Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency ‘Invest India’ has rated Karnataka Udyoga Mitra as the top IPA agency in the country by giving rankings while considering the performance of 20 states. Karnataka Udyoga Mitra has scored centum in 4 out of 8 categories regarding investment promotion,” Nirani said. The minister explained that Udyoga Mitra scored full points in winning investment projects, facilitating them, aftercare and managing its website. “Its role in providing clear information to investors like opportunities, procedures and necessary facilities was very crucial. We have removed hurdles for investors by easing many policies and provided necessary assistance to start industries,” Nirani said. Going forward, Nirani said the government aimed to score 100 points on all parameters. “We have implemented several reforms to ensure ease of doing business such as affidavit-based clearance, central inspection system, and land and labour laws,” he said. Unutilised land Nirani said his department had plans to issue notices to industrialists who have not utilised land allotted to them by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB). “We plan to issue notices in the next 15 days and seek an explanation from the allottees,” Nirani said. “There have been many complaints against some individuals and companies that land has been kept vacant,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-tops-india-in-fdi-investments-in-q1-murugesh-nirani-1028410.html
08-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,102 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka logged 1,102 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,58,090 and the toll to 37,458. The day also saw 1,458 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,03,547. Out of the total number of cases, 338 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 277 discharges and five deaths, a health department bulletin said. Active cases in the state stood at 17,058. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.64 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.54 per cent.    Behind Bengaluru Urban in number of fatalities was Uttara Kannada with four, Dakshina Kannada (3), Mysuru (2), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 338, Dakshina Kannada 200, Udupi 133, Mysuru 64, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,40,310, followed by Mysuru 1,76,687 and Tumakuru 1,19,545. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,17,150, followed by Mysuru 1,73,457 and Tumakuru 1,17,766. Cumulatively a total of 4,47,38,122 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,69,621 were on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1102-new-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-1028440.html
08-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Bommai, Jitendra Singh discuss inducting Karnataka Administrative Service officers into IAS||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday met Union Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh here and discussed the issue of induction of officers of the Karnataka Administrative Service into the IAS. Singh assured the CM that the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) is very prompt in disposing of all the service matters related to different states and as soon as the required procedures and requirements are fulfilled by the respective state governments, the ministry pushes forward the process at the earliest, the statement from the Union Minister office said. Singh also gave Bommai an update about various activities of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which has its headquarters in Bengaluru. He said Bengaluru has the pride of becoming one of the leading space research centres and the scientific fraternity is receiving acknowledgement from across the world. Singh also explained to the chief minister the various applications of space technology that can be utilised in sectoral areas and development projects, the statement said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-bommai-jitendra-singh-discuss-inducting-karnataka-administrative-service-officers-into-ias-1028468.html
08-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to set up electronic manufacturing hub between Kolar and Bengaluru, seeks Centre's help||The state government will establish an electronic manufacturing cluster between Kolar and Bengaluru, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. Bommai, who met union minister of state for IT, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, told reporters that the minister had promised help for the project. The CM said he requested the union minister to include the state’s proposal for consideration under PLI (Production Linked Investment) announced by the Ministry of IT to promote domestic production of electronics goods. The cluster would come up on around 400 acres near the under-construction Bengaluru-Chennai expressway. The project site will have good connectivity including rail and road, besides to the Kempegowda international airport, the CM said. The national policy on electronics, 2019 envisages electronic manufacturing turnover of more than Rs 26 lakh crore by 2025. The Centre had earlier announced a production linked incentive (PLI) scheme to boost domestic production of electronics goods and mobile phones.  The CM also met Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and requested him for early release of pending funds to the tune of Rs 1,403.88 crore, towards projects approved under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) Mission. Bommai also urged the minister to reconsider including four more cities - Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Vijayapura and Ballari - under the Smart City Mission.  Currently, seven cities are chosen under the Mission, the implementation of which is “satisfactory,” he said. In a meeting with Union Minister for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal, the CM sought early approval of 93 projects worth Rs 8,748 crore submitted under the Sagarmala programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-set-up-electronic-manufacturing-hub-between-kolar-and-bengaluru-seeks-centres-help-1028479.html
08-09-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare case: Sachin Vaze pressurised Mansukh Hiren to own up to crime, says NIA in charge sheet||Controversial and dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze had pressurised Mansukh Hiren to own up to the crime involving the planting of explosives-laden Mahindra Scorpio, however, on refusal, the Thane-based businessman was eliminated.  Vaze conspired with his mentor, retired Senior Inspector of Police Pradeep Sharma, an encounter specialist-turned-politician, who played a key role in the murder of Hiren. Vaze, an assistant police inspector and Hiren, who owned the Classic Car Decor, a car accessories business near Vandana Talkies in Thane, were known to each other and the cop was using the Scorpio that was retained from Dr Sam Newton by the victim.  Hiren went missing on March 4 and his body was found on March 5 at the Reti-bunder in Mumbra-Kalwa area of Thane. As the February 24-25 conspiracy of planting of 20-odd gelatine sticks in the Scorpio, which was parked outside Shikhar Kunj building on the Carmichael Road, near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani, came to the light, Vaze started pressuring Hiren to own up to the crime. As part of the conspiracy, Vaze also forced Hiren to lodge a false FIR on the theft of the SUV at the Vikhroli police station.  The NIA charge sheet against Vaze, elaborates the crime in detail.  “…Investigation has further revealed that Mansukh Hiren turned down the proposal of Sachin Vaze to own up the responsibility of the crime. Since Mansukh Hiren was the only person who was fully aware of the vehicle being parked at the Eastern Express Highway on the directions of accused Sachin Vaze and knowing well that the keys were handed over to Sachin Vaze near the General Post Office off the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, it would have been dangerous for him as Mansukh Hiren could have revealed about his involvement in the crime…,” the charge sheet states.  It further states that Vaze was aware that Hiren was a “weak link” in the conspiracy and could spill the beans if easily examined by another investigating officer. “Hence Mansukh Hiren was a potential threat to Vaze and other conspirators. It is established during the investigations that Vaze and accused Pradeep Sharma conspired with others to eliminate Hiren and the task was given to Sharma,” it said.  Investigations also established that Vaze met Sharma on March 3 at the PS Foundation office at Andheri in Mumbai and money was given for the job. “……Pursuant to the conspiracy, accused Pradeep Sharma contacted, accused Santosh Shelar and enquired if he could carry out the murder in lieu of monetary consideration…..accused Santosh Shelar (A-6) accepted the task,” it points out.  Going into the details, it said: “Vaze lured Hiren on the pretext of helping him for safe transportation to avoid him getting arrested and interrogated by law-enforcement agencies. He also told him that police inspector Tawde from Kandivli (actually police inspector Sachin Mane) will call him and make arrangements.” Hiren fell into the trap and was eliminated by the group engaged by Vaze and Sharma. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-case-sachin-vaze-pressurised-mansukh-hiren-to-own-up-to-crime-says-nia-in-charge-sheet-1028250.html
08-09-2021||West||Maharashtra: Man's body found hanging from tree in Palghar, kin seek probe||The body of a 20-year-old man was found hanging from a tree in Maharashtra's Palghar district, following which his family members demanded a probe into his death, police said on Wednesday. Some people on Tuesday spotted the body of Rajesh Singh, a daily wager and habitual drinker, hanging from a small tree along a creek in Naigaon area and alerted the police, an official from Naigaon police station said. The police subsequently sent the body to a government hospital in Vasai for postmortem and registered a case of accidental death, the official said. Later, the man's family members and friends told reporters that they did not believe that he committed suicide. They said the man was a habitual drinker and owed a lot of money to some liquor shop owners in Naigaon area. The family demanded that the police conduct a thorough probe into his death. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mans-body-found-hanging-from-tree-in-palghar-kin-seek-probe-1028254.html
08-09-2021||West||Third wave of Covid-19 is on threshold, warns Mumbai mayor||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday said a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic had already arrived, only to issue a clarification a few hours later. "Third wave is not coming, it is already here," she told reporters at a function. "In Nagpur, it has been already announced and everyone should take care," she said. Later, her office issued a press statement saying what she meant was that the third wave of Covid-19 was on the "threshold of Mumbai". "Given the experience of the first two waves, it is in our hands to to stop it," she was quoted as saying. She was not going to invite anyone home during Ganesh festival nor would she visit anybody's house during this period, the mayor said, noting that in Kerala, around 31,000 cases were added daily after the Onam festival. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/third-wave-of-covid-19-is-on-threshold-warns-mumbai-mayor-1028258.html
08-09-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare case: Motive was to extort money from Ambanis, says NIA in charge sheet||The motive behind planting explosives-laden Mahindra Scorpio near the Mumbai residence of India’s top businessman and Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani was part of a sinister design to extort money from the business family. On February 24-25, the Scorpio SUV with 20-odd gelatine sticks and a threatening letter was parked outside Shikhar Kunj building on Carmichael Road, near Antilia, the residence of the Ambanis. The original number plate of the Mahindra Scorpio, bearing MH-02-AY-2815, was replaced with a fake number MH-01-DK-9945, which is actually the number of a Range Rover that was part of the security detail of Reliance Foundation chairperson Nita Ambani. According to the charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Crime Branch-CID, the fake registration number was deliberately chosen to give a “direct threat” to the Ambani family. The threat note in the SUV, translated in English, reads -- “Bhabhi and Mukesh Bhaiya, Be alert, this is just a trailer, we have made all arrangements to blow up the whole family. Good Night”. On February 27, a Telegram channel named ‘Jaish Ul Hind’ claimed responsibility for keeping the explosives-laden near Antilia. “….it was “just a warning” and a “big picture is yet to come”…Herein demand is made for ransom from Ambani family to avoid dire consequences which clearly depicts the motive of Sachin Vaze for huge monetary gains from the entire conspiracy,” the charge sheet points out. On the motive, it further states: “Sachin Vaze incarcerated for a long time, wanted to regain his clout as the ace detective/encounter specialist. Hence he conspired with others to place the Scorpio vehicle laden with gelatin sticks and a threat note addressed to the Ambanis in order to put the family into fear of death….” Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-case-motive-was-to-extort-money-from-ambanis-says-nia-in-charge-sheet-1028285.html
08-09-2021||West||Sindhudurg airport latest point of friction between BJP, Shiv Sena||The new airport at Chipi-Parule that would bring the picturesque coastal Konkan belt in the aviation map seems to have added to yet another Maharashtra vs Centre issue thanks to arch political rivals Uddhav Thackeray and Narayan Rane. The Konkan belt is becoming a Shiv Sena vs BJP battleground as the political tussle between the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the opposition saffron party ensues. The Chipi-Parule airport, located off the Mumbai-Goa Highway, would serve the Konkan districts of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The bone of contention now is the inauguration date and the person who will inaugurate it. Last week, Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut along with state transport minister Anil Parab and Rajya Sabha member Anil Desai met Thackeray, and held discussions where it was deiced and announced that the airport would be inaugurated on October 7. However, earlier this week, Union Minister of Micro, Medium and Small Enterprises (MSME), Narayan Rane, met Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and declared October 9 as the inauguration date. The two inauguration dates announced by Raut and Rane have already hotted up the political scenario.  Last month, it may be recalled that Rane was arrested following his “tight slap" slur against Thackeray, in what led to an explosive political development between the BJP and Shiv Sena. Rane and his sons Dr Nilesh Rane and Nitesh Rane have been repeatedly targeting Thackeray and his son Aaditya Thackeray, who is the state tourism minister. However, Shiv Sena leaders including chief spokespersons Sanjay Raut and Arvind Sawant had been returning the fire. The Chipi-Parule Airport in Vengurla tehsil will be the 14th airport in the state. Nearly two years ago, the then chief minister and now leader of opposition in Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, and the former civil aviation minister Suresh Prabhu had inaugurated the new terminal building and other facilities at the greenfield airport as flights under the UDAN scheme were expected to be launched from there. As of now, people have to land in the Mumbai, Pune or Goa airports to reach South Konkan. In the beginning, only intra-state flights will be operated from this airport. Later, Chipi Airport will offer inter-state connectivity to Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and a couple of other states. Constructed at a cost of Rs 520 crore under Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer (DBFOT) model, the Chipi-Parule Airport – the first-ever airport constructed in the coastal Konkan region — will initially offer flights to Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur. The airport has a runway that is 2,500 metres long and 45 metres wide, which can further be extended by 1,000 metres. The airport can handle up to 400 passengers or two flights per hour with an estimated annual capacity of over a million passengers. The airport can handle aircraft like Airbus A-320 and Boeing 737.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sindhudurg-airport-latest-point-of-friction-between-bjp-shiv-sena-1028313.html
08-09-2021||West||Nita Ambani cancelled trip to Gujarat after explosives-laden SUV was found outside 'Antilia': Security staff tells NIA||A scheduled visit of industrialist Mukesh Ambani's wife Nita Ambani to Gujarat was cancelled after the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV outside their house 'Antilia' in south Mumbai in February this year, the security head of the residence has said in his statement to the NIA. The statement is part of a charge sheet filed last week by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) before a special court here against dismissed police officer Sachin Waze and nine others in connection with the recovery of the vehicle with gelatin sticks near Ambani's residence on February 25 and the subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran. The residence's security head said in his statement that after the vehicle with explosives and a threat letter were found, he immediately brought it to the notice of Mukesh Ambani. He also told the NIA that a scheduled visit of Nita Ambani on that day to Jamnagar in Gujarat was rescheduled and then cancelled on his and the zonal DCP's advice. The security head further stated they had been receiving threats from various quarters, but all were related to farmers' protest that began in October 2020. The Ambani family does not suspect any particular person for the threat letter and gelatin sticks found in the abandoned Scorpio parked illegally on the Carmichael Road here on February 25, he said in the statement. Former police officer Waze is the prime accsued in the case. As per probe agency, he also played a "pivotal role" in the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran. Hiran, who had claimed that the SUV had been stolen from his possession, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane district on March 5. Besides Waze and fomer police officer Pradeep Sharma, the others accused in the case are Vinayak Shinde, Naresh Gor Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane, Anand Jadhav, Satish Mothkuri, Manish Soni and Santosh Shelar. Shinde, Kazi and Mane are former police officers. The accused have been charged under various Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections, including for murder, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance, as well as relevant provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Explosive Substances Act and the Arms Act. The NIA in its charge sheet said Waze placed the SUV with explosives near Ambani's house here to regain his reputation as a "super cop". Businessman Mansukh Hiran was subsequently killed as Waze thought him to be the "weak link" in the conspiracy, the NIA said, alleging that Pradeep Sharma was roped in to execute the murder. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nita-ambani-cancelled-trip-to-gujarat-after-explosives-laden-suv-was-found-outside-antilia-security-staff-tells-nia-1028318.html
08-09-2021||West||Manuskh Hiren murder case: Accused went to Nepal, Dubai||In what straight comes out of murder mystery novels, Thane-based businessman Manuskh Hiren unsuspectingly fell into a trap and lost his life. And, to cover their tracks, the accused even visited Nepal and Dubai - but left a trail of electronic evidence.  When the role of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Waze behind the planing of explosives-laden Mahindra Scorpio near the residence if Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani was to be exposed, he approached his mentor, retired police inspector Pradeep Sharma, and hatched the conspiracy to murder Hiren.  The victim was made to get down from his Polo car and sit in a Tavera for his safe transportation.  “Hiren was made to sit in the middle row seat between accused Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav. Accused Manish Soni was in the driver’s seat, Satish Mothkuri was in the rear seat,” the NIA chargesheet reveals.  “Satish Mothkuri grabbed Mansukh Hiren’s head from behind, covering his mouth and nose with a handkerchief. When he resisted, Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav held his hands. They smothered Mansukh Hiren,” the chargesheet said, adding that later the body was dumped in the creek. Santosh Shelar, Satish Mothkuri and Manish Soni escaped from Mumbai to New Delhi and then to Lucknow and finally landed in Nepal. They returned from Nepal to Delhi and then moved to Ahmedabad and back to Mumbai. They were on the run from 9-20 March, the NIA reveals, pointing out that thereafter Manish Soni, who was considered a “weak link”, was sent to Dubai at the instructions of Sharma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/manuskh-hiren-murder-case-accused-went-to-nepal-dubai-1028324.html
08-09-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare 'secret operation', Vaze told driver: NIA charge sheet||It was a "secret operation", former police officer Sachin Vaze told his official driver, who was with him on the day when an explosives-laden SUV was placed near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence 'Antilia' here in February this year, the NIA has said in its charge sheet. The driver's statement is part of the charge sheet filed by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) last week before a special court here against Vaze and nine others in connection with the recovery of the vehicle with gelatin sticks near Ambani's south Mumbai residence on February 25 and the subsequent murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren. The driver narrated the entire sequence of events leading to the planting of the vehicle near Ambani's house on the intervening night of February 24 and 25. He told the probe agency that at around 05.30 pm on February 24, he had driven Vaze to 'Dnyaneshwari' bungalow, the official residence of the then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Vaze went inside the residence alone and returned in about an hour, the driver said. The driver further stated that Vaze asked him to change the number plates of Mahindra Scorpio, the explosives-laden vehicle which was placed outside Ambani's residence, and an Innova car, multiple times. He also told the NIA that Vaze had asked him to take specific routes and pay toll plazas. "At about 2.10 am I was following the Scorpio car driven by Vaze at a very slow speed on Carmichael Road. At a particular point, he stopped the Scorpio and parked it on the left side of the road," the driver stated. "Accordingly, I also stopped my Innova car at a distance of about 40 to 50 meters behind the Scorpio," he added. The driver further stated that he returned to the Innova car after about five minutes and removed his face mask and shield. Vaze then asked him to drive ahead, and after a while, the former API (assistant police inspector) realised that his identity card was missing and asked the driver to check in the car (Innova), but it wasn't found. As per his statement, they then came to Vaze's residence in neighbouring Thane district, where Vaze went inside to search for his identity card. However, he returned after about 20 minutes, and told the driver that he had probably forgotten the card in the Scorpio. At around 4.30 am they returned to Carmichael Road, where Vaze went inside the Scorpio and returned after a while. Vaze then directed the driver to take him to Thane. The driver also stated that Vaze had taken his phone and switched it off when he reported to duty (on February 24). It was returned only after he drove Vaze home, the driver told the NIA. In his statement, the driver further said when he enquired about the entire episode, Vaze told him it was a "secret operation", and asked him not to reveal it to anyone. "On February 26, I was attending the marriage ceremony of a colleague when I came to know about the incident from TV news channels. I was very scared on seeing the said news, but I did not tell this story to anyone," he added. The NIA in its charge sheet also said Vaze placed the SUV near Ambani's house here to regain his reputation as a "super cop". Thane businessman Mansukh Hiren was subsequently killed as Vaze thought him to be the "weak link" in the conspiracy, the NIA said, alleging that Pradeep Sharma, a former police officer, was roped in to execute the murder. Hiren, who had claimed that the SUV had been stolen from his possession, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Besides Vaze and Pradeep Sharma, the others accused in the case are Vinayak Shinde, Naresh Gor Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane, Anand Jadhav, Satish Mothkuri, Manish Soni and Santosh Shelar. Shinde, Kazi and Mane are former police officers. The accused have been charged under various Indian Penal Code sections, including for murder, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance, as well as relevant provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Explosive Substances Act and the Arms Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-secret-operation-vaze-told-driver-nia-charge-sheet-1028333.html
08-09-2021||West||Unfortunate that people have to knock on court's doors to get water after 75 years of independence: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said supply of regular drinking water was a fundamental right and it was unfortunate that people have to knock on the court's doors to get water even after 75 years of independence. The strong remarks were made by a division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav while hearing a petition filed by residents of Kambe village in Bhiwandi town of neighbouring Thane district. They were seeking a direction to STEM Water Distribution and Infra company, a joint venture of the Thane Zilla Parishad and the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation, to supply drinking water on a daily basis. The petitioners contended that they are currently getting water supply only twice a month and that too for approximately two hours. On Wednesday, STEM's Managing Director Bhausaheb Dangde informed the court that water was being supplied daily, but only to one particular point, and claimed the distribution of water from that point to the petitioners' homes was the responsibility of the village's gram panchayat. Dangde further said the demand for water in the village has increased over the last few years because of a rise in population there. “We need to upgrade the system,” he said. To this, the court asked what should the petitioners do till the system is upgraded. “Water has to be supplied daily for at least a few hours. This is their fundamental right. People cannot suffer like this. It is really unfortunate that they (petitioners) have to knock on the court's doors even after 75 years of independence to get water supply,” the HC said. “Don't force us to say that the Maharashtra government has failed to provide water to its citizens. We refuse to accept that the state government is so helpless. We will not shy away from calling the highest functionary of the state government,” the bench said. The petitioners had also alleged that the STEM company was supplying water illegally to local politicians and tanker lobbies, and claimed there were over 300 illegal water connections and valves fixed on the main pipeline. The court sought to know from Dangde what steps the company has taken to address these issues. “First remove these illegal connections. You (STEM) have not even bothered to file any police complaints. Because of your inaction, the petitioners, who have to receive water as a right, are not getting any water,” Justice Kathawalla said, adding that Dangde does not seem to be interested in solving the problem. However, Dangde said when they go to remove the illegal connections, a crowd of over 150 people gathers and protests against their action. The HC posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday, and directed Dangde to appear before the court physically and file an affidavit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unfortunate-that-people-have-to-knock-on-courts-doors-to-get-water-after-75-years-of-independence-bombay-hc-1028337.html
08-09-2021||West||For Ganesh Chaturthi, BMC bans physical darshan, restricts participation in processions||The Mumbai civic body has issued fresh guidelines for the Ganpati festival beginning from Friday and has banned physical darshan for devotees at public pandals as well as imposed restrictions on the number of participants in processions during the celebrations. For bringing the idols of the deity and during their immersion, there will not be more than 10 people in the processions of public mandals and not more than five for the household Ganpatis, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the guidelines issued on Tuesday. "All devotees should wear masks and observe social distancing. Also, the 10 participants should have taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine and completed 15 days after taking the second dose," the guidelnes said. In the wake of a rise in the number of new coronavirus infections and fear of a third wave, the BMC has banned physical darshan for devotees at the public Ganpati pandals and appealed to citizens to celebrate the festival with simplicity. "Considering the potential danger of a third Covid-19 wave, devotees are strictly forbidden from taking darshan. It has been decided that Ganeshotsav mandals should provide darshan facility to devotees through cable network, website, Facebook or (other) social media," the civic body said. The mandals falling in Covid-19 containment zones will have to make arrangements for the immersion of the Ganpati idols in the pandal premises or postpone it. Similarly, in sealed buildings, devotees will have to make arrangements for the immersion of idols at home, it said. If a house/building is declared a containment zone, the rules for it should be followed during the festival, the BMC said. The civic body has already restricted the height of household Ganpati idols to two feet and for the public mandals to four feet. The cap on the height of Ganpati idols and restrictions on celebrations have been imposed for the second year in a row to curb the spread of the Covid-19 . The civic body also appealed to people to avoid any action that may lead to the spread of the pandemic and said in case of any violation of rules, strict action would be taken under provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 353 new Covid-19 cases and two fresh fatalities, which took the infection tally to 7,47,078 and the death toll to 16,000, as per official data. The number of sealed buildings increased to 49 from 44 on Monday, an official said. The civic body seals buildings or declares containment zones if at least five persons there test positive for the coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/for-ganesh-chaturthi-bmc-bans-physical-darshan-restricts-participation-in-processions-1028352.html
08-09-2021||West||IIT Bombay, IIA sign MoU to extend operation of telescope in Ladakh||The Indian Institute of Technology Bombay signed an MoU with the Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA) for extending the ongoing collaboration for operations and scientific utilisation of the GROWTH-India Telescope in Ladakh. The GROWTH-India telescope was set up jointly by IIA and IIT Bombay under a project supported by DST-SERB and the Indo-US Science and Technology Forum, and became operational in 2018. Under this partnership, the organisations agreed to jointly continue the operations of the project.  IIT Bombay students will continue to remotely use this robotic telescope to develop tools for observations and data processing.  The operations of the GROWTH - India telescope are supported by contributions from the alumni of IIT Bombay's Class of 1994. The Growth-India Telescope is a 0.7m wide-field telescope set up in Ladakh through a joint partnership between IIA and IIT Bombay. The main focus of the interdisciplinary project is to undertake continuous studies of cosmic sources that have rapidly-varying properties like emission from gravitational wave events, young supernovae and near-earth asteroids.  It is the country’s first fully-robotic optical telescope and one of the few such facilities present outside of Europe and the USA. It has been instrumental in the research work carried on by IIT Bombay.  The MoU signed on 30 August, 2021, will be valid for 5 years, according to a press statement issued here. Prof. Subhasis Chaudhuri, Director, IIT Bombay said, “IIT Bombay aims to be a leader in astronomical research and this prestigious partnership with IIA brings us one step closer to our mission.” Prof. Annapurni Subramaniam, Director, IIA, said: “The GIT, located in the Indian Astronomical Observatory, Hanle, of the IIA, is a facility dedicated to the study of transients. The wealth of expertise and experience of the IIA team in running telescope facilities in one of the best sites in the world combined with the young and enthusiastic team of IIT Bombay is a great collaboration that has already produced fascinating results in the last three years".  The IIA is the nodal center for the Indian participation in the Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT) project, and hosts India-TMT coordination center. The Institute is currently developing the Visible Emission Line Coronagraph to be flown in the upcoming Aditya-L1 mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-bombay-iia-sign-mou-to-extend-operation-of-telescope-in-ladakh-1028386.html
08-09-2021||West||Goa cops bust fake call centre used to extort money from US nationals||In a significant raid, 13 persons were arrested after the Goa Police busted a fake call centre, which was used to defraud US nationals with threats of cancelling their social security numbers. A statement issued by the Crime Branch of the Goa Police also said that the call centre racketeers, after threatening their targets, would then settle the matter by extorting money from their victims, which was later converted into Bitcoins. "Upon analysis of evidence and preliminary interrogation it is found that they were defrauding American nationals by impersonating US govt agents and telling them that their Social Security Numbers (SSN) were going to be blocked as they were found in criminal investigation," the statement issued by the Crime Branch said. "The victims were then coerced to settle the matter by paying fines in the form of Cash vouchers which were then converted to Bitcoin and used by the fraudsters," the statement also said. The call centre was operating from a hotel located in the beach village of Morjim in North Goa, a popular destination for foreign tourists visiting the coastal state. Most of the persons arrested were from Gujarat and Mumbai, police said. "Upon raid, 13 persons including the mastermind were apprehended and seizure of electronic devices including 12 computers and laptops was done," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cops-bust-fake-call-centre-used-to-extort-money-from-us-nationals-1028387.html
08-09-2021||West||Goa withdraws controversial Ganesh Chaturthi SOPs; Congress slams CM||The Goa government SOPs banning Hindu priests from visiting homes for offering Ganesh Chaturthi puja as well as urging use of technology and social media for online celebration of the festival, has created controversy. While Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has hurriedly scrapped the SOPs late on Tuesday, the Congress on Wednesday slammed Sawant, saying he had no control over key decisions taken by his administration, while also alleging that the shocking SOPs were aimed at distrasting the people from crucial issues like inflation during the festive event. "While withdrawing it, the CM blamed the expert committee which had prepared the SOPs. How come the CM has no knowledge about these sensitive SOPs related to the greatest religious function that is celebrated by the majority community in Goa and respected by people of?" Congress spokesperson Trajano D'Mello told a press conference on Wednesday. "Is this government being run by the bureaucrats alone? If that is the case Pramod Sawant does not deserve to sit in this chair. Or was it done to distract people who are suffering the brunt of the pandemic, at a time when they have no money to buy essentials to celebrate the festival," D'Mello also said. Late on Tuesday, the Goa government had officially released the controversial SOPs for the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which is scheduled to begin on September 10. “The priest shall be prohibited (from) performing Ganesh Pooja by going to individual households, They may perform online pooja. Also the families should be encouraged to perform self puja using various technological means like YouTube whatsapp videos, etc,” the SOPs stated. The SOPs also advocated celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi via the online mode while stating that the people of the state were "preferably encouraged to conduct Arati, bhajan, kirtan and other religious programmes through online mode... or any other electronic media and that instead of cultural programmes". The SOPs were cancelled within hours by the Chief Minister, who expressed his reservation against the ban on priests from visiting homes during the festive event. “I personally do not agree with some of the guidelines that were issued in the SOP, especially the one stopping priests from going to individual households for puja. Ganesh Chaturthi is the most important festival in Goa and such rituals are an integral part of it," Sawant had said. "While the expert committee may have suggested such curbs, I have asked the administration to withdraw the SoP immediately. Chaturthi must be celebrated with full fervour while taking all the necessary precautions, given the pandemic,” the Chief Minister had further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-withdraws-controversial-ganesh-chaturthi-sops-congress-slams-cm-1028397.html
08-09-2021||West||Mumbai to get India's first civic-run Cambridge-run school soon||Mumbai is set to become the first city in India to have a Cambridge-affiliated municipal school that will be free to its residents and impart quality education and learning to students. The inclusion of an international board makes for a special moment in the history of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and will go a long way in developing a strong culture of teaching and learning to students of Mumbai Public Schools. Over the academic years 2020-21 and 2021-22, a total of two CICSE (ICSE Board) and 12 CBSE Mumbai Public Schools were successfully established and are now educating students through the online mode. Opening of the first ICSE School in 2020-21 witnessed a huge demand for admissions, leading to a lottery system being introduced for student enrolment. With the school heads and teachers ensuring that best quality education is provided as prescribed by the concerned boards, these municipal schools have come to be known as ‘beacons of knowledge’ within the community. Raising the bar in strengthening quality education among Municipal Schools, Maharashtra Minister of Tourism, Environment and Protocol Aaditya Thackeray had recommended that India’s first Cambridge affiliated municipal school be established in Mumbai. “It is my dream to ensure that every child, beyond the economic capacity or background, has access to world-class education in all municipal schools and to free education,” Thackeray said. Traditionally, the BMC has managed schools affiliated to the Maharashtra State Board and the State Education Department has been continuously working on reforms in these existing schools in Mumbai.  With this thought, the journey of establishing multiple national curriculum boards in Mumbai Public Schools was pursued by Thackeray, who believed that this would ensure equity and equality in learning opportunities, thereby strengthening diversity and inclusion among all our school students in Mumbai, a release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-to-get-indias-first-civic-run-cambridge-run-school-soon-1028433.html
08-09-2021||West||Man carries ailing wife on shoulder; she dies midway||In a heart-wrenching incident, an ailing woman died as her husband carried her on his shoulders in the tribal Nandurbar district of Maharashtra. Incessant rains in Nandurbar had led to roadblocks and the man had to walk to the hospital. The couple, in their fifties, had a harrowing time as heavy rains continued in the state.  According to reports reaching here from Chandsaili village in the forested terrains of Nandurbar, the victim Sidhalibai Padvi complained of fever and pain. Her husband, Aadlya Padvi took her on his shoulders and started walking towards the Taloda rural health centre, over 20 km away from the village. “It is shocking,” Pratibha Shinde, general secretary of Lok Sangharsh Morcha told DH over the phone.  A tribal youth Yogesh Patil, who was in the vicinity clicked some of the shocking photos on his phone and the pictures have now gone viral on social media platforms.  Shinde said the road transport was affected because of the heavy downpour and hence Padvi carried his wife on his shoulders while walking barefoot. “She died midway on her husband's shoulders as he could not reach the hospital in time,” she said.  Shinde has shot off letters to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope seeking a probe into the issue. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-carries-ailing-wife-on-shoulder-she-dies-midway-1028461.html
