09-09-2021||First Edit||Infosys ‘anti-national’: It had to come to this||The nasty attack on Infosys in Panchjanya, a publication associated with the RSS, raises very disturbing questions about how even the best businesses are treated in the new political environment in the country. When the heaviest of hammers is used to hit one of the most iconic of Indian companies on the most unconvincing, even false, grounds, the answers have to be taken from the vitiated society and politics, where it is the norm to target and hound people, institutions and organisations for reasons that do not need explanation. While the RSS’ media and publicity head sought to distance it from the article and the publication itself, a day later, the RSS’ joint secretary said that a “dharma yudh” is on and, “good people may be found on the wrong side and you will have to shoot arrows at them, too.” Which of the two are we to believe? Is anybody, any business, safe from such attacks in the atmosphere of McCarthyism that prevails? Some problems have been reported in the functioning of the income tax portal that Infosys developed for the government. The article was written in that context. The government has told the company to fix the glitches at the earliest. This is purely a technical and professional matter. It takes a different mindset and motive to see behind this a conspiracy to destabilise the country’s economy. Every pejoration and bad word in the lexicon of hatred and slander that is now in wide use in the country has been hurled at the company. It is “anti-national”; it may be helping Naxals, Leftists and the “tukde-tukde” gang; it is, directly and indirectly, supporting “divisive” forces, funding “misinformation” websites and “anarchist” organisations. The article says that the “history and circumstances of the company lend weight to these charges” and it even personally attacks its founders and leaders. It raises even the question of whether companies with “such character” should be allowed to participate in the government tendering process. Such calumny and wild charges can only damage the country’s investment climate. The article has made not just an exaggerated case but an invented one, and it is clear that there is a political and ideological motive behind it. Just weeks ago, a Union minister, Piyush Goyal, questioned in public another iconic Indian corporate house, the Tatas, over its commitment to national interests. MNCs were once targets of criticism; now, even the best home-grown businesses are being vilified and demonised. Such attacks on well-respected institutions and corporate houses will create an environment of fear and distrust in industry and business and aggravate it in society. What are the views of the government and the industry about this?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/infosys-anti-national-it-had-to-come-to-this-1028644.html
09-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 motorists die in accident in Kamalapur||Three motorists died in a head-on collision between two motorbikes near Madaki tanda of the taluk on Thursday. The police gave the names of the deceased as Ambareesh Ashok Chatri (24) and Anil Mallayya (26) of Lad Mugali village, and Nagesh Vaddar (24) of Belur cross near Kalaburagi. Nagesh Mukund (28) who was injured in the accident, has been shifted to District Government Hospital. The incident took place near Madaki tanda when Ambareesh and Anil were returning to their native place on bike from Mahagaon Cross and Nagesh Vaddar and Nagesh Mukund were going to Belur cross. A case has been registered at Narona police station. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-motorists-die-in-accident-in-kamalapur-1028818.html
09-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will use all strategies to take control of Kalaburagi corporation: Nalin Kumar Kateel||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Thursday that the BJP will use all political strategies to take control of Kalaburagi City Corporation. Speaking to media persons, he said for the first time, the BJP has won 23 seats in the corporation polls in Kalaburagi. "Hence, we will use all strategies to come to power in the 55-member civic body," he told. Meanwhile, Major Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani has kept everyone guessing by saying, "Wait and see how will we take control of the corporation. The BJP has reached the final in Kalaburagi and will win also. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has not given any assurance on allying with us. But, we are confident that he will support us without any condition."  Indication for Congress-free Karnataka Speaking at a felicitation programme organised by the newly elected BJP councillors, Kateel said the BJP won three corporation polls and by-election to other local bodies across the state, by wresting Congress fortress. "It is an indication for Congress-free Karnataka. The voters of the district have made Opposition Leader in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge stay in Bengaluru by ensuring his defeat in the previous Lok Sabha polls. After he entered Rajya Sabha, he again set his eye on Kalaburagi. But, the people of the city has discouraged him by voting for the BJP in the recent corporation polls," he told. "Before corporation polls, KPCC president D K Shivakumar and Opposition Leader in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah had engaged in mudslinging setting their eye on the CM gaddi in the next assembly polls. The people of the state have taught them a good lesson by voting for the BJP candidates," Kateel added.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-use-all-strategies-to-take-control-of-kalaburagi-corporation-nalin-kumar-kateel-1028763.html
09-09-2021||National||22 arrested in West Bengal for posing as Amazon employees, duping people||At least 22 people have been arrested from New Alipore area here for running a fake call centre by impersonating as Amazon employees and duping several people, police said on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of Anti-Rowdy section of Kolkata Police's Detective Department conducted a raid late Tuesday night at the centre located on Bankim Mukherjee Sarani in New Alipore. The accused were found operating the call centre without any valid documents, a police officer said. "Initial probe revealed that conversations were made by the accused over Voice Over Internet Protocol communication system, introducing themselves as employees of Amazon. They would tell the gullible callers that their gift money would be refunded," he said. Among those duped, there are many residents of Australia, he said. "The accused used softwares like Teamviewer and Anydesk to remotely access and take control over target computers and compelled the victims to pay in Australian dollars," the officer said. Many incriminating articles and documents were seized from the call centre, he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-arrested-in-west-bengal-for-posing-as-amazon-employees-duping-people-1028557.html
09-09-2021||National||Farmers plan long haul in Karnal, 'langar' services commence||The agitating farmers at the mini-secretariat in Karnal seem to be digging in as they have started converting their temporary camps into a 'Pucca Morcha' (permanent protest) after the administration refused to accept any of their demands. Showing solidarity, several organisations have started 'Langar Seva' at the protest sites to help the farmers, while local residents are also contributing their bit. A makeshift dispensary with first aid services and one ambulance have also come up at the protest site. "We have come here with a team of four doctors to take care of the farmers' medical requirements. We are setting up four makeshift dispensaries here," Swasima Singh from the Five Rivers Heart Asociation told IANS. The Municipality Corparation has set up four movable toilets at the site, while eight water tankers and a total of 42 cleaners have also been deployed. Meanwhile, more farmers are coming to the site to join the agitation. Despite the agitating farmers having to spend their night on carpets, they are happy as the union leadership has decided to continue the protest. The protesters also include a good number of women participants, who are raising slogans against the administration. Meanwhile, the farmers' unions will meet at the Shahjahanpur border on September 10 to chalk out the future course of action. The meet will see the participation of farmers spanning state lines. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-plan-long-haul-in-karnal-langar-services-commence-1028579.html
09-09-2021||National||43,263 Covid-19 cases, 338 deaths in last 24 hours||India recorded 43,263 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,31,39,981, while the active cases increased to 3,93,614, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,41,749 with 338 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.19 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,358 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 74 consecutive days.   As many as 18,17,639 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,68,17,243. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.38 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 10 days The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.43 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 76 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,23,04,618, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 71.65 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 338 new fatalities include 181 from Kerala, and 65 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,41,749 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,962 from Maharashtra, 37,458 from Karnataka, 35,073 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,001 from Kerala and 18,531 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43263-covid-19-cases-338-deaths-in-last-24-hours-1028598.html
09-09-2021||National||12-year-old from Mumbai wins global recognition for environment-related project||A 12-year-old environmental activist from Mumbai has been named as a 2021 International Young Eco-Hero in recognition of his efforts to solve tough environmental problems. Ayaan Shankta won the third place in the 8-14 age category for his project Conservation and Rehabilitation of Powai Lake, according to a media release issued on Wednesday. He is one of the 25 young environmental activists from across the globe honoured by the Action For Nature (AFN) as a 2021 International Young Eco-Hero, an award that recognizes eco-conscious youth aged 8 to 16 who are taking crucial steps to solve tough environmental problems. "My mission is for the lake to regain its past glory as a clean and vibrant body of water," said Ayaan who lives near a lake that used to be a source of drinking water for Mumbai, but has become a dumping ground for garbage and sewage. His project aims to raise awareness about pollution, clean up the lake, and protect its ecosystem. In addition to working with NGOs to raise awareness and organize clean-ups, Ayaan authored an action report on lake conditions and is currently working on a documentary about Powai Lake. "Not only will this help in bringing about ecological balance in the thickly populated city of Mumbai, but it will also help to conserve endangered species," he said. Kids like Ayaan have shown that the next generation of leaders is here, and they are refusing to wait to solve the world's most pressing environmental challenges, said Beryl Kay, president of Action For Nature, an international non-profit organization that encourages young people to nurture a love and respect for the Earth and to take personal action to improve the environment. "The projects that these young people created will not only have real, positive impacts on their communities, they will also help solve global climate challenges and inspire others – no matter what age – to consider what they can do to help," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-year-old-from-mumbai-wins-global-recognition-for-environment-related-project-1028605.html
09-09-2021||National||BJP plans big on Modi's birthday; Opposition says celebrations when people suffering||The BJP is planning three-week grand celebrations to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday and his 20 years of public life as an administrator by distributing crores of ration bags with his picture and sending five crore postcards among others but it has run into criticism from the Opposition, which says it is a "tragedy" that he is celebrating when people are "suffering in misery". From September 17, Modi's birthday, and October 7, when he became Gujarat Chief Minister on the same day 20 years ago, the BJP is planning a flurry of activities, which is expected to act as a morale booster for the BJP cadre at a time the party is headed to Assembly polls in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur where it is the ruling party. Modi turns 71 next week. The party's programmes titled 'Seva aur Samarpan Abhiyan' come at a time Modi and his government have faced intense criticism over the handling of the second wave of Covid-19 and migrant crisis during the first lockdown last year, economic problems, farmers issues and amid a perception even within the party that the developments had created a dent in the Prime Minister's popularity. Through the programmes, the BJP plans to emphasise that Modi remains a "messiah of the poor" as a recent survey claimed that his popularity rating has slumped to 24% from 66% earlier. The Opposition leaders are not enthused with the celebrations and said it only showed the uneasiness in the BJP over the growing unpopularity of Modi and his government and a scramble to save itself ahead of the Assembly elections. "The economy is in crisis but (the planned) celebrations show that the BJP 'tijori' (coffers) is overflowing," Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh told DH. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram said the whole plan showed "what all megalomaniacs do". He told DH, "This is Nero fiddling while Rome was burning. Modi is celebrating as people suffer from hunger and joblessness. This is the tragedy that India is now." Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien said, "Four years to go for 'Margdarshak Mandal'. Stay healthy. Stay megalomaniacal." In BJP, leaders above the age of 75 years are retired from the party usually and top leaders like L K Advani and others were moved to a 'Margdarshak Mandal', which was a body of elderly leaders to advise the younger leadership of the party. BJP leaders said the party will distribute 14 crore ration bags printed with Modi's picture and thanking him for providing five kg in a bid to project the Prime Minister as a "messiah of the poor". It also plans to send five crore postcards to Modi from across the country besides a social media blitzkrieg through videos of beneficiaries thanking Modi for his help during the pandemic as well as for Covid-19 vaccination efforts. The party will also choose 71 spots in rivers for the clean up as well as getting noted writers to pen the contributions of Modi. Efforts will also be made to get children who lost their parents to Covid-19 registered for relief from PM-CARES. Lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan tweeted, "This government has totally wrecked the economy and jobs. Now it is handing over our public sector to its cronies like Ambani/Adani. Imagine 64% unemployment among graduate youth! That is why Modi's birthday on 17th is being marked by the youth of the country as 'Berozgar' (unemployment) Divas." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-plans-big-on-modis-birthday-opposition-says-celebrations-when-people-suffering-1028614.html
09-09-2021||National||India lands military aircraft on highway near border with Pakistan, demonstrates war-preparedness||India on Thursday demonstrated its preparedness for war by landing a C-130J Super Hercules military aircraft on a national highway close to the country’s border with Pakistan in a mock emergency drill. The Indian Air Force (IAF) also inducted the Medium Range Surface to Air Missile (MRSAM) Barak 8, as the country’s security environment turned more challenging with continuing military stand-off with China and Pakistan gaining a strategic edge with the return of Taliban in power in Afghanistan. The MRSAM Barak 8 missile system was developed jointly by the Defence Research and Development Organization and the Israel Aerospace Industries, in collaboration with private and public sector companies in India. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that the MRSAMs would prove to be a game-changer in the air-defence system of the nation. “We have taken a giant leap towards ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ as envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said after the first deliverable Firing Unit of the MRSAM was handed over to IAF at the Air Force Station in Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. Singh and Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari earlier flew aboard the IAF’s C-130J aircraft, which landed on the Emergency Landing Facility (ELF) built recently on the Satta-Gandharv stretch of the National Highway 925 A near Barmer in Rajasthan, just 40 kilometres away from the India-Pakistan border. A Sukhoi Su-30 MKI fighter jet of the IAF also took part in the mock emergency landing on the national highway to mark the inauguration of the ELF. This is the first time a national highway has been used for landing military aircraft. The Agra-Lucknow expressway, which is controlled by the Uttar Pradesh government, also had such an emergency landing strip and the fighter jets had in the past landed and taken off from it as part of drills. “Construction of the emergency landing field in the vicinity of the international border signalled how prepared we are to protect the sovereignty of our nation from any threat,” Singh said. Gadkari said that similar ELFs would be built at 19 other places across the country. The work on the ELF commenced in July 2019 and was completed in January 2021 with a total expenditure of Rs 32.95 crore. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) engaged a private company to build the 3.5-kilometre-long landing strip under the supervision of the IAF. It will be used for the flow of normal road traffic. But in case it has to be used as an ELF during an emergency situation like war or natural disasters, the service road will be used for the smooth flow of road traffic. The ELF will be able to facilitate landing by all aircraft of the IAF. In addition to the ELF, three helipads were also constructed in nearby Kundanpura, Singhania and Bakhasar villages, as required by the IAF and the Indian Army. The ELFs are being built on the expressways and the National Highways so that they can be used by the military aircraft for landings and take-offs in case the normal runways and landing strips in the IAF bases or the civilian airports are damaged by enemy bombings during the war. They can also be used during other emergencies, including during natural disasters. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lands-military-aircraft-on-highway-near-border-with-pakistan-demonstrates-war-preparedness-1028615.html
09-09-2021||National||Over 500 trap cameras to be used in animal census in Palamau Tiger Reserve||Over 500 trap cameras would be used in the census of animals including tigers in the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), an official said. Altogether 509 trap cameras spread over 1,129 square km will be used in counting the animals including tigers, Director of PTR, Kumar Ashutosh told reporters on Wednesday. He said the process of installing the cameras in identified spots will take place from October to December and 300 trekkers will be pressed into service for the job. Apart from the photographs, the excreta of tigers will be collected and it would be sent to wildlife laboratory in Dehradun for testing, the PTR Director said. Ashutosh said the counting of wildlife would be conducted under the supervision of four expert forest officials. Currently, the reserve has 72 leopards. The results of the counting were expected to come in July next year, he said, adding that the counting would be conducted scientifically. He said a proposal has been sent to the state government to develop Ketchki as a tourist destination. Ketchki is an attractive place of Beta National Park, where several Bollywood stars including Sharmila Tagore and Bimal Roy have filmed their movies, he said. The Betla National Park will be opened for visitors from October 1, Ashutosh added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-500-trap-cameras-to-be-used-in-animal-census-in-palamau-tiger-reserve-1028621.html
09-09-2021||National||NIRF ranking: IIT Madras best institution third year in row; IISc Bengaluru best for research||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras retained the top spot among institutes all over India for the third consecutive year whereas the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bengaluru was the best among research institutions, according to the Ministry of Education’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings. The sixth edition of NIRF rankings was announced on Thursday by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. Seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) -- IIT Madras, IIT Delhi, IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Kanpur, IIT Guwahati and IIT Roorkee -- figured in the top 10 in the overall rankings. Jawaharlal Nehru University and Banaras Hindu University were ranked ninth and tenth in the overall rankings. In the universities category, IISc Bengaluru bagged the top spot followed by JNU and BHU at second and third rank. Calcutta University, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Jamia Millia Islamia, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Jadavpur University, University of Hyderabad and Aligarh Muslim Univeristy bagged the subsequent positions in the universities category. "Rankings are the measure of the quality and excellence of an institution. We must develop regional ranking frameworks and also work to ensure that our ranking framework emerges as a benchmark not only in the country, but also globally, especially for the developing economies," Pradhan said. "The New Education Policy (NEP) also provides us with an opportunity to internationalise our education system. We must work collectively to bring more and more institutions under our rankings framework and also establish India as a preferred global study destination," he added. Eight IITs -- Madras, Delhi, Bombay, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Roorkee, Guwahati and Hyderabad -- have bagged the top eight ranks among the engineering instituions category. The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Tiruchirapalli and Suratkal have ranked ninth and tenth in the category. Among colleges, Miranda House has been announced as the best college in the country followed by Lady Sri Ram College for Women and Loyola College, Chennai at second and third rank respectively. St Xavier's College, Kolkata; Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Howrah; PGSR Krishnammal College for Women, Coimbatore; Presidency College, Chennai have bagged the fourth, fith, sixth and seventh rank respectively. Delhi University's St Stephen's College, Hindu College and Shri Ram College of Commerce, have been ranked eighth, ninth and tenth. IIM Ahmedabad, Bangalore and Calcutta retained their first, second and third rank respectively among the B-Schools in the country. In the pharmacy category, the top institute is Delhi's Jamia Hamdard, followed by the Panjab University, Chandigarh and the Birla Institute of Science and Technology (BITS), Pilani. In the medical colleges category, AIIMS, Delhi bagged the top spot, followed by PGIMER Chandigarh and Christian Medical College, Vellore. The ranking framework evaluates institutions on five broad generic groups of parameters of Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RP), Graduation Outcomes (GO), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI) and Perception (PR). Ranks are assigned based on the total sum of marks assigned for each of these five broad groups of parameters. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirf-ranking-iit-madras-best-institution-third-year-in-row-iisc-bengaluru-best-for-research-1028625.html
09-09-2021||National||Over 70.63 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: Centre||More than 70.63 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. Further, more than 96 lakh doses are in the pipeline. The ministry said more than 5.58 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry stated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7063-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-1028627.html
09-09-2021||National||PM Modi hosts Indian Paralympic contingent, presented with autographed stole||India's Paralympians presented Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an autographed stole on Thursday during a breakfast hosted by him to felicitate the contingent at his residence here. The Indian para-athletes returned from Tokyo on the back of a sensational campaign that saw them win an unparalleled 19 medals, including five gold, eight silver and six bronze. This was the country's best-ever Paralympics campaign as it finished 24th in the overall tally. The PM was presented with a white stole signed by all the medal winners, which he was seen wearing around his neck. Modi, who has been the first to congratulate the para-athletes on call after their medal winning feats, was seen talking to shuttlers Suhas Yathiraj, the District Magistrate of Noida, who won a silver, gold medallist Krishna Nagar (badminton) and young Palak Kohli (badminton). Indian shuttlers bagged four medals including two gold, in para badminton, which made its debut in the Paralympics. Shooters Avani Lekhara and Singhraj Adana, who both won two medals each in the Tokyo Games, also chatted with the PM. Lekhara, who was paralysed waist down after being involved in an accident, had scripted history by becoming the first Indian woman to win a Paralympic gold before adding a bronze to her kitty. The 39-year-old Adana, who is afflicted with polio, clinched a silver and a bronze. The PM also interacted with veteran javelin thrower Davendra Jhajharia and high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu, who won gold medals in 2016 Rio Games. The duo finished on podium again, this time with silver medals. Also present were table tennis player Bhavina Patel, who won a silver, and bronze medallist recurve archer Harvinder Singh. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hosts-indian-paralympic-contingent-presented-with-autographed-stole-1028641.html
09-09-2021||National||Panchjanya fighting 'Dharm Yudh', says RSS' Manmohan Vaidya||He was addressing the event on Monday, a day after RSS' prachar pramukh Sunil Ambekar said on Twitter that Panchanjanya is not the mouthpiece of the Sangh and the article published by it on Infosys only reflects the individual opinion of the author. "Panchjanya dharma yudh ka shankh naad hai (Panchjanya heralds the war of righteousness)," Vaidya said at the September 6 event. He further said there are two sides of 'dharma yudh'. "You can have good people on the wrong side, and you will have to shoot your arrows aimed at them too. Nationalist viewpoint is gaining ground over forces inimical to India, but the war would go on for a long time," he said. Panchjanya and Organiser are published by Bharat Prakashan and it is believed that both weeklies reflect the ideological views of the Sangh. "Panchjanya and Organiser have been raising issues of national interest and that is what they are known for," Panchjanya editor Hitesh Shankar said. Panchjanya had, in its issue this month, slammed Infosys for glitches in the Income Tax and GST portals developed by the software firm and wondered whether any anti-national force via Infosys is trying to hurt India’s economic interests. The magazine had a four-page cover story on Infosys, 'Saakh Aur Aghaat' (Reputation and Damage), with a picture of its founder Narayana Murthy. The article attacked the Bengaluru-based company and dubbed it as 'Unchi Dukan, Phika Pakwaan' (great cry and little wool). The article had drawn flak from the opposition parties which alleged that it was "Sangh's coordinated attack on India's prized corporates". However, Ambekar later clarified Sangh's stand. "As an Indian company, Infosys has made a seminal contribution to the progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects the individual opinion of the author. "Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS," he had tweeted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panchjanya-fighting-dharm-yudh-says-rss-manmohan-vaidya-1028651.html
09-09-2021||National||US acting ambassador meets RSS Chief Bhagwat||US acting ambassador Atul Keshap met RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday. After the meeting, Keshap said he held a "good discussion" with Bhagwat on how "India's tradition of diversity, democracy, inclusivity, and pluralism can ensure the vitality and strength of a truly great nation." "Good discussion with @RSSorg Shri Mohan Bhagwat about how India's tradition of diversity, democracy, inclusivity, and pluralism can ensure the vitality and strength of a truly great nation," Keshap tweeted. On Tuesday, Keshap met Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. "Pleasure to meet with @priyankagandhi and reflect on the long history of #USIndia friendship and cooperation," he tweeted after the meeting. Keshap, the Charge d'Affaires at the US Embassy, held a series of farewell meetings in the last few days as his tenure comes to an end. "The #USIndia relationship has never been better. Working together, our two great democracies will continue to advance human happiness around the world for years to come. Thank you for your friendship!," he said. The Biden administration has already announced nomination of Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti as the next US Ambassador to India. However, Garcetti's nomination is yet to receive confirmation from the US Senate. Garcetti was co-chair of Biden's presidential campaign. He has been Mayor of Los Angeles since 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-acting-ambassador-meets-rss-chief-bhagwat-1028670.html
09-09-2021||National||Fact-check: Aaditya Thackeray’s 2019 photo cherry-picked to falsely portray ‘Muslim appeasement’||A photo of a billboard featuring Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray has been shared by BJP members and supporters to show him ‘appeasing’ the Muslim community. The billboard has a picture of Thackeray on a green background waving to people and a text in Urdu (سلام ورلی) that translates to ‘hello’. Below is a tweet by BJP national media panellist Charu Pragya. From Saffron to Green.From Marathi to Urdu.From Shiv Sena to ……………..? Another user wrote that Thackeray is bidding farewell to his Marathi identity. Misleading narrative The billboard that carries Urdu text was cherry-picked to give a false perception that Thackeray was appeasing Muslims when, in fact, he was appealing to people from different communities. The disinformation also brings forth the demonisation and communalisation of Urdu. A similar misleading narrative was attempted to be built around farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s speech in Muzaffarnagar where he uttered ‘Allahu Akbar’. Tikait was sharing a message of religious harmony, telling protestors at the ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ that Muzaffarnagar, a place that has witnessed communal riots, is known for farmers’ movements that invoke chants of both ‘Allahu Akbar’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ together. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-aaditya-thackeray-s-2019-photo-cherry-picked-to-falsely-portray-muslim-appeasement-1028671.html
09-09-2021||National||Noted women's rights activist Sonal Shukla passes away||Noted women’s rights activist Sonal Shukla died after cardiac arrest in Mumbai on Thursday, a colleague said. Shukla (80) was the founder and managing trustee of the Vacha Charitable Trust and worked with adolescent girls and women over the last four decades. Popularly known as Sonal Ben, Shukla was the co-founder of the group Forum Against Rape, now known as the Forum Against Oppression of Women. Vacha started in 1987 as a library and women’s resource centre. It was the first only women’s book library with a collection of over 3,000 books. In 1991, it produced two music albums and two documentaries on women in the Independence movement. As a college teacher, she was in charge of projects involving sanitation workers and fisherfolk, Mumbai’s indigenous inhabitants. She turned her own home into a support centre for battered women for two years. Shukla had trained in Mahatma Gandhi’s educational methods and had worked with the most deprived sections. Vacha gave space to poor girls to escape from family and community strangleholds through a programme of life skills and community work. “She taught us so many things, helped us improve our English and general knowledge and conducted so many activities for girls,” said Dr Varsha Gupta, who runs a clinic in suburban Santacruz. Gupta told PTI that she was not in touch with Shukla for a very long time. “I was eight years old when I first met her. Vacha staff taught us an hour or two before classes in the municipal school I was in began. This continued till I was 12 or 13 years old,” Gupta said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noted-womens-rights-activist-sonal-shukla-passes-away-1028673.html
09-09-2021||National||Pak ISI sending ISKP cadre to PoK to hit Jammu and Kashmir in a big way: Intel||Keeping its eye on Jammu and Kashmir, the Pakistan's intelligence wing - Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) has been sending the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) cadre to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) with an aim to hit J&K in a big way. As per the latest intelligence inputs, these ISKP cadres were released from the Afghanistan jails recently and had returned to Pakistan and now the ISI has instructed them to execute its agenda in the Valley. The sources have revealed that the security agencies in Kashmir have tracked the movement and presence of ISKP commander Munsib who has been reportedly coordinating with various terror outfits for this purpose. He has been active on social media for the past few months, they added. Around 25 youths from Kerala have recently gone to Afghanistan and had joined the ISKP cadre, now the inputs are coming that ISI can use those radicalised youths of Kerala to carry out attacks in India, the sources further said, adding that their movements are on the agencies' radar. After the Taliban occupation in Afghanistan, the ISI has been actively planning to push its trained and supported terror outfits like Jaish-e-Mohammad, Lashkar-e-Taiba and al-Badr into the union territory for the last two months and now the ISKP ultras to various launch pads in PoK along with the line of control, the sources in the intelligence agencies also revealed. The intelligence inputs also confirmed that the launch pads in Pakistan have been humming with activity near the border indicating an increase in planning for infiltration. These launch pads were abandoned after a ceasefire was announced in February this year. Indian security agencies are also getting inputs that the presence of Pashtun speaking terrorists in some of the terrorist camps located in PoK, which has increased the possibilities of ISKP ultras in these launch pads near the border areas in Jammu and Kashmir. "The J&K Police is aggressively trying to track down those over-ground workers who can give shelter to foreign terrorists and make their mission even easier. They are constantly trying to ensure that the infiltrating terrorists do not find any hideout or take shelter in the villages of Kashmir", a senior official in the security set up said. Reiterating zero tolerance to terrorism, CRPF Director General Kuldeep Singh and J&K Police Chief Dilbagh Singh have said that the security forces are on high alert and ready to handle security situation arising from the development in Afghanistan even if they try to infiltrate with latest weapons. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-isi-sending-iskp-cadre-to-pok-to-hit-jammu-and-kashmir-in-a-big-way-intel-1028701.html
09-09-2021||National||Delhi riots: Common sense shouldn't be given go-by, says court; discharges man||Discharging a man of an offence in the north-east Delhi riots last year, a court here said that even though communal riots cases have to be considered with the utmost sensitivity, common sense should not be given a go-by. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav discharged 22-year-old Javed for the offence of causing "mischief by fire or explosive substance", after noting that the complainant's statements do not show that the particular act was committed. The judge said, "This court is conscious of the fact that cases of communal riots have to be considered with utmost sensitivity, but that does not mean that the common sense should be given go-by; mind has to be applied even at this stage with regard to the material available on record." Accused Javed was arrested in April 2020 based on complaints filed by four people who claimed that their house, godown and shops were vandalised and looted by a riotous mob on February 25, 2020. The judge observed however that there were no eyewitnesses, CCTV footage or photographs of the incident. He also took note of the fact that the complainant did not state a single word regarding mischief by fire or explosive substance by the mob. "I'm afraid that the investigating agency cannot cover up the said flaw by way of recording the supplementary statements of complainants, if the ingredient(s) of section 436 IPC [mischief by fire] was not there in their initial written complaints made to the police,” ASJ Yadav said. "I am of the considered view that ingredients of Section 436 IPC are not at all made out from the material produced on record by the investigating agency. Except Section 436 IPC, all the offences invoked in the matter are exclusively triable by the court of learned Magistrate," he added. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-common-sense-shouldnt-be-given-go-by-says-court-discharges-man-1028713.html
09-09-2021||National||IIT Madras ranked best institution in India: NRIF ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras retained the top spot among institutes in the country, while the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru ranked the best among research institutions, according to the Ministry of Education's NIRF ranking announced on Thursday. In the sixth edition of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced by Union Education Dharmendra Pradhan, eight IITs and two national Institutes of Technology (NITs) figured in the top ten engineering institutions in the country. The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad ranked as the best B-School, while Jamia Hamdard was declared the top institution for pharmacy studies. In the colleges category, Miranda House in Delhi bagged the first rank followed by Lady Sri Ram College for Women, Delhi and Loyola College, Chennai. As per the NIRF ranking, AIIMS Delhi has bagged the top spot among medical colleges followed by PGIMER Chandigarh and Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-madras-ranked-best-institution-in-india-nrif-ranking-1028723.html
09-09-2021||National||Candidates who opted-out of CA exam in July will not lose opportunity: ICAI tells SC||Candidates who opted out of the CA exam conducted in July because of Covid-19 related difficulties will not lose any opportunity, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The apex court, which was hearing an application seeking a direction to the ICAI to conduct back up examination for opt-out candidates, asked the applicants to make a representation on this to the institute. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar was told by ICAI's counsel that an appropriate decision will be taken on the representation within two weeks. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for the institute, told the bench that there will be no loss of opportunity to candidates who had opted-out from the July exam as per the top court order. “In July itself, we had said those candidates who have opted-out pursuant to your lordships' leave, will have their back up in November 2021 along with the main cycle. It will not be treated as an attempt and they will not lose any benefits. They will get the benefit of the same old syllabus,” Srinivasan told the bench, which also comprised Justices Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar. In its June 30 order, the top court had said a candidate shall be entitled to exercise the option of opting-out of the exam if he or she or any family member has suffered Covid-19 in the recent past and the fact is certified by a registered medical practitioner. That will not be considered as an attempt in the examination as such and the candidate will be permitted to appear in the back up examination, to be conducted for the old as well as the new syllabus, subject to conducive situation prevailing at the relevant time, the court had said. During the hearing on Thursday, advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the applicants, referred to the June 30 order about back up examination and said those who had opted-out would essentially lose one attempt. “They (ICAI) should be directed to hold a back up examination instead of saying that you appear in the regular exam cycle,” Bhushan said, adding that from next year the syllabus will be new. “Let me assuage the apprehensions of my friend. There will be no loss of opportunity to people who had opted-out,” Srinivasan said. On the issue of holding back up exam, he said there were logistical problems in last year and the institute needs about five to six months to prepare for examination. The bench told Srinivasan that these candidates can appear in the November examination but asked whether it was possible to conduct one more examination under the old syllabus. Srinivasan assured the bench that no candidate will lose his or her opportunity. The bench said for the time being, it is not disturbing the examination cycle and the ICAI can take appropriate decision on the representation to be filed by the applicants. “You make representation. The institute is very open to all suggestions,” the bench told Bhushan. Bhushan said the institute should consider having back-up examination even if they have it after November. The bench observed it will not force them to have back-up examination as the ICAI has given up this idea due to its experience. “We don't wish to continue this petition in view of the stand taken by the institute that all aspects brought to the notice of the institute will be taken into account and appropriate decision which is in the best interest of the candidates will be take provided the same is consistent with the policy and extant rules,” the bench said in its order. The bench permitted the applicants to make representation to the ICAI. In its June 30 order, the apex court had made clear that a candidate need not produce RT-PCR test if medical certificate issued by registered medical practitioners for his family members is produced along with request for opting out of the July examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/candidates-who-opted-out-of-ca-exam-in-july-will-not-lose-opportunity-icai-tells-sc-1028726.html
09-09-2021||National||2 Indian teachers shortlisted for 2021 Global Teacher Prize||Satyam Mishra, a mathematics teacher from Bhagalpur in Bihar, and Meghana Musunuri, a social studies, English and math teacher from Hyderabad have made it to the top 50 shortlist for this year’s $1-million Global Teacher Prize announced on Thursday. The $1-million Global Teacher Prize, organised by the Varkey Foundation in partnership with UNESCO, attracted over 8,000 nominations and applications from 121 countries. “It is only by prioritising education that we can safeguard all our tomorrows. Education is the key to facing the future with confidence,” said Sunny Varkey, founder of the Varkey Foundation. Mishra made the cut for his determination to change the way children look at the world and uses cool multiplication tricks to bring his subject alive for students. Musunuri, the second Indian teacher on the 2021 shortlist, is described as an education futurist, philanthropist and a passionate entrepreneur as the founder and chairperson of Fountainhead Global School & Junior College and also Hyderabad Champion for Google's Women Entrepreneurs On The Web (WEOW), guiding women entrepreneurs in establishing their online presence. “UNESCO is a proud partner of the Global Teacher Prize, which has done so much to highlight teachers’ transformational role in young people’s lives. Inspirational teachers and extraordinary students alike deserve recognition for their commitment to education amid the learning crisis we see today,” said Stefania Giannini, Assistant Director General for Education at UNESCO. “If we are to rebuild a better world in the wake of Covid we must prioritise giving every child their birthright of a quality education. It is the next generation, with teachers as their guide, who will safeguard the future for us all," she said. Alongside, an inaugural sister prize – the Chegg.Org Global Student Prize – includes four Indian students in the top 50 shortlist with Kaif Ali, a 21-year-old architecture student at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi; Aayush Gupta, a 23-year-old MBA student at IIM Ahmedabad; and Seema Kumari, a 17-year-old student from Jharkhand; and Vipin Kumar Sharma, a 24-year-old student from the Central University of Haryana. The prize money for the new student prize has now also been doubled to $100,000. “In this age of Covid, students like Kaif, Aayush, Seema and Vipin have shown great courage to keep studying and keep fighting for a better future despite huge obstacles,” said Lila Thomas, Head of Chegg.org. “We were so inspired by the achievements of these extraordinary students throughout the world that applied for the inaugural Global Student Prize that Chegg chose to double the value of the prize to $100,000,” she said. Students who applied for the Global Student Prize are being assessed on their academic achievement, impact on their peers, how they make a difference in their community and beyond, how they overcome the odds to achieve, how they demonstrate creativity and innovation, and how they operate as global citizens. Following the shortlist announcement, the top 10 finalists of both prizes will be announced next month. The winners will be chosen by the Global Teacher Prize Academy and the Global Student Prize Academy, respectively, and unveiled at an awards ceremony in Paris in November. Last year's Global Teacher Prize winner was Ranjitsinh Disale from Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-indian-teachers-shortlisted-for-2021-global-teacher-prize-1028728.html
09-09-2021||National||India eyes turning 3-wheelers into EVs||After four- and two-wheelers, India is eyeing to turn a significant part of 6 million three-wheelers on roads into electric vehicles as it chases the ambitious target of converting 30 per cent of all wheels on roads into electric by 2030. From freight loaders to garbage disposal vans, going electric helps three-wheelers save on the running cost of the vehicles. Also unlike four-wheelers, three-wheelers offer easy options of replacing discharged batteries with charged ones, helping save on the time taken to charge. State-run Convergence Energy Services Ltd (CESL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Energy Efficiency Services Ltd, has floated a Rs 3,000 crore tender to buy one lakh electric three-wheelers for different use categories such as garbage disposal, freight loaders, food and vaccine transport and passenger autos, its MD and CEO Mahua Acharya said. "Before floating the tender, we launched a public exercise for demand aggregation. So we got commitments from financiers, fleet aggregators and others such as states that have funds under Swatch Bharat Mission, for about 85,000 (three-wheelers). And so we kept a margin of an additional 15,000 and floated a tender to buy 1 lakh electric three-wheelers," she said. While buying individually may not help get the best of rates, procuring on such a large scale helps in getting a better price, she said adding the commitments are now being converted into firm buy orders. However, the ability of manufacturers to deliver 1 lakh electric three-wheelers in the promised 18 months remains a concern, she said, adding 20 OEMs participated in the pre-bid conference. "Of the 6 million three-wheelers on roads, EV is a very small percentage. Auto rickshaw is the biggest market. Then there is the freight and delivery business which has gone through the roof after Covid struck. They want to buy the cheapest ride and the cheapest cost of delivery is met by electric," she said going electric offers the best option where three-wheelers are used for livelihood earning. Another big market is garbage loaders. Also, there are specialised products such as coolers for vegetables and vaccines. States and municipalities are also coming up with requirements for three-wheeler garbage loaders. Acharya said there are 5.5 lakh electric three-wheelers (E3W) on the road. Earlier this month, CESL launched a scheme for the sale of E2W to government employees in Kerala where the state government has directed all departments to switch to electric vehicles instead of purchasing new fuel-based ones. E2W are available on CESL's app to purchase at rates negotiated by the agency, she said. "After accounting for central government subsidy, the price of E2W comes to Rs 55,000 to Rs 1.3 lakh. If states give subsidies, the prices will come down further. At this, price is very competitive (compared to fossil-fuel-based two-wheelers)," she said. However, charging infrastructure is a problem as not enough land is available to set up such stations. "The government is pushing it (setting up of charging infrastructure). Policy signals are clear. There is a subsidy. But we ourselves have managed to meet less than 25 per cent of the target. We have been able to set up only 250 charging stations," she said. The land is the biggest issue with municipalities "negotiating endlessly". Also, the absence of large-capacity transformers is hindering the business. "This business is loss-making and if I have to put transformer, we go deep into the red. And unless the transformer is there, you can't charge," she said. On top of this, capacity utilisation of existing charging stations was only 15 per cent. Net utilisation after considering downtime is under 10 per cent, she said adding 30-35 per cent of capacity utilisation makes the charging station economically viable. "Nobody has cracked the code for charging stations, where to locate these. Should it be at parking lots or at cinema halls, or gas stations or malls, no one really knows," she said. On the E3W tender, Acharya said original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) have been invited to provide quotations for electric three-wheelers. After procurement of these electric vehicles, the CESL will lease them to entities that wish to avail of such leasing services. The demand for E3W is coming from cities that aim to transform their garbage collection fleet from fossil fuel to electric power or add a new fleet that is greener and cheaper to operate. A big proportion of the tender comprises demand for vehicles that will be used to deliver vaccines and provide employment.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-eyes-turning-3-wheelers-into-evs-1028742.html
09-09-2021||National||Health ministry claims single Covid-19 vaccine dose gives almost similar level of protection as two doses||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday claimed that first dose of Covid-19 vaccines used in India offer nearly the same protective effect against death as the second dose, contradicting existing research findings that show double doses offer greater protection. The claim is based on Indian Council of Medical Research’s new vaccine tracker that has been created by integrating three data sets – CoWIN, ICMR’s national Covid testing database and a Covid-19 database of the Union Health Ministry that has never been made public. The tracker demonstrates 96.6 per cent efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine in preventing mortality, which goes up marginally to 97.5 per cent with the second dose. This is inconsistent with many research findings that concluded higher levels of protection with two doses. The claim of high protection from a single dose of the Covid-19 jab comes three months before the Centre’s target of inoculating 94.47 crore adults with two doses of vaccines by December 31. While the entire target population is likely to be covered with a single dose by the year-end, two doses for everybody is out of the question as only 17 crore have received both the shots till now. When DH asked top ICMR scientists why the states were not dropping the second dose vaccination drive and going for saturation coverage of the first dose in the backdrop of such a finding, there was no response. It is also unclear how the tracker took into account Covid-19 deaths at home. ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said that the vaccine effectiveness values have emerged from an exercise to combine three datasets -- one on vaccinated population, the second on patients testing positive for Covid-19 and the third on patients who have died from Covid-19 -- linked through mobile numbers and unique identification numbers. "It shows vaccines give protection in all age groups as the death rate is nearly zero among the vaccinated. The tracker will come online on the Union Health Ministry site soon,” he said at a press conference. Last month doctors at Delhi's Ganga Ram Hospital showed a single dose of Covishield barely offered any protection from Covid-19 symptoms or severe disease but significant protection came with two doses. An ICMR study in July on more than 117,000 Tamil Nadu police personnel showed 95 per cent protection with two doses as against 82 per cent protection to those who received single dose. There are several other studies with similar conclusions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-claims-single-covid-19-vaccine-dose-gives-almost-similar-level-of-protection-as-two-doses-1028745.html
09-09-2021||National||Four flying training organisations to be in Karnataka under PPP model: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Four of the eight new flying training organisations (FTOs) -- two each in Belagavi and Kalaburgi airports -- under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) will be in Karnataka, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday as he unveiled new policies and targets for 100 days. He also said there will be no re-scheduling of the bidding process for Air India, which is scheduled on September 15 while announcing that the government plans to operationalise five airports, six heliports and 50 routes in the next 100 days. Addressing a press conference here, Scindia said the Airports Authority of India has liberalised its policy on Flying Training Organisations by abolishing the airport royalty (revenue sharing payment by FTOs to AAI) and keeping the land rentals at minimum to Rs 15 lakh from several crores. He said new FTOs at AAI-run airports are being set up under the PPP model. In the first phase, two each FTOs are being operationalised in Belagavi and Kalaburgi in Karnataka and one each in Jalgaon (Maharashtra), Khajuraho (Madhya Pradesh) and Lilabari (Assam). He said soft launch of training operations at the two FTOs in Kalaburgi has already started on August 15. In a bid to make India 'Global MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) hub', he said the policy has been liberalised. To boost MRO activities, he said the eight airports, including Delhi, Kolkata, Tirupati, Begumpet, Bhopal, Chennai and Chandigarh have been selected to attract investments. He also said discussions are also going on for convergence between civil and military works with respect to MRO. In a bid to bring in transparency, he said the allotment for MRO activities will be through open tender and the period of allotment has been increased from 3-5 years to 30 years. The renewal of contract, which was case to case basis at present, will be through bidding and the existing leaseholder will have the first right to refuse. On the 100-day targets, which are to be realised by November 30, he said there are four "infrastructure" targets -- readying Kushinagar airport, which would be a boost for Buddhist Circuit, for inauguration, starting the procedures for new terminal buildings at Dehradun and Agartala airports, and laying foundation stone of Jewar airport. He said the new terminal building in Dehradun airport at a cost of Rs 457 crore would increase its capacity from handling 250 fliers per hour to 1,800 per hour while it would rise from 500 to 1,200 in Agartala airport. Among the eight policy targets are operationalisation of UDAN routes, airports and heliports. On refunds, he said the government has now made the airlines also responsible for air ticket refund process along with travel agents. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-flying-training-organisations-to-be-in-karnataka-under-ppp-model-jyotiraditya-scindia-1028749.html
09-09-2021||National||Heavy industries minister inaugurates state-of-the-art data centre at BHEL facility in Bengaluru||Union Heavy Industries Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey has inaugurated a modern, state-of-the-art data centre at BHEL’s Electronics Division in Bengaluru. Established to commemorate India's celebration of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' and as a step in BHEL's digital transformation journey, the data centre at Electronics Division (EDN) encompasses the data centres of all the three Bengaluru-based units of BHEL, namely Solar Business Division (SBD), Industrial Systems Group (ISG), as well as EDN, a statement said. The facilities at these three units have been brought together and co-located in one place leading to optimisation of IT infrastructure, better data security and reduction in operating cost. The connectivity to SBD and ISG, located about 12 kms from EDN, is provided through high-speed multi-protocol label switching (MPLS) for increasing the speed and also to control the flow of network traffic. "Mahendra Nath Pandey, Union Minister of Heavy Industries, inaugurated a modern, state-of-the-art Data Centre at BHEL’s Electronics Division (EDN), Bengaluru," the statement said. Addressing the employees, the minister said that the newly-inaugurated data centre will provide advanced solutions in today’s digital ecosystem. He also hailed the Remote Monitoring and Diagnostic System (RMDS) developed by BHEL, as a step towards realising the prime minister's vision of providing quality power to all citizens. The system has the capability to predict problems in power plants which can aid in preventive maintenance, the statement said. Speaking about the various contributions of BHEL, he said that the company is playing an integral role in the flagship programmes of the Government of India like the Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiatives. The minister added that he was happy to note the role played by EDN in projects of national importance like the supply of space-grade batteries and solar panels for space programmes, supply of integrated platform management system for the first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant and the development of traction systems for the country’s first AC-EMUs. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-industries-minister-inaugurates-state-of-the-art-data-centre-at-bhel-facility-in-bengaluru-1028756.html
09-09-2021||National||Can’t order Red Ant Chutney as Covid cure, get vaccinated: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to consider a plea to direct use of ‘Red Ant Chutney’ to effectively boost immunity and prevent the infection of Covid-19 virus among people. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said there is a lot of traditional knowledge, but it cannot be used as a cure for Covid-19. “These remedies you can have for your own consumption. But we cannot ask for applying this traditional knowledge across the country,” the bench said. The plea claimed that “Red Ant Chutney” has a medicinal value as it contains formic acid, protein, calcium, Vitamin B12 and Zinc and its efficacy needs to be ascertained as a cure of Covid-19. It further contended this chutney, a mixture of red ants and green chillies, in the tribal belts of the country including Odisha and Chhattisgarh is considered as a cure of flu, cough, common cold, fatigue, breathing problems and other ailments. Advocate Anirudha Sanganeria, appearing for the petitioner Nayadhar Padhial, an engineer, challenged the Orissa High Court order which had dismissed his plea. The top court asked the petitioner, a member of tribal community of Odisha to get vaccinated for Covid and dismissed the plea. The petitioner said he had earlier approached the CSIR, which expressed its inability and rejected the claim on the basis of lack of expertise. The Ayush ministry too rejected the claim. The bench said the High Court should not have directed the director general of Ayush ministry and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to take within three months a decision on a proposal. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-t-order-red-ant-chutney-as-covid-cure-get-vaccinated-sc-1028760.html
09-09-2021||National||Muslims too divided along caste lines, any caste census should include them: Muslim bodies||Various bodies claiming to represent the backward sections of Muslims demanded on Thursday that any caste census should include Muslims and claimed that the community like Hindus is also divided along different castes and sub-castes. Former MP and All India Pasmanda Muslim Mahaz president Ali Anwar supported the demand made by a number of political parties for caste census and said any such counting should include all religions. "Like the Hindu community, Muslims are not a monolith social group and are divided among different castes and sub-castes," he said at a event held here. Anwar, who was sacked from the JD(U) in 2017 for his opposition to the party joining hands with the BJP, alleged that the BJP-led government is trying to make Muslims "second class citizens" and also criticised the so called secular parties for ignoring the concerns of the backward sections of Muslims. A booklet was released on the occasion that also demanded that Scheduled Castes benefits should be extended to "Dalit" sections of Muslims and Christians. Anwar said the reports of the Ranganath Misra commission and the Sachar committee had made recommendations on these lines A number of political parties have pitched for caste census, saying it is necessary to effectively implement welfare schemes for the backward sections of society and identify the extent of their backwardness. Anwar said any caste census should include all communities and religions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslims-too-divided-along-caste-lines-any-caste-census-should-include-them-muslim-bodies-1028761.html
09-09-2021||National||Pink stone from Rajasthan to be used for construction of Ram temple structure in Ayodhya||The construction of the Ram temple structure in Ayodhya will be done using Pink stone sourced from Rajasthan, and the temple campus will include a museum, research centre, 'gaushala' and a 'yagya shala', sources in the temple trust said on Thursday. Special focus will be on conservation and development of heritage structures like Kuber Tila and Sita Koop. The entire temple complex has been designed on zero discharge concept and green building features, they said. Members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra met last month and during the meeting it was noted that the construction work of the temple is proceeding as per schedule and will be open for people from 2023. "The plan to enable devotees to have darshan of Lord Shri Ram by the year 2023 seems within reach," a source said. The sources further said that the super structure of the temple will be constructed from Bansi Paharpur stone sourced from Rajasthan, and marble. "About four lakh cubic feet of stone (Bansi Paharpur) will be used in the construction of the temple. No steel will be used in the construction of the temple. It has been decided to use Jodhpur stone for the Parkota (complex) of the temple," they said. The layout of the Parkota (temple complex) has been finalised and the area outside the complex will include a pilgrimage facilitation centre, museum, archives, research centre, auditorium, 'gaushala' (cow shed), 'yagya shala' and an administrative building. The Trust is committed to the structural longevity of the temple and therefore the excavated area is being filled with 'Engineered Fill' in 48 layers. The design of the structure is in full compliance with Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) norms. It was developed by the institute only after a computerised simulation for any earthquake track of 2,500 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pink-stone-from-rajasthan-to-be-used-for-construction-of-ram-temple-structure-in-ayodhya-1028764.html
09-09-2021||National||BRICS has adopted counter-terrorism action plan: PM Narendra Modi||The BRICS has adopted a counter-terrorism action plan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while chairing a virtual summit of the five-nation grouping. The summit, which was hosted by India, was attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazil's Jair Bolsanaro. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41 per cent of the global population, 24 per cent of the global GDP and 16 per cent of the global trade. In his opening remarks, Modi said India has received full cooperation from all BRICS partners during its chairmanship and listed various achievements of the grouping. "Today we are an influential voice for the emerging economies of the world. This platform has also been useful for focusing attention on the priorities of developing nations as well," he said. The BRICS has created strong institutions like the New Development Bank, the Contingency Reserve Arrangement and the Energy Research Cooperation Platform, he noted. "These are all very strong institutions," he added. "However, it is also important that we do not become too self-satisfied and we must ensure that BRICS is even more result-oriented in the next 15 years," he said. The Prime Minister said the grouping has achieved several "firsts" and referred to the holding of the first-ever BRICS digital summit recently. "This is an innovative step to increase health access with the help of technology. In November, our Water Resources Ministers will be meeting for the first time under the BRICS format. It is also the first time that BRICS has taken a collective position on 'Strengthening and Reforming Multilateral Systems'," Modi said. "We have also adopted the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Action Plan," he said. The Prime Minister said with cooperation between the customs departments, intra- BRICS trade will become easier. "There has also been a consensus with regards to starting a virtual BRICS vaccination research and development centre. BRICS Alliance on green tourism is also another new initiative," he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brics-has-adopted-counter-terrorism-action-plan-pm-narendra-modi-1028766.html
09-09-2021||National||AAP govt's 'Business Blasters' project for students an investment in India's economy: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said by giving seed money of Rs 2,000 to 3.5 lakh students of Delhi government-run schools under the 'Business Blasters' programme, the AAP dispensation is investing in India's economy as it is grooming "future entrepreneurs". Earlier this week, the Arvind Kejriwal government rolled out the 'Business Blasters' project under which seed money will be given to students of classes nine to 12 and they, in turn, have to invest it for running small businesses. The programme has been launched under the 'entrepreneurship mindset curriculum', which is aimed at developing young entrepreneurs at the school level. In an interview with PTI, the deputy chief minister that he sees this programme as seed money for India's economy. "When we had allocated a budget of Rs 60 crore for this project, we knew that it is the seed money for the country's economy," said Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio. He said Inda will not become a five trillion dollar economy just by people talking about it. "How will we become a five trillion dollar economy? Not by just the prime minister saying so. For long we have been taught that India is a developing country and we will have to teach the same to future generations if we don't address the core issue," Sisodia said. The only way to make India an economic powerhouse is to have an entrepreneurial mindset and the Aam Aadmi Party government is working on this, he said. It is mandatory for every student to take part in the 'Business Blasters' programme. It is not only for the students of commerce or business studies but also for those who study humanities and science, the deputy chief minister said. He said that with this project, the AAP government wants to address the problem of joblessness. Sisodia claimed that India has 25 crore homeless people and lakhs of civil engineers who are unemployed. An entrepreneurial mindset would involve utilising the talent of these civil engineers for providing homes to the homeless and in a way invest in the country's economy, he said. "You have 18 crore people who sleep without food every day and then you have unemployed youth from food science and agriculture university. We do not have a scarcity of farmland. The only thing missing is the mindset. We are working to create that bridge which is currently missing," the deputy chief minister stressed. About successful return on the investment of the seed money, he said it is a risk which the government has taken. "The new education policy talks about taking risks and even the new age education says that children should be confident. As an education minister, I am ready to take the risk. We are giving Rs 2,000 seed money to children and giving them the freedom to invest it. "In case you don't make a profit, you will learn from the failure and in case, you earn a profit, then you will learn entrepreneurship," Sisodia said. He said that even during the pilot project, carried out among 41 children in a government school in Delhi's Khichripur, some made a profit of Rs 650 over the seed money while another group earned a profit of Rs 24,000. "There will be losses. Someone will incur a loss of Rs 650 and some of Rs 2500," he said. Teachers are being trained and they will scrutinise the projects of students. Some projects will be chosen and business coaches will guide the students. Then, district and state-level competitions will be held which will culminate in a carnival at Thyagraj Stadium in February next year where 100 projects will be displayed, Sisodia said. According to the plan, investors will be invited to the carnival and students will talk about the investment they need for their project. Sisodia said this means that their projects won't die. Some students, chosen by certain criteria set by universities like NSUT and DTU, like innovation and investment, will get direct admission into BBA without an entrance test, he said. "We spoke to universities and said that these students would have been chosen out of 3.5 lakh students and would have practical knowledge. Students who come through entrance exams learn from books and clear an exam within three hours but these students will have practical knowledge. "I can assure you that in future, ideas like Facebook and Twitter will be coming from here," the deputy chief minister said. Sisodia exuded confidence that the 'Business Blasters' programme will change the way children perceive their studies. "I spoke to children about the outcome of the project. We learnt that once children develop confidence, they also start doing well in studies," Sisodia said.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-govts-business-blasters-project-for-students-an-investment-in-indias-economy-sisodia-1028767.html
09-09-2021||National||Special court grants interim bail to TMC’s Kunal Ghosh in Saradha chit fund case||Trinamool Congress West Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh was on Thursday granted interim bail by a special court here following his surrender before it in connection a case filed by the Enforcement Directorate in the Saradha chit fund scam. The special CBI court directed Ghosh to furnish a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with two sureties of Rs 10,000 each, and to assist the investigating officer in the PMLA case. The court had on August 27 issued summons to the TMC leader and two others to appear before it on September 20 on a prayer by the ED, which is investigating allegations of money laundering in the Saradha case. Ghosh's lawyer claimed that he surrendered before the court on Thursday soon after getting information about the summons issued by it. He submitted that he is a law-abiding citizen and innocent. Opposing the bail prayer, ED special public prosecutor Abhijit Bhadra told the court that the accused is an influential person and there is every scope of his evading trial in the case. Ghosh has been charged with assisting main accused Sudipta Sen in acquisition of the proceeds of crime and money laundering. Observing that the ED's investigation into the Saradha case in respect of Ghosh, who was the editor of the company’s publications, has been completed, Special CBI Judge Anupam Mukherjee said there is no reason for detaining him behind bars. The Saradha group allegedly defrauded lakhs of people in West Bengal through several ponzi schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-court-grants-interim-bail-to-tmc-s-kunal-ghosh-in-saradha-chit-fund-case-1028768.html
09-09-2021||National||National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited preparing DPR for seven high-speed rail corridors: Ashwini Vaishnaw||National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited is preparing Detailed Project Reports (DPR) for seven high-speed rail corridors, Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Thursday. With the experience of execution of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project, the work of other corridors will be faster, the Minister said.  He was addressing a gathering after flagging off indigenously designed and manufactured- Full Span Launching Equipment-Straddle Carrier and Girder Transporter to expedite the construction of a viaduct for Mumbai- Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail corridor through video conferencing. On Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail Corridor, which is touted as the first bullet train project of the country, the Minister said work has already begun on 325 km (in Gujarat) out of 508 km corridor between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. More than 97% land has been acquired for the project in Gujarat and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and 30% land in Maharashtra. "More than 6,000 workers are already working at various construction sites for the project, thus creating employment opportunities for the local youth. It is estimated that the Mumbai Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project will create more than 90,000 jobs in this area including 51,000 jobs for technicians, skilled and unskilled workers," he said. "This project will boost the overall economy of the area by deploying 1,000s of trucks, dumpers, excavators, batching plants, tunnelling equipment and so on. It is estimated that 7.5 million tonnes of cement, 2.1 million tonnes of steel and 70000 tonnes of structural steel will be used in the construction," the Minister said. "Full span launching equipment of 1100 MT capacity is indigenously designed and manufactured by M/s Larsen &Toubro at Kanchipuram, Chennai. M/s L&T has partnered with 55 Micro-Small Medium Enterprises (MSME). India is now coming in the select group of countries like Italy, Norway, Korea, and China which have been designing and manufacturing such equipment. This will expedite the construction of high-speed railway, as is the proven technology in metro and similar projects," the Ministry of Railways statement said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-high-speed-rail-corporation-limited-preparing-dpr-for-seven-high-speed-rail-corridors-ashwini-vaishnaw-1028771.html
09-09-2021||National||Centre, UP government misled farmers by false promises: Ajay Kumar Lallu||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Thursday alleged that the Centre and the state government "misled" farmers by false promises of doubling their income and prompt payment of sugarcane dues. Addressing a “Kisan Panchayat” at Gola town here, while Lallu claimed that his party is committed to the cause of farmers, he accused the governments of serving interests of a few businessmen. “The BJP came to power by misleading farmers with false promises of doubling their income and prompt payment of cane prices. Farmers are now fully aware that this government has done nothing for them,” he said. “Farmers are in a financial crisis due to inflation, inadequate crop prices and pending cane dues but the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state are busy serving interests of a few capitalists,” he added. Terming the Centre’s three contentious farm laws as an attack on interests of the farmers, Lallu said Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have continuously been opposing the anti-farmer legislations. Taking a jibe at the pre-poll surveys, Lallu said the Congress will contest UP Assembly elections on its own and expose the truth of the surveys. Former Kheri MP Zafar Ali Naqvi and district Congress president Prahlad Patel also addressed the event.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-up-government-misled-farmers-by-false-promises-ajay-kumar-lallu-1028772.html
09-09-2021||National||Centre places purchase order with SII for 66 crore Covishield doses to be supplied by December||The Union government has placed a purchase order with the Serum Institute of India (SII) for 66 crore doses of Covishield to be supplied by December, official sources said on Thursday. The development comes after Prakash Kumar Singh, the Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, informed the Union Health Ministry that the firm would be able to supply 20.29 crore doses of Covishied in the month of September. The Pune-based firm has enhanced the manufacturing capacity of Covishield to more than 20 crore doses per month. The Health Ministry had in July placed an order with Bharat Biotech for the supply of 28.50 crore doses of Covaxin, but the firm has not been able to start the supply of those yet, an official source said. Bharat Biotech is close to completing the supply of five crore doses of Covaxin for which the Health Ministry had placed an order on March 12, the source said. The source added that the ministry had placed an order for 37.50 crore doses of Covishield between August to December and the SII is going to complete this supply by mid-September. On August 31, as the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 65-crore mark, Singh in his communication to NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had mentioned that SII alone has supplied more than 60 crore doses of Covishield Of these 60 crore doses, 2.1 crore were provided in January, 2.5 crore in February, over 4.73 crore in March, more than 6.25 crore in April, over 5.96 crore in May, more than 9.68 crore in June, over 12.37 crore in July and more than 16.92 crore in August, he had said. In May, Singh had written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah mentioning that its employees have been working round the clock in spite of various challenges because of the pandemic.  "We are pleased to inform that in the month of June we will be able to manufacture and supply nine to 10 crore doses of our Covishield vaccine to the country as compared to our production capacity of 6.5 crore doses in May," he had said in the letter. "Serum Institute of India has always been sincerely concerned about the protection of the citizens of our country and world at large from Covid-19. Under the leadership of our CEO, Adar C Poonawalla, our team have been working relentlessly shoulder to shoulder with our government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic," he had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-places-purchase-order-with-sii-for-66-crore-covishield-doses-to-be-supplied-by-december-1028777.html
09-09-2021||National||No scientific body suggests Covid vaccination of kids should be condition to reopen schools: Centre||Vaccinating children with Covid-19 shots should not be linked to school reopening as there is no scientific evidence behind such an association, top health officials said on Thursday, assuring the states that are still in two minds to start offline schooling. But teachers and school staff should be vaccinated fully while it is desirable for the parents of the school-going children to get themselves vaccinated, V K Paul, NITI Aayog member and principal advisor to the government on Covid-19 said. "No scientific body, epidemiology and evidence suggest that vaccination against Covid-19 should be a condition to reopen schools. Inoculation of teachers, other school employees and parents, however, are desirable," he said. The schools have also been asked by the government to follow the standard operating procedures about ventilation, seating arrangements, staggered classes and masking when they reopen. "There is no WHO recommendation (on inoculating the kids before sending them to school) for reasons such as low mortality and high incidence of asymptomatic infection. We as a nation and government are working actively in the direction of scientific validation of our vaccines for potential use in children." Currently, there are only 35 districts – mostly in Kerala and North East – with more than 10% weekly positivity whereas there are another 30 districts where the positivity rate varies between 5-10%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-scientific-body-suggests-covid-vaccination-of-kids-should-be-condition-to-reopen-schools-centre-1028786.html
09-09-2021||National||Prisoners don't cease to be humans, move terminally ill blast accused to hospice: Bombay HC||Saying that prison inmates do not cease to be human beings and can't be deprived of the fundamental right to life, the Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to transfer alleged Maoist leader Nirmala Uppuganti from jail to a hospice for palliative care on account of her terminal cancer. Uppuganti, an accused in the 2019 Gadchiroli IED blast case, had filed a plea through senior counsel Yug Chaudhry and advocate Payoshi Roy, asking to be shifted to a hospice for palliative care so that she was "properly taken care of during her final days." A bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar directed the state prison authorities to shift Uppuganti from the Byculla women's prison in Mumbai to a hospice by September 15. The state's counsel, Sangeeta Shinde, however, had opposed Uppuganti's plea. The state counsel told the HC Uppuganti was accused of a serious offence and was able to move on her own and had been provided the help of two other inmates to take care of her in prison. The government counsel said as per the advice of Uppuganti's doctors, the prison authorities were taking her to the Tata Memorial Centre, a cancer hospital in Mumbai, three times a week for treatment. In its order on Thursday, the HC, however, said though Uppuganti was accused of a serious offence and charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), refusing her palliative care would breach her fundamental right to protection of life and liberty guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. "It is trite that the right to life guaranteed to every person by Article 21 of the Constitution is a basic postulate of human right. A prisoner, be he a convict or under-trial or a detenu, does not cease to be a human being, and even when lodged in the jail, he is not deprived of his right to life guaranteed to him under Article 21 of the Constitution, which includes the right to obtain medical treatment," the HC observed. "A prisoner cannot be deprived of health services as it would violate the guarantee conferred under Article 21 of the Constitution of India," the bench said. The HC took note of Uppuganti's medical reports that showed that she had metastatic cancer (in advanced stage) that had spread to multiple organs. It said while Uppuganti was undergoing chemotherapy and radiation therapy, at such advanced stage of cancer, palliative care seemed "indispensable" to minimise her pain and suffering. "The petitioner has a legitimate right to expect palliative care and nursing," the HC said while directing the jail authorities to transfer Uppuganti from prison to the Shanti Avedna Sadan hospice centre in the city for 12 weeks. The court directed that the prison authorities must coordinate with the hospice centre and the Tata Memorial Centre to ensure Uppuganti continued receiving her ongoing medical treatment. The HC directed the state authorities to transfer Uppuganti to the hospice by September 15 and to provide her with necessary police escort there. It also permitted Uppuganti to have telephonic access to her husband Satyanarayan Rani, her co-accused in the case, who is currently lodged in the Arthur Road Central Prison in Mumbai. Uppuganti is an accused in the case related to the IED ( improvised explosive device) attack carried out by Naxals in Gadchiroli district of eastern Maharashtra on May 1, 2019. As many as 15 security personnel from the Gadchiroli Quick Response Team and one civilian were killed in the deadly explosion.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prisoners-dont-cease-to-be-humans-move-terminally-ill-blast-accused-to-hospice-bombay-hc-1028804.html
09-09-2021||National||RBI has serious and major concerns on cryptocurrencies: Shaktikanta Das||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday said the central bank continues to have "serious and major" concerns about the cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and has conveyed them to the government. It is for the government to take a call on what to do in the matter, Das said, adding that he would like to have “credible explanations and answers” on the value such instruments can get to the Indian economy. Private cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, which are unregulated, mined through a complex process and have highly volatile prices, are under the regulatory gaze in India despite their proliferation as an asset class. Calls have been made to treat it as a foreign asset, and the government is to decide whether to allow them fully or not. El Salvador is the first country to recognize Bitcoin earlier this week and has been reportedly experiencing a civil unrest after the value of the currency corrected by 20 per cent in a single day, which was the first since the instrument was recognized in the central American country. "We have conveyed our serious and major concerns about cryptocurrencies to the government from a point of view of financial stability. The government will take a decision,” Das said, speaking at an event organized by The Indian Express and Financial Times. "…I think we need more credible answers as to whether going forward, the whole private cryptocurrencies, what contribution it will make to the Indian economy going forward. I think we need to be convinced with more credible explanations and answers,” he added. The RBI had initially banned domestic lenders from facilitating investors' trade in such assets, which had to be allowed after the Supreme Court struck down the RBI order. As per reports, some banks have restarted their function. Earlier in March this year, Das had said that he has “reasons to believe” that the government is in agreement with the “major concerns” flagged by the RBI. India has also started working on its own digital rupee, as has been the case with many other economies, and intends to start trials on the same later this year. Unlike the private cryptocurrencies which are called “opaque” by critics, the central bank digital currency will be like a currency note which will be regulated.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-has-serious-and-major-concerns-on-cryptocurrencies-shaktikanta-das-1028808.html
09-09-2021||National||Centre develops Covid-19 vaccine tracker to give vaccination-related information||The Centre has developed a Covid-19 vaccine tracker by synergising data from three platforms to give information on various aspects of vaccination like effectiveness post inoculation. Speaking at a briefing of the Union health ministry, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said the vaccine tracker has been developed by synergising data from CO-WIN potal, National Covid-19 testing database and Covid-19 India portal. “The data have been synergised based on ICMR identification number and on the basis of mobile numbers. We have been able to get a vaccine tracker which is going to be online very soon on the Ministry of Health's website,” he said. The tracker gives week by week coverage of the first and second dose of vaccine and also their effectiveness. Citing the data from Covid-19 tracker from April 18 to August 15, Bhargava said vaccine effectiveness in preventing mortality is 96.6 per cent and 97.5 per cent after the second dose. “It is clear that after two doses, there is near for total protection of serious diseases and death,” V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) said. Vaccine is an important shield for protection against the novel coronavirus infection. This will change the scenario very dramatically, he said. Ahead of the festive season, both the officials noted that mass gatherings have to be discouraged. Bhargava said low-key observation of festivals this year will provide an opportunity to celebrate them in a bigger way next year. He also emphasised on “responsible travel” rather “revenge travel”. The official added that use of protective masks needs to be continued. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-develops-covid-19-vaccine-tracker-to-give-vaccination-related-information-1028810.html
09-09-2021||National||India, China, Russia, other BRICS nations seek inclusive dialogue in Afghanistan, but avoid calling out Taliban||India on Thursday joined the other BRICS nations to call for inclusive dialogue within Afghanistan, although the five-nation-bloc that included Russia and China refrained from criticising the Taliban for keeping women and most of the ethnic communities out of the interim government it recently announced to rule the conflict-ravaged country. The BRICS leaders, however, tacitly conveyed to the Taliban that they would expect the organisation to prevent export of terror from the territory of Afghanistan. Building on the 2020 BRICS counterterrorism strategy, the five nations agreed on an action plan to fight the menace. “We follow with concern the latest developments in Afghanistan. We call for refraining from violence and settling the situation by peaceful means,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Vladimir Putin of Russia, President Xi Jinping of China, President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa and President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil said in a joint declaration issued after the 13th summit of the BRICS. “We stress the need to contribute to fostering an inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue so as to ensure stability, civil peace, law and order in the country”. This was the first plurilateral meet, which was hosted by Modi and attended by Xi after the relations between India and China hit a new low over the military stand-off that started along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh in April-May 2020. The BRICS leaders emphasised the need to address the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan and to uphold human rights, including the rights of women, children and the minorities in the country. They, however, refrained from calling out the Taliban for assault on journalists and purported atrocities on women protesting against the militant organisation’s return to power in Kabul. They condemned the recent terrorist attacks near the Hamid Karzai Kabul International Airport that resulted in a large number of deaths and injuries. “We underscore the priority of fighting terrorism, including preventing attempts by terrorist organisations to use Afghan territory as terrorist sanctuary and to carry out attacks against other countries, as well as drug trade within Afghanistan,” Modi, Xi, Putin, Bolsonaro and Ramaphosa said in the joint statement. The Taliban recently returned to power in Kabul after occupying many provinces in a swift military campaign taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States. The militant organisation on Tuesday announced an interim Afghan Government comprising mostly its leaders and clerics representing the Pasthtuns, leaving the other ethnic communities out.  The new dispensation also has no representation of women and is dominated by people who continue to be under United Nations sanctions. New Delhi had earlier signalled that it would want the Taliban to set up an inclusive government in Afghanistan. But the Modi Government refrained from making any comment on the structure of the new government in Kabul, even as it remains concerned over the strategic edge Pakistan would gain against India after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan. Putin utilised the BRICS summit as a forum to criticise the US for its role in Afghanistan. “People of this country have been fighting for many decades and have earned the right to independently determine what their state will be like,” the Russian President said in his opening remarks. Though Xi refrained from making any comment on Afghanistan, Beijing already indicated that it was ready to work with the Taliban Government in Kabul as long as the Taliban could ensure that the territory of Afghanistan would not be used to destabilise its Xinjiang region of China.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-russia-other-brics-nations-seek-inclusive-dialogue-in-afghanistan-but-avoid-calling-out-taliban-1028811.html
09-09-2021||National||80% kids between 14-18 years in India reported low levels of learning during pandemic: UNICEF report||At least 80 per cent children in India between the age group of 14-18 years reported lower levels of learning during the Covid-19 pandemic than when physically at school, according to a UNICEF report. Noting that repeated school closures have led to alarming inequities in learning opportunities for children in South Asia, the report by the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) pointed out that 76 per cent of parents of students aged 5-13 years reported drop in learning levels during remote learning. "School closures in South Asia have forced hundreds of millions of children and their teachers to transition to remote learning in a region with low connectivity and device affordability. Even when a family has access to technology, children are not always able to access it. As a result, children have suffered enormous setbacks in their learning journey," George Laryea-Adjei, UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia, said. In India, 42 per cent of children between 6-13 years reported not using any type of remote learning during school closures. "This means they have not used any of the following for remote learning since the schools shut down: textbooks, worksheets, phone or video calls, WhatsApp to access materials or connect with teachers, learning programmes on radio or TV, YouTube videos, video classes, learning applications, home visits by teachers and private tuitions, community teaching at local locations, other websites," the report said. The research found that student-teacher engagement, when regular and reciprocal, is a strong predictor of success in children’s learning, especially for younger students. However, the surveys found that most students had little or no contact with their teachers after the schools closed. "At least 42 per cent of students aged 5-13 years and 29 per cent of students aged 14-18 years are not in touch with their teachers at all," it said. The UNICEF called upon the governments to prioritise safe reopening of all schools while also ensuring that children are able to pursue quality learning remotely if necessary. Assessment of learning levels and ensuring catching up by students, vaccination of teachers and support staff, expanding investments in education, working with private sector and civil society organisations in improving connectivity and creating high-quality, preparing multilingual remote learning content tailored to students’ needs, are among the recommendations made in the report. "The safe reopening of schools must be considered on utmost priority for all governments. Parallelly, investing in teachers will ensure that teachers and schools can adapt to all situations. The more teachers are trained, equipped and supported on distance and blended learning, the better they will be able to reach all their students,” added George Laryea Adjei. "This is a critical investment we need to make for children as the region gears up for future waves of Covid-19. We need to build systems which can weather any storm and keep children learning, no matter the circumstances,” he added. The UNICEF report also stated that in Sri Lanka, 69 per cent of parents of primary school children reported that their children were learning “less” or “a lot less.” In Pakistan, 23 per cent of younger children did not have access to any device that could support remote learning, it said. Talking about school reopening, UNICEF India representative Yasmin Ali Haque said prolonged school closure due to Covid-19 has caused many children to miss out on learning, social interaction and playtime which are essential to their overall development and well being. Safe and gradual reopening of schools in India is a welcome move as children learn best in person and this will help prevent further learning loss and alleviate some of the psychological stress they are facing, she said. "The safety element is critical. Teachers, parents, children and communities can work together along with the government, to put in place the protocols needed for children to return to schools and learn in a safe environment. “We need to focus on rapidly building capacities of teachers who can support learning both in the classroom as well as at home more effectively. We have examples from states like Bihar, where several devices are being purchased for students to support learning. Now is the time to plan and put the structures in place to transition children back into learning. We need to build back better and stronger,” Haque added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-kids-between-14-18-years-in-india-reported-low-levels-of-learning-during-pandemic-unicef-report-1028829.html
09-09-2021||National||Centre to give cash award to sportspersons who won medal at Tokyo Paralympics||The Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has decided to give cash award to Indian sportspersons who won medals at the recently concluded Tokyo Paralympics. Rs 10 lakh will be given to gold medal winners, Rs 8 lakh to silver medal winners and Rs 5 lakh to Bronze medal winners, the ministry said in a statement on Thursday. Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Virendra Kumar will felicitate the Tokyo Paralympics medal winners on Friday. He will also felicitate the rest of the Indian paralympics contingent and the coaches. He will be joined by Union Minister of State of Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale. The ministry said India sent the biggest ever contingent of 54 sportspersons across nine disciplines for participation in the Tokyo Paralympics. "Indian paralympians created history by winning 19 medals including five gold, eight Silver and six Bronze," it added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-give-cash-award-to-sportspersons-who-won-medal-at-tokyo-paralympics-1028830.html
09-09-2021||National||Responsibility of Centre to design convenient tax system so that individuals can budget, plan: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that in a taxation regime, there is no room for presumption and it is the responsibility of the government to design a tax system which is convenient and simple so that an individual or a corporate can budget and plan. The top court, which allowed a batch of appeals filed by banks held that the proportionate disallowance of interest is not warranted, under Section 14A of Income Tax Act for investments made in tax free bonds/securities which yield tax free dividend and interest to assessee Banks in those situations where, interest free own funds available with them, exceeded their investments.   Section 14A of Income Tax Act deals with expenditure incurred in relation to income not includible in total income. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said “With this conclusion, we unhesitatingly agree with the view taken by the ITAT favouring the assessees."   Referring to the work of 18th century economist Adam Smith in The Wealth of Nations, the bench said it needs to be observed here that “in taxation regime, there is no room for presumption and nothing can be taken to be implied”.   The bench said, “The tax an individual or a corporate is required to pay, is a matter of planning for a taxpayer and the Government should endeavour to keep it convenient and simple to achieve maximization of compliance. Just as the Government does not wish for avoidance of tax equally, it is the responsibility of the regime to design a tax system for which a subject can budget and plan”.   The top court said that if proper balance is achieved, unnecessary litigation can be avoided without compromising on generation of revenue. “In view of the foregoing discussion, the issue framed in these appeals is answered against the Revenue and in favour of the assessee. The appeals by the Assessees are accordingly allowed with no order on costs”, it said. The bench said that its conclusion is reached because nexus has not been established between expenditure disallowed and earning of exempt income.   “The respondents (revenue department), have failed to substantiate their argument that assessee was required to maintain separate accounts…The counsel for the revenue has failed to refer to any statutory provision which obligate the assessee to maintain separate accounts which might justify proportionate disallowance”, it said. The bench said that the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had issued the Circular on November 2, 2015, which had explained all shares, and securities held by a bank which are not bought to maintain Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) are its stock-in-trade and not investments and income arising out of those is attributable, to business of banking.   “Hence the income earned through such investments would fall under the head Profits and Gains of business. The Punjab and Haryana High Court, in the case…while adverting to the CBDT Circular, concluded correctly that shares and securities held by a bank are stock in trade, and all income received on such shares and securities must be considered to be business income. That is why Section 14A would not be attracted to such income,” the top court said. It said that in the present case the High Court had endorsed the proportionate disallowance made by the Assessing Officer under Section 14A of the Income Tax Act to the extent of investments made in tax-free bonds/securities primarily because, separate account was not maintained by the banks.   The bench said that when it enquired on this aspect about the law which obligates the banks to maintain separate accounts, the revenue department could not provide a satisfactory answer and instead relied upon an earlier verdict to argue that it is the responsibility of the banks to fully disclose all material facts.   “An assessee definitely has the obligation to provide full material disclosures at the time of filing of Income Tax Return but there is no corresponding legal obligation upon the assessee to maintain separate accounts for different types of funds held by it”, it said.   The bench said that in absence of any statutory provision which compels the banks to maintain separate accounts for different types of funds, the judgment cited by the revenue department will have no application. The top court was interpreting whether Section 14A, enables the Department to make disallowance on expenditure incurred for earning tax free income in cases where some banks who are before the court, do not maintain separate accounts for the investments and other expenditures incurred for earning the tax-free income. In absence of separate accounts for investment which earned tax free income, the assessing officer had made proportionate disallowance of interest attributable to the funds invested to earn tax free income.   Since actual expenditure figures are not available for making disallowance under Section 14A, the Assessing Officer worked out proportionate disallowance by referring to the average cost of deposit for the relevant year.   The Commissioner of Income Tax (A) had concurred with the view taken by the Assessing Officer. The ITAT, however, accepted the banks’ case and held that disallowance under Section 14A is not warranted, in absence of clear identity of funds.   The decision of the ITAT was reversed by the High Court by accepting the contention of the revenue department and thereafter banks have approached the top court. Check put the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/responsibility-of-centre-to-design-convenient-tax-system-so-that-individuals-can-budget-plan-supreme-court-1028831.html
09-09-2021||National Politics||Not eager to forge alliance for UP polls: Congress leader||AICC secretary Rajesh Tiwari on Wednesday said no party should carry the impression that the Congress is eager to forge an alliance for the next year’s Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. The Congress is in the fray with a grand action plan to bring the state out of the quagmire of hatred and misery, Tiwari told reporters. As part of this plan, 2,400 party workers have been trained in all 75 districts and 403 Assembly constituencies of Uttar Pradesh, he said. “No party should be under the wrong impression that the Congress Party is eager for an alliance,” he said. “Some political parties are holding seminars sitting in AC halls. They do not have the stamina to fight on the ground but the Congress has been continuously fighting against the failures and anti-people policies of the Yogi Adityanath government on the streets,” he added. The Congress leader said as per directives of party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the organisation has been strengthened in the entire state. The party is being strengthened up to the booth level and workers are being equipped to counter misinformation and drama of the ruling and opposition parties. Priyanka Gandhi has repeatedly said that Congress is not in the fray to win elections but to save democracy, he said. Besides contesting the elections, the party has to fight a battle to save the state and the country because the Constitution on which the foundation of modern and secular India was laid, is being targeted under the rule of the RSS and its political wing BJP, he added. Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-eager-to-forge-alliance-for-up-polls-congress-leader-1028537.html
09-09-2021||National Politics||253 candidates, 173 MLAs/MPs defected to BJP since 2014||The Congress lost 222 of its candidates and 177 of its MLAs and MPs, the highest for any political outfit, to other parties, while the BJP turned out as the biggest beneficiary attracting 253 candidates and 173 lawmakers to its fold in the past seven years since Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister. An analysis by private election watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) showed that the BSP was the biggest victim after the Congress in defections with its 153 candidates and 20 lawmakers switching sides. The BJP too lost 111 candidates to other parties while only 33 lawmakers from its fold left for other greener pastures for several reasons, including being sidelined, even as its ruling party status at the Centre helped it in attracting the highest number of leaders from other parties to its fold. Opposition parties had accused the BJP of using money power and misusing investigation agencies to weaken opponents. The analysis is based on affidavits of 1,133 candidates and 500 MPs and MLAs, who changed parties and recontested elections during the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections since 2014.  While the Congress lost 222 leaders who had contested in its symbol earlier and its 177 MLAs and MPs left for other parties, including the BJP, the main Opposition party saw 115 candidates and 61 lawmakers joining them. The BSP had 65 candidates from other parties while 12 lawmakers join them between 2014 and 2021. Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress lost 31 candidates and 26 lawmakers during the period but its strike rate in winning back or luring leaders from other parties was high as it managed to get 23 candidates and 31 lawmakers, many of them who had left Trinamool earlier, in its fold. Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party lost 111 candidates and 12 MLAs and MPs to BJP and other parties but it managed to attract 29 candidates and 13 lawmakers from other parties to join its side. Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) lost 59 candidates and 12 lawmakers, while it managed to wean away 16 candidates who contested from rival parties and 12 lawmakers to its side. While these parties lost big, regional parties like the DMK, YSR Congress, BJD and TRS gained while managing to plug leaks from its side. K Chandrashekhar Rao's TRS lost four candidates and as many lawmakers during the period but was a huge gainer at the end as it managed to get 12 candidates and 30 lawmakers from the opposite side. YSR Congress, which is ruling Andhra Pradesh, lost three candidates and 16 lawmakers before the Assembly elections but it managed to bring 36 candidates and 24 lawmakers from rivals to its side. Naveen Patnaik-led BJD, which returned to power, managed to onboard 16 candidates and three lawmakers from the other side but lost only three candidates and six lawmakers. H D Deve Gowda-led JD(S) lost 13 candidates and five MPs and MLAs to other parties in the past seven years but it managed to attract 13 candidates from other parties. Not a single MLA or MP joined the party during 2014-21. It was mixed results for the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP as it weaned away 25 candidates and one lawmaker to its side, while losing 13 leaders who once contested in its symbol and 11 lawmakers who had once won from its ticket.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/253-candidates-173-mlas/mps-defected-to-bjp-since-2014-1028648.html
09-09-2021||National Politics||EC declares bypolls for seven Rajya Sabha seats in six states||The polling to fill up seven vacancies in the Rajya Sabha will be held on October 4, the Election Commission announced on Thursday. The EC will hold bye-elections to fill up six casual vacancies in the Rajya Sabha – one each from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and West Bengal and two from Tamil Nadu. The vacancies include the ones created due to the death of the Congress’s Rajeev Satav in May as well as due to the resignation of Thaawarchand Gehlot, who resigned as a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Rajya Sabha after being appointed as the governor of Karnataka in July. The vacancies in the Rajya Sabha seats for Assam, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu were created as Biswajit Daimary, Manas Bhunia, K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam resigned after they were elected to the legislative assemblies in the respective states during recent elections. The EC will also hold polling to elect a new Rajya Sabha member from Puducherry to succeed N Gokulakrishnan, who will retire on October 6 after completing his term. The poll panel will issue notification for the election and the bye-elections to fill the Rajya Sabha vacancies on September 15. It set September 22 as the last date to file nomination and September 27 as the last date for withdrawal of nomination. The polling will take place on October 4 and results will be declared after counting of votes on the same day, the EC stated on Thursday. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-declares-bypolls-for-seven-rajya-sabha-seats-in-six-states-1028714.html
09-09-2021||National Politics||Over 500 rapes and other atrocities on women in Andhra Pradesh on CM Jagan's watch: Nara Lokesh||TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh has alleged that 517 rapes and other atrocities on women took place in Andhra Pradesh since Jaganmohan Reddy became the chief minister over two years back. The ex-minister has blamed Chief Minister Reddy for “the non-stop pain and suffering of women victims of such atrocities, as they were not getting justice either under the Nirbhaya Act or the non-existent Disha Act in the state.” Lokesh, son of former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, was detained by the AP police for some time in Vijayawada on Thursday as he embarked on a visit to Narasaraopet to console the family of a girl student killed by a jilted man a few months back. “The accused culprits in rapes and murders are coming out on bail and threatening the victims' family members, contrary to the government's claims on Disha Act punishments within 21 days. Over 517 atrocities and rapes took place in the past two and half years. The Chief Minister owes an apology to the girls and women of the state for not being able to curb these barbarities even now,” Lokesh said, later addressing reporters. Lokesh stated that the CM's inefficiency has left the Disha legislation unapproved by the Centre. It was brought in by Reddy in 2019, in the wake of a Hyderabad veterinarian’s gang-rape-murder, to deliver speedy justice for women. “If the YSRCP government did not stick to its unapproved Disha legislation, all the 517 cases would have been registered under the Nirbhaya Act. The culprits would have got stringent punishment and they would not have come out on bail like this. Now criminals and anti-social elements are continuing heinous acts unabated. Within the last 21 days, over 17 atrocities have taken place,” the TDP MLC said. A woman was allegedly robbed of her jewelry and raped by four men on Wednesday night at Medikonduru in Guntur district, when she was returning from Guntur on a bike with her husband to their hometown Sattenapalli. The unidentified men overpowered her husband and reportedly raped her in the nearby fields and then fled from the spot. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-500-rapes-and-other-atrocities-on-women-in-andhra-pradesh-on-cm-jagans-watch-nara-lokesh-1028812.html
09-09-2021||National Politics||Like 'zamindar' who can’t maintain 'haveli': Sharad Pawar’s reality check for Congress||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said those in Congress should accept that the party no longer holds sway from ‘Kashmir to Kanyakumari’ like it once did, and indicated his partner in Maharashtra’s ruling alliance should undertake a reality check. “There was a time when there was Congress from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. But not so anymore. This (reality) should be accepted. The closeness (with other opposition parties) will increase once there is a mentality (within Congress) to accept this (fact),” Pawar said. “When it comes to leadership, my colleagues in the Congress are not in a mind to take a diffrent point of view,” Pawar told told Mumbai Tak, the Marathi digital platform of the India Today group. Pawar was informed that when told about Mamata Banerjee being the face of the united opposition for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, Congress people say they have Rahul Gandhi. “All parties, specially colleagues in Congress, are not ready to take a different stance on their leadership,” Pawar quipped. Asked if this was due to arrogance, Pawar cited an anecdote about “zamindars (landlords) who have lost most of their land and are unable to maintain their ‘haveli’ (mansion). “I had told a story about Uttar Pradesh zamindars who used to have huge land parcels and big 'havelis'. Due to land ceiling legislation, their lands shrunk. The havelis remain but there is no capability (of the landlords) to maintain and repair them. “Their agricultural income is also not (as much) as earlier. From a few thousand acres, their land has shrunk down to 15 or 20 acres. When the zamindar wakes up in the morning, he looks at the surrounding green fields and says all that land belongs to him. It was his once but doesnt belong to him now,” Pawar said. Asked if Congress could be compared to a Patil (chief) of a barren village, Pawar said he wouldn't like to make that comparison.  Check out the latets DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/like-zamindar-who-can-t-maintain-haveli-sharad-pawar-s-reality-check-for-congress-1028824.html
09-09-2021||National Politics||Anna Hazare warns of agitation for Lokayukta in Maharashtra||Activist Anna Hazare on Thursday said he would launch an agitation if the Maharashtra government did not enact a Lokayukta Act and appoint an independent anti-corruption ombudsman. Despite "repeated reminders" to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar and others about holding further meetings of the committee set up to draft the legislation, there was no response, Hazare alleged in a press release. The state government was deliberately avoiding holding meetings, he alleged. "There is a lot of corruption in the state and the state government should take steps to curtail it. Presently, the Lokayukta is chosen by the chief minister. Since the Lokayukta does not have autonomy, he is not powerful. In such a situation, where will the common man seek justice?” Hazare asked. Perhaps the time has come for him "to steer a non-violent agitation at the age of 85 years", he said, appealing volunteers across the state to "get ready for a mass agitation.”  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anna-hazare-warns-of-agitation-for-lokayukta-in-maharashtra-1028827.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Woman who filed first ‘love-jihad’ case in Gujarat wants FIR to be quashed||The woman, who had filed the first complaint under Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amended) Act, 2021, described by the Vijay Rupani government as “anti-love jihad law,” has approached Gujarat High Court, seeking withdrawal of the FIR she filed against her husband and seven others including in-laws and the qazi, the religious priest who performed the marriage, among others.  On Wednesday, the High Court issued notice to the state government and posted the matter for hearing on September 20. Apart from the 25-year-old woman, her husband, and seven others have jointly moved the court for quashing the FIR. The woman was also present in the court, where she confirmed to the judge that she wanted to settle the case. She has said that she and her husband have resolved the matter and want to continue living together and therefore, the FIR needs to be quashed. The petition claims that the woman had filed a complaint with Vadodara police following a matrimonial dispute in April this year, which could have been covered under section 498A of Indian Penal Code that deals with domestic violence. However, according to the petition, the woman's complaint of marital dispute was allegedly twisted by the local police, who filed the FIR under the Freedom of Religion (Amended) Act, rape, unnatural sex, among other charges. She has said she had no idea about the new anti-conversion law back then and neither did she level any of these allegations against her husband and the in-laws. However, the petition says, "certain religio-political groups intervened in the matter and communalised the said issue by bringing the angle of "love-jihad". Aso, on account of overzealousness of the police officers involved, facts and offences which were never mentioned or alleged by the informant (the woman) came to be inserted in the FIR." "The petitioners most respectfully submit that contrary to the information's complaint regarding a trivial matrimonial dispute, the allegations in the impugned FIR have been communalized and sensationalised by overzealous police officers at the best of religio-political group," the petition reads. It says that "The male officers have recorded nasty information with explicit sexual details which were never uttered by the informant and even if uttered, ought to have been recorded by a woman police officer." In June 17, the Vadodara police registered the case against her husband, a Muslim, her in-laws, witnesses and the religious priest. They were booked for forceful religious conversion, cheating into marriage, rape, unnatural sex, criminal conspiraeduled Cascy, and sections of Schtes and Scheduled Tribe (prevention of atrocities) Act, 1989. The woman had alleged that she met her husband through social media in 2019 and in February 2021, she got married under the special marriage act with the consent of their respective parents.  Two weeks after her lodgment of the FIR, she retracted her statement denying charges of forceful conversion, rape, among others. However, the lower court didn't entertain her statement and has refused bail to her in-laws. All the accused are still in judicial custody in jail.  Recently, the Gujarat high court stayed several sections of the controversial Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amended) Act, 2021 on the ground that these sections treat any interfaith marriage "a criminal" act. Since its implementation from June 15 this year, at least five FIRs have been registered in different parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-who-filed-first-love-jihad-case-in-gujarat-wants-fir-to-be-quashed-1028587.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Mobile internet, SMS services suspended in Karnal||With protesting farmers continuing their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters in Karnal, the Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in the district till Thursday midnight, an order issued by state Home Department said. "Mobile Internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from 07:00 hours till 23:59 hours of September 9," said the order issued on Thursday. Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over a police lathicharge in Karnal last month had failed on Wednesday after which the protesters said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters. Earlier, mobile Internet services in Karnal were suspended from 12:30 pm on September 6 till 11:59 pm on September 7 and the suspension was extended till Wednesday midnight as the situation was considered "still volatile". Now, the fresh order mentions that the situation has been reviewed "and observed to be still tense..." "Whereas, it has been brought to my notice vide..dated September 9 by ADGP (CID), Haryana that the situation has been reviewed and observed to be still tense and would trigger any time which may adversely affect public safety and law and order situation in district Karnal...," said the order referring to the protesters' call to continue the sit-in "indefinitely". The order, issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora, said mobile Internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services, including bulk SMS (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services etc provided on mobile networks, except voice calling, will remain suspended in Karnal district. It said that the suspension of mobile Internet services was ordered to stop the spread of misinformation and rumours through social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter on mobile phones and SMS. It said this could facilitate mobilisation of mobs who can cause serious loss of life and damage to public and private properties by indulging in arson, vandalism or other violent activities. All telecom service providers of Haryana are, hereby, directed to ensure compliance of the order, it added. Meanwhile, into the third day of the dharna, protesters are staying put at the gate of the mini-secretariat complex in Karnal, though farm union leaders have said officials and the public won't be stopped from entering it. Their demands centre around the suspension of IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of farmers if they cross the line during their August 28 protest. About 10 farmers were hurt that day when police used force to stop them from marching to the venue of a BJP event in Karnal. The sit-in outside the Karnal mini-secretariat, following a mahapanchayat in the same city, began Tuesday evening after talks between district officials and the farm leaders "failed". For over nine months now, farmers have been sitting on dharnas at Delhi's borders demanding that the three agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre should be withdrawn. The Union leaders claim the laws will lead to the dilution of the minimum support price (MSP) at which farmers sell their crops to government agencies.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-mobile-internet-sms-services-suspended-in-karnal-1028590.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Explained | All you need to know about scrub typhus, the disease adding to UP's worries||As over a 100 people in Uttar Pradesh have died after viral fever, several of which have been attributed to dengue, two confirmed cases of scrub typhus amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in Noida have spread fear among people. Since 2016, no case of scrub typhus was found in the district until recently. So what is scrub typhus? According to the National Health Portal (NHP), scrub typhus is a zoonotic disease. It is caused by a bacteria – Orientia tsutsugamushi – and humans are 'accidental hosts' in this disease. It is caused through mite bites. Scrub typhus cases ahve mostly been found in rural areas of Southeast Asia, Indonesia, China, Japan, India, and northern Australia. How do humans get the disease? Humans usually get the disease from locations, such as forest clearings, riverbanks, and grassy regions which are the areas where the infected mites get optimal conditions to thrive. Humans get the infection when they are in close contact with them while walking, sitting or lying on the areas where they are present. Symptoms The symptoms of scrub typhus start within 10 days days of getting bitten. Fever, headache, body aches, and rashes are some of the common symptoms and there’s a formation of “dark, scab-like region at the site of the chigger bite", according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Some people also experience severe effects of scrub typhus which include developing organ failure and bleeding that can be fatal if left untreated, according to the CDC. Treatment The symptoms of scrub typhus are similar to that of other diseases hence it is advisable to get medical help for diagnosing it. People suffering from scrub typhus are usually given antibiotic doxycycline. Prevention AT present, there are no vaccines that protect one from this disease. However, you can prevent yourself from scrub typhus by avoiding contact with infected chiggers when outside. CDC advises using insect repellents “containing DEET or other active ingredients registered for use against chiggers, on exposed skin and clothing” when around forest clearings, riverbanks, and grassy regions. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-all-you-need-to-know-about-scrub-typhus-the-disease-adding-to-ups-worries-1028619.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Future-Reliance deal: SC stays proceedings in Delhi HC, asks NCLT, CCI, SEBI not to pass final orders||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed all proceedings on Future group’s appeals against the Delhi High Court’s single judge order, which had in February restrained it from going ahead with its Rs 24,713-crore merger deal with Reliance Retail on a plea by Amazon. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana directed stay on all further proceedings before the Delhi High Court and all other authorities CCI, NCLT and SEBI and restrained them from passing any final order for four weeks. The court fixed the matter for hearing after 4 weeks, awaiting the Singapore International Arbitration Centre’s emergency arbitrator’s decision on Future's objection to proceedings by Amazon. The top court passed the order after hearing detailed arguments by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi for Future group and senior advocate Gopal Subramanium for the Amazon. Both the parties agreed for listing of the matter after four weeks. Future group claimed that the single judge had given a slew of directions (on February 2 and March 18) that went beyond the emergency arbitrator’s (EA) last year’s order. The HC order if implemented will have far reaching consequences. It sought stay on the order, saying that the entire assets have been ordered to be attached by the High Court and the contempt proceedings would be initiated if the order is not suspended.   Notably, the development comes after the Supreme Court's August 6 order by which Amazon scored a major victory with the apex court upholding EA's award restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with the Mukesh Ambani firm. It had also revived the single judge’s order that had also held FRL group chairman Kishore Biyani and others guilty for going ahead with the deal and had issued show cause notice to him and other directors of the Future Group as to why they should not be sent to prison, as sought by Amazon. Besides, the single judge had also directed the FRL to approach regulatory authorities to recall all approvals granted to the Future-Reliance Retail deal and to deposit 20 lakh as cost for violating the Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator's interim stay order of October 25, 2020. The judge had also asked for attaching the assets of Biyani and other directors and had asked them to appear before it. Challenging the single judge’s February 2 and March 18 orders, the Future group and Biyanis in their appeals before the apex court said that the single judge’s directions were not only beyond the EA’s order but also beyond the reliefs sought by Amazon in its enforcement petition. The fight between Future Group and Amazon has been going on since October 25, 2020 when the Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator passed an interim order restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail. Amazon, which acquired an indirect minority stake in Future Group in 2019 has alleged that Future's sale of its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses to Reliance Retail breached its pre-existing contract, which included a right of the first offer and a non-compete clause. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/future-reliance-deal-sc-stays-proceedings-in-delhi-hc-asks-nclt-cci-sebi-not-to-pass-final-orders-1028632.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Assembly adjourns for the day after obituary references||The proceedings of the Rajasthan Assembly were adjourned for the day on Thursday after paying obituary references to departed leaders. The session started with Assembly Speaker C P Joshi appreciating the contributions of the late leaders. He asked the members to observe a two-minute silence in their remembrance. The House paid tributes to former Rajasthan Governor and UP Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, former Rajasthan CM Jagannath Pahadia, former Governor of Kerala and Bihar Raghunadan Bhatia, former J-K Governor Jagmohan, former Himachal Pradesh CM Virbhadra Singh and others.  Members also paid tributes to those killed in lightning strikes on July 11 in Jaipur, Dholpur and Kota in the state. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-assembly-adjourns-for-the-day-after-obituary-references-1028635.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||HC refuses to entertain plea against Delhi govt’s move to organise Ganesh Chaturthi||The Delhi High Court Thursday refused to entertain a plea seeking to declare as illegal the Delhi government’s move of organising Ganesh Chaturthi from state treasury and releasing advertisements. The high court observed that the petition was filed hurriedly and without doing proper homework. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition and granted him liberty to file a fresh plea with proper averments in accordance with the law before an appropriate forum. The court said the petitioner has not placed on record the advertisement based on which the petition has been filed. Petitioner-advocate Manohal Lal Sharma said he got to know through media that the Delhi Government has been inviting people to join Ganesh Puja, on September 10, organised by the state. The plea contented that conducting and promoting religious worship by the state and giving advertisement in TV channels from state treasury is contrary to Articles 21 (protection of life and personal liberty), 25 (freedom to practice religion) and 14 (equality before law) and the basic structure of secularism. It said the religious programme was being funded by the state government for political and electoral gain and is liable to be stopped. On Wednesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations will not be allowed at public places here in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and as per the directive, people were advised to celebrate the festival at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-delhi-govt-s-move-to-organise-ganesh-chaturthi-1028637.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand High Court notice to Facebook, Centre on cyber blackmailing||The Uttarakhand High Court has sent notices to Facebook, the Centre and the state government on a PIL filed by an advocate alleging that he was a victim of cyber blackmailing. Hearing the petition on Wednesday, Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma directed Facebook India Head and central and state governments to file their replies within three weeks.  The Uttarakhand DGP and the Haridwar additional superintendent of police have also been sent notices by the division bench of the high court.  The PIL was related to obscene videos on Internet made using pictures from hacked Facebook IDs and by fraudsters having fake Facebook IDs. These videos and accounts were being used to blackmail people and extort lakhs of rupees from them.  The petitioner, an advocate based in Haridwar, said in the petition that friend requests are sent from fake Facebook IDs and once these requests are accepted the photos are edited into obscene videos. After this people are blackmailed for money, he said, adding a similar video was sent to him. He filed a complaint before the SSP Haridwar, DGP and the home secretary but no action was taken, the petitioner said.  He, then, filed an application under RTI, asking the police department about the number of FIRs registered in such cases.  Forty-five victims have lodged complaints in similar cases so far and their complaints are under consideration, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-high-court-notice-to-facebook-centre-on-cyber-blackmailing-1028668.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||NC leader Trilochan Wazir found dead in west Delhi||Former member of the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council and National Conference leader Trilochan Singh Wazir was found dead in a flat in West Delhi's Moti Nagar on Thursday, police said. The body of the 67-year-old Wazir was found in a decomposed state. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West), Urvija Goel, said, "Information of a dead body was received at Moti Nagar police station. On reaching the spot, our team found the decomposed body of a person who was identified as Trilochan Singh Wazir by one of his acquaintance." Further investigation is in progress to ascertain the exact cause of his death, police said. The family of the deceased has been informed and the body has been sent for post-mortem, they said, adding Wazir was a resident of Jammu. NC leader Omar Abdullah expressed shock at the death of his colleague. "Shocked by the terrible news of the sudden death of my colleague Sardar T. S. Wazir, ex member of the Legislative Council. It was only a few days ago that we sat together in Jammu not realising it was the last time I would be meeting him. May his soul rest in peace," he tweeted. Taking to Twitter, President of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and National Spokesperson of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, said, "Shocked & deeply pained with the murder of my dearest friend like mentor S. Tarlochan Singh Wazir ji in Delhi. He has given valuable services as Chairman of District Gurudwara Parbandak Board, J&K. My deep condolences to his family. May Waheguru grant eternal peace to his soul." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nc-leader-trilochan-wazir-found-dead-in-west-delhi-1028689.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Patients dying due to lack of proper arrangements: Mayawati on dengue outbreak in Uttar Pradesh||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Thursday voiced concern over the outbreak of dengue in Uttar Pradesh, and charged that many patients were dying due to lack of proper arrangements in government hospitals. The state's Firozabad district has been battling an outbreak of dengue and deadly viral fever for the past over two weeks, leaving 55 people dead. Some cases have been found in neighbouring Mathura, Agra and Mainpuri as well. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, "In the midst of the corona pandemic in UP, the outbreak of dengue and other mysterious fever has engulfed almost the entire state at a very fast pace. Due to lack of proper arrangements in government hospitals, many patients are dying which is a matter of concern". "The government must pay attention to this," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/patients-dying-due-to-lack-of-proper-arrangements-mayawati-on-dengue-outbreak-in-uttar-pradesh-1028705.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Government ready for impartial probe into 'entire Karnal episode,' says Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the government is ready for a probe into the "entire Karnal episode", including an IAS officer's controversial remarks and a police lathicharge on farmers that has triggered a sit-in outside the district headquarters. The minister made made it clear that "nobody can be hanged without a probe just because someone demands it".  Farmers have been protesting against a lathicharge on August 28 in which 10 people were injured when police used force to stop them from marching to the venue of a BJP event in Karnal. Their demands centre around the suspension of IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of farmers if they cross the line during their demonstration last month.  Sinha was the former SDM of Karnal before being transferred out as part of a larger bureaucratic reshuffle. Farm union leaders have maintained that transfer is not a punishment. "We are ready for an impartial probe, but this will not only be related to (former Karnal) SDM (Ayush Sinha), but the entire Karnal episode. In this (probe), if farmers or their leaders are found guilty, then whatever action is deemed fit will be taken," Vij told reporters in Ambala.  The minister, however, said, "Only genuine demands (of farmers protesting in Karnal) can be accepted."  "We cannot hang anyone because someone says so... Is the country's IPC (Indian Penal Code) different and the farmers' IPC different? It cannot be like this and punishment is always given as per the offence committed. To find out the offence, a probe has to be conducted," said Vij referring to their demand of suspending the IAS officer.  The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha over his alleged remarks to policemen. About the farmers protesting in Karnal, he said anyone has the right to hold a protest in a peaceful manner. "Farmers are holding an agitation in Karnal which is their democratic right," said Vij, while adding "our officials are regularly holding talks with them. Dialogue is an integral part of any democracy". "Mobile Internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from 07:00 hours till 23:59 hours of September 9," said the order issued on Thursday. Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over the police lathicharge had failed on Wednesday after which the protesters said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters. Meanwhile, into the third day of the dharna, protesters are staying put at the gate of the mini-secretariat complex in Karnal, though farm union leaders have said officials and the public won't be stopped from entering it. A mahapanchayat was held in the city and then the dharna began on Tuesday evening after an earlier round of talks between district officials and the farm leaders had also "failed". Farmer union leaders had earlier sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge in Karnal. The protest leaders had also claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration. The farm leaders had demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of the deceased farmer.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-ready-for-impartial-probe-into-entire-karnal-episode-says-anil-vij-1028716.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||My statement on Taliban deliberately distorted, used as ‘clickbait,’ says Mehbooba Mufti||Stating that most countries claiming to uphold the Sharia have “failed to imbibe its true values”, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said her statement on the Taliban is being deliberately distorted and used as “clickbait’ because Muslims are always expected to prove they don’t stand for violence. On Wednesday, she had said the Taliban has “come to the fore as a reality” and advised them to follow the true Sharia law that guarantees rights to women, children and elderly if they want to govern Afghanistan. The comments led to criticism in sections of the media as well as social media platforms. A day later, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said she was not surprised her statement on the Sharia had been deliberately distorted. “Cant point fingers since most countries that claim to uphold Sharia have failed to imbibe its true values. They are only fixated with restricting women through do's & dont's, dress codes etc,” Mehbooba wrote on Twitter. She said the real Medina Charter stipulates equal rights for men, women and minorities. “In fact women have been granted property, social, legal & marriage rights. Non muslims have the same rights inc religious freedom & equality of law which is the essence of secularism,” she said. Islamic history, Mehbooba said, is full of examples of emancipated and empowered women.  “Hazrat Khadija Tul Kubra, Prophet SWA first wife was an independent & successful business woman. Hazrat Ayesha Siddique led the Battle of Camel & headed a force of 13000 soldiers (sic),” she added. However, at a time when India has become “so polarised, there is increasing Islamphobia and Afghanistan crisis has only worsened it”, she said. “Muslims are always expected to prove that they don't stand for violence. I can see why my statement is being used as clickbait to further this impression,” the PDP chief said. On Wednesday, she told reporters that the Taliban should shun the hardline interpretation of Islam and Sharia if they want to do business with the international community. "Taliban has come to the fore as a reality. Their image in the first time in power was that of anti-human rights.  If they want to govern Afghanistan,  they will have to follow the true Sharia law as laid down in Qur'an which guarantees rights of women,  children and elderly," Mehbooba had said after a function here. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-statement-on-taliban-deliberately-distorted-used-as-clickbait-says-mehbooba-mufti-1028735.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC refuses to allow man to go to Afghanistan, says bleak chance of returning||The Delhi High Court has refused to grant permission to an Afghan national, who is embroiled in a customs case, to go to Afghanistan to look after his family, saying there is very bleak chance of his coming back to India in view of prevailing circumstances in his country. The high court said there was no ground to release the man’s passport and to permit him to leave India without depositing the penalty of Rs 13 lakh imposed on him. The man, who was to take the flight to Afghanistan, was intercepted at the airport carrying certain medicines illegally and proceedings were initiated against him after which a redemption fine of Rs 9 lakh, determined as per the value of seized goods, and a penalty of Rs 13 lakh was imposed on him by the Additional Commissioner of Customs. The petitioner has not paid the penalty and wanted to go to Afghanistan on the ground that he has 11 children and his first wife has been killed by terrorists and he has to look after his family. Justice Mukta Gupta dismissed his petition, saying “in view of the facts and particularly the fact that there is very bleak chance of the petitioner being able to come back to India, in view of the prevailing circumstances in Afghanistan, this court finds no ground to release the passport of the petitioner and permit him to leave the country without depositing the penalty of Rs 13 lakhs.” Initially, the man had approached the court of chief metropolitan magistrate which granted him permission on February 1, 2021, to go to Afghanistan but subject to certain conditions that was challenged by him in the sessions court. His revision petition was dismissed in June after which he approached the high court. The man’s counsel submitted that he was not in a position to submit the redemption fine of Rs 9 lakhs and Rs 13 lakhs as personal penalty and sought that he be permitted to deposit 20 per cent of the amount and be permitted to go to Afghanistan. The counsel said as the man is not inclined to take the goods back, the redemption fine is not required to be deposited and only penalty has to be paid. On a court’s query that whether the man has challenged the Additional Commissioner of Customs’ order in appeal, the counsel replied in negative. The high court said in case no appeal has been filed challenging the order, it has attained finality and the man, who was found carrying medicines illegally, is required to pay the penalty of Rs 13 lakhs which is a penalty in personam (against a person). “Considering that the adjudication proceedings qua the petitioner have attained finality and the petitioner even does not wish to redeem the articles, is required to deposit the penalty amount, hence this court finds no error in the impugned judgement. Petition is dismissed,” it said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-refuses-to-allow-man-to-go-to-afghanistan-says-bleak-chance-of-returning-1028740.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Gwalior police says drunk model created ruckus, attacked army vehicle||An allegedly drunk 22-year-old model attacked an army vehicle and created a ruckus in Gwalior on Wednesday night, police said here on Thursday. According to the police, the model, who came from Delhi allegedly created a ruckus on the road under the influence of alcohol and stopped an army vehicle and attacked it. She also pushed back an army official who tried to stop her and disrupted traffic movement on the road.The incident was reported to the the Padav police station from where a woman cop was called who took the model to the police station. Vivek Asthana, in-charge of Padav police station, said that a young woman had created a ruckus on the road, vandalized the army vehicle and damaged it. We have got the medical test of the girl done, and necessary action is being taken, he added. Locals of the area said that three girls from Delhi had come to Gwalior and one of them created a ruckus on the road. The two other girls also reached the police station to demand the release of the girl who was detained by the police. Later the police released her on bail. The three girls claimed that they had come from Delhi to Gwalior to participate in an event. They said they were staying in a hotel in the city. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gwalior-police-says-drunk-model-created-ruckus-attacked-army-vehicle-1028759.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC stays Varanasi court's orders for ASI survey at Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi Mosque premises ||In a significant decision, the Allahabad high court on Thursday stayed the orders of the Varanasi district court for an archaeological survey at the disputed Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi Mosque premises in Varanasi. A single bench headed by Justice Prakash Padia passed the order on the petition of the Anjuman Intezamia Masjid, Varanasi challenging the decision of the lower court. The HC observed that the lower court should not have "proceeded and decided the application seeking ASI survey" in the complex as the matter was pending in the HC. "The judicial courtesy and decorum warranted such discipline which was expected from the court below but for the unfathomable reasons, neither of the courses were taken....It is to be regretted that the court below departed from this traditional way in the present case and chose to examine the question itself," the court observed further. The court said that "judicial enthusiasm should not obliterate the profound responsibility that is expected from the Court below". A Varanasi district had in April this year directed for the ASI survey in the complex on the application of Vijay Shankar Rastogi, who had contended that the entire premises belonged to the Kashi Vishwanath and that the Gyanvapi Mosque was only a part of the Temple. The petition had been filed in 1991. Rastogi had also cited the example of ASI excavation to resolve the dispute of ownership in the Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid Title Suits. The Muslim side had pleaded that the situation, as it was on August 15, 1947, should be allowed to continue. The premises had been a bone of contention between the two communities for the past several decades but there was renewed clamor to "take back" the Kashi Vishwanath Temple premises by the saffron outfits after the favourable decision of the apex court in the Ram Temple case. The Akhil Bhartiya Sant Samiti (ABSS) had earlier asked the Muslims to "hand over" the Kashi Vishwanath Temple land in Varanasi on which, according to them, the Gyanvapi Mosque currently existed and had threatened to launch an agitation to 'liberate' the same if it did not happen. Some saffron leaders had even threatened to demolish, what they termed the 'blots' on the rich history of Hinduism and said they must be 'removed' without delay. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-stays-varanasi-courts-orders-for-asi-survey-at-kashi-vishwanath-temple-gyanvapi-mosque-premises-1028788.html
09-09-2021||North and Central||Over 84% of Kashmir's population exposed to Covid-19: Study||Over 84.4% population in Kashmir has been exposed to Covid-19, a study carried out by experts has found. The pan-Kashmir cross-sectional sero-study was conducted among general population and various subsets of population which include police personnel, healthcare workers, pregnant women by Government Medical College, Srinagar in collaboration with several other premier health institutions in the valley. “The study among the general population in 10 districts of Kashmir shows 84.3% of our study population was positive for IgG-II (or the anti-spike protein) antibody which is produced after infection with SARS CoV -2 as well as after vaccination," a statement by the GMC, Srinagar, said. “In the general population of seven years and above, the data was collected in July 2021 with each medical college mentoring two districts. Within each district, 10 clusters were randomly selected and within each cluster 40 samples were collected from individuals more than seven years of age after obtaining proper informed consent for the study,” it added. The IgM antibody which is usually produced by recent infection with SARS-CoV-2 (can rarely also be produced in recent vaccination. This antibody was positive in about 20.75 % of participants. Total samples processed and reported include 3586 samples from the general population with mean age of 35.33 ±18 years. Further, 2077 samples were processed and reported from among the police personnel, health workers and antenatal women, the statement added. “During the time of study, a total of 20.3% participants had received both doses of Covid-19 vaccination and the majority (79.25%) had not received any jabs. However, since then the vaccination has scaled up and the sero positivity due to vaccination would have gone up also,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, Professor and HOD Community Medicine GMC, Srinagar who was the principal investigator of the study. “We need not to be complacent with the results as new variants could emerge and apprehend immune escape. So we need to follow CAB SOPs and all those who haven't gone for vaccination yet shall do it urgently,” he advised. The figures reveal that Srinagar and Anantnag districts have the highest sero prevalence in terms of IgG II (anti spike protein IgG antibody) District wise IgG II (Anti Spike antibodies) status: Anantnag - 87.23%;Bandipora - 84.42%Baramulla -84.91%Budgam - 83.68%Ganderbal - 82.8%Kulgam - 82.95%Kupwara - 81.05%Pulwama - 78.24%Shopian - 86.89%Srinagar - 89.77%Total - 84.36% Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-84-of-kashmirs-population-exposed-to-covid-19-study-1028789.html
09-09-2021||Opinion||Is the global economic recovery over or just on pause?||By Daniel Moss Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Philip Lowe has a coffee mug in his office inscribed with the words “half full.” Lowe says he's an optimist about next year, as do many of his peers. They’ll have to make it through 2021 first.  The global economy is in for a choppy future that may provide few convincing signals about the vitality and duration of the recovery. Just as analysts and investors were beginning to worry that growth was bouncing back too sharply and bottlenecks were adding to inflation concerns, the Covid-19 delta variant has stalled commercial activity. If we aren’t back to square one, we have lost significant ground. That’s making central bankers’ task of reining in monetary accommodation — never easy in the best of times — even trickier. Proceed too fast and growth may be set back or, worse, policy makers have to stage a humiliating retreat. Go too slow and risk overheating, should the lull prove to be only a blip. The varied approach of central banks around the world in recent weeks shows how difficult this needle is to thread. South Korea hiked interest rates and made clear there are a few more to come. New Zealand blinked on a widely forecast increase but wants to try again soon. The Federal Reserve is still likely to proceed with a cautious reduction in bond buying, but discouraging jobs numbers for August have raised questions about precisely when the process can begin. Lowe opted Tuesday to split the difference. He went ahead with the RBA's planned taper of quantitative easing to $A4 billion ($3 billion) a week from A$5 billion, in what economists described as a close call. At the same time, he extended the timeline for the current pace of buying to February; initially the bank planned to review that amount in November. While gross domestic product will suffer a big decline this quarter thanks to lockdowns, the implication is that the fourth quarter will be better. The variant will “delay, but not derail” the recovery, Lowe said. His strategy is a neat way to be consistent with past communication on tapering while kicking the ball into next year.  We’ll probably see more of these very small steps, followed by a generous amount of wait-and-see. There's little question the global economy is in better shape than it was a year ago, and far superior to the start of the pandemic. If the stimulus unleashed by global central banks was aimed at preventing a catastrophic financial crisis and nursing businesses and consumers to a recovery, then an important part of what it set out to do has been achieved. For all its severity, the US recession was the shortest on record, though employment remains well below pre-pandemic levels. So while there isn’t yet a compelling case for adding to accommodation with additional measures, that doesn’t mean it’s the right time to reduce the amount of liquidity pumped in, either. The International Monetary Fund forecasts the global economy will expand 6% this year. On a country-by-country level, momentum has been lost: Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for US growth this year while Morgan Stanley now puts expansion at 2.9% this quarter, down from 6.5%. China is trying to put a floor under a new slowdown. German investor confidence declined for a fourth month in September. Payroll gains in the U.S were the weakest in seven months in August and less than the most pessimistic forecast. It’s inevitable that the recovery would cool from its torrid pace, but this is a tough time to be making decisions about changing direction, even if it's gradual. Policy makers need to be nimble without being too quick. Asked in parliamentary testimony last month about the meaning of the phrase on his mug, Lowe said: “There is a great deal of uncertainty about how the economy is going to travel over the next few months and much depends upon the health situation, but the experience here and elsewhere is that, once the health situation is brought under control, the economy bounces back quickly.’’ Things have deteriorated in Australia and beyond since then. Still, Lowe seems prepared to look through the noise. Whatever picture emerges will determine the future of once-radical monetary steps, be they slowed, withdrawn or paused. The Fed, European Central Bank and People’s Bank of China face similar reckonings in the months ahead. Communication will be everything. Let's hope our monetary chieftains are at least half-way caffeinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-the-global-economic-recovery-over-or-just-on-pause-1028582.html
09-09-2021||Opinion||Pre-emptive strike: Mohan Bhagwat's inexplicable Muslim-love||In an outreach programme by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), its chief, Mohan Bhagwat, appealed to Muslims to work for national progress along with the majority community. As far he was concerned, "The term Hindu … denotes every person irrespective of their language, community or religion. Everyone is a Hindu, and it is in this context that we see every Indian citizen as Hindu," he said.  At the meeting held in Mumbai, Bhagwat claimed that religious diversity was, "In tune with our great culture, which accepts diverse opinions, we commit that there won't be disrespect for other faiths." Some political observers have suggested that this indicates a significant theoretical shift in Hindutva, marking a softer stance towards those who follow religions originating outside the subcontinent.  VD Savarkar, on the other hand, had insisted that those whose "Holy Land" (Punyabhumi) was not the same as their land of birth (Pitrabhumi) would not be compatible with the Indian/Hindu nation. Is the RSS indeed distancing itself from Savarkar's "two-nation theory", or is it dissembling? The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has undeniably put all kinds of religion-based politics on notice. Ministers in the newly formed cabinet in Kabul include 14 prominent terrorists, some with a huge bounty on their heads. Even as the global community is forced to deal with religious extremists across the political table, it will have to introspect and set the limits of the degrees of religious extremism it will countenance.  Bhagwat's speech could be seen as an attempt to pre-empt the RSS and its front organisations from being singled out for scrutiny in this regard. Many Indian commentators have noted similarities with the Taliban. Eminent writer Javed Akhtar is already drawing fire for saying on TV, "Look at the right-wing objectively. They are the same people. Their names and faces are different, but their value system is the same vis-à-vis gender, minorities – they have no love lost for minorities, like the Taliban." The RSS and its front organisations, especially the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal, have also been named in the past by the US Commission for International Religious Freedom for promoting intolerance and trying "to 'saffronise' India through violence, intimidation, and harassment against non-Hindus and Hindu Dalits."  International media and human rights organisations have red-flagged the violent toll of Hindu nationalism of the RSS time and again. Whether or not the Indian government accepts such criticism, others have joined the dots that connect ideologies intolerant of the Muslim minority with institutionalised discrimination against them. Bhagwat's speech was not off-the-cuff. It was carefully staged. A group of invited Muslims clerics sat in the audience while he was flanked onstage by two prominent Muslims holding important positions at the government's pleasure – Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Chancellor of the Central University of Kashmir, Lt. General (R) Syed Ata Hasnain. The Muslim clerics symbolised openness towards an inclusive dialogue while the two beneficiaries of government largesse signalled the perks available for supporting the Establishment. In the past, neither Bhagwat nor his acolytes have ever come out in support of Muslims as citizens: neither when the new citizenship laws were perceived as being discriminatory to minorities; nor when lynch mobs forced Muslims to perform humiliating tests of nationalism and jump through hoops to prove their Indianness. They kept silent on the murder of the Steins by Bajrang Dal's Dara Singh and the bombing of Mecca Masjid, Ajmer Sharif, Samjhauta Express or the Malegaon blasts by Hindutva extremists.  When today, Bhagwat tells Muslims that "sensible leaders of the Muslim community must oppose extremism", will he also make a similar appeal to "sensible leaders of the Hindu community"? However, when the world is likely to recalibrate how far it is willing to accept religious extremists in positions of political power, Bhagwat is compelled to talk of the common heritage and ancestry of Muslims and Hindus and indeed of Hindu exceptionalism.  Any comparison with the intolerance of the Taliban has to be staved off. Bhagwat, in the past, has insisted that "Hindu terrorism" is an oxymoron.  One wonders what Bhagwat thinks of organisations like Abhinav Bharat or Sanatan Sanstha, which have been involved in murder and mayhem. Or how he would face the widow of Pehlu Khan, the families of those murdered by Hindu mobs in the Gujarat riots of 2002, the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 or the Northeast Delhi riots of 2020?  The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) were Hindus though not motivated by Hinduism. Bald denials that Hindus can never be terrorists do not stand historical or contemporary scrutiny. Moreover, such clever shifts in the statements of the Hindutva leadership mean little to the RSS cadres. Their actions on the ground do little to support Bhagwat's grand claims of Hindu tolerance. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pre-emptive-strike-mohan-bhagwats-inexplicable-muslim-love-1028653.html
09-09-2021||Opinion||India's inclusion in the global bond indices could be a gamechanger||India's aspiration to be a part of the global bond indices could materialise as early as 2022. It could result in inflows in the bond market to the tune of $170 billion in the base case scenario in the next decade and $250 billion in a bullish scenario, which would have broader implications for the economy, foreign exchange and equity markets. On Wednesday, a Morgan Stanley report predicted that India would be included in global bond indices in early 2022, with Euroclear to announce that India is becoming Euroclearable by the end-2021. "We expect the index inclusion announcement to happen in 4Q21 and the actual inclusion to happen as early as 1Q22," the Morgan Stanley report said. "This would attract $40 billion of index inflows in the next two years, followed by annual $18.5 billion inflows driven by active managers' allocation to India," it said. Upasana Chachra, an economist with Morgan Stanley, wrote that India has a mixed attitude towards foreign bond flows – as the large inflows and outflows would impact the exchange rate. But a major shift to welcome foreign bond flows occurred in 2020 when the government established a programme that allows foreign investors to buy unlimited amounts of government bonds via its Fully Accessible Route (FAR).  This was an effort to push for government bonds to join global bond indices. "This marks a major shift to welcome and attract foreign bond inflows," Chachra said. There are two reasons why India has been making such a policy shift now. One is the improvement of the macroeconomic fundamentals. First, there is price stability with the monetary policy committee of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) adopting a flexible inflation targeting regime since 2016, which resulted in inflation staying around the target mark, except for the Covid-19 pandemic year (2020-21). Second, in the external sector, the current account deficit has remained below 2 per cent of the GDP since 2014. Lastly, there is financial stability, with gross non-performing assets of banks falling to 7.5 per cent - the lowest level in nine years. Another reason for such a policy shift is the government's willingness to push for capital expenditure driven growth. "The push for capex-driven growth alongside an improvement in macro stability has set the stage for a calibrated opening up of India's government debt market," the report said. The report observed that the bond inflows would drive India's balance of payments to be in a surplus structurally, improving external stability, lowering the long-term cost of capital, and supporting capex-driven growth. Impact of bond flows The declining trend of foreign ownership of Indian bonds will be reversed with the inclusion, with inflows accelerating from 2022, which could lead to foreign ownership of Indian bonds up to 9 per cent by 2031, in a base case scenario, as compared to 1.9 per cent now. The report expects the government bond curve to flatten by 50bp and the 10-year government bond to trade at 5.85 per cent in 2022.  (1 percentage point = 100 bps) Economy  On the economic impact, the report said the opening up indicates policymakers' desire to push growth rates higher through investment. "It will push India's balance of payments into a structural surplus zone, indirectly create an environment for a lower cost of capital and ultimately be positive for growth." The report expects the central government deficit to reduce to 2.5 per cent of GDP and consolidated deficit to reach 5 per cent of GDP by FY2029 from 14.4 per cent in FY2021.  The current account deficit to average at 1.6 per cent of GDP and capital account surplus to be 3.3 per cent in the next ten years. "With inflation near the 4%Y mark and real GDP growth expected to average at 6.5%Y in the next ten years, we estimate the long-term policy rate to be close to 5.5%, thus ensuring real rates remain positive, averaging 1.5%," it said. Exchange rate A structural surplus in the balance of payments and improving productivity could drive the rupee to appreciate 2%/year in Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) terms. "Assuming India's long-term inflation would be 4%Y, this would imply a 2% depreciation of INR in nominal terms. Considering IGBs' [Indian government bond] yield of around 6%, it could offer 4% USD return over the medium term, quite attractive to foreign investors." Sovereign credit Foreign inflows would lead to lowering of borrowing costs, which helps debt sustainability. "It is important for India to keep an investment-grade rating. Local market inclusion could reduce the likelihood of eurobonds. We expect 30-40bp of spread tightening," the report said. Stocks Equity market returns could be higher due to bond inflows' positive impact on growth and interest rates and accentuate the case for India's return correlations to decline.  It would also benefit financials, including banks, particularly the large private banks and non-banks stocks, via lower borrowing costs and higher credit growth.   (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-inclusion-in-the-global-bond-indices-could-be-a-gamechanger-1028658.html
09-09-2021||Panorama||After West Bengal, BJP, Trinamool set the stage for 2023 Tripura battle||Tripura is now witnessing almost everything political that West Bengal saw months before the Assembly elections in March-April.  From Trinamool Congress’ popular slogans like Khela Hobe (the game is on) to clashes among party workers and the dissent against BJP Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb have set the tone for another showdown between BJP and Mamata Banerjee’s party in 2023, a year before the 2024 Lok Sabha elections when Mamata would make all-out efforts to oust the Narendra Modi government.   The fight in Tripura, however, would be just the reverse of that in Bengal. Being in power, the BJP will be the defender and will exert itself to stop the TMC from wresting power.  “Trinamool will form its government in Tripura in 2023. After Bengal’s victory, our leader Mamata Banerjee has taken this up as a challenge,” TMC national general secretary and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee told reporters in Agartala on August 17, throwing the challenge at BJP.  Abhishek, who is Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, uploaded a video on Twitter that showed a crowd hitting his car with bamboo poles near Agartala while he was on his way to the ancient Tripurasundari temple, 55 km away from the capital. He alleged that the attackers were BJP workers. Bengal, too, witnessed similar violence when the BJP challenged the ruling TMC.  The TMC’s confidence grew as more than 60,000 workers, a sizeable number from the BJP, joined the party since its victory in Bengal in May.  “The TMC is not at all a factor for us. They don’t have a block-level committee yet. Like 2018, our fight is going to be against CPI (M),” BJP spokesperson in Tripura, Nabendu Bhattacharya told DH from Agartala. “They (TMC) don’t even have a local face to lead,” he said. TMC now doesn’t have a single MLA in the 60-member Assembly.  Political observers said, however, that not having an MLA or a prominent face does not put the TMC at an insurmountable disadvantage. “In 2018, the BJP managed to wrest power from the CPI(M) government that had ruled for 25 years, and the BJP did not have a single MLA or a prominent face, either,” one observer said.  Faceless Trinamool  Unlike in Bengal, in Tripura, the TMC is struggling to find and project a leader from its soil. Former Congress leader from Assam Sushmita Dev joined Trinamool on August 16 and is leading the party’s meetings to build up the organisation. Leaders from Bengal, like Abhishek and Kunal Ghosh, are also frequently visiting Tripura, some even staging dharnas in front of police stations to protest the arrest of their workers after clashes with BJP rivals. But TMC party workers in the state feel that “outside leaders” would cause more harm.  The TMC had formed its first unit in the Bengali-majority Tripura in 1998, but never got off the blocks, barring briefly in 2016 when it poached six Congress MLAs. In 2018, BJP won 36 seats while its ally IPFT bagged eight out of nine seats it contested. The TMC is yet to name its state unit president. “We are trying to build up our organisational base. People of Tripura want a change as the BJP betrayed them by not fulfilling the promises it made in 2018,” Sushmita said.  The BJP, meanwhile, is grappling with internal dissent, with some MLAs ranged against CM Deb. Some of these MLAs could join TMC. Separate Tipraland  The ruling BJP faced a worrying situation in April when its ally IPFT lost elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC), where the tribals dominate. Tipra Motha, the regional party led by Pradyot Kishore Manikya Deb Barma, the scion of the erstwhile Tripura royal family, won the council polls. Deb Barma is harping on the demand for a “Greater Tipraland” state, which seeks to include all tribal areas outside TTAADC and the same in parts of neighbouring Assam, Mizoram and Bangladesh.  “Only a Greater Tipraland can ensure the protection of the indigenous people, their identity, culture and welfare,” Deb Barma has been saying in all public meetings. He was the president of Congress’ Tripura unit till September 2019, when he quit the party citing high command’s pressure to accommodate “corrupt people” in the party. The Tripuris claim they have become a minority in their own state due to largescale migration of Bengalis from neighbouring Bangladesh.  Deb Barma said his party was open for alliance with any party accepting the demand for “Greater Tipraland.”  TMC, however, has not yet made its stand clear on the Tipraland demand. “Our party will take a call. But I personally want a leader belonging to the indigenous community to be the next CM,” a senior TMC leader in Tripura, Ashish Lal Singh, told DH.  Twenty seats in the 60-seat Assembly are reserved for the tribals, while they are said to hold sway over 12 more. In 2018, the regional IPFT was BJP’s trump card in the tribal areas. “IPFT’s support base has now reduced,” said BJP spokesman Nabendu Bhattacharya. The IPFT had earlier harped on a Tipraland state, a longstanding demand of the Tripuri tribals, even as the BJP is against the division of Tripura. “People will vote for BJP for the historic development projects our CM Biplab Kumar Deb has taken up since 2018—be it in job creation by value addition and export of local products, procurement of paddy directly from farmers by FCI, or improvement in transportation,” Bhattacharya said. Left factor  The CPI(M), led by veteran Manik Sarkar, was defeated by BJP and IPFT in 2018 after being in power for 25 years, 20 of them with Sarkar as CM. It won only 16 seats in 2018 and is struggling to prepare its next generation of leaders. But people in both BJP and TMC camps still consider the CPI(M) to be the main contender. “BJP will not get a single seat in 2023, and our fight will be against the Left,” Ashish Lal Singh said.  Abhishek Banerjee has claimed that the TMC would trounce the BJP, as it did in Bengal. “If Bengal can, why can’t Tripura?” he asked reporters in Agartala recently. DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/after-west-bengal-bjp-trinamool-set-the-stage-for-2023-tripura-battle-1028591.html
09-09-2021||South||Kalaburagi will get BJP Mayor, says CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said Kalaburagi would get a BJP Mayor even as the JD(S) appears adamant on them getting the top post.  “Discussions are still in their preliminary stages. I won't comment on anything now. But you can be sure that the Mayor will be from BJP," Bommai said.  In the 55-member Kalaburagi City Corporation, Congress has 27 seats, BJP 23, JD(S) four and one Independent. Support of the JD(S) is key for both the Congress and BJP to assume power. The CM’s assertion comes a day after four JD(S) councillors, who are being chased by both BJP and Congress for an alliance, met their party honchos HD Deve Gowda and H D Kumaraswamy. They are of the opinion that they should join hands with the party that cedes the Mayor’s chair to them.  In his meeting with BJP national president J P Nadda in New Delhi earlier this week, Bommai said that Cabinet expansion was not discussed. "As he was not keeping well, the meeting was brief. He has advised me to give more importance to party organisation in view of future elections," Bommai said. Bommai said that he had sought a report from the Health Department and experts on the behaviour of Nipah virus and how it could affect the state. "We will have a discussion today evening." According to Bommai, his visit to New Delhi was fruitful. "The Satellite Town Ring Road (STRR) from Dobaspet to Mysuru Road, which was pending for 2-3 years, will get clearances. Work will start in the next five to six months," he said. Also, expansion of the National Highway between Vijayapura and Sankeshwar will also be taken up along with four other highways, according to the CM. The suburban railway project will be taken up shortly. Work on rail lines between Davangere and Tumakuru, Hubballi and Belagavi, and Bidar and Kalaburagi will also begin as soon as possible. During discussion with Union minister Rajeev Chandrashekar, a decision to set up a 'Hardware Park' between Bengaluru and Kolar was made. “There is also a proposal to set up a Skill University, which we are examining,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kalaburagi-will-get-bjp-mayor-says-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1028628.html
09-09-2021||South||Kerala HC orders police protection for Thrikkakara Municipal Chairperson||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the police to provide protection for Thrikkakara Municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan from any threat from any source. Justice Devan Ramachandran said an interim direction was required to be issued as the petitioner was the elected chairperson of the municipality, even as the government lawyer representing the police contended that there was no law and order problem there. The lawyer for the municipal chairperson alleged "hooliganism and vandalism" by 14 councillors (respondent 3 to respondent 16) of the municipality and said that they were not allowing her to discharge her duties. Thankappan's lawyer alleged that she was being "attacked" by the councillors. In view of the submission made on behalf of the petitioner, who was an elected member of the municipality, the court directed that "respondent 2 (SHO of the area) shall ensure adequate protection of her life from any threat to her from any source", so that she can discharge her duties. The court also sought response of the police on the plea by Thankappan alleging threat to her life from opposition councillors and seeking police protection for discharging her duties. Thankappan, in her plea, has alleged that the opposition councillors were not permitting her to enter the office and discharge her duties. She has also alleged that she was "racially insulted and humiliated" by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-orders-police-protection-for-thrikkakara-municipal-chairperson-1028662.html
09-09-2021||South||61 test negative for Nipah so far, says Kerala Health Minister Veena George||Test results of 61 people who had come in close contact with the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah have been negative, till now, for the virus infection, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. In a press release, the minister said samples of 15 more persons in the contact list came back negative, taking the total number of people who are in the clear to 61. She also said more samples would be tested during the day and that at present 64 persons were under observation at the Kozhikode Medical College and their health was stable. As of Wednesday evening the total number of people who tested negative was 46. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/61-test-negative-for-nipah-so-far-says-kerala-health-minister-veena-george-1028664.html
09-09-2021||South||Love and narcotic jihad exists in Kerala: Catholic Bishop||A Catholic bishop on Thursday triggered a controversy, saying that Christian girls were largely falling prey to "love and narcotic jihad" in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth belonging to other religions. Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, bishop of Pala in Kottayam district under the Syro Malabar Church, made the controversial remarks during a church-related ceremony the other day. He also referred to a recent statement of Kerala former state police chief Loknath Behra that sleeper cells are present in Kerala and the state has become a recruiting place for extremist outfits. Kallarangatt said that for jihadis, non-Muslims have to be destroyed. "They are resorting to many modus operandi to achieve this objective. Two such are 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad' that is widely being discussed." He elaborated that 'narcotic or drug jihad' refers to the practice of destroying the life of non-Muslim youths by making them drug addicts. "The increasing ganja trade is pointing towards this practice. Ice cream parlours and hotels run by those following extremist ideologies are even using drugs to destroy non-Muslim youths. Details of those being held in connection with rave parties that promote drug use are also vindicating these facts," he said while speaking about inter-religious marriages.  Alleging that jihadis were trained in trapping and brainwashing girls belonging to other religions, Kallarangatt noted that it was Christian and Hindu girls from the state who had been converted and sent to the terrorist camps in Afghanistan recently. The matter should be examined seriously how they had been converted and reached the terrorist camps abroad, he added. "Nowadays, Christian girls are largely becoming victims of such traps...We need to recognise that jihadis, with extreme mindset, have laid the trap in schools, colleges, hostels, commercial establishments and other such public places and institutions with an aim to lure the girls at their tender age," he said. The Catholic priest even said that those, who try to establish that 'love and narcotic jihad' does not exist in the state, were just shutting their eyes to reality. "The politicians, socio-cultural leaders and journalists, who try to deny the fact, may have their own vested interests to do so," he added. Various Christian churches in Kerala have been alleging 'love jihad' in Kerala and the BJP had also backed it. Even during the recent Assembly election campaign in Kerala, the BJP leaders had raised the issue in a bid to woo the Christian vote banks of the state. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath even asked why the Kerala government was not bringing in law against 'love jihad'. (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/love-and-narcotic-jihad-exists-in-kerala-catholic-bishop-1028692.html
09-09-2021||South||'Cooperative' bank politics in Kerala under focus||The dubious political interests over the lucrative cooperative banking sector of Kerala has come up for discussion again, with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejecting outright a Left Front MLA's demand for Enforcement Directorate probe into the alleged black money stash by a prominent leader of the opposition camp in a cooperative bank. Cooperative banks in Kerala that are managed by the political parties often face allegations of being havens of black money of party leaders. Out of the 1,650 odd cooperative banks in Kerala, about 75 per cent are controlled by the CPI(M) and other Left Front parties. During the demonetisation, the cooperative banks in Kerala came under allegations of facilitating illegal currency exchange and the Centre even imposed restrictions. This even led to the CPI(M) and the Congress jointly staging demonstrations against it. The present row over former higher education minister and Left Front MLA K T Jaleel alleging huge black money dealings of Indian Union Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty MLA in the IUML-controlled AR Nagar Service Cooperative Bank. He raised the allegation in view of an inspection report of the Kerala cooperation department that found illegal transactions worth over Rs 1,000 crore at the Malappuram-based bank. Jaleel demanded a probe by the Enforcement Directorate into it. However, Vijayan rejected the demand maintaining that central agencies need not be allowed to interfere into the cooperative sector of Kerala as it has its own mechanisms to probe into illegal activities. Other CPI(M) senior leaders and Kerala cooperation minister V N Vasavan also backed Vijayan's stand. The CPI(M) cadres also say that since the Left Front government in Kerala had earlier taken a stand against the central agencies in connection with the probes against the state government in connection with the gold smuggling row, a Left Front MLA himself seeking ED probe was a contradiction. Vijayan also had a talk with Jaleel on the matter. The fresh development has triggered allegations that the CPI(M)'s real concern was that allowing the ED to look into the cooperative banking sector of Kerala many bring to focus the illegal transactions not just of the IUML controlled bank, but all cooperative banks. Since CPI(M) and left parties control a majority of the cooperative banks, such a move could be more damaging to the CPI(M) and left parties. The state even recently witnessed a major scam at a CPI(M)-controlled Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank in Thrissur district. It is estimated that the cooperative banks in Kerala are having deposits to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore. The parallel banking system offered by the cooperative banks are allegedly helping the political bosses to strengthen their connection with the masses with the comparatively easier finance options. While the Congress is maintaining silence over the present row, BJP has alleged that the unholy nexus between the CPI(M) and IUML over cooperative bank have now come out in the open. The BJP leaders from the state are also planning to urge the Centre seeking ED probe into it. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cooperative-bank-politics-in-kerala-under-focus-1028734.html
09-09-2021||South||Telangana becomes first state to launch drone trials for deliveries||Telangana became the first state in the country to launch a trial run for delivering vaccines by drones to healthcare centres in remote areas. The two-day trial run of drones under the state government's 'Medicine from the Sky' project began on Thursday in Vikarabad town. Vikarabad District Collector K Nikhila formally inaugurated the trial run in the parade ground. Boxes weighing 2-3 kgs took off from the Vikarabad district hospital for primary healthcare centres 500 metres away, flying to an altitude of up to 400 feet. "This is the first time in India that trial run is being conducted to use drone technology to deliver vaccines or medicines to remote areas," she said. The three-phase trial will see six flights a day, with each drone carrying 175 vaccines in temperature-controlled boxes. The project will be formally launched on September 11 by Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Telangana Industries and Information Technology Minister K T Rama Rao. The 'Medicine from the Sky' is an initiative of the Telangana government, spearheaded by the Emerging Technologies Wing of the ITE&C Department, in partnership with World Economic Forum, NITI Aayog, and HealthNet Global (Apollo Hospitals). The project entails undertaking experimental Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) drone flights for delivery of vaccines using the identified airspace of the Vikarabad district. The project has received the final regulatory nod from the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Three of the eight selected consortia, namely Bluedart Med Express Consortium (Skye Air), Hepicopter Consortium (Marut Drones), and CurisFly Consortium (TechEagle Innovations), have already reached Vikarabad and have started testing of their drones, via VLOS and BVLOS flights. With the launch, the consortia would continue to further test the endurance of their drones over increasing longer distances and heavier payloads to establish the reliability, officials said. The project is the first of its kind in India as it is the first organised BVLOS drone trials in the country and the same are being conducted in healthcare as the domain. Indian drone delivery start-up firm Skye Air Mobility, which is a part of the consortium for the project, will conduct the majority of drone flights. Skye Air has joined hands with Blue Dart Express to provide drone-based delivery and drone flights to conduct these trials. MFTS Project's first two days of the trials will be flying in the visual line of sight, which involves drones flying between 500 to 700 meters from the base and they can be seen with the naked eye. From September 11 onwards, BVLOS drone flights will take place for 9-10 km distances. These flights will be with consignments of vaccine, medical samples, and other healthcare items. "We are extremely delighted to be a part of this project with the Telangana government and our tie-up with leading firms to give the first live demonstration trials which are being conducted in real time with real vaccines & medicines being carried," Skye Air Mobility Co-Founder Swapnik Jakkampundi said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-becomes-first-state-to-launch-drone-trials-for-deliveries-1028758.html
09-09-2021||South||Carbon dating puts Porunai River Civilisation at 3,200 years old||Carbon dating analysis of rice with soil found in a burial urn in Sivakalai in southern Tamil Nadu during an archaeological excavation has revealed that they go back to 1155 BCE. This means the Porunai River (Thamirabarani) civilisation in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts of Tamil Nadu dates back to 3,200 years old, much older than the Vaigai River civilisation, which is believed to be 2,600 years old. The findings of the carbon dating of the rice with soil by Beta Analytical Lab in Florida, US was announced by Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday in the Assembly. The latest finding has once again narrowed the gap between civilisations in the south of Vindhyas and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). “It is the duty of this government to scientifically prove that the history of the Indian sub-continent is written from the Tamil landscape,” Stalin said in a statement made under Rule 110 of the Tamil Nadu Assembly. He also announced that the government will set up a grand museum that will display artefacts and other items found from the excavation at Rs 15 crore. The Chief Minister said the Tamil Nadu government will conduct archaeological excavations in neighbouring states and countries to get to the Tamil roots there. In the first phase, the studies will be carried out in Pattanam in Kerala, while plans are on to conduct such studies at Vengi in Andhra Pradesh, Thalaikadu in Karnataka, and Palur in Odisha. The findings of the carbon dating analysis from Porunai River civilisation comes amidst continuous findings from archaeological excavations in Keeladi, Agaram, and Konthagai in Sivaganga district. The excavation which is at the seventh phase now has produced thousands of artefacts that date back to 2,600 years pushing the Sangam Era of ancient Madurai to a couple of hundred years back. In Keeladi, artefacts excavated established a possible continuity between Tamil Brahmi scripts and the one that existed during the Indus Valley Civilisation. The excavation in Keeladi had also established that an urban civilisation existed on the banks of River Vaigai that was contemporary to the Gangetic plain civilisation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/carbon-dating-puts-porunai-river-civilisation-at-3200-years-old-1028774.html
09-09-2021||South||Decoration at famous Kerala temple for NRI businessman's wedding invites court intervention||Elaborate decorations in front of the famous Guruvayur Sri Krishna Temple in Kerala for the marriage of NRI businessman Ravi Pillai's son have invited the court's intervention. The Kerala High Court has sought an affidavit on the matter from the Guruvayur Devaswom that manages the temple. Apart from floral decorations, huge cutouts and branches of trees were used to decorate the 'nadapandal' in front of the temple where marriages take place. Only 12 persons are allowed in a marriage ceremony owing to Covid-19. Up to 110 marriages are held every day at the temple. The Devaswom authorities maintained that permission was granted only for floral decorations in connection with the marriage that took place on Thursday. On Wednesday, Pillai had donated a golden crown studded with emerald as an offering to the temple. The specially designed crown weighed 725 grams.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/decoration-at-famous-kerala-temple-for-nri-businessmans-wedding-invites-court-intervention-1028805.html
09-09-2021||South||More test Nipah negative in Kerala; Covid cases also come down||As many as 22 more persons in the contact list of the boy who died of Nipah at Kozhikode in Kerala were tested negative on Thursday. Health Minister Veena George said that so far 68 persons in the contact list were tested negative. A total of 274 persons were in the contact list of the boy who hailed from Chathamangalam in Kozhikode district. Camps were being conducted to test all persons in the locality having any sorts of symptoms. The source of infection on the boy was yet to be ascertained. Experts from various agencies were widely testing specimens from animals and birds in the locality as well as fruits. Meanwhile, daily fresh Covid cases in Kerala that crossed the 30,000-mark after a week on Wednesday, again came down to 26,200 on Thursday with a test positivity rate of 16.69%. The number of Covid active persons in the state on Thursday was 2.36 lakh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/more-test-nipah-negative-in-kerala-covid-cases-also-come-down-1028807.html
09-09-2021||South||Immersion of plaster of Paris Ganesh idols in Hyderabad's Hussain Sagar lake prohibited||A day ahead of the beginning of Ganesh Puja, the Telangana High Court has prohibited the immersion of plaster of Paris idols in Hyderabad's Hussain Sagar Lake. The large water body in the heart of the city is where thousands of Ganesh idols are brought every year for immersion, a significant event marking the culmination of the 10-day religious festivities. The court was reviewing a petition raising concerns about the pollution and environmental impact caused by the POP, chemical-laced colours etc used in the idol-making. However, other idols can be immersed in the lake but at the Sanjeevaiah Park, PV Ghat side, the court said while forbidding immersions at Tank Bund. In its interim orders on Thursday, the court has directed the Telangana government to ensure that the discarded materials are removed after the immersion event. The court said that the plaster of Paris idols could be immersed in special, small ponds created for the purpose by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. While asking the GHMC to supply free face masks to people on the immersion day, the court has directed the authorities to encourage the public to immerse the Ganesh idols set up in their homes in a bucket of water. The state government, the Hyderabad civic body and the city police have to implement the court directions. Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh High Court has on Wednesday allowed the setting up of Ganesh idols in private spaces but, following Covid-19 protocols, limiting the number of people present for puja in the pandals to five at a time. The court, after hearing a petition challenging the Jagan Mohan Reddy government's restrictions on the public festivities, has however disallowed the pandals in public spaces. While noting that the citizens have the right to conduct their religious ceremonies, the court has also stressed the need to maintain public health during the time of a pandemic.  The Andhra Pradesh BJP is demanding the YSRCP government to lift the curbs imposed on Ganesh festivities. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/immersion-of-plaster-of-paris-ganesh-idols-in-hyderabads-hussain-sagar-lake-prohibited-1028813.html
09-09-2021||South||Kerala Congress leadership prescribes series of initiatives in a bid to revamp party||In a bid to revamp the Congress in Kerala, the new state leadership has prescribed a series of initiatives ranging from incentives to party cadres to restrictions on the self-promotion of leaders. The new state leadership of the party comprising Kerala PCC president and Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran and leader of opposition V D Satheesan is trying to give a semi-cadre structure to the party to ensure discipline and proper coordination in the hierarchy. As the first steps of revamping, the district Congress committee presidents were selected by overcoming the pressure from the prominent groups in the party that are led by former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and former opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. The fresh guidelines for the party's functioning that were discussed at a workshop for the new district leaders that concluded on Thursday prescribed monthly incentives for full-time party cadres as well as the formation of district-level forums to settle internal differences. The widely criticised practice of party leaders gathering in stages during party functions as well as leaders setting up their own flex boards would be also done away with. Sudhakaran said that there would not be any compromise in party discipline. Party office-bearers would be given specific responsibilities with targets and it would be constantly reviewed. Underperformers would not be allowed to continue. In view of allegations that women were not given adequate representation as no woman was made district president, the state leadership decided to reserve one panchayat committee president post in each Assembly constituency for women. Adequate representation of women would be ensured while finalising the state and district office-bearers of the party, he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-leadership-prescribes-series-of-initiatives-in-a-bid-to-revamp-party-1028815.html
09-09-2021||State||Karnataka tweaks procurement rules to woo startups||The Karnataka government has decided to exempt tech startups from paying earnest money deposit (EMD) during procurement of technology products in a bid to encourage them to take up government projects. The exemptions will be for tenders below Rs 50 lakh and applicable to startups empanelled with the Department of Information Technology, Biotechnology and Science and Technology. In case of large tenders, government will give more weightage to a bid from a firm which has a tie-up with any startup. According to officials, the provisions will be applicable only for ‘deep-tech’ projects such as cyber security, blockchain, artificial intelligence, drone tech etc. A gazette notification was issued recently by the government, amending the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (KTPP) Rules. Apartment from laying down guidelines for the selection of startups for government tenders, it also set limits for the number of contracts for any eligible startup. Any startup that wants to avail this benefit should be “registered with Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society (KITS) as an entity in Karnataka”. Such startups shall be exempted from payment of EMD during the procurement of technology products or goods or solutions. “...any procurement under this provision shall not exceed Rs 50 lakh and the number of contracts issued to a particular startup by a procurement entity shall be limited to two contracts and by multiple procurement entities shall be limited to five contracts in each financial year,” the notification stated. Minister for IT, BT and Science & Technology C N Ashwath Narayan said the new rules removed the hurdles faced by startups when bidding for government projects. “We have also fixed a maximum ceiling for the amount of project any startup can take up under the initiative,” he said. Meena Nagaraj, director of the department said that the rules were “amended to help deep-tech startups”. The provisions will allow a startup to take up Rs 2.5 crore worth projects during a fiscal. Since a startup is empanelled for three years, a startup can take up works up to Rs 7.5 crore, she added.  KITS managing director Champa E said the initiative was along the lines of ‘GeM startup runway’. “The provisions will only be applicable to emerging, innovative products required by government departments,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-tweaks-procurement-rules-to-woo-startups-1028509.html
09-09-2021||State||Fresh probe ordered into Mysuru, Mandya ‘land grab’ cases||The Karnataka government on Wednesday ordered a comprehensive inquiry into allegations of land encroachment in Mysuru and Mandya that will be carried out by the deputy commissioners of the two districts.  The government also withdrew Commissioner for Survey, Settlement & Land Records Munish Moudgil’s order for resurvey of lands that are allegedly encroached.  The said lands are spread over several survey numbers in Mysuru and Mandya. In the fresh order issued by the Revenue department, the Mysuru and Mandya DCs have been given three weeks to submit a report to the government. At no cost should they delegate the inquiry work, the order states.  Moudgil had constituted a team to resurvey lands allegedly encroached. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fresh-probe-ordered-into-mysuru-mandya-land-grab-cases-1028513.html
09-09-2021||State||Caste census not against any community: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday refuted allegations that the caste census he commissioned when he was chief minister was meant to undermine the Vokkaliga and Veerashaiva-Lingayat communities. “That question doesn’t arise,” Siddaramaiah said. He was responding to concerns raised by a section of Vokkaliga and Veerashaiva-Lingayat leaders that the caste census was an attempt to show them as castes that are not as dominant.  “The census was done to assess social, economic and educational status of all castes. To do social justice, we need documentation. That’s why it was done. There was no malafide intention. It wasn’t against any caste or community,” Siddaramaiah said.  He maintained that the caste census was not ready when he was in power. “It was ready when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power, but the then chief minister H D Kumaraswamy refused to accept the report,” he said.  The Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes spent Rs 170 crore on the census, which is still under wraps. Kumaraswamy, in a series of tweets aimed at Siddaramaiah, refuted his claims. “The Kantharaj Commission’s report was ready when he was in power. Why wasn’t it accepted and released then? Why this display of extreme intelligence that people can see through?” he said.  DKS fumes on capping idol size KPCC president D K Shivakumar has demanded the withdrawal of the government’s order restricting the size of the Ganesha idols to two feet at home and four feet in public. “Millions of Ganesha idols have been done over the last two months. If the government imposes such a restriction now, what would be their status? What is the logic behind this,” he asked. Check out DH's latest videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/caste-census-not-against-any-community-siddaramaiah-1028518.html
09-09-2021||State||Publicise Covid treatment charges widely, HC tells state||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the state government to take steps to give publicity about the rates of treatment for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals. A division bench headed by Justice Aravind Kumar said it will be ideal if publicity is given affixing the banners on state transport buses. The bench was hearing a batch of petitions on issues surrounding Covid-19. It was submitted that due to lack of awareness among the public, certain private hospitals are charging in excess of the prices fixed by the government. The bench directed the state government to place on record how the suggestions for publicity have been implemented. Meanwhile, the state government and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) assured the court that the advisory issued on Ganesha festival would be strictly implemented. The government advocate also assured that travel advisory for persons traveling from Kerala will also be implemented strictly. The bench said that all officers at ward levels in Bengaluru will have to strictly implement the advisory. The court was informed that the state would receive around 22.5 lakh doses of vaccines for the month of September. It was also stated that the state would require 1,200 MT of oxygen in case of a third wave, as severe as the second wave. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/publicise-covid-treatment-charges-widely-hc-tells-state-1028524.html
09-09-2021||State||8 jumbos to participate in Jamboo Savari this year||District incharge Minister S T Somashekar said on Wednesday that the Dasara festivities would be inaugurated during the auspicious time between 8.15 am and 8.45 am, atop Chamundi Hill on October 7. The government has scaled down the celebrations due to Covid pandemic this year. Speaking to reporters after a meeting of the Dasara executive committee here, he said that the Vijayadashami celebrations will start with the offering of puja to Nandidhwaja on October 15, between 4.36 pm and 4.46 pm. Jamboo Savari, the last leg of Dasara festivities, will be held from 5 pm to 5.30 pm and confined to the Mysuru Palace premises. Eight elephants will participate in the Vijayadashami procession. Besides, cultural programmes will be held on all the nine days of Navaratri on the Palace premises, he said. It may be mentioned that five elephants took part in a similar simple Jamboo Savari last year. A symbolic ‘Gajapayana’ will be kicked off on September 13, from Veeranahosahalli in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district. The Dasara jumbos will reach Mysuru on September 16 and a simple ceremony will be held to welcome them on the Palace premises, he said. The chief minister will select the person to inaugurate the Dasara festivities this year, the minister said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-jumbos-to-participate-in-jamboo-savari-this-year-1028533.html
09-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ULB polls: AIMIM dents Cong prospects in Hubballi-Dharwad||In its maiden election to Hubballi-Dharwad municipal corporation, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) dented Congress' prospects in the latter’s bastion in Hubballi-Dharwad East Assembly constituency. The Asaduddin Owaisi-led MIM managed to win three seats.     Being represented by Prasad Abbayya since 2013, Hubballi-Dharwad East constituency is often considered as a Congress stronghold. The Congress was expecting a resounding victory, if not a clean sweep, in the recently concluded Palike elections. But, MIM, which fielded its candidates mainly in wards with sizable Muslim presence, ate into Congress votes. The last-minute campaigning by Asaduddin Owaisi swung the tide in MIM’s favour in three wards, where it managed to stave off the Congress. The MIM had fielded its candidates in 12 wards in its electoral debut in the Hubballi-Dharwad Palike elections. Nazeer Ahmed Honyal has won from Ward No 71, with a margin of 1,694 votes against the Congress candidate Mohammad Halwoor, who is the son of Congress city district unit president. Waheeda Khannum Kittur (Ward No 76), and Hussainbi Nalvatwad (Ward No 77) also emerged victorious defeating Congress candidates. In Ward Nos 61, 79 and 81, AIMIM candidates finished second. Also, AIMIM candidates secured more than 1,000 votes in two wards where independents won, resulting in the defeat of Congress. In Ward No 69, an independent candidate (BJP rebel) has won, while the number of votes secured by Congress and AIMIM candidates together was more than the votes bagged by the winner. After the results, family members of the AIMIM candidate alleged that relatives of the Congress candidate attacked them, blaming them for the Congress’ defeat. Defeating three Congress candidates, finishing second in three wards, and eating into Congress votes to facilitate the victory of independents in two wards, the MIM certainly created hurdles for the Congress in its quest to wrest power from the saffron party in Hubballi-Dharwad Palike.  Though Congress leaders allege that the AIMIM is the B team of the BJP, they admit that it has prevented the Congress candidates from winning in several wards. Opens account in BCC In Belagavi City Corporation (BCC), MIM fielded seven candidates and managed to open its account in Ward 18, where Shahidkhan Pathan defeated Congress’  Abdulkhader Gheewale by a margin of 52 votes. Pathan polled 949 votes against Gheewale’s 897 votes.  The remaining MIM candidates, however, failed to make any impact on the outcome. Dismal show Interestingly, the AIMIM fared poorly in the Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike elections, where it was expected to make inroads. The party drew blank but managed a second-place finish in six wards, where Congress candidates crossed the line.  The Congress, despite MIM's presence, has managed to secure 26 seats in 55-member strong Kalaburagi Palike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ulb-polls-aimim-dents-cong-prospects-in-hubballi-dharwad-1028534.html
09-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nipah virus: Will get a report on possible impact and take action to control, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said he will be getting a report on the possible impact of Nipah virus infections in the state, and necessary action will be taken to control it. "Regarding Nipah virus, I have given directions to the Health Secretary and experts. I will get a report on its behaviour in Kerala and its impact on us by this evening, following which necessary action will be taken," Bommai said. With confirmed cases of the Nipah virus (NiV) infection reported recently in neighboring Kerala, the Karnataka government on Tuesday had directed district administrations, especially those bordering that state, to strengthen surveillance and preparedness. It said that all those coming from Kerala should be monitored for symptoms like fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain, convulsion and diarrhea. In response to a question, Bommai said during his recent visit to Delhi, he discussed with BJP national president J P Nadda on organising the party to win the upcoming elections (for zilla and taluk panchayats, local bodies) and there was no discussion regarding cabinet expansion this time. He termed his Delhi tour on September 7 and 8, during which he held meetings with several Union Ministers on issues concerning the state, as "successful". On his meetings with Union Ministers, the Chief Minister said the Satellite Town Ring Road (STRR) project from Dabaspet to Mysuru Road that was pending for over two years has now has been cleared and the work will start in four to five months. The Centre has also agreed for extending the Vijayapura-Sankeshwar highway and DPR will be prepared soon, and four national highways will be developed under the Bharatmala project. On his meeting with the Minister of State in the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology(MeitY), Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Bommai said "we discussed a special programme for rural connectivity, to develop a hardware park between Bengaluru and Kolar, and to set up a skill university." Pointing out that Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri has released Rs 400 crore under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban, the CM said Rs 1,500 crore has still to be released. Discussions have been held with the Railway Minister regarding suburban railway and development of Byappanahalli station, besides works on some major railway lines in the state, he further said, adding that during his meeting with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman he sought extending the GST compensation period to states beyond 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nipah-virus-will-get-a-report-on-possible-impact-and-take-action-to-control-says-karnataka-cm-1028720.html
09-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records lowest number of Covid deaths since the beginning of second wave||Karnataka on Thursday reported the lowest number of deaths due to Covid-19, since the beginning of the second wave, with 4 fatalities, taking the toll so far due to the pandemic to 37,462, the health department said. The state logged 1,074 new cases of corona infections taking the total number of cases so far to 29,59,164. The day also saw 1,136 discharges, taking the total recoveries in the state to 29,04,683. "Karnataka records the lowest death tally in the 2nd wave today," Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said in a tweet sharing the details of today's Covid bulletin. Karnataka records lowest death tally in 2nd wave today:◾New cases in State: 1,074◾New cases in B'lore: 343◾Positivity rate: 0.63%◾Discharges: 1136 (B'lore- 251)◾Deaths:04 (B'lore- 03)◾Active cases in State: 16,992◾Active cases in B'lore: 7,208◾Tests: 1,69,448 The second Covid wave had begun in Karnataka during mid-March. Out of 4 deaths reported on Thursday, 3 were from Bengaluru Urban, and one in Hassan. Out of 1,074 new cases reported on Thursday, 343 were from Bengaluru Urban, and the city saw 251 discharges. Total number of active cases in the state stands at 16,992. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.63 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.37 per cent. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 343, Dakshina Kannada 176, Udupi 126, Hassan 81, Chikkamagaluru 68, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,40,653, followed by Mysuru 1,76,735 and Tumakuru 1,19,567. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,17,401, followed by Mysuru 1,73,542 and Tumakuru 1,17,813. A total of 4,49,07,570 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,69,448 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-lowest-number-of-covid-deaths-since-the-beginning-of-second-wave-1028782.html
09-09-2021||West||Javed Akhtar defamation case: Kangana Ranaut's plea rejected||The Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed the plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut seeking quashing of criminal defamation proceedings initiated against her by a Mumbai court based on a complaint filed by writer and lyricist Javed Akhtar. “The applicant’s (Kangana Ranaut) petition stands dismissed,” said Justice Revati Mohite-Dere in her order. In November 2020, Akhtar had lodged a case of criminal defamation in a magistrate’s court in Andheri. In his complaint, Akhtar referred to an interview that Kangana gave to a TV channel in the backdrop of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, which he claimed, harmed his reputation. Ranaut’s counsel Rizwan Siddiquee, had challenged the defamation proceedings on the grounds that the court had failed to apply its mind to the case. Akhtar's counsel Jay Bharadwaj had contended before the court that the magistrate had directed for the police inquiry after going through the complaint. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/javed-akhtar-defamation-case-kangana-ranauts-plea-rejected-1028613.html
09-09-2021||West||Maharasthra welcomes Lord Ganesha amid Covid pandemic||People of Mumbai and the coastal Konkan coast and elsewhere in Maharashtra on Thursday welcomed Lord Ganesha to their homes amid the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic’s third wave and heavy rains. The 10-day Ganeshutsav starts on 10 September on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on 19 September on Anant Chaturdashi. With a sudden surge in cases in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur and high positivity rates in some parts of districts of Konkan and Western Maharashtra - which triggered fears of a third wave - the government decided to ban physical darshans in pandals and asked the organisers to offer online darshans. “In 2020, during the first wave, we saw that the cases surged after Ganeshutsav. We are in the second wave and faced with the third wave. Just ahead of Ganeshutsav in 2021, we are seeing a surge in cases,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said during back-to-back review meetings over the week. “We expect Covid-19 to be with us for a few years and we have to live with it. Future waves and their impact would be governed by people’s behaviour, extent of previous infection, speed of vaccination and its coverage,” said Dr IS Gilada, secretary general, Organized Medicine Academic Guild. However, despite warnings, crowds were seen in the markets ahead of the Ganpati festival, particularly in sweet shops, flower markets and puja stores. The celebrations this time too are going to be a low-key affair as the usual extravaganza is missing in the wake of the viral pandemic that is sweeping across India. Amidt chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’, people started bringing in idols of Lord Ganesha at their homes, housing societies and complexes and sarvajanik mandals. On Friday morning on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the ‘sthaapna’ pooja will be performed followed by traditional aartis to mark the birthday of Lord Ganesha, the son of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati. Lord Ganesha, the elephant-headed-pot-bellied God of wisdom, brings in prosperity and good fortune. Ganapati stands as a symbol of knowledge, as the lord of the lords as 'Ganadhipati' as the remover of obstacles 'Vignaharta'. Ganeshutsav is the biggest festival of Maharashtra – with Mumbai Metropolitan Region-Pune-Nashik being the epicentre of the celebrations. Back-to-back for two years, the Maharashtra government has restricted the height of idols to 2 feet for household and 4 feet for public mandals. Despite constraints, people have managed to put together themes - and several of them around the Covid-19 pandemic, Olympic and Paralympic success for India. The Ganesh idol at the house of former Vice Chancellor of University of Mumbai Dr Sanjay Deshmukh looks like Neeraj Chopra.   The Thanawala family, known for its innovative ideals, are promoting EVs - and the Ganpati is seen here as pillion rider and mushak is seen here as rider. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharasthra-welcomes-lord-ganesha-amid-covid-pandemic-1028659.html
09-09-2021||West||Goa govt to start disbursing compensation for Covid-affected people by September 13||The Goa government on Thursday announced that it will start releasing compensation to the families of people affected by Covid-19 in the state by September 13. Speaking to reporters here, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that amendments have been made in forms, which beneficiaries need to fill, to make the process simpler. The state government had earlier announced two schemes for Covid-19-affected persons, which includes Rs 2 lakh compensation to families of people who have died of the disease and Rs 5,000 for traditional occupants, whose businesses have suffered due to the pandemic. The state government has received 200 applications from families who have lost people to Covid-19 infection, and all applications are being processed and compensation will be paid to them, Sawant said. The chief minister, however, admitted that as far as traditional occupation category is concerned, beneficiaries were finding it difficult to fulfil certain conditions in the form such as swearing of affidavit, signature of a panchayat secretary and a covering letter from respective panchayat or municipality. While the condition of affidavit has been replaced with self-attestation and covering letter has been done away with, beneficiaries can get their applications certified from a gazetted officer known to them, he said. The process of disbursing compensation has been “fast tracked” and people whose applications have already been processed, will get a sanction letter by September 13. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-to-start-disbursing-compensation-for-covid-affected-people-by-september-13-1028691.html
09-09-2021||West||Mumbai Congress urges Maharashtra government to reopen cinemas, pools||Seeking reopening of cinema halls, multiplexes, auditoriums citing financial losses faced by these establishments, the Mumbai unit of the Congress has also urged the Maharashtra government to restart swimming pools so that professional swimmers can practise for tournaments. Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap made the demand while talking to reporters here on Wednesday. "Swimming pools have been shut for more than 18 months now. Professional swimmers, who wish to participate in the upcoming national as well as international tournaments, need to practise. The pools should be opened but adherence to Covid-19 protocols must be ensured," he said. The Congress leader, who is also a member of state Legislative Council, said that cinema halls have been shut for more than a year and they have faced losses to the tune of Rs 400 crore so far. In normal times, major economic activity is seen around the cinema halls in Mumbai, he added. "We are not asking the state government to bend any rules. But there could be some midway to this impasse. The loss of jobs is a major setback to hundreds of people who are dependent on this economy. Cinema halls, multiplexes and auditoriums should be reopened with an assurance (from the management of these establishments) about following the Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-congress-urges-maharashtra-government-to-reopen-cinemas-pools-1028697.html
09-09-2021||West||Maharashtra Sadan scam case: Chhagan Bhujbal, his son and nephew discharged by special court||In a significant development, NCP leader and Maharashtra's Food and Civil Supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal was discharged by a special court in Mumbai in connection with the sensational Maharashtra Sadan scam case. Bhujbal (73), a veteran OBC leader, is also the founder-president of Mahatma Phule Samata Parishad and is one of the oldest associates of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Besides Bhujbal, his son and former MLA Pankaj Bhujbal and his nephew and former MP Sameer Bhujbal were cleared by a special court presiding over matters of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). The matter refers to his tenure between 2004-14, when Bhujbal was the public works development minister in the erstwhile Congress-NCP Democratic Front government. A case was filed in 2015 against Bhujbal and 16 others by the ACB, alleging that a developer firm was favoured by him for a project on land owned by the Regional Transport Office. The ACB had claimed that the original cost estimate for Maharashtra Sadan was Rs 13.5 crore, but it was later increased to Rs 50 crore. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sadan-scam-case-chhagan-bhujbal-his-son-and-nephew-discharged-by-special-court-1028704.html
09-09-2021||West||HC to decide if Anil Deshmukh's plea against ED summons should be heard by single or division bench||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it would decide on September 13 whether the petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh against the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case should be heard by a single or division bench. Deshmukh had last week filed the petition seeking to quash the five summons issued by the ED. When the petition came up for hearing before a single bench of Justice S K Shinde, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ED, brought to the court's attention a note addressed by the HC registry department, saying the plea ought to be heard by a division bench (comprising two judges). "If the registry has raised an objection, then it ought to be cleared first as a single bench might not be able to decide on certain issues and challenges in a petition," Mehta said. Senior counsel Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam, appearing for Deshmukh, however, opposed and said the single bench had the jurisdiction to hear the plea. Justice Shinde said he would consider the issue and pass orders on September 13. "The registry has raised this objection. I will deal with this issue and pass orders," Justice Shinde said. The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed its FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. In his plea, Deshmukh said the action of the ED is a result of "political vendetta". "This is a case where repeatedly they (ED) are creating undue sensation with selective leakage of information. They are issuing summons and now a lookout circular despite the applicant (Deshmukh) writing to them that the case is pending before the courts and seeking to appear virtually before the agency," Chaudhri said. Chaudhri sought interim protection pending hearing of the plea, which was opposed by Mehta. Deshmukh in his petition said the agency's whole case is based on the "malicious statements" made by dismissed cop Sachin Waze, who is presently in jail in the Antilia bomb scare and killing of businessman Mansukh Hiran case. "The statements made by Waze, a tainted cop, are absolutely false and concocted with a malafide intention to defame and frame the applicant (Deshmukh) with ulterior motives," the petition said. Deshmukh refuted the claims made by the ED that while serving as home minister, he misused his official position and through Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The ED has said that the money was allegedly laundered to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, an education trust controlled by Deshmukh's family. "The entire claim of Waze giving Rs 4.70 crore to the applicant (Deshmukh) and the same amount being routed by the applicant's family is factually incorrect," the plea said. It added that the amount received by the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha was donations made before the period in which Waze alleges to have received illegal gratification from bars and restaurants. "There was never any cash received as illegal gratification from bar owners as claimed by Waze," the plea said. The NCP leader further said that Waze was reinstated in the police force by the then Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The ED has so far arrested two persons in the case – Sanjeev Palande (additional collector rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant). The agency had last month submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court. The CBI had lodged its FIR against Deshmukh after it conducted a preliminary inquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Deshmukh had resigned from the post of home minister on April 5, but denied any wrongdoing. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-to-decide-if-anil-deshmukhs-plea-against-ed-summons-should-be-heard-by-single-or-division-bench-1028715.html
09-09-2021||West||Bollywood financier Yusuf Lakdawala, arrested in land grabbing case, dies||Bollywood financier and real estate developer, Yusuf Lakdawala, who was under arrest and in judicial custody - passed away in Mumbai on Thursday. Among other things he was accused of grabbing a plot in Khandala hill ranges, which belonged to legendary writer late Mulk Raj Anand. Lakdawala (76) was lodged at the Arthur Road jail, an undertrial facility in Mumbai. A cancer patient, he was shifted to the prison hospital a couple of days ago. After his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to the Sir JJ Hospital, where he passed away. Few months back, he was initially arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of the Mumbai Police and later by the Enforcement Directorate. An accident death report (ADR) was registered and the cause of death is yet to be ascertained. Foul play has been ruled out. Lakdawala was being probed for conspiracy and forgery, among other allegations by the ED and EOW. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bollywood-financier-yusuf-lakdawala-arrested-in-land-grabbing-case-dies-1028719.html
09-09-2021||West||NCP minister Chhagan Bhujbal discharged in Maharashtra Sadan scam case along with son, nephew||A special court here on Thursday allowed the discharge applications of Maharashtra minister and senior NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal and seven others in the Maharashtra Sadan scam case. Besides Bhujbal, the special court hearing cases related to Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), discharged his son Pankaj, nephew Sameer and five others in the case. They had sought discharge, claiming that there was no evidence to prosecute them in the case. The Bhujbhals were represented by counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar along with advocate Sajal Yadava and Sudarshan Khawase. They submitted that all the allegations against them were false and based on wrong calculations assumptions and presumptions. Despite the voluminous charge sheet running into thousands pages filed in 2016 there is no sufficient evidence to proceed the trial, they argued. The ACB had earlier opposed the plea saying that Bhujbal and his family members had received kickbacks from the construction firm K S Chamankar Enterprises. The case relates to a 2005-2006 deal that the NCP leader allegedly gave to the firm, when he was the PWD minister. According to the ACB, the contractors had "earned 80 per cent profit" in the construction of Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi, while as per the government circular, such contractors were entitled to "only 20 per cent gain". On July 31, the court had discharged four other accused in case. The ACB has claimed that the original cost estimate for Maharashtra Sadan was Rs 13.5 crore, but it was later increased to Rs 50 crore. The Bhujbals got Rs 13.5 crore in kickbacks from the Chamankars, who earned a profit of about Rs 190 crore from the construction of Maharashtra Sadan and other PWD works, it has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-minister-chhagan-bhujbal-discharged-in-maharashtra-sadan-scam-case-along-with-son-nephew-1028729.html
09-09-2021||West||Look-out circular issued against Narayan Rane's wife, son over non-payment of loans||Look-out circulars have been issued against Union Minister of micro, medium and small enterprises and BJP leader Narayan Rane’s wife Neelam and son Nitesh in a case involving non-payment of loans taken from a financial institution. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is already in confrontation with Rane, his bete noire and this seems to be adding to that. Nitesh has reacted sharply to development, targeting Thackeray’s son and state tourism, environment and protocol Minister Aaditya. The Pune Police has sent the look-out notice to the Look Out Cell of the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport. The notice issued by Pune’s deputy commissioner of police Shrinivas Ghadge states that Artline Properties Pvt Ltd (main borrower), a firm owned by Neelam Rane, had availed a loan of Rs 25 crore from DHFL (Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd) in which she was the co-borrower and the outstanding amount on the account was over Rs 27.13 crore. Likewise, Nelam Hotels, owned by Nitesh Rane, too, had availed a loan from the private financial institution whose outstanding sum was over Rs 34 crore. “Both the loan accounts were later classified as NPAs (non-performing assets - declared due to default or arrears) by DHFL due to non-repayment,” the notice states. As both the accounts got classified as NPAs, the financial institution approached the Centre, which then issued directions to the state government and as a result, the look-out circulars were issued. Meanwhile, in a tweet, Nitesh said: "Nandkishor Chaturvedi who is apparently missing for months now or rather absconding.. has been a partner with Min Aditya T ..Shudnt Pune crime branch where this person is ? A LOC shud be issued here too so Aditya T doesn’t fly out of the country.. What’s the mystery??” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/look-out-circular-issued-against-narayan-ranes-wife-son-over-non-payment-of-loans-1028798.html
09-09-2021||West||Goa CM Pramod Sawant 'gifts' fare meters to cabbies on Ganesh Chaturthi; taxi lobby rejects offer||In a bid to end the longstanding stalemate between Goa's cabbies and the state government, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday announced a "Ganesh Chaturthi gift" to the state's taxi operators, by announcing free installation of fare meters. Protesting taxi operators have however rejected the "gift", saying the CM should instead first scrap the app-only cab aggregator service GoaMiles, before initiating any dialogue with the taxi lobby. Earlier on Thursday, the state cabinet formally approved a proposal, which would enable nearly 18,000 registered tourists taxis in the state to avail of the free fare meter installation scheme. "The taxi owners will not have to pay for installation of meters. The government is giving it to them free of cost. The cabinet has cleared the proposal," the Chief Minister told reporters after the cabinet meeting. Sawant said that the decision was taken as a mark of goodwill on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the state's most popular Hindu festival. Goa's taxi operators who have been agitating against the government's implementation of a High Court directive to ensure functional fare meters in the state's cabs, have however rejected Sawant's festive gift. "The Ganesh Chaturthi gift, which you claim to have announced should be in the form of scrapping of GoaMiles. Then we will sit across the table and resolve this issue," Chetan Kamat spokeperson for the All Goa Taxi Operators Union said. GoaMiles, is an app-based taxi aggregator service which works under the aegis of the state government's Goa Tourism Development Corporation. "Let us sit across the table... Get the transport authorities, Transport Minister and explain the issue transparently and hear our woes related to the fare meters. The meters are faulty and have potential to damage the car," Kamat also said. While there are around 18,000 licenced tourist taxis in the state, the cost and annual fee of each meter which has been identified by the state government is Rs. 11,000 plus. Goa’s taxi operators, who run taxi services without functioning fare meters, have also been repeatedly accused of fleecing and behaving rudely with customers, primarily tourists, forcing the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, a top body of industry stakeholders, to complain to the government and knock on the doors of the High Court, about the poor services and standards prevalent in the taxi sector. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-gifts-fare-meters-to-cabbies-on-ganesh-chaturthi-taxi-lobby-rejects-offer-1028802.html
