10-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Crocodile spotted crossing road near Srirangapatna||A crocodile was spotted moving near the Virija canal, en route to Ranganathittu bird sanctuary in the taluk on Wednesday night. The residents have captured the pictures of the moving reptile. The crocodile crossed the road and got into the canal. Another crocodile had killed two goats near Palahalli in the taluk, around 15 days ago. The Forest department placed a cage near the Virija canal to trap the crocodile, after their efforts to catch it using nets failed. But even that has turned futile. The residents claimed that there are several crocodiles at the stone quarry near the canal and the department should take steps to catch it, they said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/crocodile-spotted-crossing-road-near-srirangapatna-1028875.html
10-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kuvempu University retains third spot among conventional universities in Karnataka||The Kuvempu University (KU) has bagged the 81st rank in the country by scoring 40.40 marks in the university category in the National Institutional Ranking Framework-2021 (NIRF). Though it has slipped from the 73rd rank to the 81st against the last year, it still stands in the third spot among conventional universities in the State after the University of Mysore and Bangalore University. It has become part of the top 100 higher education institutes in the country for the fourth time in a row.  As per the public universities in the State, Mysore University and Bangalore University were ranked 19th and 69th, respectively in the country.  Reacting to it, Kuvempu University Vice-chancellor B P Veerabhadrappa said, the University’s rank has come down this year due to the pandemic. He admitted that academic activities were disrupted due to lock-down enforced by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. He also promised that the university staff would strive to improve its rank in the coming year. University Registrar G Anuradha said, it is a matter of pride that the public university based in a small town is figured in the list of top 100 higher education institutes in the country for the fourth time in a row. It is evidence for quality education imparted by the university. The university, which provides higher education to rural students, gained recognition at the national level. Union Human Resources Development Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has released the ranking of national higher educational institutes for the year 2021 in New Delhi recently. As many as 4,100 higher educational institutes were ranked under nine different parameters. According to the University authorities, the University was ranked between 150 and 200 in 2017. But in 2018, it had bagged the 78th rank. It had bagged 73rd rank in 2019. Central universities, higher educational institutes, and private and deemed universities are also part of the ranking system.Among higher educational institutes including private in the State, Kuvempu University stands in the 7th position, while Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science stands first in the State, Manipal’s Academy of Higher Education is in the second spot. As per NIRF ranking, Mysuru-based JSS Academy of Higher Education & Research is 34th, Bangalore University is 69th, Nitte Technological University is in 77th position, Visvesvaraya Technological University is in 82nd rank, Belagavi-based KLE Academy of Higher Education & Research is in 91st spot and Bengaluru-based Jain University is in 99th spot. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kuvempu-university-retains-third-spot-among-conventional-universities-in-karnataka-1028924.html
10-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||One held for killing stray dogs in Shivamogga||Bhadravathi police on Friday nabbed a man on charges of killing stray dogs. Around 38 dogs, which had been buried in the Thammadihalli forest area in the taluk had been retrieved so far, and more dogs are feared to be buried there. Somu (40), from Mysuru, who was entrusted with the responsibility of sterilising stray dogs, has been arrested for killing them. The Kambadaal-Hosur gram panchayat authorities would also be arrested in the coming days in connection with the incident, police sources said. Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police BM Laxmi Prasad said Kambadaal-Hosur gram panchayat officials consulted a dog catcher from Mysuru to sterilise over 100 stray dogs in the gram panchayat limits following dog bite incidents. It is said that people and children were bitten by stray dogs. The dog catcher came to the village on September 4 and reportedly killed the dogs rather than sterilising them. As per the norms of the Catch, Neuter, Vaccinate & Release (CNVR) drive, dogs must be vaccinated against rabies, sterilised and released into the same area from where they had been captured. He said the preliminary investigations suggested that the dog catcher released some stray dogs in the forest area on the first day and the rest of them were killed and buried. They are in a decomposed state and veterinarians and forensic experts visited the spot. The cause of death would be known after the post-mortem, he explained. He said the barking of dogs led to suspicion among villagers. Later, they informed the police. Shivamogga Animal Rescue Club lodged a complaint at Bhadravathi Rural Police station, and the investigation is on. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-held-for-killing-stray-dogs-in-shivamogga-1028984.html
10-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tension grips village near Davangere after leopard sighting||Tension gripped students and staff of Indira Gandhi Residential school in Aarabagatte village after a leopard was spotted near the institute on Friday evening. The school is located in a dry forest region. Villagers noticed the big cat around 8 pm and alerted forest department officials. As soon as news spread, Honnalli MLA M P Renukacharya rushed to the village and directed officials concerned to capture it by placing a cage. He also asked staff, students of the school and villagers not to venture out alone till it is captured. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tension-grips-village-near-davangere-after-leopard-sighting-1029134.html
10-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Horatti writes to CM Bommai; wants all ministers present during legislature session||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti in a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has asked ministers and officials of the various departments to be present during the legislature session. The ten-day sitting will commence on September 13. Horatti said the very purpose of democracy would be lost if the ministers failed to attend the session and address the issues related to the public. He also asked ministers not to seek permission to abstain from session in the guise of works related to their constituencies. "It has become very common for the ministers to seek permission to remain absent from session,” he said and added that it is the primary duty of the minister to give satisfactory answers related to his department to the members of the legislature. By remaining absent, the minister will not be able to find a solution for the problems and may also delay in resolving the issues, he said. “It is the right of members to get a right answer from the ministers. By remaining absent, the ministers are denying that right to the MLAs and MLCs,” he said. He asked the chief minister to ensure that all the ministers attend the sessions without fail. Horatti also said that the success of any legislature session depends not only on ministers and members but also on officials. He asked the chief secretary to the government to ensure that all the officials concerned attend the session and provide proper answers to the questions raised by the members. He asked the chief minister to provide the list of ministers and officials attending the session every morning and also act against officials and ministers skipping session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/horatti-writes-to-cm-bommai-wants-all-ministers-present-during-legislature-session-1028878.html
10-09-2021||National||India joins China, other BRICS nations to call for avoiding politicisation of Covid origin search||Amid the row between China and the United States over the origin of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday joined the communist country’s President Xi Jinping and the other BRICS leaders to stress that study of emergence of novel pathogens should not be politicised. The BRICS leaders recognised the importance of safe, efficacious, accessible and affordable anti-Covid-19 vaccines and noted the ongoing discussions in the World Trade Organization on a proposal mooted by India and South Africa for Intellectual Property Rights waiver on the jabs to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus and use of flexibilities of the TRIPS Agreement and the Doha Declaration on TRIPS Agreement and Public Health. “We note that the cooperation on study of origins of the SARS-CoV-2 is an important aspect of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” Modi, Xi and the other BRICS leaders said in a joint statement issued after a virtual summit of the five-nation-bloc. “We support science-based, inclusive of broad expertise, transparent, and timely processes, free from politicisation or interference, to strengthen international capabilities to better understand the emergence of novel pathogens and to help prevent future pandemics.” The summit was also attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa. Beijing recently dismissed as unscientific a report compiled by the United States intelligence agencies, which was purportedly inconclusive and did not rule out the theory that the virus leaked out from a laboratory at Wuhan in China due to an accident. China accused the US of ignoring and abandoning studies by the World Health Organization (WHO) for “political purposes”. Wuhan was the ground zero of the Covid-19 pandemic. New Delhi had on May 28 last tacitly asked Beijing to cooperate with the WHO and allow it to conduct further investigation into the origin of the Covid-19 virus. The WHO had earlier this year revealed that its investigators had experienced difficulties in accessing raw data while studying the origin of the Covid-19 virus in China. This had prompted the US and the 13 other nations to issue a joint statement, expressing concern over delay and difficulties experienced by the WHO experts in accessing “complete, original data and samples” while conducting the probe in China. Check out DH latest videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-joins-china-other-brics-nations-to-call-for-avoiding-politicisation-of-covid-origin-search-1028864.html
10-09-2021||National||DH Toon | BJP goes big with PM Modi's birthday||The BJP is planning three-week grand celebrations to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday and his 20 years of public life as an administrator by distributing crores of ration bags with his picture and sending five crore postcards among others but it has run into criticism from the Opposition, which says it is a "tragedy" that he is celebrating when people are "suffering in misery". From September 17, Modi's birthday, and October 7, when he became Gujarat Chief Minister on the same day 20 years ago, the BJP is planning a flurry of activities, which is expected to act as a morale booster for the BJP cadre at a time the party is headed to Assembly polls in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur where it is the ruling party. Modi turns 71 next week. The party's programmes titled 'Seva aur Samarpan Abhiyan' come at a time Modi and his government have faced intense criticism over the handling of the second wave of Covid-19 and migrant crisis during the first lockdown last year, economic problems, farmers issues and amid a perception even within the party that the developments had created a dent in the Prime Minister's popularity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bjp-goes-big-with-pm-modis-birthday-1028925.html
10-09-2021||National||Journalist Rana Ayyub booked for 'misappropriating' funds for Covid, flood victims||Journalist Rana Ayyub has been booked by the Ghaziabad police on charges of money laundering and misappropriating donations meant for Covid patients and flood victims in some eastern states. Other charges that journalist Ayyub faces are the criminal breach of trust and cheating by using computer resources under the Information Technology Act. The FIR was lodged earlier this week on Tuesday on the complaint of Vikas Pandey, founder of an NGO “Hindu IT Cell.” The police will take further legal action against the journalist only after investigating the case and finding evidence against her, city Superintendent of Police Gyanendra Singh said. Ayyub’s name also figures in a recent case of circulation of a video in which a 72-year-old Bulandshahr resident had accused four men of beating him up and chopping his beard to force him to chant Jai Shri Ram. The Ghaziabad police had, however, later found that the communal allegations made by the elderly Muslim man were false and he had made them on the instigation of a Samajwadi Party worker. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-rana-ayyub-booked-for-misappropriating-funds-for-covid-flood-victims-1028939.html
10-09-2021||National||India adds 34,973 new Covid-19 cases, 260 fatalities||India logged 34,973 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,31,74,954, while the active cases declined to 3,90,646, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,42,009 with 260 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.49 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 2,968 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. As many as 17,87,611  tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,86,04,854. The daily positivity rate was recorded  1.96 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 11 days The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 77 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,23,42,299, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 72.37 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 260 new fatalities include 125 from Kerala and 55 from Maharashtra.  Maharashtra has reconciled the data leading to a decrease in total number of cases and discharges as compared to Thursday. A total of 4,42,009 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,017 from Maharashtra, 37,462 from Karnataka, 35,094 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,126  from Kerala and 18,539 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.   As many as 17,87,611 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,86,04,854. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-34973-new-covid-19-cases-260-fatalities-1028943.html
10-09-2021||National||India, US agree to collaborate on emerging fuels||India and the US have agreed to expand their energy partnership by adding emerging fuels to the list of areas of cooperation that previously included power and energy efficiency, oil and gas, renewable energy and sustainable growth, an official statement said. This followed a ministerial meeting of the US-India Strategic Clean Energy Partnership (SCEP) on Thursday evening. "Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Hardeep Singh Puri co-chaired a virtual ministerial meeting with US Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm to launch the revamped US-India Strategic Clean Energy Partnership (SCEP)," a statement from the oil ministry said. The SCEP was launched in accordance with the US-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden at the Leaders' Summit on Climate held in April this year. "The two sides announced the addition of a fifth Pillar on Emerging Fuels, which signals joint resolve to promote clean energy fuels," it said. It further added that "a new India-US Task Force on Biofuels was also announced to build on the scope of work on cooperation in biofuels sector." With this, the SCEP inter-governmental engagement now spreads across five pillars of cooperation -- Power and Energy Efficiency, Responsible Oil and Gas, Renewable Energy, Sustainable Growth and Emerging Fuels. The statement said, minister Puri and the Secretary reviewed the progress, major accomplishments, and prioritized new areas for cooperation under the various pillars. "The meeting also reviewed the progress on the India-US Civil Nuclear Energy cooperation," it said without providing any details. "Minister Puri emphasized that the revamped clean energy partnership will intensify the efforts from both sides to take advantage of the complementarities that exist between the US and India - advanced US technologies and rapidly growing India's energy market, for a win-win situation through a cleaner energy route with low carbon pathways," it said. After the revamp, there would be considerable emphasis on upscaling cooperation under the renewable energy pillar by working on several projects and system-friendly practices in India's renewable energy sector. "The US Secretary lauded India's renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030, and offered to closely collaborate in realization of this target by India," the statement said. "Both sides will strengthen the electric grid in India to support large-scale integration of renewables, including through smart grids, energy storage, flexible resources, and distributed energy resources, and ensure reliable and resilient grid operations, as well as promoting energy efficiency and conservation measures," it added. The two sides also announced rechristening of Gas Task Force to India-US Low Emissions Gas Task Force, which would continue to forge collaboration between the US and Indian companies on innovative projects to support India's vision of a gas-based economy. The two sides also agreed to continue to develop better understandings on methane abatement under this Task Force. Both sides have initiated institutionalization of India Energy Modeling Forum with the constitution of Six Task Forces for carrying out research and modeling in different areas. Joint Committees have been set up to deliberate on Energy Data Management, Low Carbon Technologies and Just Transition in the Coal Sector. Building on the success of the first phase, the two sides agreed to expand the scope of the work to include smart grid and grid storage as part of the second phase of the Partnership to Advance Clean Energy (PACE)-R initiative anchored on the Indian side by the Department of Science & Technology. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-agree-to-collaborate-on-emerging-fuels-1028955.html
10-09-2021||National||VP Naidu, PM Modi greet people on Ganesh Chaturthi||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday greeted people on Ganesh Chaturthi, wishing happiness and good fortune to all. "Shri Ganesh ji is revered as an embodiment of wisdom, prosperity and good fortune in our country. May the Lord Vinayaka remove all obstacles in our endeavours!" Vice President Naidu said, extending warm greetings to people on the occasion. आप सभी को गणेश चतुर्थी की मंगलकामनाएं। यह पावन अवसर हर किसी के जीवन में सुख, शांति, सौभाग्य और आरोग्य लेकर आए। गणपति बाप्पा मोरया! In a tweet, Modi said, "Greetings to all on Ganesh Chaturthi. May this auspicious occasion bring happiness, peace, good fortune and health in everyone's life. Ganpati Bappa Morya!" దేశ ప్రజలందరికీ వినాయక చవితి శుభాకాంక్షలు. Ganesh Chaturthi marks the birth of Lord Ganesh, who is revered as an embodiment of wisdom, prosperity and good fortune. In India, it is a common practice to invoke and chant the name of Lord Ganesh to remove any obstacles in one's endeavours.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-pm-modi-greet-people-on-ganesh-chaturthi-1028960.html
10-09-2021||National||Owaisi booked in UP for 'vitiating' communal harmony, violating Covid norms||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has been booked for allegedly vitiating communal harmony, making objectionable remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and disrespecting the national flag, police said on Friday. Two FIRs were registered against the All India Majlis-e-Itthehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief at Barabanki city police station on Thursday night after his party's public meeting in Katara Chandana Baradari. The first FIR against Owaisi and public meeting organisers was registered under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity on ground of religion, race, etc.), 188 (disregarding order of a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) and the Epidemic Act was slapped against them, Barabanki Superintendent of Police Yamuna Prasad said. Later in the night, another FIR was lodged against them for insulting the national flag during the public meeting, Kotwali in-charge Amar Singh said. They have been accused of wrapping the tricolour on a pole at the dias during the meeting instead of unfurling it, Singh said. Regarding the other sections imposed on Owaisi, the Barabanki SP said the Hyderabad MP violated Covid guidelines -- on masks and social distancing -- by arranging huge crowds at the public meeting. "In his speech, the AIMIM chief made statements for vitiating communal harmony and said the 100-year-old Ram Sanehi Ghat mosque was razed by the administration and its debris was also removed. This is contrary to the fact," the SP said. The mosque Owaisi referred to was located adjacent to the tehsil premises and opposite the SDM's residence. It was demolished on May 17 on the orders of a Barabanki SDM court. Barabanki District Magistrate Adarsh Singh had said that the structure was illegal, and the tehsil administration got its possession on March 18. He had said that the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had disposed of a petition filed in this connection on April 2, which proved the construction was illegal. "By his statement, Owaisi tried to vitiate communal harmony and incite feelings of a particular community. He also made indecent and baseless remarks against the PM and the Uttar Pradesh chief minister,” the Barabanki SP said on Friday. Owaisi was on a three-day trip to Uttar Pradesh, where his party plans to contest 100 seats in the upcoming assembly polls. During his stay, he held public meetings at Ayodhya, Sultanpur and Barabanki on three consecutive days starting Tuesday and left the state winding up his tour with a rally in Barabanki, on the doorsteps of capital Lucknow.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/owaisi-booked-in-up-for-vitiating-communal-harmony-violating-covid-norms-1028961.html
10-09-2021||National||West Bengal bypoll: BJP fields Priyanka Tibrewal to take on Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur||BJP leader Priyanka Tibrewal, whom the party has nominated to contest against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the September 30 bypoll to the Bhabanipur seat, said on Friday highlighting the "torture and violence" unleashed by the TMC after the Assembly polls will be a key issue in the election. Tibrewal, a lawyer, is one of the petitioners in the post-poll violence cases against the TMC government in the Calcutta High Court. The party also announced the names of Milan Ghosh and Sujit Das for Samserganj and Jangipur seats respectively. The votes will be counted on October 3 and results declared the same day. “She (Mamata Banerjee) has already lost from Nandigram. Now she is fighting this election to save the chief minister’s chair. My task will be to reach out to the people of the constituency and inform them about the atrocities, the torture and violence that her party unleashed on opposition workers after the Assembly polls. I am confident that people of Bhabanipur will vote for me and defeat her,” she asserted. Tibrewal, currently the state vice president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the BJP's youth wing, had joined the party in 2014. She had her first brush with electoral politics in 2015, when she contested the Kolkata Municipal Corporation election and lost. She contested the 2021 Assembly polls from the Entally seat and lost again to a TMC candidate by a staggering margin of more than 58,000 votes. Yet, BJP sources said, she was chosen to lock horns with a redoubtable Mamata Banerjee because of her "fighting spirit" and also as not many leaders were ready to contest. Tibrewal, they said, has become a known face, particularly after she filed cases against the TMC government over post-election violence across the state. “We approached some BJP leaders but many refused to contest. Priyanka Tibrewal is a fearless leader, very hard working, and an excellent taskmaster. She is a very good orator. We are confident that she will win the seat by defeating Mamata Banerjee,” West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Senior TMC leader and Minister Firhad Hakim said the BJP candidate will lose her deposit and Banerjee will win by a record margin. The bypoll to Bhabanipur was necessitated after Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, a cabinet minister, vacated the seat to facilitate Banerjee’s return to the state Assembly following her defeat in Nandigram. Chattopadhyay had won the seat by a margin of more than 28,000 votes. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-bypoll-bjp-fields-priyanka-tibrewal-to-take-on-mamata-banerjee-in-bhabanipur-1028963.html
10-09-2021||National||Chandrayaan-2 orbiter payloads made discovery-class findings, says ISRO||The observations of the Chandrayaan-2 orbiter payloads have yielded discovery-class findings, according to the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). There were eight scientific payloads hosted on the orbiter craft. They are: Chandrayaan-2 Large Area Soft X-ray Spectrometer (CLASS), Solar X-ray Monitor (XSM), CHandra's Atmospheric Compositional Explorer 2 (CHACE 2), Dual Frequency Synthetic Aperture Radar (DFSAR), Imaging Infra-Red Spectrometer (IIRS), Terrain Mapping Camera (TMC 2), Orbiter High Resolution Camera (OHRC), and Dual Frequency Radio Science (DFRS) experiment. Earlier this week, ISRO opened up its scientific discussions on Lunar Science to "the people of the country, to engage the Indian academia, institutes, students, and people from all disciplines and walks of life", in the form of a two-day 'Lunar Science Workshop & Release of Chandrayaan-2 Data'. The workshop commemorated the completion of two years of the Chandrayaan-2 orbiter in the lunar orbit. The events were conducted in virtual mode. ISRO Chairman and Secretary in the Department of Space (DoS) K Sivan inaugurated the workshop and released the documents on Chandrayaan-2 science results and data products for utilisation by the scientific community. "The lunar workshop delivered the big news of bunch of discovery-class of findings by Chandrayaan-2", the Bengaluru headquartered India's national space agency said. The mass spectrometer CHACE-2, in its pursuit to conduct first-ever in-situ study of the composition of the lunar neutral exosphere from a polar orbital platform, detected and studied the variability of the Argon-40 at the middle and higher latitudes of the Moon, depicting the radiogenic activities in the mid and higher latitudes of the Lunar interior, it said. The discovery of Chromium and Manganese on the lunar surface, which are available in trace quantities, by the CLASS payload was announced. The observations of microflares of the Sun, during the quiet-Sun period, which provide important clues on the coronal heating problem of the Sun, were made by the XSM payload. The first-ever unambiguous detection of the hydration features of the Moon was achieved by Chandrayaan-2 with its infra-red spectrometer payload IIRS, which captured clear signatures of Hydroxyl and water-ice on the lunar surface, ISRO said. The DFSAR instrument could study the subsurface features of the Moon, detected signatures of the sub-surface water-ice, and achieved high resolution mapping of the lunar morphological features in the polar regions, it was stated. "The observations (of Chandrayaan-2 orbiter payloads) have been yielding intriguing scientific results, which are being published in peer-reviewed journals and presented in international meetings," Sivan said. Chandrayaan-2, ISRO said, has the feat of imaging the Moon from 100 km lunar orbit with "best-ever" achieved resolution of 25 cm with its OHRC. The TMC 2 of Chandrayaan-2, which is conducting imaging of the Moon at a global scale, has found interesting geologic signatures of lunar crustal shortening, and identification of volcanic domes, the ISRO said. The DFRS experiment onboard Chandrayaan-2 has studied the ionosphere of the Moon, which is generated by the solar photo-ionisation of the neutral species of the lunar tenuous exosphere, it was noted. The science data archived in Indian Space Science Data Centre (ISSDC) at Byalalu, near here, are being disseminated to public through its 'PRADAN' portal. The questions received from the academia, institutes and students were addressed by the ISRO scientists during the two-day deliberations. A panel discussion provided the opportunity to academia, institutes and students to interact with the ISRO scientists on lunar science and Chandrayaan-2, ISRO said. Chandrayaan-2 is the second spacecraft in the Indian series of Lunar exploration satellites. It comprised an orbiter, lander named Vikram and rover named Pragyan to explore the unexplored South Polar region of the Moon. It was launched on July 22, 2019 from the Sriharikota spaceport by GSLV Mk-III. It was inserted into a lunar orbit on August 20, 2019, with firing of thrusters on the orbiter. The orbiter and lander modules were separated as two independent satellites on September 2, 2019. Later, Vikram lander's descent was as planned and normal performance was observed up to an altitude of 2.1 km from Lunar surface on September seven, 2019. Subsequently, communication from the lander (with the six-wheeled Pragyan rover accommodated inside it) was lost and the lander had a hard landing on the lunar surface. A successful soft-landing would have made India the fourth country after the erstwhile Soviet Union, the United States, and China to do so, according to ISRO officials. The orbiter, placed in its intended orbit around the Moon, will enrich our understanding of the Moon's evolution and mapping of minerals and water molecules in polar regions, using its eight advanced scientific instruments, according to ISRO. The precise launch and optimised mission management have ensured a long life of almost seven years for the orbiter instead of the planned one year, it said.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandrayaan-2-orbiter-payloads-made-discovery-class-findings-says-isro-1028968.html
10-09-2021||National||Co-WIN launches 'KYC-VS' API for checking vaccination status||Co-WIN has developed a new API called 'Know Your Customer's/Client's Vaccination Status', or KYC-VS, which will enable a verifying entity to know whether a person has been vaccinated against coronavirus or not, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 72 crore vaccine doses have been administered since the vaccination campaign against Covid-19 was flagged off on January 16 this year in the country. To provide proof of vaccination for each of these individuals, Co-WIN is already issuing a digitally verifiable certificate. This certificate can be saved on a digital device (smartphone, tablet, laptop etc), or stored in Digi Locker from where it can be digitally shared as and when required as proof of vaccination, the ministry said in a statement. Similarly, at entry points where such certificate is required (e.g., in malls, office complexes, public events etc), it may be shown in both digital and physical forms. However, there may be instances where an entity does not need to see the certificate in full and would just need to know whether an individual has been vaccinated or not, the ministry said. An enterprise/employer may like to know the vaccination status of its employees to resume functions in offices, workplaces etc, it added. The Railways may want to get the status of vaccination of the passengers who are getting their seats reserved in the trains. Airlines may want to get the status of vaccination of the passengers who are booking their flight tickets, and/or airports may only want to allow vaccinated passengers to pass through. Hotels may want to know the vaccination status of the residents at the time they are checking into the hotel, or at the time of making online bookings, it further said. "As the socio-economic activities are being gradually revived while maintaining everyone's safety, there is a need for a way to digitally convey the status of individuals' vaccination to entities with whom they may be engaging with for any or all reasons, as employees, passengers, residents etc. "Therefore, there is a need to enable an Aadhaar like authentication service for the status of vaccination through Co-WIN. To take care of these cases and others that may come up, Co-WIN has developed a new API called 'Know Your Customer's/Client's Vaccination Status' or KYC-VS," the ministry said in the statement. To use this API, an individual needs to enter his/her mobile number and name. Thereafter, they will get an OTP which they have to enter. In return, Co-WIN will send a response to the verifying entity on the individual's status of vaccination, which will be as follows: -- Person is not vaccinated -- Person is partially vaccinated -- Person is fully vaccinated This response will be digitally signed and can be shared instantly with the verifying entity, the ministry said. The KYC-VS is consent-based and privacy preserving, it added. Additionally, in order to facilitate quick integration and faster adoption, the Co-WIN team has prepared a webpage with the API, which may be embedded in any system. This will allow for a seamless integration with any system in no time, the statement said. Besides the use cases pointed out, this service may be utilised by any service provider, private or public, for whom verifying an individual's vaccination status is critical for facilitating a service requested, it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-launches-kyc-vs-api-for-checking-vaccination-status-1028989.html
10-09-2021||National||Rainfall recorded in August lowest in 19 years: IMD||Rainfall in August, which recorded 24 percent deficiency, was lowest in 19 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. Two major spells of weak monsoon prevailed over the country -- from August 9-16 and August 23-27 -- when northwest, central and adjoining peninsular and west coast of India had subdued rainfall activities. “During August 2021, rainfall over the country as a whole was below Long Period Average (LPA) by minus 24 percent. It is also lowest August rainfall in last 19 years, since 2002,” the IMD said. The Southwest Monsoon season officially commences from June 1 and lasts till September 30. The month of June recorded 10 percent more rainfall, but both July and August clocked deficiency of seven and 24 percent respectively, according to the IMD data. The country received 24 percent less than normal rainfall in August. Of the four meteorological divisions of the IMD, the central India division received 39 percent less. The division consists of a large swathe of area from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The deficiency in the northwest India division, which comprises northern Indian states, was 30 percent. The deficiency was 10 percent in the south peninsula whereas the east and northeast division received two percent more rainfall than the normal. The IMD had predicted that the rainfall activity was expected to be normal during August. It has now predicted above normal precipitation in September. The weather forecasting agency said intra-seasonal variation in terms of week by week rainfall variation over India shows that monsoon rainfall activities were largely subdued consecutively for three weeks -- for week ending on August 11, August 18 and August 25 -- when all India weekly cumulative rainfall for the country as a whole was 35 percent, 36 percent and 21 percent, respectively, below its Long Period Average (LPA). The formation of less number of low pressure systems (PLS) and their lesser number of days compared to the climatology and absence of their longer westward movements during the month of August 2021 contributed to the large deficient rainfall in central India as well as all India, the IMD said. It said negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) over tropical Indian Ocean, unfavourable for Indian monsoon prevailed throughout the month of the August, which also contributed to deficient rainfall over India in the month. A negative IOD is associated with the heating of waters of the Indian Ocean. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rainfall-recorded-in-august-lowest-in-19-years-imd-1029001.html
10-09-2021||National||Mutation entry does not create any right in favour of individual title or interest: SC||Mutation entry does not confer any property “right, title or interest” in favour of an individual and is only for the fiscal purpose, the Supreme Court has said. Mutation of a property is the transfer or change of title entry in revenue records of the local municipal corporation. A bench comprising Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose said it cannot be disputed that the right on the basis of the will can be claimed only after the death of the executant of the will. “As per the settled proposition of law, mutation entry does not confer any right, title or interest in favour of the person and the mutation entry in the revenue record is only for the fiscal purpose,” the bench said. The apex court said that if there is any dispute with respect to the title and more particularly when the mutation entry is sought to be made on the basis of the will, the party who is claiming title/right has to approach the appropriate court. It said that the applicant's rights can only be crystallised by approaching the court and only thereafter on the basis of the decision before the civil court necessary mutation entry can be made. Referring to its earlier decisions, the top court said that mutation of property in revenue records neither creates nor extinguishes title to the property nor has it any presumptive value on title. Such entries are relevant only for the purpose of collecting land revenue, it said. “Entries in the revenue records or jamabandi have only fiscal purpose,” i.e., payment of land revenue, and no ownership is conferred on the basis of such entries. “It is further observed that so far as the title of the property is concerned, it can only be decided by a competent civil court,” the bench said. The order came while upholding an order of Madhya Pradesh High Court which set aside the order passed by the Additional Commissioner, Rewa Division, Rewa, directing to mutate the name of a person in the revenue records, which was sought to be mutated on the basis of the will.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mutation-entry-does-not-create-any-right-in-favour-of-individual-title-or-interest-sc-1029007.html
10-09-2021||National||BJP workers to aid vaccination drive on PM's birthday, hope to achieve record numbers||BJP workers across the country will run a special campaign on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on September 17 to help maximum people get inoculated against Covid, aiming to break all previous records of vaccination. Announcing the campaign from his residence, BJP president JP Nadda said party workers at booth level across the country will help people get vaccinated on the day. Also, talking about the party's health volunteers' campaign, Nadda said the BJP had pledged to train 4 lakh volunteers in 2 lakh villages to support the healthcare system. So far, the party has trained 6.88 lakh volunteers in 43 days and hopes to touch 8 lakh very soon, he said. Speaking during the event, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said party workers will break all previous records of vaccination on the prime minister's birthday on September 17. Chugh further said nearly 18,000 doctors have been associated with the party's health volunteers' campaign for mitigating any further wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The BJP will also carry out a special course for health volunteers in October, Chugh said. The BJP usually celebrates the Prime Minister Modi's birthday as Sewa Saptah. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-workers-to-aid-vaccination-drive-on-pms-birthday-hope-to-achieve-record-numbers-1029011.html
10-09-2021||National||Centre's resolve is that everyone feels safe, has share in development: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||The Narendra Modi government's resolve is that everyone in the society feels safe, secure and has a share in the development of the country, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said Friday. He also said the government is working with the resolve of development with dignity and empowerment without appeasement. He made the remarks on the occasion of former IPS officer Iqbal Singh Lalpura taking charge as the chairperson of the National Commission for Minorities. Lalpura said the prime minister had given him the opportunity to serve the people and he would work to put an end to the false narratives and fear being spread in society. Naqvi said the results of tough decisions taken by Prime Minister Modi for the development of all sections of the society are there for all to see. Naqvi also highlighted the steps taken by the Modi government for the Sikh community such as the compensation to the families of 1984 riot victims, the operationalisation of Kartarpur corridor and the soon-to-be-launched "Gurudwara Circuit" that will take passengers on a train journey for pilgrimage across the country. "It is our resolve that everyone feels safe, secure and has a share in the development of the country and I am confident Iqbal Singh will play an important role in strengthening that resolve," the minister said. "Sardar Iqbal Singh Lalpura Ji’s vast experience in administration, social and literary fields will be helpful in strengthening PM Modi Ji’s commitment to 'Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas' (inclusive development with everyone's efforts),” he said. Lalpura, who hails from Punjab and belongs to the Sikh community, has authored several books on Sikh philosophy and history. He has also won several awards such as the president's police medal, police medal for meritorious services, Shiromani Sikh Sahitkar Award and Sikh scholar award. Lalpura is the second Sikh to head the statutory commission after S Tarlochan Singh, who headed the commission between 2003 and 2006. The last chairperson of the commission was Syed Ghayorul Hasan Rizvi. The Union government had set up the NCM under the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-resolve-is-that-everyone-feels-safe-has-share-in-development-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-1029012.html
10-09-2021||National||Delhi riots: I will stop saying 'Salaam' if illegal, Khalid Saifi tells court on police remarks||Alluding to Delhi Police's remarks on "As-salamu alaykum" salutation, Delhi riots conspiracy case accused and activist Khalid Saifi on Friday said he would have to stop saying it in case it is illegal. Saifi's remarks came days after the police said JNU student Sharjeel Imam, who is also an accused in the case, began one of his alleged inflammatory speeches with "As-salamu alaykum", which shows it was addressed to a particular community and not the public at large. “I always greet my friends with salaam. I think I will have to stop it in case it is illegal. Is it a law or presumption of the prosecution team?” Saifi asked Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. His query impelled ASJ Rawat to clarify that it was the prosecution's argument and not the word of the court. The exchange took place through video-conference. On September 1, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad read out a January 16, 2020 speech given by Sharjeel Imam in Aligarh and said: “He [Sharjeel Imam] begins this speech by saying As-salamu alaykum, which shows that it is only subjected to one community”. Furthermore, Saifi said that whenever he gets a bail, he will file a case in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the police for wasting two million of precious papers on charge sheet in the conspiracy case. He, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Besides him, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-i-will-stop-saying-salaam-if-illegal-khalid-saifi-tells-court-on-police-remarks-1029013.html
10-09-2021||National||Magistrate not competent authority to extend time to complete probe in UAPA cases: SC||A magistrate would not be the competent authority for extension of time to complete investigation in cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Supreme Court has said. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit said the only competent authority to consider such request would be the Special Courts set up under National Investigation Agency Act. "So far as all offences under the UAPA are concerned, the Magistrate's jurisdiction to extend time under the first proviso in Section 43-D (2)(b) is nonexistent. "Consequently, in so far as “Extension of time to complete investigation” is concerned, the Magistrate would not be competent to consider the request and the only competent authority to consider such request would be 'the Court' as specified in the proviso in Section 43-D (2)(b) of the UAPA," the bench also comprising Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi said. The order, passed on September 7, came on an appeal filed by Sadique and others challenging the judgment passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh. They were arrested in connection with crime lodged with STF/ATS Police Station, District Bhopal for offences punishable under Arms Act and various provisions of UAPA. While dealing with an application moved on behalf of the Investigating Machinery under Section 43-D(2)(b) of the UAPA, the extension was granted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Bhopal. On completion of 90 days of their actual custody, applications on behalf of appellants were moved seeking bail on the ground that no charge-sheet was filed by the Investigating Agency within 90 days, which was rejected by Court of CJM, Bhopal. When the matter reached the high court, it said that since the CJM, Bhopal had passed an appropriate order, the period available for the Investigating Machinery to complete the investigation stood extended to 180 days and the accused were not entitled to bail. The lawyer appearing for the accused referred to previous decisions of the apex court and said the extension granted in the instant case by CJM, Bhopal was beyond jurisdiction. He referred to the decision which said "all offences under the UAPA, whether investigated by the National Investigation Agency or by the investigating agencies of the state government, are to be tried exclusively by Special Courts set up under National Investigation Agency Act. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/magistrate-not-competent-authority-to-extend-time-to-complete-probe-in-uapa-cases-sc-1029014.html
10-09-2021||National||AIADMK, PMK greet RN Ravi, Congress doubts Centre's intention over Governor appointment||Opposition AIADMK and PMK on Friday greeted RN Ravi over his appointment as the Governor of Tamil Nadu but the Congress' state unit doubted the Centre's 'intention' over the move, wondering if it was an attempt to target the MK Stalin-led DMK government. TNCC President K S Alagiri said former IPS officer Kiran Bedi, after being appointed as Lt Governor of neighbouring Puducherry, when the Congress was in power there, created "many roadblocks" following which a "number of welfare schemes could not be implemented" there. Top AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami extended their greetings to Ravi. "On behalf of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, I welcome the appointment of Thiru R N Ravi, a retired IPS Officer who played a crucial role in the Naga peace talks, as the Governor of Tamil Nadu," Panneerselvam, the party Coordinator, said in a statement. "His appointment will certainly boost the development and fortune of Tamil Nadu to a great extent. I wish him all success," he added. On Thursday, President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Ravi as Governor of Tamil Nadu, replacing the incumbent Banwarilal Purohit, who has been shifted to Punjab. He was holding additional charge of the state earlier. Ravi, the Centre's interlocutor and a retired IPS officer, was shifted from Nagaland. Palaniswami, in a tweet, wished all the best for Ravi during his tenure in the state and said he had efficiently performed as Governor of Nagaland. He thanked Purohit and wished him well in his new assignment. PMK founder S Ramadoss greeted Ravi and requested his support for the state's growth. Alagiri, in a statement, said Ravi had a "police background" and had also served as Deputy National Security Advisor, before being appointed as Governor of Nagaland. "There is a doubt over the intention behind his appointment as Tamil Nadu governor," he alleged. Referring to Bedi's tenure in Puducherry, he said she functioned "against" the democratically-elected government there and earned the ire of the people. "The appointment of a retired police officer as Tamil Nadu governor has raised suspicion....I suspect if RN Ravi has been appointed to create problems for Chief Minister M K Stalin," he alleged. Any such attempts would not be allowed in the state and Congress would rally democratic forces, he warned. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiadmk-pmk-greet-rn-ravi-congress-doubts-centres-intention-over-governor-appointment-1029018.html
10-09-2021||National||CIL steps up supply of coal to power sector; per-day average 20% higher than last year||State-owned CIL on Friday said it has stepped up the supply of coal to the power sector in the first eight days of the current month, with an average of 1.39 million tonnes (MT) per day, clocking a growth of around 20 per cent y-o-y. The development assumes significance in the wake of power plants across the country facing coal shortages. "CIL has stepped up supplies to the power sector in the first eight days of September, clocking around 20 per cent growth at an average of 1.39 MT per day," the state-owned firm said in a statement. Till the same date of last year's September, the average supply per day had stood at 1.16 MT, Coal India Ltd (CIL) said in the statement. "We are aiming to augment the total supply further to a level of 1.8 MT per day consistently and 1.45 MT per day to the power sector," the company said. CIL's e-auction bookings logged a robust 42 per cent growth during the April-August period, on the back of a demand spike in coal-based power generation and soaring international coal prices, compared to a similar period a year ago. The booked volume during the ongoing financial year, till August, was also more than a two-fold increase compared with nearly 20 MT over the pre-pandemic April-August period of 2019. CIL booked 53.3 million tonnes of coal in the first five months of FY22, under the five auction categories. This is nearly 16 MT higher compared with 37.5 MT of the corresponding period of FY21. The add-on fetched was 30 per cent over notified prices. Amid the spiralling international prices, non-power sector customers, under their exclusive auction window, opted for domestic coal accounting for 37 per cent or 19.7 MT of the total auction bookings during the April-August period. Seventy per cent of the total offered quantity was booked by them. With the upsurge in coal-based power generation, the quantity booked by power sector customers under special forward auction more than doubled to 17.3 MT during the referred period against eight MT booked in the corresponding period a year ago. As the international coal prices soar, generation from 14 imported coal-based power plants of the country, who source their coal from overseas, dropped by 20 per cent during the April-August period to 23.63 MW from that of 29.67 MW same period a year ago. The contraction was 30 per cent in August when the generation was 3.95 megawatts (MW) against 5.64 MW of the same month last year. This resulted in additional demand for domestic coal. CIL accounts for over 80 per cent of the total domestic coal output.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cil-steps-up-supply-of-coal-to-power-sector-per-day-average-20-higher-than-last-year-1029020.html
10-09-2021||National||Delhi Police files case in Gurdwara Directorate elections ruckus||The Delhi Police has registered a case in connection with the ruckus created at the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections in ITO area here, a senior officer said on Friday. The case has been registered on the complaint of the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections, the officer said. The FIR has been registered at IP Estate police station under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 34 (common intension), the officer said. No arrest has been made so far, he said. On Thursday, a video surfaced on social media showing some people shouting slogans at the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections in the ITO area of the city. Former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president and Shiromani Akali Dal national spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa had claimed that people belonging to his party were angry with the Director of Gurdwara Elections, Narinder Singh, as he “did not follow due procedure during the co-option process for members of the general house of DSGMC”. In the video clip, people were seen shouting slogans against Singh and flinging a shoe at him at one point. “He (Singh) did not go by the rules and deliberately kept the party workers waiting,” Sirsa had alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-files-case-in-gurdwara-directorate-elections-ruckus-1029021.html
10-09-2021||National||HC grants time to Delhi govt to decide on implementing CM's promise to pay rent to poor during Covid||The Delhi High Court Friday granted two weeks to Delhi government to decide on implementing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's announcement that if a poor tenant was unable to pay rent during the Covid-19 pandemic, the state would pay it. Delhi government's counsel Gautam Narayan told Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a plea alleging willful disobedience of the court's order directing a decision to be taken in this regard in six weeks, that “the matter was under consideration” and sought two weeks to arrive at a conclusion. On July 22, the court had ruled that a Chief Minister's promise to citizens was enforceable and directed the AAP government to decide within six weeks on Kejriwal's announcement that the state would pay rent on behalf of a poor tenant who are unable to do so on account of Covid-19. The petitioners, who claimed to be daily wagers and workers and sought to enforce the promise made by Kejriwal on during a press conference on March 29 last year, stated in their application that the failure of the authorities in taking a decision in terms of the order impinged upon their right to shelter. “The 6 weeks expired on 02.09.2021. However, GNCTD has not yet complied with the above direction. Requests dated 29.08.2021 and 30.08.2021 made by Najma (P1), Karan Singh (P4) and Rehana Bibi (P5) have not been responded,” the petition filed through advocate Gaurav Jain reads. The plea added that until a decision is taken, a “clear policy” on the payment of rent cannot be formed. “By wilfully disobeying the judgment/direction of this Court, respondent have also entered the territory of 'Contempt of Court',” it is asserted. In the order, Justice Prathiba M Singh had opined that against the backdrop of a commitment made by the Chief Minster, a lack of decision making or indecision was contrary to law. “A statement given in a consciously held press conference, in the background of the lockdown announced due to the pandemic and the mass exodus of migrant labourers, cannot be simply overlooked. Proper governance requires the government to take a decision on the assurance given by the CM, and inaction on the same cannot be the answer,” the court said in its 89-page verdict. It said the assurance was not a “political promise”, as was sought to be canvassed as it was not made as a part of an election rally but it was the statement made by the Delhi Chief Minister. “The statement was not made by a government functionary at a lower level in the hierarchy, who could be devoid of such knowledge. The CM is expected to have had the said knowledge and is expected to exercise his authority to give effect to his promise/assurance,” the court said, adding that a citizen would believe that the CM has spoken on behalf of his government while making the promise. The matter would be heard next on September 27. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-time-to-delhi-govt-to-decide-on-implementing-cms-promise-to-pay-rent-to-poor-during-covid-1029028.html
10-09-2021||National||Vaccine Matters: Ahead of target, Centre claims 1 dose as effective as 2||The claim of high protection from a single dose of the Covid-19 jab comes three months before the Centre’s target of inoculating 94.47 crore adults with two doses of vaccines by December 31. While the entire target population is likely to be covered with a single dose by the year-end, two doses for everybody is out of the question as only 17 crore have received both the shots till now. On the international front, Israel -- a focal point of the pandemic in 2021 owing to its rapid rollout of Covid-19 vaccines -- has reported significant outbreaks despite inoculating nearly half its population with the first dose by February. With over 10,000 confirmed new cases being recorded each day in early September. A main part of the problem has been vaccine coverage. After its fast start, Israel’s rollout slowed. What may have caused this? - Supply disruptions, hesitancy? And more importantly, will this happen to other countries? -- It's still difficult to determine. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-matters-ahead-of-target-centre-claims-1-dose-as-effective-as-2-1029029.html
10-09-2021||National||Commerce ministry recommends anti-dumping duty on certain aluminium items from China||The commerce ministry's investigation arm DGTR has recommended the imposition of anti-dumping duty on certain aluminium products from China to guard domestic manufacturers from cheap imports. The Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has concluded in its probe that the dumped imports of 'Certain Flat-Rolled Products of Aluminium' from China have impacted the domestic industry. The material injury suffered by the domestic industry has been caused by the dumped imports, DGTR has said in a notification. "The Authority, therefore, considers it necessary to recommend imposition of the definitive anti-dumping duty...on all imports of the subject goods...originating in or exported from China," it added. The DGTR has recommended $65 per tonne and $449 per tonne on imports. The finance ministry takes the final decision to impose the duty. In international trade parlance, dumping happens when a country or a firm exports an item at a price lower than the price of that product in its domestic market. Dumping impacts the price of that product in the importing country, hitting the margins and profits of the manufacturing firms. According to global trade norms, a country is allowed to impose tariffs on such dumped products to provide a level-playing field to domestic manufacturers. The duty is imposed only after a thorough investigation by a quasi-judicial body, such as DGTR, in India. The imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organization (WTO) regime. India and China are members of this Geneva-based organisation, which deals with global trade norms. The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commerce-ministry-recommends-anti-dumping-duty-on-certain-aluminium-items-from-china-1029031.html
10-09-2021||National||IT dept 'surveys' Newsclick, Newslaundry in tax case||The Income Tax department on Friday conducted separate "survey operations" at the premises of online news portals Newsclick and Newslaundry here, officials said. The operations are being conducted to verify certain tax payment details and remittances made by the organisations, they said. Some documents have been found and these are being studied, the officials said. In a survey operation, which is carried out under provisions of section 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, tax officials cover only the business premises of an assessee and those linked to it and not their residential addresses. However, tax authorities can seize documents. There was no immediate reaction from the two portals or their promoters, but their social media handles continuously updated news stories and articles. Newsclick and its founders were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in February under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and that investigation is linked to alleged dubious foreign funding received by its registered company, which runs the news portal. The money laundering case arises out of a Delhi Police FIR alleging that PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt Ltd received foreign direct investment (FDI) of Rs 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the 2018-19 financial year.  The Delhi High Court has granted interim protection from arrest to Newsclick's editor-in-chief and founder Prabir Purkayastha in connection with the Delhi Police FIR that relates to its probe against the foreign funding of the company. The high court has also granted Purkayastha protection from coercive action in the ED case. Newsclick has argued in its defence in the court that there is no question of siphoning off of funds, as alleged by probe agencies, as the same had been utilised for paying salaries to employees and that there was no loss to the exchequer in the process. The ED had claimed that it is also probing Newsclick and its promoters for alleged transfer of certain funds to activist Gautam Navlakha, accused in the Elgar Parishad case of Maharashtra. It has also questioned Navlakha, lodged in a Maharashtra jail, in connection with the case.   Purkayastha had earlier said in a statement that a smear campaign has been launched against the portal, and "selective leaks" from the ED, whose probe is already under challenge before court, reflect the "inherent weakness" in the investigation and the course that it will take in the courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-dept-surveys-newsclick-newslaundry-in-tax-case-1029034.html
10-09-2021||National||Rise of Taliban raises serious security concerns for India, region: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday conveyed to his Australian counterpart Peter Dutton that the rise of Taliban raises serious security concerns for India and the region as the terror groups having bases in Afghanistan could get further support to expand their activities, official sources said. In the in-person talks, Singh also said that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any other country and emphasised that the international community must do everything possible to ensure the implementation of the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan, they said. The India delegation flagged concerns over the possible implication of the Taliban's capture of power for the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir as there are apprehensions about spill-over of terrorist activities from Afghanistan to the union territory, the sources said. Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne and Defence Minister Dutton arrived here on Friday on a three-day visit primarily to take part in the inaugural two-plus-two ministerial dialogue between the two countries. In his talks with Dutton, Singh also talked about India's concerns over violation of human rights and suppression of rights of women, children and minority communities under the Taliban regime, the sources said. The Afghan crisis was discussed at length and there was a convergence of views between the two sides on it, the sources said, adding Singh spoke strongly about the need to implement the UNSC resolution adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body. The resolution demanded that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter and train terrorists and plan or finance terrorist attacks. The eastern Ladakh border row between India and China also found brief mention at the talks and the Indian side conveyed that New Delhi is committed to resolving the issue peacefully through talks, the sources said. In his statement to the media, Singh described the talks as "very fruitful and wide-ranging" and said bilateral defence cooperation, as well as regional issues, figured during the deliberations. He said both sides are keen to work jointly to realise the full potential of the India-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership. "This partnership is based on our shared vision of free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region. Both, Australia and India have tremendous stakes in peace, development and free flow of trade, rules-based order and economic growth in the region," he said with Dutton by his side. "Our discussions today focused on our bilateral defence cooperation and expanding military engagements across services, enhancing defence information sharing, cooperation in emerging defence technologies and mutual logistics support," Singh said. He also mentioned Australia's participation at the Malabar exercise in the last two editions. Singh said both sides agreed that there are opportunities of bilateral collaboration for co-development and co­ production of military equipment and that he invited the Australian industry to take advantage of India's liberalised foreign direct investment policies in the defence sector. "I apprised Minister Dutton about our recent efforts towards 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) and growing innovation ecosystem in India. We discussed opportunities to work together in Defence Science and Technology areas," Singh said. He said India is committed to building a robust partnership with Australia for the security and growth of the entire region. "I look forward to working with you to take the India­ Australia defence partnership to greater heights," Singh said. Defence and military cooperation between India and Australia is on an upswing in the last few years. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-of-taliban-raises-serious-security-concerns-for-india-region-rajnath-singh-1029035.html
10-09-2021||National||Compulsory leave for Punjab govt employees if even one Covid vaccine dose not taken: CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced on Friday that state government employees failing to take even the first dose of Covid vaccine for any reason other than medical will be compulsorily sent on leave after September 15. This strong measure, an official statement said, was announced by Singh to protect the people of the state from the disease, and to ensure that those who are vaccinated do not have to pay the price for continued vaccine hesitancy of those who are not. At the high-level virtual Covid review meeting held on Friday, the chief minister said vaccine effectiveness is evident from the data being analysed. Special efforts were taken to reach out to government employees, and those who continue to avoid getting vaccinated will now be asked to go on leave till they get the first dose, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/compulsory-leave-for-punjab-govt-employees-if-even-one-covid-vaccine-dose-not-taken-cm-1029036.html
10-09-2021||National||PM Modi chairs high-level meeting on Covid situation, vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a high-level meeting on the Covid situation and vaccination as the government noted high caseloads in states like Kerala and Maharashtra to say that there can be no room for complacency. Modi reviewed the status of augmentation of bed capacity for pediatric care and of facilities supported under "Covid Emergency Response Package II", and it was noted that states have been advised to redesign and orient primary care and block level health infrastructure in these areas to manage the situation in rural areas, a statement said. States are being asked to maintain a buffer stock for drugs used in management of Covid-19, mucormycosis, MIS-C at the district level, it added. "It was discussed that across the world, there are countries where the number of active Covid cases continues to remain high. In India too, the figures from states like Maharashtra and Kerala indicate that there can be no room for complacency," the statement said. However, the weekly positivity was at less than three per cent for the 10th consecutive week, it added. Modi underscored the need to rapidly augment the entire ecosystem to ensure increased oxygen availability, including oxygen concentrators, cylinders and PSA plants. Efforts are also on to install 961 Liquid Medical Oxygen storage tanks and 1,450 medical gas pipeline systems with an aim to support at least one such unit per district, the government said. The ambulance network is also being augmented to ensure at least one ambulance per block. Modi also reviewed the status of PSA oxygen plants coming up across the country and told that around one lakh oxygen concentrators and three lakh oxygen cylinders have been distributed to states. He was also briefed about the concentration of cases in a few geographies, districts with high test positivity as well as the week on week test positivity rate in the country. On vaccines, the statement noted that around 58 per cent of India's adult population has received the first dose and nearly 18 per cent both doses. Modi was also updated about the vaccine pipeline and increased supply of vaccines. He spoke about the need for constant genome sequencing to monitor emergence of mutants. He was informed that INSACOG (SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium) now consists of 28 labs distributed across the country. The lab network is also linked with a hospital network for clinical correlation. Sewage sampling is also being done for genomic surveillance. States have been requested to share SARS-CoV-2 positive samples with INSACOG regularly. Modi highlighted the need to ensure adequate testing across the country and was told about the support being given to 433 districts to establish RT-PCR lab facility in public health facilities. The principal secretary to the prime minister, cabinet secretary, principal scientific advisor, health secretary, member (health) NITI Aayog and other important officials were present in the meeting. The meeting came a day after Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India is still going through the second wave of Covid-19 and it is not over yet. He had said 35 districts are still reporting a weekly Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent while it is between five and 10 per cent in 30 districts. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-chairs-high-level-meeting-on-covid-situation-vaccination-1029044.html
10-09-2021||National||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu to visit Puducherry for 2 days||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu would be on a two-day visit to the Union Territory of Puducherry from September 12. He would inaugurate a Rs 7.67-crore solar power plant at the centrally administered JIPMER, here, on that day. The plant would meet 15 per cent of the electricity demand of JIPMER and save Rs 1.7 crore in electricity bills every year as per the prevailing tariff, a press release from JIPMER said here on Friday. The Vice-President is scheduled to visit the Aurobindo Ashram also and formally inaugurate the Puducherry government-sponsored Technological University on September 13. Besides, he would launch a solar project the same day at the Pondicherry Central University. Lieutenant Governor of the Union Territory Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N Rangasamy would be among the participants on the occasion. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-to-visit-puducherry-for-2-days-1029064.html
10-09-2021||National||Rajasthan cop booked under POCSO over viral video held||The Special Operation Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police has arrested a Rajasthan Police Service (RPS) officer, after videos purportedly showing him with a female constable and her minor child in a compromising position, went viral. Both the officer and the constable were suspended after preliminary investigation on September 8. The accused officer, Heera Lal Saini, posted as circle officer, Beawar of Ajmer district was detained Thursday night from a resort in Udaipur and arrested on Friday, ADGP (ATS & SOG) Ashok Rathore told PTI. A case been registered against the officer under sections of the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Whether it is also an offence under sections of IT Act, it is part of the investigation, he added. The video clips purportedly show Saini indulging in sexual activities with the constable in a swimming pool. The female cop's six-year-old son was in the same pool. Saini has reportedly claimed that the videos are doctored. The constable's husband informed police that he married the woman in 2001, and in 2008, she got the job in the police department. On July 13, the complainant found that his wife had posted a video (as WhatsApp status), in which she and Saini were in a swimming pool, and in a compromising position. He mentioned that in the video, the wife lip kissed their son in the pool, while Saini inappropriately touched her in front of the minor. He filed a complaint at Chitawa police station in Nagaur district in August but the SHO concerned did not take any action. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against the three officials -- Saini, the constable, and the Chitawa SHO. Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has also taken cognisance of the matter and sought a report in three days. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-cop-booked-under-pocso-over-viral-video-held-1029076.html
10-09-2021||National||Naveen Patnaik felicitates para shuttler Pramod Bhagat||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik Friday felicitated para shuttler Pramod Bhagat who won a gold medal in para badminton in the recently concluded Tokyo Paralympics. Bhagat, who received a rousing welcome at the airport on his arrival to the state, received Rs 6 crore as prize money from Patnaik. The state government also offered a Group A job to Bhagat, the first from the state to have won a gold medal in any Olympics so far. Felicitating Bhagat at a special event organised at Kalinga Stadium here. the chief minister said "Your victory was a proud moment for the entire nation and will remain forever so. You have truly redefined how sports can uplift and empower lives.” “You have inspired a generation of sportspersons and para sportspersons to create their own destiny. We will continue to support you in your journey ahead,” Patnaik said. Bhagat expressed his gratitude to the chief minister for the continuous support and motivation in his Olympic journey. Odisha’s Sports and Youth Services Minister T K Behera, Hockey Promotion Council chief DilipTirkey and others were present at the event. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naveen-patnaik-felicitates-para-shuttler-pramod-bhagat-1029096.html
10-09-2021||National||Dealing strictly with cow slaughter, those 'trapping' Hindu girls: Gujarat CM||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said his government was dealing strictly with those who "trap" Hindu girls and elope with them. Addressing a gathering of Maldhari community, whose traditional occupation is cattle-rearing, in Vasihnodevi Circle area here, Rupani said the BJP government in the state has also acted tough on those involved in cow slaughter. "My government brought in several laws with strict provisions. Be it the law to save cows from slaughter, the law to stop land grabbing, or the law to punish those involved in chain-snatching," he said. "We also brought a law to stop `love jihad'. We are dealing strictly with those who trap Hindu girls and elope with them," he said. The chief minister was speaking after performing ground-breaking ceremony for a planned building of the Raika Education Charitable Trust. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, which was passed by the Assembly in April and was notified on June 15, provides for strict punishment for forcible or `fraudulent' religious conversions through marriage. Some contentious sections of the law were stayed by the Gujarat High Court last month. Rupani also informed the gathering that his government provided subsidized fodder and saved several lakhs of cows from starvation two years ago when Kutch and Banaskantha talukas received scanty rainfall. Speaking earlier, Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja said CM Rupani played an important role in bringing a tough law against cow slaughter. Referring to the Gujarat Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2017, which has a provision of life sentence for cow slaughter, Jadeja said, "Thirty-three crore deities live inside a cow. That is why we brought a law. Before the law was introduced in the Assembly, CM Rupani called me to his cabin and clearly told me there is no need to show sympathy for those who do not show mercy to cows."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dealing-strictly-with-cow-slaughter-those-trapping-hindu-girls-gujarat-cm-1029098.html
10-09-2021||National||951 grams gold smuggled as dentures seized at Delhi Airport||The Customs officials at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi seized 951 grams of gold being smuggled into the country in the form of dentures last month, the customs department said. "Officers of Customs AIU, IGI Airport apprehended 2 Uzbeki nationals on 28/8 night coming from Dubai in the Green Channel. On search, 951 gms gold in form of dentures and a metallic chain was recovered from their oral cavity," the Delhi Customs tweeted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/951-grams-gold-smuggled-as-dentures-seized-at-delhi-airport-1029099.html
10-09-2021||National||Mizoram braces for 2nd refugee wave from Myanmar as clashes break out between military and civilians||Mizoram is bracing for a second wave of refugees from Myanmar as supporters of the Burmese government-in-exile, National Unity Government, which called for a nationwide uprising earlier this week, clashed with the military junta’s forces. Already, over 150 more people have moved across the border in the wake of the military crackdown after the uprising call on Tuesday, September 7. Sounds of a fierce gunfight between the supporters of NUG and Myanmar army, which took place at a Myanmar village, was heard from Thingsai, the nearest border village in Mizoram's Hnahthial district, on Friday morning, officials said. The Myanmarese NUG has been formed by elected legislators who were ousted by the military. Hnahthial district deputy commissioner H Dolianbuaia said that about 60 Myanmar nationals entered the district since Thursday fleeing armed struggle between civilians and the Myanmar military. "Our district has already hosted about 700 refugees from Maynmar. More people are likely to enter following the nationwide uprising in the neighbouring country," he told PTI over phone. Mizoram, which shares a 510 km long international border with Myanmar, is already home to thousands of Myanmar nationals, who fled their country after the Myanmar Army (Tatmadaw) seized power from a democratically elected government on February first this year. Maria CT Zuali, the deputy commissioner of Champhai district, which borders Myanmar, also told PTI that at least 35 people from the neighbouring country sneaked into the district on Wednesday following the national wide uprising. Officials in Lawngtlai, the southernmost district of the state bordering Myanmar, also said that around 60 people from the neighbouring country crossed over some two days ago. Majority of Myanmar nationals were given temporary shelter and food by local organisations and individuals on humanitarian ground while others are living with their relatives, officials said. Most Myanmar nationals live in temporary shelters set up by NGOs, he said. The district administration could not help them formally as they are yet to be granted refugee status by the government or international agencies, he added. Earlier in March, Chief Minister Zoramthanga had urged the Centre to officially provide asylum to Myanmar nationals. Home Minister Lalchamlian has recently informed the state assembly that a total of 10,229 people from Myanmar have entered Mizoram since the military coup as per the official records maintained by the state government till August 28. "These Myanmar nationals have taken shelter in different districts. Some of them were living with their relatives while others were living in temporary shelters set up by the local people inside their villages," Lalchamliana said in a written reply. Highly placed sources said that more than 20 lawmakers are among the Myanmar nationals, who took shelter in Mizoram. The state government has however despite the lack of official recognition of the refugee status of the Myanmar nationals, started enrolling their children in schools since August. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mizoram-braces-for-2nd-refugee-wave-from-myanmar-as-clashes-break-out-between-military-and-civilians-1029103.html
10-09-2021||National||National Lok Adalat to be held on September 11||A National Lok Adalat is going to be organised on Saturday across the country, barring states of Odisha, Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka for amicable settlement of cases due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and other local circumstances. A vast category of criminal compoundable cases and civil cases such as Negotiable Instruments Act cases under Section 138, bank recovery cases, MACT cases, labour dispute Cases, electricity and water bills, matrimonial disputes, land acquisition cases have been referred to Lok Adalat for the amicable settlement and disposal. This year the Legal Services Authorities organised four National Lok Adalats, among which two were organised in the month of April and July, wherein over 31 lakh cases were disposed of, which included over 11.93 lakh pre-litigation cases and more than 19.97 lakh pending cases, a press release from member-secretary National Legal Services Authority said.  In wake of the pandemic, the upcoming National Lok Adalat will be organised through virtual and hybrid mode after the observance of the covid protocols of respective States, it added. States of Odisha and Karnataka would organise their Lok Adalat on September 19 and 30 respectively. Maharashtra and Goa will hold it on September 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-lok-adalat-to-be-held-on-september-11-1029105.html
10-09-2021||National||Pashupati Paras to attend Chirag Paswan's mega event on his father's death anniversary||LJP leader and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras on Friday said he will attend an event organised by his nephew and party leader Chirag Paswan to mark the first death anniversary of his father Ram Vilas Paswan in Patna on September 12. Speaking to PTI, Paras said he was "glad" that Chirag Paswan recently visited his residence and invited him to the event. "I will definitely attend the event on September 12. It is an event to mark the death anniversary of my elder brother (Ram Vilas Paswan). There is no question of not attending it. Whatever I am today, it is because of the blessing of my elder brother. Though I have blessings of the prime minister (Narendra Modi) as well," he said, when asked if he would attend the event in Patna. Chirag Paswan, who has invited top national leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Congress president Sonia Gandhi to the event, had gone to his uncle's residence in Delhi on Tuesday to personally invite him to the programme. Until now, there was much speculation as to whether Paras would attend the event being organised by Chirag Paswan or not as the latter is embroiled in a bitter dispute with Paras to claim the legacy of his late father. When asked if his decision to attend the September 12 event in Patna would somehow lead to ending of his differences with Chirag Paswan, Paras said, "Politics is one thing and the family matter is another. They are two different things."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pashupati-paras-to-attend-chirag-paswans-mega-event-on-his-fathers-death-anniversary-1029106.html
10-09-2021||National||Nearly 73 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far, says Union Health Ministry||Nearly 73 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. According to a provisional report, more than 56 lakh vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm on Friday. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late in the night, the ministry said.  The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-73-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-says-union-health-ministry-1029109.html
10-09-2021||National||Direct retailers to display edible oil prices prominently, act against hoarding: Centre to states||Amid edible oil prices continuing to remain high, the Centre on Friday asked states to direct retailers to prominently display the prices of all edible oil brands for the benefit of consumers and also take action against hoarding at the level of wholesalers, millers and refiners. After a meeting with states' representatives and industry stakeholders, Union Food Secretary Sudhansu Pandey also ruled imposing stock limit on traders as well as the possibility of fixing MRPs (Maximum Retail Prices) for edible oils as he emphasised that market forces will determine the rates in a good competitive environment. Pandey said the government will take a call on existing import duty regime after analysing the impact of various measures taken to reduce the prices. According to him, edible oil prices are expected to cool down with the arrival of new kharif crop by the end of this month, declining price trend in global markets and steps taken by the central government. In the last few months, the Centre has cut import duty on various edible oils and asked states to take details of stock of edible oils and oilseeds from wholesalers, millers, refiners and stockists. It has also announced a Rs 11,040 crore-palm oil mission. Stressing that the government's current focus is on ensuring transparency across the supply chain, Pandey said that in today's meeting, states have been told to ensure that retailers "prominently display the rates of edible oils". "... Some states have already notified that they (retailers) have to simply display at what rate it is available. Then it is a consumer choice to make a choice whether to buy x or y brand depending on his own preference," he noted. Consumers can choose the cheaper one and brands will also be under pressure to reduce prices, he said, adding that the state governments will enforce the requirement of displaying the prices. On whether there are plans to further reduce import duty on edible oils, he said, "we have taken certain steps, we will watch how the price behaviour is and then the government will take a call". After analysing the price behaviour, an appropriate call will be taken on whether to continue with lower import duty on some edible oils beyond September. The government has reduced import duty on Crude Palm Oil (CPO) to 30.25 per cent from 35.75 per cent while that on refined palm oil has been cut to 41.25 per cent from 49.5 per cent till September 30. Import duty on refined soya oil and sunflower oil has also been reduced to 37.5 per cent from 45 per cent till the end of September. In the last one year, retail edible oil prices in the country have increased in the range of 41 to 50 per cent. "The import duty was reduced with a purpose to ensure consumers get edible oils at affordable rates. Edible oil is one of the main daily food items of consumers. Looking at rising global prices, the government took measures to increase the production of oilseeds," he said. However, Pandey also acknowledged that it takes time to increase production and there was a need to take immediate measures to ensure edible oils are available at affordable rates during the festival season. Further, the secretary said the country imports much of the edible oils in crude form and refines it locally. Therefore, monitoring stocks at each level will help to know how quickly the edible oils are getting refined and coming to the market, he added. Asked if the government plans to impose stock limits, Pandey replied in the negative. "No. No state government suggested there is a need for a stock limit at this stage. They felt that transparency and disclosure should be a good step to ensure cooling down of prices," he noted. Global palm oil prices have fallen two per cent in Malaysia while soyabean and palm oils futures are also showing a declining trend. Pandey said the recent government measures, expected arrival of good kharif soyabean crop by the end of this month and declining global price trend in soyabean oil and palm oil should help cool down the domestic prices. "The kharif crop of soyabean is expected end of September, prices should start cooling down because the crop is going to be better than last year. So, it is going to have an impact on prices," he pointed out. Kharif soyabean crop of the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) is expected to be 5-10 per cent higher than the year-ago period. It is also expected that rabi (winter) crop acreage under oilseeds will be higher as the government has increased the minimum support price that should encourage farmers to grow oilseeds, Pandey said. "With all these measures, the government is hopeful that consumers will get relief," he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/direct-retailers-to-display-edible-oil-prices-prominently-act-against-hoarding-centre-to-states-1029111.html
10-09-2021||National||Punjab farmer bodies urge political parties to suspend poll campaign||Farmer bodies protesting the Centre's agriculture laws on Friday appealed to political parties to suspend their election campaign till the schedule for the Punjab Assembly polls is out so that the focus remains on their agitation. Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, who presided over the meeting, said Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders said they will consult their party leadership before announcing their decision. The Congress delegation was led by its Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. In a tweet after the meeting, Sidhu said, "Had a positive meeting with Samyukt Kisan Morcha … Discussed the way forward !!" Apart from the two parties, representatives of AAP, BSP, Lok Insaaf Party and the SAD (Sanyukt) took part in the meeting, for which the invite was not sent to the BJP for the party’s pro-farm laws stand. Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal requested the farmer bodies not to impose restrictions on political activities in Punjab, stressing that the protesting organisations should maintain the national character of their stir. After the five-hour-long meeting, Rajewal told reporters, "We appeal to parties that electioneering should not be held before the polls are announced. The party, which will still insist on running an election campaign before poll dates are announced, we will consider them as against the farmers' agitation." Rajewal further said, "As our Morcha (agitation) is going on and a different kind of situation prevails currently, farmers' attention is focused on the Morcha. When parties conduct electioneering and mobilise supporters for their programmes, it diverts their attention." Some other farm leaders said representatives of political parties were asked not to indulge in electioneering or hold political rallies till the elections are announced as it may hurt the farmers' struggle. However, they said parties are free to hold small functions that do not attract big gatherings. Rajewal said all parties asserted that they stand behind farmers. As many as 32 farmer bodies under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had called the meeting. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, state party general secretary Pargat Singh and working president Kuljit Singh Nagra attended the meeting while the SAD was represented by Balwinder Singh Bhundar, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Lok Insaaf Party's Simarjit Singh Bains and SAD (Sanyukt) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa also attended the meeting. Political parties were allotted time slots for the meeting and many were seen waiting at the venue here before their turn came. Rajewal said they urged parties that their poll manifesto should be a legal document and most participants supported this. Farm leaders also urged the parties to declare time frame under which they will fulfil their promises. Rajewal said they appealed to MPs and MLAs to give a dharna before Parliament against the farm laws. All cases registered against farmers in the state during the ongoing agitation should be taken back, the ruling outfit was urged. Congress leader Kuljit Nagra said they will discuss the demand raised by the farmer bodies on the party platform. Nagra said the Congress has always stood with farmers and continues to support them in their fight against the farm laws. AAP's Kultar Singh told reporters that his party was the first to oppose the farm ordinances and later when these were introduced as laws. They will abide by whatever farm unions decide, he said. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has requested the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to retain the national character of the agitation by not imposing any restriction on political activities in Punjab even as it offered all help to further strengthen the stir, a party statement said. Senior SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Maheshinder Singh Grewal said a conspiracy is afoot by the Centre to restrict the agitation to Punjab and then suppress it by imposing President's rule in the state. “Our fight is with the BJP-led government at the national level. Political activity has not been restricted due to the farmers’ agitation in any other state. Going to people is as much your right as ours and this should not be restricted,” Chandumajra said. The SAD leaders said they will not hold rallies on any day on which the SKM announces a major programme in Punjab.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-farmer-bodies-urge-political-parties-to-suspend-poll-campaign-1029112.html
10-09-2021||National Politics||Secularism 'purposely weakened' with Muslims, Dalits targeted: Owaisi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi sparked a row during a meeting in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki, alleging that securlaism in the country had been purposely weakened to target Muslims and Dalits. Owaisi also hit out at the BJP, saying that secularism had weakened since the saffron party's rise to power in 2014. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/secularism-purposely-weakened-with-muslims-dalits-targeted-owaisi-1028916.html
10-09-2021||National Politics||Opposition refuses to be part of Inquiry Committee on ruckus in Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's plans to constitute to a multi-party committee to investigate the allegations of violence by MPs during the Monsoon Session hit a roadblock with Congress on Thursday refusing to be part of the panel, saying it is an attempt to "intimidate" and "silence" the Opposition as well as "brushing aside" government's role in the ruckus. Sources said Congress and other Opposition parties are on the same page on the issue as Naidu reached out to some Opposition leaders, including Mallikarjun Kharge, last week requesting them to nominate a party MP to the Inquiry Committee to investigate the ruckus on August 11 when the bill providing for more private sector involvement in general insurance companies. Leader of Opposition Kharge wrote to the Chairman expressing his party's reservation over the move and suggesting that the best course of action would be to discuss the matter during the next all party meeting. On August 11, Opposition had vehemently protested when the government went ahead with passing the insurance bill, trying to climb the reporters' table. There was a scuffle between some of the MPs and marshals following which Kharge alleged that women MPs were insulted by the security staff, who in turn accused some MPs of assaulting them. The government had sought action against erring MPs while the Opposition had charged the ruling party of bulldozing legislations leading to protests. In his letter, Kharge said, "constituting an Inquiry Committee on the incident of August 11 seems designed to intimidate MPs into silence. It will not only suppress the voices of the people's representatives but will deliberately brush aside all those that are uncomfortable for the government." He said he was "unequivocally against constituting" a committee and his party naming a nominee would not arise. Kharge pointed out that the government not only Opposition's demands for discussions on issues like Pegasus but rushed several bills amid din when it was "equally responsible" for the smooth functioning of the Parliament. He said the Opposition was left with no option but to protest against the government's "authoritarian conduct". Kharge also pointed out Parliament has had a history of similar protests, many initiated by the ruling BJP when it was in Opposition and said that many from the saffron party have in the past argued that expressing dissent in this manner was acceptable in Parliamentary democracy. After the August 11 ruckus, the Monsoon Session was adjourned sine die and an Opposition delegation had met Naidu and submitted a memorandum explaining the sequence of events. Government ministers also met Naidu at least twice demanding action against Opposition MPs. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-refuses-to-be-part-of-inquiry-committee-on-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-1028927.html
10-09-2021||National Politics||Congress to take out yatra across Uttar Pradesh ahead of 2022 Assembly polls||The Congress under the leadership of its national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday decided to take out a 12,000 km-long yatra through villages and towns of Uttar Pradesh ahead of the Assembly polls next year. The decision to take out the "Congress Pratigya Yatra: Hum Vachan Nibhayenge" was taken at a meeting Gandhi held with the party advisory and strategy committee members here, the party said in a statement. "The yatra will cover 12,000 km and will pass through villages and towns of the state. The details of the yatra are being finalised," it said. During the yatra, Congress leaders will assure people that they would fulfil promises made by the party in the run-up to the polls. Gandhi is taking feedback and suggestion of committee members on routes and issues that will be taken up during the yatra. She will later in the day hold a meeting with members of the party's election committee. Congress Legislature party leader in the Assembly Aradhna Mishra Mona, state unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior party leader Promod Tiwari attended the meeting among others. Gandhi, who is leading the Congress campaign in the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, arrived here on Thursday to review the party's poll preparedness. Congress was reduced to seven seats in the 2017 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP had clinched 312 seats in the 403-member legislative Assembly to form the government for the second consecutive term. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-take-out-yatra-across-uttar-pradesh-ahead-of-2022-assembly-polls-1028990.html
10-09-2021||National Politics||Honest introspection on 1991 reforms needed: Former Congress Kerala chief to Sonia Gandhi||Days after Rahul Gandhi suggested that the economic strategy adopted in 1991 has stopped working by 2012, Congress' former Kerala president V M Sudheeran shot off a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi saying that the party should make an "honest and in-depth introspection" on the economic reforms initiated by it in "deviation" to Nehru-Indira policies before launching a protest against National Monetisation Programme (NMP). In his two-page letter, which was also copied to former party chief Rahul, Sudheeran also said the Congress will have to make "serious admissions about its deviations from Nehru-Indira economic policies and the mistakes in the past and should make necessary course corrections" to regain the trust and confidence of people. His comments came as Rahul on September 1 told a press conference referred to the "failure" of Narendra Modi government's policies in tackling the economy and said, "the problem is not cyclical but structural. The economic crisis which we witnessed in 1991 has resurfaced. The economic strategy adopted between 1991 and 2012 is not working now. It (economic reforms) has stopped working in 2012 and we want a new approach. Congress knows what to do." Though he did not specify, he was referring to the economic reforms initiated by Manmohan Singh as Finance Minister in 1991. Rahul also did not explain why it stopped working after 2012. Sudheeran said Rahul was right in saying that the BJP was selling out the crest jewels of the nation's assets created by the Congress governments and the NMP was an addition to the disinvestment and privatisation programmes adopted by the Modi government. "Congress has to make an honest and in-depth introspection over our own economic policies since 1991, to effectively counter the stance of the BJP leaders in party and government who are propagating that Congress has no moral right to oppose these policies of the NDA Government as they are only following the neo-liberal policies of the Congress pursued since 1991," he said. "Congress has to make sincere admissions about its deviations from Nehru-Indira economic policies and the mistakes in the past and should make necessary course- corrections to regain the trust and confidence of the people," he added. He said there was no doubt that the BJP government is pushing ahead with disastrous policies on the economic and social fronts and the Congress is the only party capable of countering these policies at the national level.   But for this, he said, Congress needs to have a "clear vision" about the policies to be pursued in "unambiguous terms" and that it was "high time and inevitable" that the party go back to the economic policies of Nehru and Indira. "It is high time and right time that the Congress take the initiative and lead in organising nation-wide strong protests, campaigns and sustained struggles, bringing together other like-minded political parties and civil society against the anti-national, anti-people policies and programmes of the Modi government. Adherence to pro-poor, pro-middle-class socio-economic policies by our Party only will strengthen Congress's credibility in taking up people's and nation's issues," he added.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/honest-introspection-on-1991-reforms-needed-former-congress-kerala-chief-to-sonia-gandhi-1028991.html
10-09-2021||National Politics||PM Modi likely to launch Sansad TV on September 15||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to launch Sansad TV, a new channel formed by merging the Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV, on September 15, sources said on Friday. According to them, veteran Congress leader Karan Singh, economist Bibek Debroy, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, and advocate Hemant Batra will host different shows on this new channel. "Sansad TV is being positioned as a cerebral channel which will provide high-quality content to the national and international audience on subjects related to democratic ethos and institutions of the country," a source said. When Parliament is in session, Sansad TV will have two channels so that the proceedings of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha can be aired simultaneously. The channel will be formally launched by Prime Minister Modi along with Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on September 15 at a function in the Parliament building, sources said. Gracing the channel, Karan Singh will host a show on different religions, Bibek Debroy on history and Amitabh Kant on 'Transformation of India'. Batra, the vice-president of SAARCLAW, will host a show on legal matters. Principal economic advisor to the Finance Ministry Sanjeev Sanyal will host a show on economy while renowned endocrinologist Dr Ambrish Mithai will moderate a show on health issues, sources said. Retired IAS officer and former Textile Ministry Secretary Ravi Capoor is CEO of the channel while the Joint Secretary in Lok Sabha Secretariat Manoj Arora is the OSD.  Check out the latet DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-likely-to-launch-sansad-tv-on-september-15-1029081.html
10-09-2021||National Politics||BJP slams Rahul Gandhi reaching out to Kashmiri Pandits, says J&K's issues 'Gandhi family's legacy'||The BJP on Friday hit back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for accusing it and the RSS of "trying to break the composite culture of Jammu and Kashmir", alleging all vexing issues of the region are the "legacy of the Gandhi family". BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, in a press conference, alleged the Congress, for its petty vote bank politics, sacrificed not only the Kashmiri Pandits but also the development of the region. A day after paying obeisance to Mata Vaishno Devi in Katra, Gandhi accused the BJP and the RSS of "ruining" the love and brotherhood that existed among people of the Union Territory. Reaching out to displaced Kashmiri Pandits, the former Congress chief said he and his family belong to this community and promised them all help. Gandhi said he himself belongs to the Kashmiri Pandit community and feels their pain. Training his guns at the Gandhi scion, the BJP spokesperson dubbed him "immature and irresponsible". He said, "Problems of Jammu and Kashmir are the legacy of the Gandhi family. It was Jawaharlal Nehru who was responsible for the problems of Kashmir." Astonishingly, Rahul Gandhi "very conveniently forgot that the woes of the Kashmiri Pandits were because of the politics of appeasement of the Congress and like-minded parties", Patra said. Hailing the Narendra Modi government and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the abrogation of Artice 370, he said it ended all discriminations against women, Schedules Castes and "refugees" from Kashmir. "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, Kashmir is now moving in the direction of development and inclusiveness," Patra said. Meanwhile, J-K BJP chief Ravinder Raina in Jammu accused Rahul Gandhi of deliberately using his visit to the holy shrine for political purposes. Raina in a statement said, "Rahul Gandhi and his family are not genuinely interested in Hindu religious activities but are frightened by good works of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” “The Congress has committed enough sins and now it is good that they want to seek mercy from the divine mother. But even now, the Congress blatantly displayed its flags on the Mata Vaishno Devi track which proves that the party is only indulging in false propaganda in the name of religion,” Raina said. Raina further said Gandhi's claim that he was not here to do politics is a white lie and the Congress has made a mockery of the sacred place. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-slams-rahul-gandhi-reaching-out-to-kashmiri-pandits-says-jks-issues-gandhi-familys-legacy-1029085.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Former Indian Army deputy chief appointed Uttarakhand Governor||The President also appointed Banwarilal Purohit as the full-time Governor of Punjab. Purohit, currently Governor of Tamil Nadu, was already holding additional charge of the Governor of Punjab. R N Ravi, Governor of Nagaland, was appointed as Governor of Tamil Nadu, according to a press release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Jagdish Mukhi, Governor of Assam, was given the additional responsibility of the Governor of Nagaland, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-indian-army-deputy-chief-appointed-uttarakhand-governor-1028865.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Raids at J&K scribes’ houses: Police say due process of law being followed||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday said it was following due process of law in connection with recent raids at the houses of four journalists here. IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar asserted that the security force was not “harassing” the scribes, and only doing its job while investigating a sensitive case. He advised media not to spread "false news” or “narratives which may amount to unnecessary interference" in the investigation. "Those involved in the case will be arrested as and when adequate evidences are collected against them," the officer added. The police had on Wednesday conducted searches at the residence of Hilal Mir, Shah Abbas, Azhar Qadri and Showkat Mitra, and later took them to a police station for questioning. They were released later in the evening that day, but their laptops and mobile phones were seized for technical evaluation. Giving details of the investigation so far, a police spokesman said the matter came to the fore when the security personnel were probing another case registered at the Kothibagh Police Station. The police came across credible evidence which linked the four journalists to a blog with “sensitive” content, he said. On the basis of the evidences collected, searches were conducted at four different places after obtaining proper search warrants from the competent court of law, the spokesman said. "For the purpose of investigation, all the above four persons were called for questioning and were allowed to go in the evening and have been directed to present themselves again on Friday," he said. Many mobile numbers belonging to those in Pakistan, Turkey and Saudi Arabia have been found. The scribes have also been found to be in contact with various virtual numbers, the spokesman added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raids-at-jk-scribes-houses-police-say-due-process-of-law-being-followed-1028890.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Mayawati says BSP won't field 'bahubali', mafia candidates; no Mukhtar Ansari from Mau||The BSP will make efforts to not field 'bahubali' (strongmen) or mafia candidates in next year's Uttar Pradesh polls, party chief Mayawati said Friday, announcing that jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari will not be renominated by the party from Mau. Soon after her statement, Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM, which has announced to contest 100 seats, offered Ansari a ticket, with its spokesperson Syed Asim Waqar telling PTI that "our doors are open for him". Mayawati said BSP state president Bhim Rajbhar will contest from Mau, currently represented by Mukhtar Ansari, the five-term MLA who was brought back from Punjab's Ropar jail in April and lodged in a Banda jail. Her announcement comes days after Mukhtar Ansari's brother Sigbatullah joined the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party. "In upcoming assembly polls, the BSP's effort will be to not field 'bahubali' and mafia elements. So, the name of Bhim Rajbhar, the BSP UP president, has been finalised from the Mau assembly seat in place of Mukhtar Ansari," she said in a tweet in Hindi. 1. बीएसपी का अगामी यूपी विधानसभा आमचुनाव में प्रयास होगा कि किसी भी बाहुबली व माफिया आदि को पार्टी से चुनाव न लड़ाया जाए। इसके मद्देनजर ही आजमगढ़ मण्डल की मऊ विधानसभा सीट से अब मुख्तार अंसारी का नहीं बल्कि यूपी के बीएसपी स्टेट अध्यक्ष श्री भीम राजभर के नाम को फाइनल किया गया है। The statement also follows her remarks Tuesday during her party’s "Prabuddha Varga Sammelan" that she would no longer focus on building statues and memorials -- something her party was criticised for during her previous terms -- and rather concentrate on changing the face of Uttar Pradesh by establishing rule of law. Mayawati's two announcements signal her efforts to build a new perception of her Bahujan Samaj Party among people. Mukhtar's another brother, Afzal Ansari, is a BSP MP who represents the Ghazipur seat. He had defeated the BJP’s Manoj Sinha, who is now the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. Afzal Ansari could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Mayawati on Friday also said the decision to not field criminal and mafia elements has been taken to meet people's expectation, and appealed to party leaders to keep this in mind while choosing candidates. "So that there is no problem in taking strict action against such elements once the government is formed." She added, "Alongside ensuring 'a rule of law, by law', the BSP's resolve is to also change Uttar Pradesh’s image now." She said the BSP's should be known as the government that follows the philosophy of 'Sarvajan Hitay' and 'Sarvajan Sukhay' (universal good). Meanwhile, IMIM spokesperson Syed Asim Waqar said his party was ready to welcome Mukhtar Ansari if he wants to contest election. "AIMIM's doors are open for him. We will give him a ticket and ensure his victory also," he told PTI. He said that not only Mukhtar, he asks other Muslims also to not "purchase tickets" from any political party as they will take money and make sure they do not win. "I ask Muslims who want to contest elections to come and join the AIMIM and the party will give tickets to them," he said. Muslims are in a position to influence results in 84 of the total 403 seats in Uttar Pradesh. The AIMIM aims to harness this advantage. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-says-bsp-wont-field-bahubali-mafia-candidates-no-mukhtar-ansari-from-mau-1028941.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Mobile internet services restored in Karnal||Mobile internet services have been restored in Karnal where farmers are staging a demonstration demanding action against officials behind lathi-charge last month. "As of now, there is no plan to suspend the services again," said Assistant District PRO Raghubir Singh. With protesting farmers continuing their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters in Karnal, the Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in the district till Thursday midnight, an order issued by state Home Department said. Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over a police lathicharge in Karnal last month had failed on Wednesday after which the protesters said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters. Earlier, mobile Internet services in Karnal were suspended from 12:30 pm on September 6 till 11:59 pm on September 7 and the suspension was extended till Wednesday midnight as the situation was considered "still volatile". More to follow... Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-internet-services-restored-in-karnal-1028951.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM announces 'grand' Ganesh Puja; live telecast from 7 pm||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a "grand" Ganesh Pujan here this evening, which will be attended by him and his ministers and telecast live from 7 pm, saying the festival is a blend of patriotism and spirituality. The Delhi government has banned public celebrations of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the chief minister invited people to join the live 'arti' this evening. "We are organising this grand Ganesh Pujan and I invite all the 130 crore people including Delhiites to join us. There will be a miracle and all our wishes will be fulfilled as 130 crore people will pray Lord Ganesha together," he told a press conference. Bollywood singers Shankar Mahadevan and Suresh Wadekar will render devotional songs on the occasion, he said. Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations served to unite people during the freedom struggle, the Aam Aadmi Party leader said, calling on parents to inculcate in their children patriotism and spirituality signified by the festival. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-announces-grand-ganesh-puja-live-telecast-from-7-pm-1028976.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Local BJP politician found dead in UP's Baghpat||An elderly local BJP politician was found dead in his house in Baraut area here under mysterious circumstances, police said on Friday. Atmaram Tomar (75), a member of the party's district unit, was found dead in his house on Bijraul road on Thursday night, Baghpat Superintendent of Police Neeraj Jadaun said. The room in which his body was found was locked from outside, he said, adding that family members have alleged that Tomar was killed by the uncle of his younger daughter-in-law. Police is probing the matter and also looking at CCTV footage of nearby houses where two persons were seen entering the place, Baraut police station SHO Ravi Ratan Singh said. Tomar was a former principal of Vaidik Inter College and had contested the 1993 state assembly polls from Chhaprauli on a BJP ticket but could not win the seat. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/local-bjp-politician-found-dead-in-ups-baghpat-1028979.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC asks Google, YouTube, Centre to take steps to remove woman’s objectionable photos from Internet||The Delhi High Court has asked Google, YouTube and Delhi Police to take steps to remove the sites and links carrying objectionable photos and videos of a married woman from the Internet. Justice Subramonium Prasad made it clear that this was not an adversarial litigation and listed the matter for September 16, while asking Google, YouTube, the Centre and Delhi Police Cyber Cell to file their replies to the woman's plea seeking directions to them to remove the photos and videos. The high court’s interim order came on a petition by the woman seeking directions to the Centre to block pornographic sites operating under pseudo names. The plea also sought directions to Google block any nude, sexually explicit or morphed photos of the woman appearing on their sites. “It is made clear that this is not an adversarial litigation and it is expected that counsel for Google LLC, YouTube, Centre and Cyber Cell of Delhi Police will take necessary steps to remove the sites and links, carrying objectionable photos and videos of the petitioner, from the Internet before the next date of hearing,” the court said. Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia assured the court that the Union of India will take necessary steps for removal of the sites and links from the Internet carrying objectionable photographs and videos of the woman and sought time to file an affidavit. Advocate Mamta Jha, representing Google LLC and YouTube, submitted that all the URLs, which are with the YouTube, have been removed and 10 channels have already been blocked. In order to expedite the process of removing the links and sites from the Internet, the court impleaded the Delhi Police through Cyber Cell as a party. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-google-youtube-centre-to-take-steps-to-remove-woman-s-objectionable-photos-from-internet-1028986.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab Shahi Imam passes away, CM expresses grief||Punjab Shahi Imam Hazrat Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sa-ani Ludhianvi died at a private hospital in Ludhiana after a brief illness, a state government statement said here on Friday. The 63-year-old died on Thursday night. He is survived by wife, a daughter and two sons. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled the demise of the Shahi Imam. In a condolence message, Singh described the Shahi Imam as a spiritual personality, who always propagated the message of love, peace and harmony amongst the masses. “Shahi Imam's immense contribution in cementing the bonds of brotherhood, amity and bonhomie amongst mankind would always be remembered by one and all across the State," he said. “A void has been created in the religious fraternity especially amongst the Muslim community, which is difficult to fill,” the chief minister said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-shahi-imam-passes-away-cm-expresses-grief-1029004.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||8 charged under POCSO Act for parading minor girls naked in MP village||A criminal case has been filed against eight persons, including six women, in connection with an incident in a village in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district where minor girls were paraded naked as part of a ritual to appease the rain god and bring showers in the area, police said on Friday. The eight accused paraded six minor girls naked and also filmed the act on Sunday in Baniya village under the Jabera police station area, about 50km from the Damoh district headquarters, on Sunday, they said. They were charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and also relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Juvenile Justice Act on late Thursday night, Damoh Superintendent of Police (SP) DR Teniwar told PTI. Damoh Additional Superintendent of Police Shiv Kumar Singh said efforts were on to arrest the accused. Baniya village and surrounding areas are facing a drought-like situation and locals believe the ritual will please the rain god and bring showers, the police said. After the incident came to light, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) sent a notice and sought a report from the Damoh district administration within ten days, officials said. The Damoh administration is yet to reply to the notice, they added. Check out the latest DH vidoes here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-charged-under-pocso-act-for-parading-minor-girls-naked-in-mp-village-1029008.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Ex-Delhi CP chronicles story of Delhi Police||Citizen-friendly policing adopted by Delhi Police in 1984 proved to be a watershed moment for the force after the serious loss of face due to the assassination of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, says a new book which chronicles its journey. IPS officer Suvashis Choudhary, who recently retired as Delhi Police Joint Commissioner (South Range), has penned his debut book "Capital Cops: The Unofficial Guide to Delhi Police". Choudhary says his book, replete with several nuggets of information, aims to eliminate the lack of awareness about the police organisation by demystifying it so that citizens and also scholars, writing on police, have a fair idea of its strengths and vulnerabilities. He says that Delhi Police was perhaps the first police force in the country to realise the importance of seeking public cooperation and inculcating awareness among the people of not only their rights, but also their responsibilities. He terms this a smart strategy adopted in the late 1980s as it created awareness about the limitations of police and the constraints under which Delhi Police works. "Having just recovered from the ignominy of the tumultuous event of 1984 anti-Sikh riots and still grappling with terrorist violence in the aftermath of operation Blue Star, Delhi Police adopted a new motto 'With you, for you, always' and with it a new vision of citizen-friendly policing," Choudhary writes in his book, published by Har-Anand Publications. "This was a watershed moment for Delhi Police. After the serious loss of face suffered in 1984 by the assassination of the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, by her Delhi Police bodyguards and the riots which followed, the initiatives proved to be quite strategically timed," he says. According to him, it was also a smart move for another reason. "It coincided with the strengthening of the human rights movement in India making Delhi Police one of the early adherents. The use of third-degree method, used allegedly by police forces to extract confession and solve cases, became passé and no longer acceptable. Scientific methods of investigation had to be adopted." Talking about other measures, he says, "The institution of Special Police Officer (SPO) was energised. SPOs were actively involved in crime prevention as well as law-and-order duties. Apart from one-off events like 'open days' at police stations, quizzes and competitions for children were organized. Alcohol and drug de-addiction camps as well as other citizen-friendly events became permanent fixtures in Delhi Police's calendar." Choudhary says from Kotwal, during the Delhi Sultanate to Police Commissioner in the present era, Delhi Police has come a long way. He then goes on to cite several interesting pieces of information. The earliest recorded police officer called the Kotwal was appointed during the reign of Alauddin Khilji (1296-1316). Later, in 1648 with the shifting of the Mughal capital from Agra to Delhi, a Kotwal was appointed to oversee the administration of Shahjahanabad, as Delhi was then called. The Kotwal sitting at the police station called Kotwali was the main officer entrusted with the administration of the city and this arrangement continued till the arrival of the British in Delhi in the early 19th century. He also writes that at the time of the First war of Indian Independence of 1857, there were several other police stations besides Kotwali, namely Paharganj, Badarpur, Alipur and a police post at Yamuna Bridge. During those tumultuous days, Police Station Kotwali, situated at Chandni Chowk, was a nerve centre of activities. In the immediate aftermath of the rebellion, it was a scene of executions of the rebels. "The modern police force that we know today was set up under the Police Act of 1861. Five police stations, viz. Subzi Mandi, Nangloi, Mehrauli, Sadar Bazar and Kotwali, were created in the same year. "The first ever First Information Report (FIR) was registered in PS Subzi Mandi on October 18, 1861, which, perhaps, marks the beginning of the modern criminal justice system in Delhi," the book says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-delhi-cp-chronicles-story-of-delhi-police-1029009.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Grenade attack in Srinagar, three injured||A CRPF jawan and two women were injured on Friday in a grenade attack by militants on security forces at Chanapora area in the city, officials said here.  The ultras lobbed the grenade on the security forces near the government residential quarters here.  The injured have been admitted to a hospital. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/grenade-attack-in-srinagar-three-injured-1029016.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Rains lash parts of Rajasthan, MeT Department issues orange alert||Rains continued to lash several parts of Rajasthan for the second day in a row on Friday, with Mount Abu tehsil recording 117 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am, the MeT Department here said. Sedwa in Barmer district, Udaipur and Chittorgarh recorded 65 mm, 25.3 mm and 32 mm rainfall respectively, it said. According to the MeT Department, monsoon will remain active in most parts of east Rajasthan for the next three-four days, while conditions are favourable for active monsoon at some places in the western part of the state. The weather office has issued an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rains, along with thunder lightning, in Sirohi, Rajsamand, Udaipur, Dungarpur and Banswara districts in the next 24 to 48 hours. A yellow alert has been issued for heavy rains in Jalore, Pali, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur, Ajmer, Tonk, Bundi, Kota, Jhalawar, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh and Pratapgarh, etc. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-lash-parts-of-rajasthan-met-department-issues-orange-alert-1029025.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi police says 'no offence under SC/ST Act made out' against DU principal for casteist remarks||Delhi Police has informed a court here that no offence is made out under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and conspiracy against the principal of a Delhi University college for alleged casteist remarks against a sacked professor. The police made the submissions in an action taken report (ATR) filed on a complaint of a sacked assistant professor who alleged that the principal, along with four professors, hatched a conspiracy to terminate her from service by promoting ill-will against her caste, forging documents, creating false records and evidence. In the ATR filed before Additional Sessions Judge Charu Aggarwal on September 9, the police submitted that no offence is made out under Section 3 of SC/ST Act or for criminal conspiracy, criminal intimidation or fabricating false evidence under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). To substantiate this, Inspector Rajeev Shah said that for the prosecution of offence under Section 3 of SC/ST Act, the conversation should be before public persons, but the sacked professor's complainant does not show the presence of anyone besides the principal and her at the place where the casteist remarks were made. “The presence of other persons is not showing at the time of any conversation between principal and complainant hence it is very clear that as per the content of the complaint, offence under section 3 of SC/ST Act is not made out,” he stated in the report. The police further said that even though the complaint is against the principal, four professors, and other known and unknown persons, not even a single word has been mentioned against any person except for the principal in her complaint. Shah said that the complainant has already approached the National Commission for SC/ST, National Commission for Backward Classes, Parliamentary Committee for Welfare of SC/ST but no order or opinion has come in her favour. The Additional Sessions Judge was also apprised that the complainant had approached the Delhi High Court but all the petitions were dismissed. The sacked professor had moved the court seeking direction from the court to the police to register an FIR against the principal and others under SC/ST Act and Indian Penal Code and punish them in accordance with the law. She had claimed, “The behaviour of accused number 1 [principal] has been casteist, demeaning, discriminatory, threatening towards the complainant that the Accused No 1 used to make casteist remarks so much so that on August 10, 2020, the complainant was refused her rejoining from the job." The complainant, in an application filed through advocates Mehmood Pracha, Alka Singh, Jatin Bhatt, and Sanawar Choudhary, said that she got selected by a “meticulous selection process on a post reserved for the scheduled caste community as she belongs to the Ravidasia caste.” According to the complaint, she was selected as an assistant professor on an ad-hoc basis for a period of four months from August to December 2019 which was later extended. She claimed that on August 10, 2020, she was informed by the officials of the college that she can not join the service anymore, pursuant to which she met the principal to find out the reason who in turn humiliated, threatened, and passed caste-based remarks. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-says-no-offence-under-sc/st-act-made-out-against-du-principal-for-casteist-remarks-1029041.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Azam Khan discharged from hospital, taken back to Sitapur jail||Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, was on Friday discharged and sent back to Sitapur jail, officials said. Khan, 72, was admitted to Medanta hospital on July 19 due to post-Covid syndrome, including difficulty in breathing and weakness, an official statement of the hospital said. After improvement in his health, he was discharged from the hospital at about 1.30 pm, it added. Khan, the SP MP from Rampur, was sent back to Sitapur jail, where he was lodged after a number of cases including that of land grabbing were filed against him. The hospital said Khan was also given a Sputnik Covid-19 vaccine dose a week ago. Khan had tested positive for COVID-19 in May this year while being in jail. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/azam-khan-discharged-from-hospital-taken-back-to-sitapur-jail-1029042.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Entering Lahaul-Spiti in Himachal Pradesh will now be taxable||Tourists will have to pay a tax to enter Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti district, an official said on Friday. A barrier to collect tax has been set up at Sissu in Lahaul near Rohtang’s Atal Tunnel by the Special Area Development Authority (SADA), Keylong SDM Priya Nagra said. Rs 50 is being charged from two-wheelers, Rs 200 from cars, Rs 300 from SUVs and MUVs and Rs 500 from buses and trucks, she added. The number of vehicles entering Lahaul has increased manifold after the opening of Atal Tunnel in October last year, she added. The tunnel was inaugurated on October 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The tax money will be used for the development of the local area, she added. The vehicles entering Lahaul on regular basis will not have to pay tax and have to apply for exemption, she said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/entering-lahaul-spiti-in-himachal-pradesh-will-now-be-taxable-1029095.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||UP government declares 22 wards of Mathura-Vrindavan Nagar Nigam as holy pilgrimage sites||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday declared 22 wards of the Mathura-Vrindavan Nagar Nigam area as holy pilgrimage sites. Mathura and Vrindavan are the birth place and 'krira sthal' of Lord Krishna. Considering Mathura and Vrindavan as holy places, lakhs of devotees from all over the country and abroad come for paying obeisance, Additional Chief Secretary Avanish Awasthi said in an official order. These pilgrimage sites have mythological importance and are very important from the point of view of tourism, he said. Apart from the 22 Mathura-Vrindavan municipal corporation wards now declared as holy sites, nine wards have been given the same status previously, according to local authorities. Altogether, this area has 70 wards. The 22 wards which have been declared as holy places of pilgrimage are Ghati Bahal Rai, Govind Nagar, Mandi Ramdas, Chaubia Pada, Dwarkapuri, Navneet Nagar, Vankhandi, Bharatpur Gate, Arjunpura, Hanuman Tila, Jagannathpuri, Gaughat, Manoharpur, Bairagpura, Radhanagar, Badrinagar, Mahavidya Colony, Krishna Nagar I, Krishnanagar II, Koyla Gali, Dampier Nagar and Jai Singh Pura. The BJP-led state government had also formed Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad to promote tourism and develop Mathura and its surrounding areas. The state government has initiated many important schemes for the development of Ayodhya and Kashi, having significant importance from religious tourism point of view. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-declares-22-wards-of-mathura-vrindavan-nagar-nigam-as-holy-pilgrimage-sites-1029104.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||RSS, BJP trying to break J&K’s composite culture: Rahul Gandhi||The BJP and the RSS are trying to "break" the composite culture of Jammu and Kashmir, and "assault" the brotherhood that exists among people of the Union Territory, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday. He also attacked the central government over the farm laws and demonetisation issues. "The feeling of love, brotherhood and composite culture exists among you all. I feel sad that the RSS and the BJP are trying to break this composite culture," Gandhi said while addressing Congress office-bearers and workers at a party function here on the last day of his two-day visit to Jammu. He also said that the brotherhood and love that "exists among you is under assault from the RSS and the BJP". "They attack love and brotherhood among the people and as a result, they took away your statehood," Gandhi said, adding that it has already been seen how economy, tourism and businesses have been hit. On August 5, 2019, the Centre had abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated it into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. "I went to the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine yesterday. There are three symbols of the mata (pindis) there - Mata Durga, Mata Lakshmi and Mata Saraswati," Gandhi said. Goddess Durga symbolises the power that protects, Goddess Lakshmi gives the power to achieve and Goddess Saraswati symbolises education and knowledge, he said. "But we saw how decisions like demonetisation, farm laws and Goods and Services Tax dwindled the force of Goddess Durga. How appointment of RSS-affiliated people in schools and colleges in the country has negatively impacted Goddess Saraswati as a force," the Congress leader said. "The Congress through schemes like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and achieving nine per cent growth only added to the force of Lakshmi. I fail to understand what is happening now?" he said. The economic policies and decisions of the central government have "decreased" the power of the goddesses, the Congress leader claimed. "When these three shaktis are in your home and country, your home and country will make progress," he said. Gandhi also alleged that when a person from the RSS or the BJP is appointed in educational institutions, then the power of Goddess Saraswati diminishes. Pointing towards his hand, Gandhi co-related the Congress election symbol with Lord Shiva and Guru Nanak Dev, and said it was the symbol of being fearless. "This hand is the symbol that you should not be afraid of anything," Gandhi said, adding that the "BJP is afraid of everything". The Congress leader asked workers to strengthen the party and exhorted the gathering to chant 'Jai Mata Di'. Congress leader Gulam Nabi Azad termed Jammu and Kashmir as a symbol of composite culture. "Jammu is the face of entire Jammu and Kashmir and a symbol of compositeness as people from all areas of the erstwhile state have houses in Jammu," he said The leader also claimed that all development claims by the government are hollow and have no base at all. The party's Jammu and Kashmir president Gulam Ahmed Mir also asked the gathering to chant 'Jai Mata Di' as a way to bless Gandhi for his journey to the post of prime minister. He said that this journey has started with his pilgrimage to the cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi. Azad said that the darbar move practice was scrapped and it has badly hit the economy of Jammu. He alleged that unemployment has increased and the tourism sector is facing a huge setback. "People are not getting basic amenities like water and electricity," Azad said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-bjp-trying-to-break-jk-s-composite-culture-rahul-gandhi-1029125.html
10-09-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM Baghel's father gets bail in case over remarks against Brahmins||A Raipur court on Friday granted bail to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel who was arrested earlier this week for allegedly making objectionable remarks against the Brahmin community. The 86-year-old Baghel senior was arrested on Tuesday. He did not seek bail then, and the court remanded him in judicial custody for 15 days. Later his lawyer Gajendra Sonkar moved a bail application and sought urgent hearing. “After hearing arguments, Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Janak Kumar Hidko granted him bail today,” Sonkar said. After spending three days in jail, Nand Kumar Baghel walked out of prison in the evening. The case was lodged on September 4 at the DD Nagar police station here on a complaint filed by the 'Sarv Brahmin Samaj'. Chief Minister Baghel had strongly disapproved of the remarks allegedly made by his father, and said nobody is above law. Nand Kumar Baghel was charged under Indian Penal Code section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups). The complainant alleged that Nand Kumar had asked people to "boycott" and evict Brahmins. According to the police, the remarks were reportedly made during an event in Uttar Pradesh. The chief minister had said that the remarks hurt the sentiments of a community and "I am also pained by them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cm-baghels-father-gets-bail-in-case-over-remarks-against-brahmins-1029136.html
10-09-2021||Opinion||The Taliban caretakers will keep the neighbours up||By Bobby Ghosh A week ago, anxious Afghans and credulous Biden administration officials were trying to take comfort in reports that Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar would head the Taliban’s new government in Kabul. It seemed like the least bad option. As the leader of the group’s political wing, Baradar had been the Taliban’s chief representative in peace negotiations with the US in Qatar, and was thought to hold somewhat more moderate views than most of the military commanders. In interviews, he promised an “inclusive” government, representing all of the country’s ethnic and tribal groups. As it turned out, Baradar may himself have been fortunate to be included in the government. Announced on Tuesday, the new caretaker administration is dominated by the Taliban’s military faction, with hardliners in key positions. Baradar is only in the third tier of the hierarchy, as one of two deputy prime ministers. He will report to Prime Minister Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund, who will in turn answer to Supreme Leader Haibatullah Akhundzada. Baradar’s relegation undermines Afghan hopes for a kinder, gentler “Taliban 2.0.” Far from being inclusive, the cabinet is entirely male, overwhelmingly from the Pashtun community and has no representative from the Shiite minority. This makes it even harder to believe the group’s other reassurances, whether about women’s freedoms or religious tolerance. More alarming for the wider world, the new dispensation in Kabul abounds with men with bona fides that would be welcomed at the high tables of al-Qaeda and the Islamic State. The composition of the government lengthens the odds on President Biden’s gamble that the Taliban will make common cause with Washington in the fight against jihadist terrorism. The most prominent of the hardliners in office is Sirajuddin Haqqani, a US-designated terrorist with long ties to al-Qaeda and other jihadist groups. Afghans with a morbid sense of humor can now claim the $10 million bounty offered by the FBI “for information leading directly to the arrest” of their new interior minister. If Mohammed Yaqoob, the defense minister, doesn’t have Haqqani’s terrorist credentials, he more than makes up for this in lineage: He is the eldest son of Mullah Omar, the Taliban’s first supreme leader and host of Osama bin Laden. Yaqoob has supervised the Taliban’s military operations in recent years, as the group has embraced many al-Qaeda tactics, including the use of suicide bombings against civilian targets. The new intelligence chief, Abdul Haq Wassiq, completes the troika of security bosses. He is under United Nations sanctions for his role in the previous Taliban administration, when he was “in charge of handling relations with Al-Qaida-related foreign fighters and their training camps in Afghanistan.” (More than half the 33-man cabinet are under UN sanctions.) If al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri could pick three men to run Afghanistan’s security services, it is a safe bet that Haqqani, Yaqoob and Wassiq would have been at the top of his list. The Biden administration must assume that they will make it their business to turn Afghanistan once again a safe haven for terrorism.    It is unlikely to be much of a consolation for Washington, but the government in Kabul will also alarm other countries with an interest in Afghanistan. For instance, there will be disquiet in China about army chief Qari Fasihuddin, who has had a long association with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which Beijing accuses of terrorism in its Xinjiang province. (The Trump administration last year removed the ETIM from the State Department’s list of terrorist groups.) Meanwhile, the Shiite shutout will cause grave concern in Iran, which regards itself as protector of the minority sect. There are fears of a resumption of the persecution of the predominantly Shiite Hazara community that characterized the previous Taliban administration in the late 1990s. And there’s bad news for India, which invested heavily in Afghanistan over the past 20 years. The hardliners are all closely tied to Islamabad. The Taliban has historically sided with Pakistan in its dispute with India over Kashmir, and many Indians fear the group will contribute more than just moral support to insurgents in the restive region.   Just as in Washington, fingers were crossed in Beijing, Tehran and New Delhi in the hope of a Baradar-led Afghan government. Now they must all brace for the worst.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-taliban-caretakers-will-keep-the-neighbours-up-1028928.html
10-09-2021||Opinion||How Pakistan won the war in Afghanistan||By Eli Lake As Washington ponders how the US lost its longest war in Afghanistan, it’s worth considering another question: Who won the war? There is the Taliban, of course, the fanatics who have formed an interim government featuring several wanted terrorists. But an even bigger winner may be the Taliban’s primary patron: Pakistan. Most US allies expressed shock, sadness and anger at the Taliban’s victory last month in Kabul. But Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan celebrated the rout of Afghanistan’s elected government, saying the Taliban had “broken the shackles of slavery.” For much of the war on terror that began after 9/11, Pakistan played a double game. It occasionally helped track and detain al-Qaeda and Taliban leaders. In 2010, Pakistani and US special operations forces arrested Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar in Karachi. All the while, however, elements of the Pakistani military and intelligence services provided sanctuary, funding and training for the Taliban and its allies in the lethal terrorist group known as the Haqqani network. For the first 10 years of the Afghanistan war, this was an issue that the US and Pakistan preferred to debate in private. After the Haqqani network orchestrated a truck bombing at a NATO outpost near Kabul and an assault on the US embassy there in September 2011, Admiral Mike Mullen, then the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, broke the silence. “The Haqqani network acts as a veritable arm of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency,” he said. Mullen’s accusation should have surprised no one. A few months earlier, the US had killed Osama bin Laden, who was then living comfortably in Abbottabad, home of the Pakistan’s equivalent of West Point. There is a reason Mullen didn’t give his Pakistani counterparts advance notice of that raid. Between 2001 and 2011, the US provided Pakistan with more than $20 billion in military assistance. That subsidy began to decrease after 2011. In 2018, with a few narrow national-security exceptions, the US suspended security assistance. The restrictions and eventual suspension of military aid were really the only ways the US ever tried to punish its ostensible client. By his second term, President Barack Obama was looking for a way to get out of Afghanistan. And while there was a modest surge of forces in President Donald Trump’s first year in office, his administration ended up negotiating the surrender that President Joe Biden just completed. So it’s no wonder that Pakistan is celebrating the Taliban’s victory. A faction of its deep state had been working to return the Taliban to power since 2001. So far, the Biden administration has kept silent about Pakistan’s betrayal. Remarkably, a remnant of Afghan patriots has not. On Tuesday, protesters in Kabul demanded that Pakistan not intervene in their sovereign affairs. It would be nice if there were some official show of US support for these courageous protesters. But it’s unlikely. As Biden has said many times in the last several months, the post-withdrawal plan is for the US to retain an “over the horizon” capability to target terrorists in Afghanistan. That means the US will need Pakistan’s approval for flights over its airspace. America’s “forever war” in Afghanistan may be over. But just across the border, in Pakistan, America’s former client still holds leverage over the superpower it helped defeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-pakistan-won-the-war-in-afghanistan-1028932.html
10-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu extends ban on festivals, religious and political events till October 31||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin on Thursday announced the extension of the existing ban on festivals, political, social and religious gatherings in the state till October 31, as part of a stringent measure to prevent the spread of Coronavirus and to safeguard from possible third wave. Insisting that the occasion calls for stricter protocols, he said events like festivals, political, religious and social events could turn into "super spreaders." Tamil Nadu on August 30 had announced the closure of beaches on Sundays for the public apart from extending the ban on religious places of worship on weekends and also holding religious festivals due to the Covid-19 pandemic till September 15. Apart from Ganesh Chaturthi on Friday, October ushers in a string of events like Gandhi Jayanthi, Dussehra celebrations, Milad un-Nabi, Valmiki jayanthi and Karva Chauth. Announcing the extension of the ban of “super spreader events” till October end, the Chief Minister urged the people to celebrate festivals from the safety of their homes. “Avoid crowded places and needless travel. Follow Covid-19 safety precautions, ”he advised. Pointing to the developments in neighboring Kerala which is battling Covid-19 and Nipah virus outbreak, Stalin said the State government has banned the celebration of religious festivals in public places including Vinayaka Chaturthi in an attempt to contain the spread of the Coronavirus in the State. Public transport to Kerala has been suspended owing to the increase in fresh infections in that State, he said in a release here. "The present measure is being taken as per the Centre's advisory on possible third wave in September-October," the chief minister said and added that due to the rigorous efforts of the state government, the active cases declined to about 1,600 now from nearly 36,000. on May 27. “Relaxation has been given to garland the statues of freedom fighters by the district collectors with strict social distancing norms in place. Five members from the family of the freedom fighters and five from registered parties would be allowed to garland the statues with permission from the collectors concerned, ”the Chief Minister said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-ban-on-festivals-religious-and-political-events-till-october-31-1028901.html
10-09-2021||South||KPCC chief unveils plan to revamp Congress in Kerala, to form disciplinary committees||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief K Sudhakaran has put forward a slew of directions to strengthen the party in the state and said there will be disciplinary panels and even appraisals to evaluate leaders. At a two-day leadership workshop, organised for the newly appointed DCC presidents, which concluded on Thursday, Sudhakaran presented the guidelines for the party workers to strengthen its base. "The party will give responsibilities to the office-bearers and their performances will be reviewed at regular intervals. Those who fail to perform will be removed from the posts," Sudhakran had told the media on Thursday evening. The Congress party in Kerala which is trying to recover from the massive drubbing it faced in the 2021 state Assembly election in which it won just 21 of the 93 seats it contested in the 140-member assembly, has recently undergone a leadership change. Talking to the media after the two-day workshop, Sudhakaran had said directions have been issued to leaders to refrain from promoting personalised publicity materials like flex boards and asked to promote party-centric agendas. "One man-one post will be implemented in the party. We will also monitor the functioning of cooperative societies ruled by Congress. Also the large number of people in the dais of Congress party functions will be stopped," Sudhakaran had said. At the workshop that was held at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies, Sudhakaran had told the DCC leaders that the discipline of party workers is of utmost importance and warned that stern action would be taken in case of any indiscipline. The KPCC has decided to form disciplinary committees at the district and state level and warn the cadre and leaders that criticising the party and its leaders should be done within the party fora and not in public platforms.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kpcc-chief-unveils-plan-to-revamp-congress-in-kerala-to-form-disciplinary-committees-1029003.html
10-09-2021||South||Dr Sameer Sharma to be Andhra Pradesh's new Chief Secretary||The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday appointed 1985 batch IAS officer Sameer Sharma as the state's next Chief Secretary. Sameer Sharma is now the Special Chief Secretary, Planning and Resource Mobilisation and also the Vice-Chairman of Institute of Leadership, Excellence and Governance. He will assume charge as the state Chief Secretary on September 30 upon the retirement of incumbent Aditya Nath Das at the end of his three-month extended tenure. The General Administration Department issued an order to this effect on Friday. The state government did not seek a further three-month extension for Das, leading to the appointment of Sameer Sharma as the next Chief Secretary. Several names did the rounds for the Chief Secretary’s post in the last few weeks and till last week, 1986 batch IAS officer Satish Chandra remained the frontrunner. Sameer Sharma is due to retire from service on November 30 this year. However, it is expected that he too may get an extension in service, like his predecessors. He returned to the state cadre from Central deputation in July this year, after having served as the Director General of Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs. Sharma is an academician and scholar and has authored many books like Smart Cities Unbundled, A Textbook on Urban Planning and Geography and Hourglass Management Paradigm. An expert in urban development affairs, Sharma had earlier served as Director of National Smart Cities Mission. He was the only IAS officer to have served as the Commissioner of three major municipal corporations of Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Greater Hyderabad in the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh and contributed to their financial turnaround. He did his Masters and doctorate in Community Planning in the United States of America. As Chairman and Managing Director of Indian Tourism Development Corporation, Sharma designed a model for strategic planning and executed the Balance Scorecard system that led to a 30 per cent increase in revenues of the hotel chain. He worked as a consultant for UN Habitat in Cambodia and International Federation of Red Cross Societies. Sharma received awards from the President of India and the Prime Minister for his path-breaking initiatives in promotion of community organisations in slums and reforms in governance under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dr-sameer-sharma-to-be-andhra-pradeshs-new-chief-secretary-1029006.html
10-09-2021||South||Portions of RSS ideologues' books in university syllabus triggers row in Kerala||With the inclusion of portions from books of RSS ideologues in the post-graduate syllabus of Kannur University in Kerala snowballing into a political row, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Left Front would not glorify those who turned their face against the freedom struggle. A two-member panel of experts was already appointed to review the syllabus. The university would take necessary steps based on their findings, Vijayan said. The Kannur University had been witnessing strong protests by opposition student unions since Thursday against its decision to include portions of the books of RSS and Hindutva ideologues M S Golwalkar, V D Savarkar and Deendayal Upadhyaya in its post graduate course syllabus. Even Left Front leaders including Rajya Sabha MP Benoy Viswam of the CPI had condemned the decision apart from Congress leaders. The university had rejected the allegations of saffronisation. Vice chancellor Gopinath Ravindran maintained that when political thoughts and history were being studied, all sides need to be discussed. In order to develop critical enquiry, all related matters need to be studied. However, based on the report of experts further steps would be taken whether to revise the syllabus or not. The state government had earlier sought a report from the university after the matter triggered controversy. Subsequently a two-member panel headed by a former pro-vice chancellor of Kerala University J Prabhash was appointed to review the syllabus. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/portions-of-rss-ideologues-books-in-university-syllabus-triggers-row-in-kerala-1029040.html
10-09-2021||South||'Thalaivii': AIADMK demands deletion of scenes 'not factual' about MGR, Jayalalithaa||The opposition AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Friday objected to certain references about party stalwarts--the late MG Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa-- in the latter's multi-lingual biopic 'Thalaivii,' and wanted the scenes deleted. Senior AIADMK leader and former Minister, D Jayakumar, who watched the AL Vijay-directed film at a cinema theatre here, said such references were not factual and insisted that barring them the movie was a well-made one with a lot of effort put in and that it will receive good response both from party supporters as well as the general public. For instance, one scene showed Ramachandran, fondly addressed as MGR, as seeking a Minister post in the first DMK government and being denied by the late M Karunanidhi, Jayakumar said and asserted the yesteryear matinee idol-turned-politician was never after such posts. MGR was then part of the DMK, which under its founder the late CN Annadurai, unseated the Congress in the 1967 elections to become the first regional party to head the state in independent India. Later, Ramachandran parted ways with it when Karunanidhi helmed the party and launched his AIADMK in 1972. The DMK chief succeeded Annadurai as CM following his death in 1969. Jayakumar said while pictures of MGR undergoing treatment carried in party posters after he was shot at, allegedly by the late actor M R Radha, played a vital role in DMK's victory, Annadurai subsequently wanted to make Ramachandran a minister, which he refused but was later made deputy chief of Small Savings, a newly created post. Jayakumar said that the film portrayed as if Ramachandran had sought a Minister's post after Annadurai's death, when Karunanidhi took over the mantle and said "this is not true." In fact, it was MGR who proposed Karunanidhi's candidature for CM's post after Annadurai's death, he said. "It would be better if the scene is deleted," he said. Some other scenes-- one claiming Jayalalithaa was in touch with the late Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi without MGR's knowledge that gave an impression as if she was going against him as well as another one showing Ramachandran "belittling" her also were not true, he said. "So these scenes should be removed. This is our request," he added. The former Assembly speaker recalled he had "travelled" with Jayalalithaa since 1982 and had turned nostalgic after watching the film. "This is a well-made film and if some of the scenes are addressed (deleted), it will become a big hit," Jayakumar added. 'Thalaivii,' starring Kangana Ranaut, Aravind Swamy and Nassar, among others, is a multilingual biographical film about the life of Jayalalithaa, who had paired opposite yesteryear matinee idol and late chief minister MGR, thespian late Sivaji Ganesan and many others before charting a successful political career. She died in December 2016 after 75 days of hospitalisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thalaivii-aiadmk-demands-deletion-of-scenes-not-factual-about-mgr-jayalalithaa-1029056.html
10-09-2021||South||Kerala bishop's 'narcotic jihad' remark condemned and backed||While the 'narcotic jihad' remark of a bishop in Kerala triggered widespread criticism, another bishop has backed the contention. Mar Pauly Kannookadan, bishop of Irinjalakuda in Thrissur district, on Friday said that parents need to be cautioned to protect children from falling into the traps of 'love and narcotic jihads' as extremism is growing. He also said that families should have at least four children. Joseph Kallarangatt's statement had invited strong resentment from various quarters and even a police petition was also filed against him accusing of triggering communal sentiments. While Congress leadership in Kerala including leader of opposition V D Satheesan condemned the bishop's statement, BJP was trying to back the bishop, with BJP leader P K Krishnadas maintaining that suppressing truths would only help jihadis. The ruling CPI(M)-led left front is yet to comment on the matter. The Mahal Muslim Coordination Committee filed police petition against Joseph Kallarangatt accusing him of triggering communal sentiments. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bishops-narcotic-jihad-remark-condemned-and-backed-1029079.html
10-09-2021||South||Kerala plans sero-survey among students, vaccinating all above 18 by September-end||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that despite many risk factors, the state managed resisting the second wave of Covid-19 with a low death rate. As part of relaxing the restrictions and reopening educational institutions in a phased manner from next month, the state has targeted to vaccinate all above the age of 18 by September 30 as well as to conduct a sero prevalence study among students, said the Chief Minister. So far, 78 per cent of those above 18 have received the first dose of vaccination, while around 30 per cent are fully vaccinated. The state's Covid-19 review meeting on Friday decided that RT-PCR tests would be conducted only to confirm Covid, while antigen test would be conducted for emergency requirements like hospitalisation. It was also decided to impose lockdown in wards with Weekly Infection Population Ratio (WIPR) above eight per cent. So far, lockdown was imposed in areas with WIPR above seven per cent.  On Friday 25,010 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the state with a TPR of 16.53 per cent. Vijayan said that despite many risk factors like low sero-prevalence, high population density and an older population, Kerala did resist the second wave of the pandemic   Check out the latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-plans-sero-survey-among-students-vaccinating-all-above-18-by-september-end-1029083.html
10-09-2021||South||Kerala conducts door-to-door survey in three-km-radius from Nipah victim's house||The Kerala government has conducted a complete house-to-house survey within three-km-radius from the house of the 12-year-old boy who succumbed to Nipah virus on September 5 as part of is fever surveillance, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday. He said in the survey around 15,000 houses were included from the containment zone and details were sought from around 68,000 persons. "A house-to-house survey was conducted within a three-km-radius from the house of the deceased child. The survey was held in around 15,000 houses and involved around 68,000 persons. The surveillance team sought details of any unusual fever or unnatural deaths in these areas," Vijayan said, adding that no such cases were reported in the survey. The chief minister said four mobile labs have been set up to conduct Covid-19/Nipah tests for those with mild symptoms detected during the house visit. "The samples collected from bats and the fruit waste eaten by bats will be sent to Bhopal NIV. The field and fever surveillance is on," he said. The Chief Minister also added that those people with mild symptoms will be in room isolation for 21 days and the health workers will monitor their condition. On Thursday, Health minister Veena George had said that 274 people were identified as being in the primary contact list of the victim and they were being observed. Test results of 68 people who had come in close contact with the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah have been negative for the virus, George had said. She had also said that the incubation period of the virus was 21 days from the date of first contact with the victim and therefore, everyone in the contact list was being monitored. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-conducts-door-to-door-survey-in-three-km-radius-from-nipah-victims-house-1029138.html
10-09-2021||State||NIRF ranking: NITK ranks 10th in engineering, 32nd in overall ranking||The National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal has been placed in the 10th position in the Engineering Institute rankings and 32nd position in the Overall rankings in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF  2021). The rankings are a metric of the relative accomplishments of various Indian academic institutes on various key parameters that capture the efficacy of various activities that an institute of higher learning is expected to carry out in the modern era.   The ranking of an institution is determined based on the assessment of its performance in five key parameters,namely teaching, tearning and resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcomes, outreach and inclusivity and perception. Data pertaining to these parameters across three consecutive previous years is examined. The NIRF questionnaire seeking data is designed to capture many facets of an institution of higher learning such as the faculty – student ratio, quality of teaching, research and publications, percentage of students placed in industries and their salary, percentage of students going for higher studies, percentage of international students etc.  It also takes into account the financial resources available to the institute, including funds received from research and consultancy projects. The efficacy of the expenditure incurred by the institute and the returns on investment are quantified using carefully designed metrics. The NITK, Surathkal has obtained a cumulative score of 64.19 out of 100 and has improved its performance over 2020 by 2.89 points. In 2020, it was placed 13th in the Engineering Institute rankings and 33rd in the Overall rankings. It has improved its position by three places in the Engineering rankings (from 13th in 2020 to 10th in 2021) and by one place in the overall rankings (from 33rd to 32nd). This is indeed a very momentous and joyous occasion for the faculty and staff members of NITK. Their sincere efforts in attempting to improve the teaching learning processes leading to an improvement in graduation outcomes of students, research culture, outreach activities designed to strengthen the institute society connect, and efforts put in to improve the perception of the institute across India and the world have been acknowledged. NITK, Surathkal is now placed second among the NITs (behind NIT Tiruchirappalli).  These are the only two NITs to find a place in the top ten list of Engineering Institutes.    NITK Director Prof K Umamaheshwar Rao said that a culture of fostering research, innovation and working in synergy with industry on consulting projects is being nurtured in the institute. Over the last couple of years, the institute faculty have been successful in acquiring several prestigious and highly valued research grants from both national and international funding agencies.  ISRO has set up a Regional Academic Centre for Space (RAC-S) in NITK, Surathkal. A number of research projects of critical importance to the national space programme will be conducted here. In addition, a Central Research Facility (CRF) to be set up with an investment of Rs 80 crore. There is healthy competition among the faculty members as far as improving their credentials is concerned. This has a positive impact on the quality of research and in turn on the number of research papers published, patents filed, published and granted. Serious efforts are being put in at all levels to improve the visibility, quality and impact of research publications in peer reviewed international journals, he added.   Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nirf-ranking-nitk-ranks-10th-in-engineering-32nd-in-overall-ranking-1028949.html
10-09-2021||State||Congress leader found dead in Channagiri taluk||Congress leader, who had gone missing for the past few days, was found dead at the hill in Basavapatna in Channagiri taluk on Friday. According to police, Zainulla Khan (40) might have been killed but the investigation is still on. He was also serving as Mayakonda Assembly Constituency Congress Minority Wing Vice President as well as a Bescom contractor. Superintendent of Police CB Rishyanth visited the spot. Channagiri police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-leader-found-dead-in-channagiri-taluk-1029049.html
10-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pandemic spurs more people in Karnataka to go for health insurance||Out of 44,321 reported Covid cases in August in Karnataka, 25,920 (58 per cent) people have raised insurance claims (private) for Covid treatment as per data from the General Insurance Council. More number of people are taking health insurance due to the Covid pandemic, researchers said, notwithstanding the free hospital treatment for Covid provided by the government to poorer sections. In comparison, Tamil Nadu had 44 per cent of its infected patients in August raise insurance claims, Kerala 1 per cent, and Andhra Pradesh 62 per cent. A comparison of metros shows Bengaluru (44 per cent) is ahead of Mumbai (18 per cent) and Chennai (34 per cent). Even in July, 36 per cent of Covid patients infected in the month in Bengaluru raised insurance claims. Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, Project Jeeva Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, supported by Public Health Foundation of India, said, “Data shows that more and more people are taking health insurance owing to the pandemic. In metros like Bengaluru and Mumbai, employers are known to provide either group health insurance or individual health insurance cover.” In terms of claims raised for Covid deaths, Karnataka had 756 Covid deaths, out of which insurance claims were received for 482 deaths, which amounts to 64 per cent. In Bengaluru, out of 121 deaths reported, insurance claims were received for 17 deaths, which amounts to 14 per cent. PPE kits is also considered for insurance cover of Covid patients. Dr Bhabatosh Mishra, director, underwriting, products & claims at Max Bupa Health Insurance, said, they have provisioned for coverage of non-payables like PPE kits under all their indemnity plans to support customers and minimise their out-of-pocket expenses. “We have also reduced the waiting period for Covid-specific claims to 15 days across all our plans,” Mishra said. Explaining the burden of total hospitalisation expenses, Dr S Prakash, managing director, Star Health and Allied Insurance, said, when they did a study on 3,820 hospitalised patients from across India who were 45 years and above, it revealed that the average cost of hospitalisation of the unvaccinated group was Rs 2.77 lakh, while the vaccinated group recorded an average cost of Rs 2.1 lakh. “The length of hospital stay among the unvaccinated is an average of seven days and for the vaccinated group, it an average of 4.9 days,” he said. As many as 291 of the unvaccinated group required ICUs too, adding to the cost. In Covid patients with comorbidities, the average treatment cost ranged from Rs 2.51 lakh for 5.9 days, if vaccinated, to 2.94 lakh for 7.7 days, if unvaccinated. “In times of a pandemic, where health insurance has become an absolute necessity, we want more and more people to buy a health cover to secure themselves against unforeseen medical emergencies,” Mishra added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pandemic-spurs-more-people-in-karnataka-to-go-for-health-insurance-1028871.html
10-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pay pension to nonagenarian freedom fighter Gundu Rao Desai: Karnataka HC||The High Court has directed the state government to sanction within a period of six weeks the freedom fighters’ pension to Gundu Rao Desai, a nonagenarian freedom fighter from Ballari district. Justice Krishna S Dixit said that a ritualistic adherence to the black letter of law should not hijack justice. The petition was filed by 94-year old Gundu Rao Desai from Kamalapura in Ballari district. His pension was withheld for over two decades as he could produce the affidavit of only one co-detenue, whereas the authorities insisted upon affidavits of two co-detenues, as mandated under the scheme. The court noted that the petitioner had specifically stated reasons for submitting affidavit of one co-detenue in his letter dated January 20, 2021, saying only one of the co-detenues was alive. “That being the position, asking him to produce the affidavits of two co-detenues, virtually amounts to compelling him to retrieve the dead from their grave, infuse soul into their body and ask them to swear to the affidavit; this is an impossibility, at least with all the progress the medical science has till now achieved,” the court said. The authorities have been directed to sanction the pension with retrospective effect from March 19, 1998, the date of the petitioner’s claim, and settle all the arrears within a period of six weeks. The court added that in case of failure, the additional chief secretary, deputy commissioner of Ballari and assistant commissioner of Hosapete should personally and collectively pay the petitioner Rs 1,000 for each day’s delay. This amount, after payment, may be recovered from the erring officials in accordance with law, the court said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pay-pension-to-nonagenarian-freedom-fighter-gundu-rao-desai-karnataka-hc-1028876.html
10-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Night curfew likely to stay as Karnataka government chooses safe route||Any relaxation of the night curfew in the immediate future is unlikely, ministers in Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet say, as the government remains wary of a possible surge in Covid-19 case numbers after the festival season. Ministers say that the cautious government is unlikely to withdraw the night curfew, which some argue is unscientific, when the guidelines are reviewed again on September 13. Speaking to DH, Higher Education and IT/BT Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said that the Bommai government was monitoring the situation closely. “It’s still pandemic season and there are fears of a possible spike in cases in October,” he said. Narayan headed the Covid-19 task force in the previous government. The government has to be cautious and keep a watch on the emergence of any new Covid-19 variants that could cause problems. “We don’t want to relax regulations like night curfew as case numbers decline, and then face a spike,” Narayan said, adding that regulations were essential “to be on the safer side”. Housing Minister V Somanna said that any relaxation of Covid-19 guidelines will be done in stages. “Let Ganesh Chaturthi festival get over, after which the government can assess the situation and take a call,” he said. Somanna said that there has not been any discussion on withdrawing the night curfew. Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj echoed the same sentiment over the issue. “After the monsoon session, there could be some discussion about it,” he said, suggesting that the night curfew would stay till September 24, when the legislature session ends. The night curfew, which starts daily at 9 pm and lasts till 5 am, has come under criticism for laxity in enforcement. While traffic is as usual, shops and establishments down shutters fearing harassment by the police.  Last week, a section of ministers demanded withdrawal of the weekend curfew and other restrictions during a Cabinet meeting. Check out latest DH videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/night-curfew-likely-to-stay-as-karnataka-government-chooses-safe-route-1028877.html
10-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Three premier educational institutions from Bengaluru retain NIRF ranking||Three premier institutions from Bengaluru have retained their earlier rankings in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2021 released by the Union ministry for education on Thursday in New Delhi.  The Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIM-B), Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Bengaluru have retained their previous rankings. Along with these top institutions, three colleges from Karnataka have also made it to the list of top 100 colleges under the colleges’ category. The colleges are: MS Ramaiah College of Arts, Science & Commerce, St Joseph’s College of Commerce- both in Bengaluru and St Aloysius College in Mangaluru.  In the law discipline, the NLSIU, Bengaluru has retained the top spot and Christ University has secured the 19th position. Meanwhile in other disciplines such as management, three colleges in the state have made it to the list of top 75 institutions. The IIM-B has been ranked second. Prof Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Vice-Chancellor, NLSIU Bengaluru, in his statement said, “In the near term, we aim to welcome more diverse students and faculty body, revitalise and expand our academic programmes, and emerge as a research-intensive multi-disciplinary University.”  Prof Rishikesha T Krishnan, Director, IIM-B, in a statement said, “IIM Bangalore, by offering the best management education to its students, aims, in turn, to advance and support important national initiatives.” In the engineering discipline, Karnataka has performed well with 19 colleges and universities making it to the list of top 20 engineering institutions across the country. A total of nine medical colleges from the state have made it to the list of 50 institutions. The National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans) Bengaluru has secured fourth rank and KMC Manipal is placed in tenth position. The St John’s Institute of Medical Sciences in Bengaluru is ranked 13.  Twelve out of the 40 dental colleges in the state have made it to the top 40 list. Two out of the 25 architecture institutions, five out of the top 50 research institutions are from Karnataka. The University of Mysore (UoM) has climbed up the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking, from the 27th place in 2020 to the 19th rank this year, under universities category. Besides, there is an improvement in the overall category also, from 47th rank to 34th rank. UoM Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said, it is a quantum jump in the performance of the university, despite dwindling number of permanent faculty members and other limiting factors. Since the NIRF ranking began in 2015, this is the best performance, so far, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-premier-educational-institutions-from-bengaluru-retain-nirf-ranking-1028879.html
10-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Experts ring alarm bells on Covid reinfections, breakthrough cases in Karnataka: Report||Ahead of the festive season of October-November, experts have called on the Karnataka government to take measures to prevent reinfections of coronavirus and even sought a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine during the year-end months to effectively protect people.  Cases have been on the rise in isolated parts of the world, mainly due to the infectious Delta variant of the virus. This surge has renewed focus on a widely predicted third wave of infections in India, with children reportedly being the key targets. “It is important to keep a close watch on the situation till November mainly because of the possibility of a surge in reinfection,” said Dr MK Sudarshan, chairman, state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). He further sought adequate measures from the government to arrest a surge while advising people to not let their guard down.  The coming months become more crucial as the massive infections in the second wave leave a big part of the population susceptible to reinfections. As many as 16 lakh people contracted the virus in the state in April and May alone, about half of them in Bengaluru.  Sudarshan told the publication that by November, a clearer picture of the pandemic may appear but until then, all precautions have to be taken seriously.  These expert alarms also come amid increasing pressure on the state government to ease restrictions amid the festive season, like the night curfew, which has been extended till the month-end by Basavaraj Bommai administration.  As previously reported, a third wave, if struck, won't be as deadly as the second since a significant number of people have been inoculated with at least one dose of vaccine. And experts say reinfections or breakthrough cases won't nearly be as serious and may not even require hospitalisation.  Virologist T Jacob John called for a third dose of the vaccine, or also called the 'booster shots' in other parts of the world, to prevent infections. "With the present supply and a little ramping up of production, the government can easily ensure the continuation of the vaccination drive and cover everyone with a third dose,” said John, expecting demand worries to ease in November following the expected completion of first-dose vaccination of the target population.  Health officials told the publication that they are awaiting a signal from the Centre on further guidelines. “We have no instructions either from the Centre or ICMR on measures like a third dose. We have to see how it pans out in October-November and take steps based on the emerging situation,” said K V Trilok Chandra, Health Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/experts-ring-alarm-bells-on-covid-reinfections-breakthrough-cases-in-karnataka-report-1028950.html
10-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM directs officials to identify beneficiaries for 4 lakh homes||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday directed officials to start the process of selecting eligible beneficiaries for four lakh homes under various housing schemes. "If the target of four lakh new houses is not approved by the central government, or less houses are approved, the remaining houses will be constructed under the state government's housing scheme," a statement issued by the Chief Minister's office said. The Chief Minister has told the officials to initiate the process of selecting socially and economically backward beneficiaries in the city and rural areas across the state for four lakh homes under the housing scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-directs-officials-to-identify-beneficiaries-for-4-lakh-homes-1029082.html
10-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 967 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths ||Karnataka on Friday clocked 967 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 29,60,131, while 10 deaths pushed the toll to 37,472. The day also saw 921 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,05,604. Active cases stood at 17,028, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 310 cases and two fatalities, it said. Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major Covid-19 hotspot with 141 fresh infections and two fatalities. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including Udupi 96, Kodagu 74, Hassan 61, Mysuru 55, Tumakuru 41 and Chikkamagaluru 37. Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Gadag, Haveri, Ramanagara and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero deaths. Twenty-four districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 1,67,679 samples were tested, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 4.51 crore. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 4.71 crore, with 44,634 people being inoculated on Friday, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-967-new-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-1029094.html
10-09-2021||West||Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra amid fears of Covid-19 surge||Amid chants of 'Ganpati Bappa Morya, Mangal Murti Morya', the 10-day-long Ganeshutsav commenced in Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra on Friday amid tight restrictions in the wake of an impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.  In 2020, the Ganesh festival was celebrated when the first wave of the global pandemic was on - and immediately after the festival there was a surge of cases in Maharashtra. With the recent slight increase in cases, the government does not want to take any chances, adhering to Centre's advice to keep vigil during the festive season. The temples in the state remain shut for the public while during the Ganesh festival, only online darshans would be allowed in pandals.  The festival is marked with the installation of Ganesh clay idols in homes, popularised by Lokmanya Tilak in 1893 in public places of Pune - to garner support for India’s freedom movement and address social issues.  In Mumbai, the origin of the festival in this form is from Keshavji Nayak Chawl at Girgaum. The golden triangle involving the Mumbai metropolitan region, Pune and Nashik are where there are huge celebrations and over the last couple of days, there has been heavy crowds on the roads for pre-festival shopping. Back-to-back for two years, the Maharashtra government has restricted the height of idols to 2 feet for households and 4 feet for public mandals. On Friday morning, on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the ‘sthaapna’ pooja was performed followed by traditional aartis to mark the birthday of Lord Ganesha, the son of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati. Lord Ganesha, the elephant-headed-pot-bellied God of wisdom, brings in prosperity and good fortune. Ganapati stands as a symbol of knowledge, as the lord of the lords as ‘Ganadhipati’ as the remover of obstacles 'Vighnaharta'. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ganesh-festival-begins-in-maharashtra-amid-fears-of-covid-19-surge-1028937.html
10-09-2021||West||PM Modi to inaugurate Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad via video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad and also perform the 'bhoomi pujan' of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya -- a girls' hostel -- on Saturday via video conference. According to a Prime Minister's Office (PMO) statement, Sardardham has been working towards educational and social transformation, upliftment of the weaker sections of the society and providing employment opportunities to the youth. Prime Minister Modi will perform the 'Lokarpan' of Sardardham Bhavan and 'bhoomi pujan' of Sardardham Phase – II Kanya Chhatralaya, on September 11 at 11 am via video conference, it said. "Set up in Ahmedabad, the Sardardham Bhavan includes state-of-the-art facilities for students, with modern amenities. The 'Kanya Chhatralaya' will be a hostel facility for 2,000 girls irrespective of economic criteria," the statement said. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel will also be present on the occasion. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-sardardham-bhavan-in-ahmedabad-via-video-conference-1029005.html
10-09-2021||West||HC seeks CBI reply on bail plea of Deshmukh's lawyer in corruption case||The Delhi High Court Friday sought CBI's reply on bail application of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's lawyer Anand Daga in connection with a corruption case. Justice Yogesh Khanna issued notice on the plea and listed it for further hearing on September 27. Daga was arrested for allegedly trying to subvert the Bombay High Court-directed preliminary enquiry against Deshmukh. Lawyer Tanveer Ahmed Mir appeared for Daga before the high court. On September 8, a Special CBI court here had rejected Daga's bail application, saying that the investigation was still inconclusive and recoveries made during investigation connected him with alleged offence. Special Judge Vimal Kumar Yadav had noted that the accused himself was a lawyer and was well-acquainted with the legal process and that it could not be ruled out that he may try to scuttle or influence the investigation which was not confined to a particular geographical area. "Therefore, considering the entire gamut of facts and circumstances, the accused does not deserve to be considered for bail at this stage," the judge had said, adding that Daga was "facing allegations of serious nature". The CBI had registered a case against its sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari and the Nagpur-based advocate, besides others on various allegations, including illegal gratification. A report of the preliminary enquiry (PE) purportedly giving clean chit to Deshmukh was leaked earlier causing embarrassment to the agency. The CBI started a probe into the leakage in which it emerged that findings of the PE were influenced. "Attempts by Anil Deshmukh's team were in contempt of the Bombay High Court which had directed that all concerned should fully cooperate with the CBI while conducting the PE. In this case it has appeared that Deshmukh''s team tried to subvert the PE," the CBI had said. The CBI then started a PE on the orders of the Bombay High Court which had issued the direction while hearing a public interest litigation on allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. In the FIR, the CBI had booked Deshmukh and others unidentified under IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty". Allegations against Deshmukh had surfaced after the removal of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. He was removed after the role of policeman Sachin Waze surfaced in the case of an explosive-laden SUV which was found parked outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Waze was arrested by the NIA. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai, they said. The FIR alleged that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-seeks-cbi-reply-on-bail-plea-of-deshmukhs-lawyer-in-corruption-case-1029010.html
10-09-2021||West||Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra under Covid shadow, CM prays for destruction of 'evil' virus||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday urged citizens to launch a strong movement against coronavirus and said he prayed to Lord Ganesh to destroy all "evil and negativity" as the 10-day festival dedicated to the deity began amid the pandemic and looming threat of a third wave. People welcomed Lord Ganesh in their homes and pandals in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra without pomp and gaiety and with focus on online 'darshan' to avoid gathering as the state government has made it clear it does not want to take any chance in view of an uptick in cases, especially in the metropolis. For the second straight year, the pandemic cast a long shadow on Ganesh Chaturthi festivities with the Maharashtra government placing a slew of restrictions to avoid gathering and processions. Urging citizens to strictly follow coronavirus norms, the CM said people's health was more important than any festival. 'We need to work towards eradicating the pandemic permanently by behaving as responsible citizens. In the last two years, we have been forced to impose restrictions in celebrations. "People's lives and health are more important than any festival. I am confident Lord Ganesh, who is called Vighnaharta (one who removes all hurdles) will destroy the evil virus," he said. Thackeray asked citizens to use the festival to launch a movement to get rid of coronavirus by staying alert and following all norms. "Just like Lokmanya Tilak used the Ganeshotav to inspire people to fight the British, all mandals and organisations should use the festival to create awareness about virus and ensure it is permanently destroyed,'' Thackeray said. He was speaking after performing the customary puja at his official residence 'Varsha' in south Mumbai, where he welcomed Lord Ganesh. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP reiterated his demand for reopening places of worship, saying livelihood of people associated with them was severely impacted. The festival, the most popular and awaited religious event in Maharashtra, begins on Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on Anant Chaturdashi 10 days later with immersion of idols. The Maharashtra government has banned physical 'darshan' of Lord Ganesh at community pandals (marquees) and said only online 'darshan' or telecast from pandals would be allowed. Citing the Covid-19 situation, the Mumbai police have imposed orders under CrPC section 144 prohibiting assembly of five or more persons during the Ganesh festival between September 10 to 19. No processions of any kind would be allowed in Mumbai during this period and devotees would not be allowed to visit Ganesh pandals either, an official statement said on Thursday. People can have 'darshan' of Ganesh idols installed in pandals through the online mode or through other electronic media (such as TV), it said. The Maharashtra home department has issued a circular banning visits to pandals so as to prevent the spread of the viral infection. Also, the height Lord Ganesh idols to be installed has been restricted. In Mumbai, there are around 12,000 sarvajanik (community) mandals and nearly two lakh homes where idols of the deity are installed. The usual pomp was missing since processions have been banned. Lord Ganesh made a quiet entry into the homes of his devotees. Naresh Dahibavkar, president, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, told PTI that compared to last year, when 90 per cent of the mandals had celebrated the festival in view of the coronavirus outbreak, this year all of them are installing idols of the deity. The samiti is an umbrella body of Ganesh mandals that coordinates the festival between the BMC and government agencies. Last year, Lalbaghcha Raja, Mumbai's most famous mandal, had cancelled the celebration, while Wadala's GSB Sewa Samiti, another well-known mandal, had postponed the celebration to Magh Shudh charturthi in February this year. "The festival will be celebrated with usual fervour and gaiety unlike last year as the Covid-19 vaccination drive is going on and there is awareness among people about the pandemic," Dahibavkar said. "In view of the third wave threat, all government protocols for Covid-19- appropriate behaviour are being observed," he said. Dahibavkar criticised the government for banning physical darshan. "This has been done at the last minute. The stake-holders were not consulted. Physical darshan was banned last year too. We will suffer heavy losses since there will be no devotees to see the banners and posters of our sponsors," he said. Livelihood of people associated with the festival, which generates a turnover of Rs 70 crore to Rs 100 crore (in Mumbai), will continue to be impacted due to the pandemic, Dahibavkar said. He said Ganesh mandals have contributed to the state government's efforts to provide relief to people in flood-affected Konkan region and have also been doing social activities. "The government should have considered our problems too," he said, adding, "The mandals have contributed Rs 40 lakh towards flood relief," he said. The state government has issued an order to ban physical darshan at mandals and said not more than ten people (who have to be fully vaccinated) would be allowed to bring the idol which should not be more than 4 feet in height (at marquees). Home idols should not be more than two feet in height and only 5 people (fully vaccinated) will be allowed to accompany the idol. The administration has put restrictions during immersion of idols as well. In the last two days, markets were overcrowded with people making purchases to welcome the elephant-headed God, raising concerns about the lack of physical distancing. The GSB Sewa Mandal, which installs the idol for five days at Kings Circle in Mumbai, said this year's celebrations will be simple. It said during the last one year, the mandal has distributed food to relatives of patients in government hospitals and was in the forefront of relief and rehabilitation efforts during Konkan floods in July. "We will celebrate the festival religiously like every year but without any devotee visiting the pandal as per government guidelines," the GSB Sewa Mandal said in a statement. Live darshan will be on the mandal's social media platform, it said. S everal celebrities and political leaders also installed the deity at their homes. In Pune too, devotees welcomed the elephant-headed God in their homes and at pandals. Key Ganesh mandals in Pune, including five 'manache' (revered ) mandals, performed 'pranpratishtha' (installation) of idols in pandals (marquees) following Covid-19 protocols. Mahesh Suryavanshi, a trustee at Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati, said the 'pranpratishtha' of Pune's ost endearing deity, was performed inside the main temple in a simple manner. The civic administration has appealed to all Ganesh mandals to celebrate the festival in a simple manner and make arrangements for online 'darshan' for devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ganesh-festival-begins-in-maharashtra-under-covid-shadow-cm-prays-for-destruction-of-evil-virus-1029038.html
10-09-2021||West||Woman raped, brutally assaulted in Mumbai||In a shocking incident, a woman was raped and brutalised inside a stationary tempo in the Khairani Road area of Mumbai's suburban Saki Naka. The 30-year-old victim was raped after which the accused inserted a rod in her private parts. Her condition was said to be serious, police said on Friday. The 45-year-old, Mohan Chouhan, accused has been arrested by Saki Naka police station and has been booked under sections 307, 376, 323, and 504 of the Indian Penal Code. The incident took place around 3 am in the wee hours of Friday.  The victim has been shifted to the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, where she is undergoing treatment.  The police control room received a call in the early hours of Friday that a man was thrashing a woman on Khairani Road, he said. A police team rushed to the spot to find a woman lying in a pool of blood. As per the preliminary probe, she had been raped and also assaulted with an iron rod in her private parts, he said, adding that the incident had taken place inside a tempo parked on the roadside. Bloodstains were found inside the vehicle.  (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-raped-brutally-assaulted-in-mumbai-1029068.html
