11-09-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||BJP stitches its numbers to form administration in HDMP||With the rebel candidate and two of the six independent candidates extending ‘unconditional’ support, the Bharatiya Janata Party is all set to take over the realm of Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) for the third time in a row.  BJP, which had secured 39 of the 82 wards that went to polls on September 3, is short of three seats to form a simple majority administration in the second biggest city municipal corporation in Karnataka. However, with the voting rights to three of its MLAs, two MLCs and an MP, anointing a mayor for the palike was not a difficult task for the BJP.  Speaking to DH, BJP State General Secretary Mahesh Tenginkai said HDMP will have a BJP mayor and deputy mayor.  “We are waiting for the gazette notification of the election results. As soon as the state government declares the date for oath-taking of new corporators and hold elections for the top posts, we will ensure that our mayor and deputy mayor candidates get an overwhelming majority,” he said.  His confidence stems from the fact that BJP rebel candidate Durgamma Bijwad, who stands a chance of becoming deputy mayor due to reservation of the post for SC woman, is holding talks with senior party leaders of returning back to the party fold. Sources also confirmed to DH that Congress rebel candidate Chandrika Mestri, whose husband Venkatesh Mestri had roots in BJP, is also willing to extend support to BJP if offered deputy mayor post.  Lone JD(S) candidate Lakshmi Maruthi Hindusgeri has also expressed her willingness to support BJP. Besides, two of the six independent candidates have also extended their ‘unconditional' support to BJP. Their support ensures BJP of crossing the magic figure of 42 seats.  Multiple factions lobby For BJP leaders, forming the next administration in the HDMP is not the bigger headache. The bigger challenge is selecting a mayor, which is reserved for corporator from Other Backward Community (A). Five candidates within BJP are eligible for the post. However, fractions within the party want ‘their man’ to be at the helm of HDMP.  While Union Minister Pralhad Joshi is making all-out efforts to install Eeresh Anchatgeri as the next mayor, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai camp wants Thippanna Majjagi to be the next mayor.  Not left hopes Meanwhile, senior local Congress leaders said that they are also lobbying hard to ensure a ‘secular’ coalition administration at HDMP. “Arithmetically we are not in a position to form an administration, but we have not left hopes and making efforts in this regard. Let us see what is in-stored before mayor elections,” said Congress leader Sadananda Danganavar. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/bjp-stitches-its-numbers-to-form-administration-in-hdmp-1029232.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Panel to decide on restarting Karnataka schools for classes 1 to 5||Primary and Secondary Education Minister BC Nagesh said that the technical committee meeting will take a call on the commencement of classes for students of 1-5 in Karnataka.  Speaking to media persons in Shivamogga on Saturday, he said the issue would be discussed in the meeting. Referring to the commencement of classes for sixth to PUC, he said they are going on smoothly.  As students could not attend many classes due to the pandemic, teachers are conducting bridge courses so that they would understand the syllabus of the next class easily. But teachers may find it difficult to complete the syllabus due to the lack of time. Therefore, discussions are going on either to reduce the syllabus or vacation. He also made it clear that no final decision has been taken in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panel-to-decide-on-restarting-karnataka-schools-for-classes-1-to-5-1029236.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi Congress councillors meet D K Shivakumar in Bengaluru||Newly-elected 27 Congress councillors on Saturday met KPCC President D K Shivakumar in Bengaluru even as JD(S) kept everyone guessing over the formation of Council in Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike (KMP).  As no party get a simple majority to form the body, both Congress and the BJP with 23 seats are making all efforts to secure power in the KMP with the support of JD(S) which won four seats.  Four JD(S) councillors had recently met former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy in Bidadi and held talks with him.  KPCC spokesperson Priyank Kharge accompanied the Congress councillors for the meeting with D K Shivakumar. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-congress-councillors-meet-d-k-shivakumar-in-bengaluru-1029297.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bommai-led govt would complete full term: Kodi Mutt Seer||Kodi Mutt Seer Shivananda Shivayogi Rajendra Swami stated that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is an intelligent administrator and he is getting appropriate guidance from facilitators.  Speaking to media persons, in Shivamogga on Saturday, the seer, known for his accurate predictions, hinted that the Bommai-led government would complete the remaining term without many obstacles. He also claimed that as per his prediction that Karnataka would witness political changes, B S Yediyurappa stepped down from the chief minister's post and Basavaraj Bommai became chief minister. Now, this government would complete the term.   The seer said as per his predictions, the world suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic and the country is also hit by it. The nation would be free from Covid in the next four to five years due to the vaccine. He also predicted that the state would face drought and borewells will go dry in the coming days.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bommai-led-govt-would-complete-full-term-kodi-mutt-seer-1029336.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nine held for killing dogs using lethal injections in Shivamogga||Police have nabbed nine persons, including gram panchayat members, on charges of killing stray dogs using lethal injections and burying them in forest area in Bhadravathi taluk. Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police BM Laxmi Prasad said Somu (40), from Mysuru, who was entrusted with the responsibility of sterilising stray dogs, killed them using lethal injections in violation of norms. Gram panchayat members, a secretary and a bill collector too had been arrested in this regard. So far, carcasses of over 60 dogs had been retrieved from Thammadihalli forest area where they were buried. Veterinary doctors have conducted post-mortem on them and sent bone, hair, skin and part of a liver of the dogs to Forensic Science laboratory for examination. He also revealed that they were not aware of the rules that stray dogs can't be culled. They were surprised after knowing that a case had been registered against them. It may be mentioned here that Kambadaal-Hosur gram panchayat consulted a dog catcher Somu from Mysuru to end stray dog menace in panchayat limits following dog bite incidents. It is said that people and children were bitten by stray dogs. As per the norms, dogs must be sterilised and they must be released into the same area from where they had been captured. But they killed dogs and buried them in the forest area. Suspected by this, Shivamogga Animal Rescue Club lodged a complaint at Bhadravathi Rural police station. Later, police visited the spot and dug the ground after a few days and found the dogs, which were in a decomposed state. As per the norms, they had to capture stray dogs, vaccinate them against rabies, sterilise them, and release them in the areas where they had been captured. It is better known as Catch Neuter Vaccinate & Release (CNVR) drive. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nine-held-for-killing-dogs-using-lethal-injections-in-shivamogga-1029369.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||To bridge trust deficit with people, this Muslim cop takes Lord Ganesh's 'help'||For Gokul Road Police Station inspector Jakeer Pasha Mohammed Sab Kalimirchi, Ganesh Chaturthi is not just a Hindu festival but a trust-building measure between the police and society. This is why he has been for the last 10 years of his police service been ensuring that the festival is celebrated in a grand manner at the police station he has been deputed at. With a large red ‘tilak’ on his forehead and dressed in traditional Hindu attire, Kalimirchi on Friday brought the idol of Lord Ganesh to station on his lap chanting the name of ‘Ganapathi Bappa’. Once the priest completed the pooja, he distributed the ‘prasada’ to his subordinates and the citizens who participated in the pooja. Later in the night he enthusiastically participated in the ‘Visarjan’ programme. “Khaki is my religion and I believe in humanity that was advocated by national poet Kuvempu,” he says and adds that for the last 10 years he has been organising Ganesh Chaturthi at the police station he has been deputed. “Organising such festivals not only brings peace of mind to us police but also helps in bridging the trust deficit between the department and people,” he says and adds the department regularly celebrates festivals related to Hanuman, goddess Shakti and Ayudha pooja. “As a Muslim, Allah is my supreme God. But that does not mean I can not respect other beliefs. We should be a Hindu, Muslim... within the four walls of our houses. Outside, we should be only humans,” he says and added that his upbringing in the Shishunala Sharif philosophy has helped him in embracing all beliefs equally. "Several members, both from my community and others, have appreciated my efforts to bridge the trust gap." The inspector is also known among his subordinates for taking innovative steps to build confidence among people. Recently, he celebrated Teachers Day by planting 50 trees at St Ann's school in Gokul village. He has also started a separate grievance cell to address the problems of people within his police station limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/to-bridge-trust-deficit-with-people-this-muslim-cop-takes-lord-ganeshs-help-1029381.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Unique Umamaheshwara sculpture found in Udupi||A miniature sculpture of Umamaheshwara made out of greenschist was discovered at Maranakatte in Baindoor taluk of Udupi district. According to Prof T Murugeshi, serving as Associate Professor in the department of Ancient History and Archaeology, MSRS College, Shirva, the sculpture was discovered while levelling a mound at the site. This unique sculpture is about 9 cm in height, 9 cm in length and 4 cm in breadth. "The Umamaheshwara is shown riding on his vehicle Bull. Lord Shiva riding on the bull with four hands. Two hands in the front is shown holding the ears of the bull, holding like handle of the vehicle. While, in one of the back hands, he is shown holding Mriga (dear) and the left hand is mutilated. The back of the lord Shiva, Uma is shown sitting and holding the shoulders of the Shiva. But, unfortunately the upper portion of Uma has been destroyed. All the Shiva Ganas including Veerabhadra, Ganapathi, Brungi are depicted around the bull," he explained. Prof Murugeshi said Umamaheshwara cult, also known as Soma cult or Someshwara cult, which had its origins in Gujrat had spread across the country within no time. It was popular in 11th century and sculpture under study also belongs to 11th century, Prof Murugeshi informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unique-umamaheshwara-sculpture-found-in-udupi-1029392.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Prayer hall attacked over conversion charges in Karkala||A group of right-wing activists, including members of Hindu Jagarana Vedike (HJV), stormed into a Christian prayer hall and allegedly assaulted people during a prayer service at Kukkundoor village in Karkala on Friday.  The Vedike, in its complaint, claimed that the organisers of the prayer service were encouraging religious conversions. Udupi Superintendent of Police (SP) Vishnuvardhan told DH that no one was injured in the attack. No arrests have been made so far. According to the organisers, the activists brutally attacked the people. In the mayhem, the saree of a woman was torn. Two cases have been registered at the Karkala police station. HJV leader Prakash Kukkehalli said they had repeatedly been complaining about the conversions. Prakash claimed that Benedict, the pastor, was attempting to convert more than 35 Hindus through enticement. HJV district general secretary Mahesh Bailoor, defending the Vedike members, said Benedict had not obtained prior permission from police to conduct the prayer service. Earlier, Benedict used to organise prayers at a hall near Doopadakatte in Karkala. Following complaints from the public, the service was shifted to Kukkundoor. Udupi district head of All India Christian Federation Prashanth Jatthana claimed that charges of religious conversion were baseless. "HJV activists should be punished by police for misbehaving with women," he said. Sunil from Kuntalpady in Karkala, who attended the prayer service on Friday, reportedly told police that Benedict lured him into attending the service conducted by him.  Based on Sunil's allegation, a case was filed against Benedict. Karkala police also registered cases against HJV activists under different sections, including section 354 of the IPC (for assaulting woman).  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prayer-hall-attacked-over-conversion-charges-in-karkala-1029411.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||People’s mandate against BJP in Kalburgi civic polls: Mallikarjun Kharge||The people’s mandate in Kalaburgi city corporation election was against the BJP. When the mandate is in favour of the secular parties, why not the Congress-come into power with the alliance, asked Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. “I have spoken to JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda on people’s mandate against the BJP in the Kalaburgi civic body polls. Will see what happens,” he told mediapersons here in Mangaluru on Saturday. To a query on whether he is confident of Congress-JD(S) alliance, he said “everything lies on trust and confidence in the society,” he added. In the 55-member house, the Congress had won 27 seats, BJP-23, JD(S)-4 and Independent-1. The secular forces have 32 seats while the BJP has only 23 seats, he explained. To a query on whether Congress will give the Mayoral post to the JD(S), Kharge said that it will be decided by the local leaders in Kalaburgi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/people-s-mandate-against-bjp-in-kalburgi-civic-polls-mallikarjun-kharge-1029238.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Kalaburagi: JD(S) keeps BJP, Congress on edge||The deadlock on the formation of an alliance to take control of the Kalaburagi City Corporation saw no resolution Saturday with the JD(S) keeping the Congress and BJP guessing.  The recent election to the Kalaburagi civic body threw up a fractured mandate. In the 55-member corporation where the halfway mark is 28, the Congress emerged single-largest with 27 followed by the BJP with 23, JD(S) four and one Independent.  The JD(S) has demanded the mayor’s post for three terms, a bitter pill for both Congress and BJP.  On Saturday, a delegation of Congress councillors along with former minister Priyank Kharge met KPCC president D K Shivakumar and held talks.  “Our national leader Mallikarjun Kharge has spoken with another national leader H D Deve Gowda of the JD(S) on the way forward in Kalaburagi,” Shivakumar told reporters.  Asked if he would reach out to JD(S) leaders, Shivakumar said: “Whatever needs to be done in the good interests of the Congress, I will do. All that I have in front of me is for both parties to run the administration together.”  According to Priyank, the Chittapur MLA, discussions were still on. “The JD(S) wants the Mayor’s post. It’ll be difficult for us since we have more numbers. So, we will negotiate,” he said. “If the JD(S) is truly for Kalaburagi's development, then they will join hands with us.” Congress sources indicated that the JD(S) is inclined to go with the grand old party. "But, they're playing hardball and are waiting to see if they can get the mayor's chair," a source said. Meanwhile, Revenue Minister R Ashoka met JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy, reportedly on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s directive. "I told [Ashoka] that I would get back to him after discussing the developments with the party's MLAs at a legislature party meeting scheduled on Monday," Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. ಸೋಮವಾರ ಸಂಜೆ ಜೆಡಿಎಸ್ ಶಾಸಕಾಂಗ ಪಕ್ಷದ ಸಭೆ ಕರೆದಿದ್ದೇನೆ. ಅಲ್ಲಿ, ನಮ್ಮ ಶಾಸಕರ ಜತೆ ಎಲ್ಲ ಬೆಳವಣೆಗಗಳ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದ ನಂತರ ಪಕ್ಷದ ಅಭಿಪ್ರಾಯವನ್ನು ತಿಳಿಸಲಾಗುವುದು ಎಂದು ಅವರಿಗೆ ಹೇಳಿದ್ದೇನೆ.(2/3) Ashoka also discussed a BJP-JD(S) alliance in the Doddaballapur City Municipal Council. Earlier this week, a JD(S) delegation met Bommai, who expressed confidence that the regional party would ally with the BJP in Kalaburagi. Bommai also asserted that Kalaburagi would get a BJP mayor.  Priyank accused the BJP of trying to lure Congress members. “They are trying, by hook or by crook, to hoist their flag in Kalaburagi by offering money and positions,” he said.  Apparently, the government has not issued a notification on the election of the new members due to the deadlock on the alliance.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kalaburagi-jds-keeps-bjp-congress-on-edge-1029317.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah condemns demolition of ‘ancient’ Hindu temple in Nanjangud||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Saturday condemned the demolition of an 'ancient' Hindu temple at Nanjangud in Mysuru district and said the BJP government should have consulted the local residents before taking such an action, 'which has hurt the religious sentiments of the people". "The destruction of an ancient temple in Nanjangud is condemnable. Since it was a sensitive issue, the @BJP4Karnataka should have spoken to the local residents, The demolition is done without the consultation of the people in the region & has hurt the religious sentiments," he said in a series of tweets. The demolition is done without the consultation of the people in the region & has hurt the religious sentiments. The officials concerned have not followed the due process, he said. "Though there was a court order, the administration should have given a thought before implementing it (order)," he said in another tweet. The Congress leader demanded that a piece of land be earmarked to construct a temple there to compensate for the demolition. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-condemns-demolition-of-ancient-hindu-temple-in-nanjangud-1029335.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ashwath Narayan denies Rs 34 crore GTTC tender kickback charge||The Karnataka Congress on Saturday claimed there were irregularities and kickbacks in tenders to procure equipment for the Government Tool Room & Training Center (GTTC). Skill Development Minister C N Ashwath Narayan rubbished the claims. Congress leaders V S Ugrappa and H M Revanna released documents and claimed that the government had awarded bids worth Rs 61.52 crore through eight tenders whereas the market value of the equipment was Rs 27.15 crore. “The kickback involved is Rs 34.37 crore,” Ugrappa said. He also accused Narayan of nepotism in choosing the bidders. “Most of the bids have gone to the same company,” Ugrappa claimed and added that no pre-bid meetings were held as required under the rules. “Bids were awarded to companies that are not manufacturers.” Ugrappa was referring to the GTTC in Rajajinagar. “This is just a sample. “Such loot has taken place in other departments over the last two years,” he said. Responding to this, Narayan said everything was done transparently and slammed the Congress for “building a tower based on lies”. In a statement, Narayan said: “In the preceding two years, over 50% of machinery was procured from the state-run HMT. Therefore, the question of favouring a particular firm does not arise. The evaluation of the tenders are done by an expert committee consisting of senior research scientists from Aeronautical Development Agency, MSME Ministry, the Indian Machine Tool Manufacturers Association and KASSIA.” Narayan also pointed out that the Congress had “mischievously” compared the prices of machines used for training purposes with those meant for precision manufacturing. “Pre-bid representations were received, meetings held and only Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) or their authorised dealers were awarded purchase orders for supply of machines,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ashwath-narayan-denies-rs-34-crore-gttc-tender-kickback-charge-1029390.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Delimitation panel a tool for Karnataka government to put off Zilla, Taluk Panchayat elections?||In one stroke, the ruling BJP might have found a way to postpone elections to all the taluk and zilla panchayats, the grassroots local bodies, by at least one year.  Karnataka has 31 zilla panchayats under which there are 232 taluk panchayats, representing all 30,000 villages in the state.  They were due for elections in May-June this year, but the devastating second wave of Covid-19 came in the way.  Now, a decision taken by the Basavaraj Bommai administration could hold up the elections, in a classic case of how policy and politics are entwined.  Last week, the Cabinet decided to create a delimitation commission to redraw panchayat boundaries, a laborious task that the State Election Commission (SEC) has been doing since 2003.  Effectively, the government will take away the SEC’s power in carrying out delimitation. Also, the new commission will fix reservation for all panchayat seats, another job the SEC does. The government argued that the SEC should not be burdened with works that can be done by a temporary commission.  So, the government is likely to move a Bill in the upcoming session of the legislature to amend the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act to appoint the new delimitation commission.  Officials and experts find no fault in the government’s decision in that it is well within its powers. The real question is: why is this being done now when the SEC has finished the delimitation and reservation exercise?  “The government can entrust the task to delimitation to whoever. We have done our job. But, if the new (delimitation) process is applied now, the current election will get delayed further,” State Election Commissioner B Basavaraju says. “Our apprehension is that if timely polls are not held, development works will be affected. Also, there are Central grants to local bodies tied to timely elections.”  By March-April this year, the SEC had finished the delimitation and reservation process. This was done because in 2015 the then Congress government amended the law to revise the population criteria for the panchayats: 10,000 to 12,500-15,000 for a taluk panchayat and 20,000 to 35,000-40,000 for a zilla panchayat.  “There was no provision for citizens to file objections on the delimitation that has been carried out. As a result, over 2,000 cases have been filed in the court. So, we felt it was right to have a separate delimitation commission that can hear objections,” Law Minister J C Madhuswamy explained last week. “We will tell the court that a delimitation commission has been appointed. If the court is convinced, we will take up the delimitation processagain.” Basavaraju says the SEC will “wait and see” for the government’s decision. “As SEC, our mandate is to conduct elections on time. We have to now see how our mandate might get obstructed.” A former state election commissioner says: “The SEC can always decide to hold elections. But, it’ll be difficult to conduct smooth elections by fighting the government, which has to cooperate with funds and machinery.”   DH has reliably learnt that the ruling BJP is uncomfortable with the reservation fixed by the SEC.  “It was a Herculean task,” Basavaraju says of fixing reservations. “We had to rotate the roster such that there was no repetition of the reservations that were fixed in any previous election.”  So, why would the BJP government want to put off the panchayat elections?  “Panchayat polls reflect the realistic public mood and maybe, the BJP has seen the writing on the wall,” political analyst Muzaffar Assadi says. “Maybe they think it’s a risk as the outcome of these polls will reflect on the new leadership, going into the 2023 Assembly elections.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/delimitation-panel-a-tool-for-karnataka-government-to-put-off-zilla-taluk-panchayat-elections-1029413.html
11-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP will face next polls under BSY, Bommai: Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said BJP will face the next assembly elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and his predecessor B S Yediyurappa. Speaking to media persons in Shivamogga on Saturday evening, he said the party is strong enough to win the polls under their leadership. On the Mysuru gang-rape case, he said the efforts are on to convince the victim and her parents to give statements before the police. If necessary, a special prosecutor will be appointed. On inclusion of actress and anchor Anushri in the drugs case chargesheet, he said police can't do it without a valid reason. They have quizzed many celebrities with evidence, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-will-face-next-polls-under-bsy-bommai-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1029423.html
11-09-2021||National||RSS should reach every household in centenary year: Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday said the target of the organisation should be to reach every household when it will celebrate its centenary four years later, according to an RSS office-bearer. The RSS chief who reached Dhanbad on Friday on a three-day visit to take stock of the organisation in Jharkhand held a meeting with senior leaders of Jharkhand and Bihar. "The sarsanghchalak (Bhagwat) exhorted us to work hard in order to ensure that when the organisation will turn 100 in 2025, the swayamsevaks should reach every household with extension of branches in all villages," an RSS functionary who attended the meeting said. RSS members were also told how their conduct should be and how their lives should be devoted to nation-building, the office-bearer said. The RSS Chief is scheduled to address media on Saturday. Earlier, Bhagwat was given a rousing welcome by state BJP leaders, and ABVP and Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh activists as he reached Dhanbad from Patna on the Ganga-Damodar Express in the morning. The organisers took him to a guest house, the main venue for the programmes during his visit. "He holds meetings for organisation extension across the country round the year. During the visit to Dhanbad, he will conduct such meetings," an RSS functionary said. On Saturday and Sunday, he would meet officials of various branches of the state RSS. During the visit, he is also scheduled to meet 100 eminent people from different fields. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-should-reach-every-household-in-centenary-year-bhagwat-1029145.html
11-09-2021||National||PSUs will be allowed to carry forward losses accumulated prior to divestment: CBDT||In order to make disinvestment deals of ailing state-owned firms more attractive for strategic investors, the government on Friday allowed erstwhile public sector companies to carry forward losses to be set off against future profits. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in a clarification said that Section 79 of the Income Tax Act shall not apply to an erstwhile public sector company which has become so as a result of strategic disinvestment. "Accordingly, loss incurred in any previous year prior to, and including, the previous year of strategic disinvestment shall be carried forward and set off by the erstwhile public sector company," the CBDT under the Finance Ministry said in a statement The relaxation, it added, will cease to apply from the previous year in which the company, that was the ultimate holding company of such erstwhile public sector company immediately after completion of the strategic disinvestment, ceases to hold 51 per cent of the voting power of the erstwhile company. Section 79 of the Income Tax Act deals with carry forward and set off of losses in case of companies. "In order to facilitate the strategic disinvestment, it has been decided that Section 79 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, shall not apply to an erstwhile public sector company which has become so as a result of strategic disinvestment," it said. Necessary legislative amendments for the above decision shall be proposed in due course of time, the statement said. Commenting on clarification, Nangia Andersen LLP Head (Government and Public Sector Advisory) Suraj Nangia said "the Government has allowed that even after change in shareholding of such ailing PSUs due to transfer of shares in such PSUs by Government to strategic investors, past losses of such PSUs will be allowed to be carried forward for set off against future profits." This will make disinvestment deals of ailing PSUs more attractive for strategic investors, he said. Under normal tax provisions, he said, without this relaxation, past losses of a company are not allowed to be set off, if there is change in majority shareholding of a company (i.e. 51 per cent).   "It may be noted that such relaxation will be available, only till the strategic investor retains at least 51 per cent in the PSU after takeover. In case the strategic investor's shareholding falls below 51 per cent, such relaxation will be withdrawn," he added. The ambitious divestment pipeline also includes loss making national carrier Air India for which the deadline for submission of financial bids is September 15. The government will be selling budget airline Air India Express and Air India's 50 per cent stake in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Limited (AISATS) besides offloading its entire stake in loss-making Air India. The deadline for submission of Expressions of Interest (EoI) or preliminary bids was extended five times earlier before closing it in December last year. Finance Act, 2021 has amended section 72A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 that deals with amalgamation of a public sector company (PSU) which ceases to be a PSU (erstwhile public sector company), as part of strategic disinvestment, with one or more company or companies and carry forward of losses in case of change in shareholding following sale by the government. The Centre budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including 2 PSU banks and one insurance company, in the current fiscal year. As part of the privatisation strategy, the government aims to complete the strategic sale of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), Shipping Corp, Container Corporation, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, Pawan Hans, Air India, among others, by March 2022. So far this financial year, Rs 8,368 crore has been mopped up through minority stake sales in PSUs and the sale of SUUTI (Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India) stake in Axis Bank. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/psus-will-be-allowed-to-carry-forward-losses-accumulated-prior-to-divestment-cbdt-1029151.html
11-09-2021||National||US climate envoy John Kerry to travel to John India on Sunday||John Kerry, the US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate will reach India on Sunday to discuss climate change issues with Indian ministers ahead of the UN Climate Summit at Glasgow in November. During his engagements in India between Sept 12-14, the former Secretary of State will bolster the USA's bilateral and multilateral climate change negotiation efforts ahead of the UN climate summit that would be held in Glasgow in November. Last month Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav had a telephonic conversation with Kerry during which both sides agreed that India and US will engage for a constructive engagement under the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership. During Kerry’s visit, the two nations will launch the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue, one of the two main tracks of the US-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced at the Leaders Summit on Climate in April 2021. As a part of the Paris Agreement, India plans to lower the emission intensity of the GDP by 33-35% from the 2005 levels by 2030 and have 40% of its total installed power generation capacity from renewables by 2030. Prime Minister Modi had earlier stated that India was on its track to reach the Paris target as 21% reduction of the emission intensity was achieved by December. 2020. India’s renewable capacity has also gone up to nearly 100 GW. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-climate-envoy-john-kerry-to-travel-to-john-india-on-sunday-1029161.html
11-09-2021||National||Half of rural agricultural households indebted, NSS data shows||Almost half of the rural agricultural households are indebted across India with an average outstanding loan amount per agricultural household being way more than the below poverty line income for rural India, as per the latest dataset of the National Statistical Survey (NSS) released on Friday. The percentage of indebted agricultural households stood at 50.2 per cent while the average amount (Rs) of outstanding loan per agricultural household stood at Rs 74,121, the 77th round of the survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO) between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019 showed. The survey theme was "Land and Livestock Holdings of Households and Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households" in the rural areas of India with an integrated schedule of enquiry. Prior to the 77th round, Land and Livestock Holding Surveys (LHS) and Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households used to be conducted as separate surveys in separate sets of households. For calculating indebtedness of agricultural households, the information on the amount of outstanding loan as on date of survey (i.e., the day on which data was collected from the household) was collected from each of the surveyed agricultural households. The NSS also found out the average monthly income per agricultural household for which it collected information on the receipts and expenditures relating to crop production, farming of animals and non-farm business, separately for the two halves of the agricultural year July 2018 - June 2019. Income from wage/salary employment and income from leasing out of land were also recorded for the same period. Based on this information, the average monthly income per agricultural household was worked out for the agricultural year July 2018-June 2019 by adding up the income from wages/salary, income from leasing out of land, net receipt from crop production, farming of animals and non-farm business. "Net receipt is worked out by deducting total expenses from total receipts for each source of income," the survey findings said. The average monthly income for income from wages was Rs 4,063 for paid out expenses approach and remained the same for the paid out expenses and imputed expenses together. Similarly, the average same for income from leasing out of land was Rs 134 for both types of calculations. However, for net receipt from crop production, the paid out expenses approach yielded Rs 3,798 that went down to Rs 3,058 if imputed expenses were also considered. The gap went down further for net receipt from farming of animals where the average monthly income in case of paid out expenses approach was Rs 1,582 and only Rs 441 when additionally imputed expenses were considered. Net receipts from non-farm business stood at Rs 641 for both paid out expenses approach and when clubbed with imputed expenses, the survey findings said. The information was collected in two visits from the same set of sample households in rural areas with a view to collect relevant information separately for the two halves of the agricultural year July 2018-June 2019. An agricultural household for the NSS 77th round of survey was defined as a household receiving more than Rs 4,000 as value of produce from agricultural activities, and having at least one member self-employed in agriculture either in the principal status or in subsidiary status during the last 365 days. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/half-of-rural-agricultural-households-indebted-nss-data-shows-1029177.html
11-09-2021||National||4.7 magnitude earthquake hits Uttarakhand's Chamoli||A 4.7 magnitude earthquake shook Uttarakhand's Chamoli district early Saturday, the National Center for Seismology said. It said the earthquake occurred at 5.58 am and its epicentre was 13 km from Gopeshwar at a depth of 5 km. People ran out of their houses in panic, however, no damage to life or property was reported so far, officials said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/47-magnitude-earthquake-hits-uttarakhands-chamoli-1029184.html
11-09-2021||National||33,376 Covid-19 cases, 308 deaths in India in last 24 hours||India saw a single-day rise of 33,376 coronavirus infections, taking the overall tally of cases to 3,32,08,330, while the number of active cases increased marginally since Friday to stand at 3,91,516, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll climbed to 4,42,317 with 308 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases have increased to 3,91,516, comprising 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.49 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 870 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. On Friday, the country had recoded 3,90,646 active cases. Also, 15,92,135 tests were conducted Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for the detection of Covid-19 in the country to 54,01,96,989. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the past 12 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.26 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the past 78 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 3,23,74,497, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide drive has crossed 73.05 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 308 new fatalities include 177 from Kerala, and 44 from Maharashtra. A total f 4,42,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,061 from Maharashtra, 37,472 from Karnataka, 35, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,864 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,303  from Kerala and 18,553 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation   As many as 15,92,135 tests were conducted on Friday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 54,01,96,989. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,23,74,497. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 73.05 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/33376-covid-19-cases-308-deaths-in-india-in-last-24-hours-1029193.html
11-09-2021||National||PM Modi greets people on Nuakhai, lauds role of farmers in nation-building||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday greeted people on the occasion of Nuakhai, an agricultural festival celebrated especially in parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh.  He lauded the outstanding efforts of farmers and their role in nation building.  In a tweet, he said, "Nuakhai Juhar! Greetings to everyone on this auspicious occasion. On Nuakhai we laud the outstanding efforts of our industrious farmers and their role in nation building. I pray for everyone's good health and well-being."  Nuakhai Juhar! Greetings to everyone on this auspicious occasion. On Nuakhai we laud the outstanding efforts of our industrious farmers and their role in nation building. I pray for everyone's good health and well-being. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-nuakhai-lauds-role-of-farmers-in-nation-building-1029195.html
11-09-2021||National||India, Australia hold inaugural '2+2' talks||India and Australia on Saturday held the inaugural foreign and defence ministerial dialogue to boost overall strategic ties in the backdrop of an unsettling phase of geopolitical flux in the region. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held the 'two-plus-two' talks here with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. Jaishankar described the in-person talks as "productive". "A productive 2+2 meeting today with Australia," he tweeted. The talks took place at a time the global focus is on the situation in Afghanistan after its takeover by the Taliban, and the issue figured in the deliberations. "We are meeting at a very crucial time when, along with a pandemic we have a geo-political environment which is in rapid flux and we must, bilaterally and with other like-minded partners, respond adequately to safeguard our national interests as well as ensure a peaceful, stable, and prosperous Indo-Pacific region," Jaishankar said in his opening remarks at the dialogue. The external affairs minister said India has the "two-plus-two' format of talks with very few countries. "I also believe that developments in Afghanistan will be an important subject of discussion between us today," Jaishankar said. "This meeting, of course, gives us an opportunity to review and take forward the comprehensive strategic partnership as we prepare for another meeting between our prime ministers later this month in the United States," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to travel to the US later this month to attend a summit of Quad leaders. People familiar with the 'two-plus-two' talks said the two sides held extensive deliberations on all key issues of strategic interests including the situation in the Indo-Pacific in the face of China's growing muscle-flexing in the region. The overall focus was to ramp up the strategic ties, they said. The outcome of the talks will be shared by the four ministers at a press conference by the four ministers. While Singh had wide-ranging discussions with Australian defence minister Dutton on Friday, Jaishankar met foreign minister Payne in the morning ahead of the 'two-plus-two' dialogue. During their talks, the two defence ministers discussed the fragile security situation in Afghanistan and their "common concerns" relating possible spread of terrorism from the Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. The foreign and defence ministerial talks took place amid renewed efforts by the Quad member countries to expand cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. Besides India and Australia, the Quad comprises the US and Japan. At an event organised by the Observer Research Organisation, Payne on Friday said the Quad has evolved "swiftly" and very "effectively" and commended India for taking a strong leadership role in the region. Talking about "significant challenges" facing the Indo-Pacific, the Australian foreign minister said Canberra seeks a region where rights of large and small countries are respected and that no "single dominant power" dictates the outcome for others. The dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers was instituted as part of an overall goal to expand strategic cooperation between the two countries. India has such a framework for talks with a very few countries including the US and Japan. The defence and military cooperation between India and Australia is on an upswing in the last few years. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The Australian Navy was part of the recent Malabar naval exercise that also featured navies of India, the US and Japan. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-hold-inaugural-22-talks-1029217.html
11-09-2021||National||NEET paper leak claims viral on social media, officials deny breach||Days ahead of the NEET 2021 exam, social media is abuzz with news of an alleged scandal involving an exam paper leak. Several Twitter users have raised concerns and claims about a mafia being behind the "leak," however, officials have denied the claims, terming the news fake. The speculations were triggered by an "investigation" by a TV news channel which spoke of a mafia's role in the leak of the all-important medical exam. However, no question paper, supposedly leaked, was revealed. Students' groups such as AISF and NSUI also expressed concern over the "seriousness" of the "#OperationNEET." AISF asked the Union Education Minister to constitute a "high level inquiry committee" to look into the matter. The latest speculations are in the backdrop of the National Testing Agency tightening security and reissuing admit cards for the NEET aspirants. “Numerous queries were received regarding the issue in pasting the postcard size photograph on the second page of Admit Card. This issue has been resolved now. So, candidates who have already downloaded the Admit Card are advised to download the Admit Card for NEET (UG)-2021 again from NTA NEET (UG) website," NTA had said. Earlier, a security breach was reported in JEE Mains exam centre, where a private coaching agency had allegedly hacked into on of the centre. The hackers gave exam on behalf of the students in exchange for cash payments that ran upto Rs 15 lakh, CBI investigations had revealed. As for the NEET exam, question papers were allegedly leaked in 2017 leading to police arresting 5 persons. A section of students had demanded pushing the date for NEET exams, however, the Supreme Court dismissed the plea and the exam will go on as scheduled tomorrow, September 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-paper-leak-claims-viral-on-social-media-officials-deny-breach-1029222.html
11-09-2021||National||Swami Vivekananda's Chicago speech beautifully showcased Indian culture: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday recalled Swami Vivekananda's famous speech at the World's Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893, and said its spirit has the potential to create a more just, prosperous and inclusive planet. Vivekananda's speech, which dwelt at length on Hinduism and Indian culture, had drawn all-round praise and remains resonant. Modi tweeted, "Recalling Swami Vivekananda's iconic 1893 speech at Chicago, which beautifully demonstrated the salience of Indian culture. The spirit of his speech has the potential to create a more just, prosperous and inclusive planet."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swami-vivekanandas-chicago-speech-beautifully-showcased-indian-culture-pm-1029226.html
11-09-2021||National||Old building collapses in Narela, no one injured: NDMC||An old building in Delhi's Narela area, which was declared a dangerous structure by civic authorities, has collapsed, officials said on Saturday. However, no one was injured in the incident, they said. "An old building has collapsed in Begumpura area of NDMC's Narela Zone. The building had already been vacated as it was declared a dangerous structure already. And, no one was injured in the mishap," a senior NDMC official said. Further details are awaited. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/old-building-collapses-in-narela-no-one-injured-ndmc-1029230.html
11-09-2021||National||No birthday bash for RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat who turns 71||It was like any other day for RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday, the day he turned 71. There was no celebration and no gifts for the Sarsanghchalak who is on a three-day visit to Dhanbad in Jharkhand. Bhagwat was born on September 11, 1950 at Chandrapur in Maharashtra. An RSS official said though they had expected a birthday celebration, nothing of that sort happened. "He met Shakha teachers of Dhanbad as planned and held discussions with the executive members of Jharkhand RSS Prant," the official, who insisted on not being named, said. He said he had no information about who greeted Bhagwat over the telephone. Only a handful of people met him and some BJP, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) and Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad leaders tried to visit him but were politely turned away from the gates of Rajkamal Saraswati Vidya Mandir school, where Bhagwat is staying. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-birthday-bash-for-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-who-turns-71-1029243.html
11-09-2021||National||We do business with honesty and integrity: Newslaundry after I-T dept 'survey'||Online news platform Newslaundry on Saturday said it conducted their business "honestly and with integrity" and will cooperate with the Income Tax department authorities who surveyed their office. "We have nothing to hide and have done everything by the book and are not in any breach or violation of any law. We conduct our business honestly and with integrity," Newslaundry co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri said in a message posted on his Twitter handle. Sekhri said the tax team told him he "can not" speak to his lawyer and the law requires him to comply "without seeking legal advice" adding that the officials were courteous and professional. He said "no signed hash value of the data copied" was provided to him and that he considered this as violation of his fundamental right to privacy. A hash value is a numeric value that uniquely identifies data. Hash values represent large amounts of data as much smaller numeric values, so they are used with digital signatures. The tax department surveyed the office of the news portal located at Sarvodaya Enclave in south Delhi on Friday along with that of another digital news platform Newsclick in Saidulajab area (south Delhi) on charges of alleged tax evasion. Sekhri said the tax team comprising about 6-7 people arrived at their office around 12.15 pm and left around 12.40 am on Saturday. "They searched and looked through all computer devices at the premises. My personal mobile phone, laptop and a couple of office machines were taken control of and all the data on them downloaded by the IT team," he said. Sekhri said this was the second visit by the tax authorities to his office, the first being in June, and they had given "all documents related to our funding and accounts" to the officials then. "We will cooperate in whatever way we are required to by the law. We will also continue to practice public interest journalism which is why we exist," he said. Our support comes from people who value public interest news and chose to subscribe to Newslaundry, not through government or corporate advertisements or public relation exercises, Sekhri said, adding that the online portal is proud of the model it has chosen and championed. Tax officials had said that separate survey operations on the two news portals were conducted to verify certain tax payment details and remittances made by the organisations. As part of a survey operation, carried out under Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, tax officials cover only the business premises of an assessee and those linked to it and not their residential addresses. However, they are authorised to seize documents, computer and electronic devices as part of the surprise action. The authorities left the premises of Newslaundry a little past midnight. Newsclick, its founder and editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha and other executives were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) earlier in February under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and that investigation is linked to alleged dubious foreign funding received by its registered company, which runs the news portal.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-do-business-with-honesty-and-integrity-newslaundry-after-i-t-dept-survey-1029249.html
11-09-2021||National||BJP seeks capital punishment for Sakinaka rape case accused; targets MVA govt over women's safety||The BJP in Maharashtra on Saturday sought capital punishment for the accused involved in Mumbai's Sakinaka rape and assault case, and also hit out at the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the issue of women's safety. Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis said, "The Sakinaka woman rape case should be tried in a fast-track court so that the accused gets punishment at the earliest. Maharashtra Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray) should meet the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court and request him to hold the trial in the case in a fast-track court." "I know that awarding a sentence is in the hands of the judiciary. But I feel the culprit in the Sakinaka rape should be hanged to death," he said. The Sakinaka incident was an unfortunate reminder of the Delhi rape case, he said, adding that attacks on women was a matter of concern. Fadnavis was referring to the 2012 case in which a young woman - later referred to as 'Nirbhaya' - was brutally gang-raped and assaulted inside a moving bus in Delhi. Asked about the proposed Shakti Act, he said, “Existing laws are sufficient to take tough actions against the culprits. It is the will power of the state to take tough decisions and follow it up till the logical end." Talking to reporters, Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, blamed the state government for the incident. "The onus of this incident is entirely on the state government because there is no respect left for the law (for criminals). It is horrible to know the kind of pain that she had to go through. I am deeply anguished by her death...I can not describe my feelings in words. It is not only shameful, but it has made me angry. The state needs to take some action," he said. "If BJP says anything on this, then it might be alleged that we are politicising the issue of crimes against women, but the number of such incidents are self-explanatory. Several such incidents have occurred in different parts of Maharashtra, wherein women were assaulted. In a couple of incidents, minor girls were raped, but the state government does not seem to be serious about it," he said. Darekar said, “When I reached Rajawadi Hospital (where the Sakinaka rape victim was admitted) to see the situation, I spotted Congress leader Naseem Khan there with his party workers. I was shocked to see Congress workers raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the premises of the hospital." The BJP is being accused of politicising the incident, but it is the Congress indulging in such practice, he alleged. State BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh called for formulation of a new act on the lines of SC/ST Atrocities Act so that the culprits involved in atrocities against women do not get bail easily. "There are experts, lawyers and state judiciary department who need to come up with better measures that would work as deterrents," she said. She also asked Maharashtra Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur why she has not appointed anyone on the post of the chairperson of the state women's commission for over a year. "I am told that the file to appoint chairperson on State Women's commission has been sent back eight times by chief minister and deputy chief minister. How is this government going to defend it?" she asked. Wagh said Thakur was now pointing fingers at similar assaults on women that had occurred in the past. "But Thakur should not forget that she is a cabinet minister. She cannot escape from our questions on women's safety. She should tell us the reasons behind not appointing a chairman on the state women's commission. Why so much delay, when the commission's primary duty is to address women's issues," she said. It appears that the Sakinata rape case is just a number for the MVA government, Wagh alleged. Meanwhile, talking to reporters, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, a Shiv Sena leader, said, "I cannot imagine why some men act so cruelly. I have been told that the police are gathering all the details of the incident and collecting evidence. It will take some time, but the truth will come out." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-seeks-capital-punishment-for-sakinaka-rape-case-accused-targets-mva-govt-over-womens-safety-1029259.html
11-09-2021||National||World has realised that India's human values can bring lasting solution to tragedies like 9/11: Modi||Terming the 9/11 terror attack an assault on humanity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asserted that a permanent solution to such tragedies can be found in human values. He said that on the same day in 1893, Swami Vivekananda had introduced to the world the human values of India during his address at the Parliament of World's Religion in Chicago. Modi's statements come on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York and amid the developments in Afghanistan, where the Taliban has taken control of the country. "Today is September 11, that is 9/11, a date in the history of the world that is also known for attacks on humanity. But this same date also taught a lot to the whole world," Modi said after inaugurating via video conference the Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad to provide residential and other facilities to students and job aspirants, and also performed the 'bhoomi pujan' of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya, a girls' hostel. He said that on September 11, 1893, Swami Vivekananda stood on the global stage and introduced to the world India's human values. "Today, the world is realising that the lasting solution to tragedies like the two decades-old 9/11 will be through these values of humanity. Also, if we need to remember lessons learnt from these terror attacks, then we also need to keep making efforts for human values with full faith," Modi said. The prime minister announced a chair for Tamil studies dedicated to Tamil poet Subramania Bharati on his death anniversary. The chair will be set up in the Faculty of Arts at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), he said.   "Today is (also) the 100th death anniversary of India's great scholar, philosopher and freedom fighter Subramania Bharati. The vision of 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' that Sardar (Patel) Saheb carried, the same philosophy has been shining with full divinity in the Tamil writings of Mahakavi Bharati," he said. The PM said the chair would inspire students and research fellows to work towards making the grand India that Bharati dreamt of. "Subramania Bharati also put a special emphasis on the country's unity, and his ideals are an integral part of Indian philosophy," Modi said. He said the inspiration and energy of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel that forced the British to bow down now stands in the form of the world's tallest 'Statue of Unity' dedicated to him. "Who can forget that when the idea of 'Statue of Unity' was proposed by Gujarat, the entire country became a part of the effort. From corners of the country, farmers sent iron. This statue is a place of inspiration, a symbol of the country's unity, united effort," he said. Modi also said that the country is getting benefited by the idea of "sahkar se safalta (success through cooperation)" that Gujarat presented before it. "I am happy that through its collective effort, Sardar Dham Trust has set a target of 5-10 years for itself. The country is also moving ahead to fulfil the dreams of 100 years of Independence. A separate cooperation ministry has also been set up, and steps are being taken to ensure farmers and youth get benefits of the strength of cooperation," he said. "Continuous efforts are being made to bring forward those sections of the society, those who had been left behind. Today, on the one hand, work is being done for the rights of Dalits and the backward sections of the society, on the other hand, 10 per cent reservation has been given to the economically backward sections. It is the result of these policies that society is getting confidence anew," Modi said. He also said that the new National Education Policy focused on skill development. "The National Education Policy will prepare the students for global realities of what skills will be in demand in the market in the future and what our youth will need to lead in the future world," he said. "It is the effort of many years of continuous effort that while on the one hand, the school dropout rate in Gujarat has come down below one per cent, on the other hand, lakhs of youths are getting a new future through skill development. In the youth of Gujarat, entrepreneurship is natural. Through programmes like Start Up India, this talent of youths is getting a new ecosystem," he said. When the country is celebrating 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav,' it has given the mantra of "Sabka Prayas" along with "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Vikas," he said. Modi also praised the Patidar community - which has built Sardar Bhavan for the students of the community - and said it's members are known for giving a new identity to the business wherever they go. "This skill of yours is now being recognised not just in Gujarat and the country, but all over the world. There is another great characteristic of the Patidar community, that wherever you may live, the interest of India is paramount for you," he said. "Whether it is personalities like Dadhich or Karn of ancient times, or Mahapurush like Maharaja Harshvardhan in medieval age, India continues to get inspired by this tradition of giving up all for the service. This is a kind of life mantra that teaches us to pay back what we receive. All we have received is from this earth. All the developments that we have made are from this society, therefore, what we have got is not only our own, but also of our community, our country," he said. The first phase of Sardardham Bhavan, built over an area of 11,672 square feet in Ahmedabad, has been completed at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore. The Bhavan building has been developed by the Vishwa Patidar Samaj (VPS) with a focus on the country's social, educational, and economic development. It boasts of residential facilities for 1,600 students/aspirants, e-library with 1,000 computer systems, library, high tech classrooms, gymnasium, auditoriums, multi-purpose halls, resthouse with 50 luxury rooms along with other amenities for business and political conglomerations. The girls' hostel of which the PM performed the ground-breaking ceremony is intended to house around 2,500 girl students. The cost of the project is Rs 200 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-has-realised-that-indias-human-values-can-bring-lasting-solution-to-tragedies-like-9/11-modi-1029260.html
11-09-2021||National||Sign FTAs with US, EU for helping domestic exporters: Parliament panel to govt||The government should iron out the issues hindering the signing of Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with the US and the EU nations as domestic exporters are at a disadvantage due to the absence of these agreements, a parliamentary panel has recommended in a report submitted on Saturday. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Commerce chaired by YSR Congress leader Vijaysai Reddy submitted the report to Chairman of Rajya Sabha Venkaiah Naidu, wherein it has expressed concern that India's exports contracted from 2019-20, registering a negative growth rate of (-) 15.73 percent in 2020. In view of the crucial role played by exports in the overall economic growth of a country, the Committee in the report opined that “India needs to step up its effort in export promotion, expand its export baskets and penetrate new export markets to recover from its current slump and increase its share in global exports”. The panel also underlined that the Indian exporters are at a “disadvantage” in the US and the European markets while competing with other exporting nations due to the absence of FTAs with the US and the EU countries. “The Committee recommends the Department of Commerce to iron out the issues that hindered the signing of FTAs with our leading trade partners and enter into trade agreements that are beneficial for our country while balancing the interest of the domestic market with that of our exporters,” the report stated. The panel also expressed concern that the share of rail freight vis-à-vis road is only 35 percent whereas the trend is reversed in developed countries. The Committee, therefore, recommends the Ministry of Railways to undertake a detailed study on the reason for low share of rail and take a concerted effort to increase the share of rail in freight traffic, the report said. At the same time, the panel said, it is “disheartening to note that the Ministry of Railways is unable to provide competitive freight rate for movement of export consignment”. The Committee feels that this will adversely affect the competitiveness of India’s exports in global markets as freight cost plays a crucial role in determining the final price of the product, as per the report. The panel undertook an in-depth examination of export-oriented measures and held seven meetings with all stakeholders spanning over for nearly twenty hours, it said. The panel led by Reddy, who is a noted chartered accountant and former director of Oriental Bank of Commerce, in the report recommended the government to take appropriate measures, relook its export strategies and policies to achieve a positive growth rate of exports and higher share in global exports markets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sign-ftas-with-us-eu-for-helping-domestic-exporters-parliament-panel-to-govt-1029269.html
11-09-2021||National||Meenakashi Lekhi begins 6-day visit to Portugal and Spain from September 12||Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakashi Lekhi will pay a six-day visit to Portugal and Spain beginning Sunday to inject a fresh momentum into the ties with the two European nations. Lekhi will visit Portugal from September 12 to 14 during which she will hold talks with her counterpart Secretary of State for International Affairs Francisco Andre, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). It said a bilateral agreement on the recruitment of Indian citizens to work in Portugal will be signed during the visit. Lekhi is also scheduled to meet Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva, Culture Minister Graça Maria da Fonseca and Executive Secretary of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries Zacarias da Costa, the MEA said. "India was admitted as an Associate Observer of CPLP in July and is committed to deepen its historic relations with the Lusophone countries," it said in a statement. Lekhi will also meet members of the Indian community and attend an event marking the rich cultural heritage of India as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations, the MEA added. It said Lekhi will hold discussions with her Spanish counterpart, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Ángeles Moreno Bau and meet other senior dignitaries during her visit to Spain from 15-17 September. "The Minister of State will also inaugurate ´The Beatles and India´ exhibition at Casa de la India, Valladolid and deliver a talk on India's development cooperation at the Spain India Council Foundation," the MEA said. It said she will also interact with Indologists and Indophiles, including ICCR Alumni, and the Indian Community in Spain. "India enjoys warm and friendly relations with both Portugal and Spain. The visit of MoS, which is the first in-person official engagement with both countries since the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to provide fresh momentum to bilateral ties," The MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meenakashi-lekhi-begins-6-day-visit-to-portugal-and-spain-from-september-12-1029272.html
11-09-2021||National||India's economy recovered more strongly than it got impacted during pandemic, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India's economy recovered more strongly as compared to the impact it suffered due to the Covid-19 outbreak. He said that when big economies of the world were busy defending themselves during the pandemic, India was engaged in reforms. "Covid-19 affected the economies of the entire world, including that of India. But our economy has recovered more strongly than it was halted by the pandemic," Modi said while virtually addressing a gathering after inaugurating Sardhardham Bhavan, a complex for providing training to job aspirants. "When big economies of the world were busy defending themselves during the pandemic, we were carrying out reforms. When the global supply chains were disrupted, we introduced the PLI (production-linked incentive) scheme to turn new opportunities in favour of India," Modi said. This scheme has been extended to the textile sector now, he said, adding that the textile sector and cities like Surat can take maximum benefit of the scheme. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Tuesday, India's economic growth surged to 20.1 per cent in the April-June quarter of this fiscal, helped by a low base of the year-ago period, despite a devastating second wave of Covid-19. The gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 24.4 per cent in the corresponding April-June quarter of 2020-21. The PLI scheme announced for 10 key sectors, including textile and automobiles by the Centre, is aimed at helping the country's economy recover faster after the pandemic. "We should look upon ourselves as global economic leader as in the 21st century, India does not have a scarcity of opportunities to make it big," Modi said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-economy-recovered-more-strongly-than-it-got-impacted-during-pandemic-says-pm-modi-1029273.html
11-09-2021||National||Maharashtra CM condemns Sakinaka rape-murder case; promises fast-track trial||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday termed the rape and murder of a woman in Mumbai's Sakinaka as a "blot on humanity", and promised a fast-track trial in the case. He asserted that the perpetrator would be punished severely. "The trial in the case will be done on a fast track and the victim, who succumbed to injuries today, will get justice," Thackeray said in a statement. The chief minister said he has discussed the case with state Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil and Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale. "I have directed the authorities to expedite the investigation into the case," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-condemns-sakinaka-rape-murder-case-promises-fast-track-trial-1029274.html
11-09-2021||National||Don't harbour desire for posts, tickets; prove worth by working for country: Kejriwal to partymen||AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday asked party leaders and volunteers not to harbour any desire for posts and tickets to contest polls and instead prove their worth by working for the society and the country. During his virtual address at the party's national council meet, Kejriwal said he did not wish people to recognise AAP as a party like the BJP and the Congress and asked partymen to give up their aspirations for posts and tickets. "If you come to me asking for posts, it means you are not deserving it and you have to demand it. You should work in such a manner that I have to say that you should hold the post," Kejriwal said. The AAP is focusing on poll-bound Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat as part of its plan of national expansion. "Shahid-e-Azam Bhagat Singh and Baba Saheb Ambedkar are two supreme ideals of our party. Each of our volunteer should be ready to make sacrifices like them," he said. The 10th national council meeting of the Aam Aadmi Party was held online due to the Covid pandemic. Check out DH's latest videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-harbour-desire-for-posts-tickets-prove-worth-by-working-for-country-kejriwal-to-partymen-1029276.html
11-09-2021||National||Over 72 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far, says Health Ministry||More than 72 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The doses were provided through the government of India (free of cost channel) and through the direct state procurement category, it added. The ministry said over 5.75 crore (5,75,43,795) balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, it said. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost, it added. In the new phase of the universalization of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-72-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-says-health-ministry-1029277.html
11-09-2021||National||Neeraj Chopra fulfils one more dream, takes his parents on maiden flight||Olympic champion javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra fulfilled his one more dream when he took his parents on their maiden flight journey on Saturday. Chopra along with his parents Satish Kumar and Saroj Devi were on their way to an event organised by his promoter JSW Sports at the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS) in Bellary, Karnataka. "A small dream of mine came true today as I was able to take my parents on their first flight," Chopra tweeted with pictures of him and his parents on board a plane. A small dream of mine came true today as I was able to take my parents on their first flight. Besides Chopra and his parents, his coach and German biomechanics expert Klaus Bartonietz and Olympian super heavyweight boxer Satish Kumar were also seen seated inside the aircraft. The 23-year-old Chopra had created history when he won India's maiden Olympic medal in athletics — a javelin gold in the recently-concluded Games in Tokyo.  Check DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neeraj-chopra-fulfils-one-more-dream-takes-his-parents-on-maiden-flight-1029285.html
11-09-2021||National||NC leader T S Wazir cremated in Jammu amid demands for CBI probe into his murder||Thousands of people including former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Saturday attended the last rites of prominent National Conference leader T S Wazir here as various organisations demanded a CBI probe into his murder in Delhi. Wazir, 67, a former member of the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council, was found dead in a flat in West Delhi's Moti Nagar Thursday morning. Police are looking for two suspected persons who are believed to be behind his assassination. A case of murder was registered in the matter and the investigation was transferred to Delhi Police's Crime Branch with the force's Special Cell to assist it. As the body of the deceased reached his Gandhi Nagar residence here from Delhi, thousands of mourners turned up to pay their last respects to the deceased. Wazir was a leading transporter who was also the chairman of All J&K Transport Welfare Association and Jammu District Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (DGPC). Senior National Conference leaders including vice president Omar Abdullah and provincial president Devender Singh Rana also took part in the funeral which was also among others attended by senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta and senior vice president of J&K Congress and former minister Raman Bhalla. Abdullah was seen consoling the bereaved family of the deceased including his wife and son who were in Canada and returned after the news of Wazir's death. “Wazir was a leader with qualities of heart and mind, who served the people in his different capacities. With his death, the National Conference has lost a public spirited leader and the vacuum created will be difficult to fill,” Rana said, expressing solidarity with the bereaved family. Wazir reached Delhi on September 2 and was scheduled to leave for Canada to visit his son. However, his highly decomposed body with his head wrapped in a plastic bag was found in the washroom of the flat after his family approached police to know his whereabouts. The body was taken to Shashtri Nagar cremation ground in a procession and was consigned to flames. Transporters and several Sikh organisations including Jammu DGPC have demanded a CBI probe into the killing of Wazir. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nc-leader-t-s-wazir-cremated-in-jammu-amid-demands-for-cbi-probe-into-his-murder-1029287.html
11-09-2021||National||Railways proposes policy to lease, sell coaches to private parties to run theme-based tourist circuit trains||Private parties will soon be able to lease and buy railway coaches to run theme-based cultural, religious and other tourist circuit trains, according to a policy being formulated by the Indian Railways. In a release on Saturday, the railways said that an executive director-level committee has been constituted by the Ministry of Railways to formulate the policy and terms and conditions of the project. "To tap the potential of tourism sector and to leverage the core strengths of the professionals of tourism sector in tourism activities like marketing, hospitality, integration of services, reach with customer base, expertise in development/identification of tourist circuits etc., Indian Railways is planning to spread rail-based tourism among masses through leasing of coaching stock to interested parties to run them as theme-based cultural, religious and other tourist circuit trains," the release said. It said coaches may be leased "as per the desired configuration of interested parties. Bare shells may also be taken on lease. Outright purchase of coaches can also be done." According to sources, the plan is that the interested parties have to buy or lease a train with a minimum of 16 coaches. This comes at a time when the railways' efforts to draw in private players to run its "private trains" is receiving very little interest from India Inc. According to the release, the proposed model will allow private parties to conduct minor refurbishment of coaches and leasing of coaches for a minimum period of 5 years and extendable till codal life of coaches. The interested party will develop or decide on the business model (routes, itinerary, tariff). "Indian Railways will levy haulage charges, nominal stabling charges and lease charges. (No lease charges for outright purchase)," the release said. Priority will be given to punctuality, timely approvals for coach refurbishment and itineraries, it said. There will be no haulage for maintenance runs, third party advertising will be allowed inside trains and branding of trains will also be permitted, it said.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-proposes-policy-to-lease-sell-coaches-to-private-parties-to-run-theme-based-tourist-circuit-trains-1029294.html
11-09-2021||National||India, Australia emphasise on shared vision of free, open & inclusive Indo-Pacific region||India and Australia on Saturday emphasised on their shared vision of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region, and also the importance of combating terrorism without compromise. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held the 'two-plus-two' talks here with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. At a press event after the talks, Singh said the partnership between India and Australia was based on shared vision of free, open, inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific region. He said that during the talks, a rules-based order was emphasised upon. In his remarks, Jaishankar said the two sides discussed future collaboration to deal with Covid-19 pandemic. Jaishankar also asserted on the importance of combating terrorism without any compromise. "Today is the 20th anniversary of 9/11, it is a reminder, if one is still needed, of the importance of combating terrorism without compromise. Close as we are to its epicentre, let us appreciate the value of international cooperation to that end," he said. Payne said Australian and India share a positive vision of free, open and secure Indo pacific. The two sides also discussed the situation in Afghanistan at length, the leaders said. "Last month did see the fall of Kabul and along with the ongoing fight against terrorism, the future of Afghanistan remains a central concern to both our countries," Payne said. "Both of our countries have been victims of appalling terrorist attacks and this day September 11 will be forever remembered for those terrible events 20 years ago when terrorists struct at the heart of our friend -- the US -- and also by extension at a modern, pluralist and democratic world," she said. Dutton hailed the bilateral defence relationship and said that it was at a historic high. The foreign and defence ministerial talks took place amid renewed efforts by the Quad member countries to expand cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. Besides India and Australia, the Quad comprises the US and Japan.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-emphasise-on-shared-vision-of-free-open-inclusive-indo-pacific-region-1029300.html
11-09-2021||National||Prez Kovind bats for increased role of women in judiciary to achieve inclusive ideals of Constitution||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said the role of women in the judiciary has to be increased in order to achieve the inclusive ideals of the Constitution. At the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University in Allahabad and a new building complex of the Allahabad High Court, he said history was created in the judiciary with the appointment of nine judges, including three women, in the Supreme Court said last month. In August, nine new judges, including three women, were appointed to the Supreme Court with Justice B V Nagarathna in line to be the first woman CJI in September 2027. President Kovind emphasised that the establishment of a truly just society would be possible only when the participation of women increases in all areas, including the judiciary. He, however, noted that at present the total strength of women judges in the Supreme Court and High Courts combined is less than 12 per cent. "If we have to achieve the inclusive ideals of our Constitution, then the role of women in the judiciary also has to be increased," he said. Referring to the Allahabad High Court's decision in 1921 to enrol India's first woman lawyer Cornelia Sorabji, the president said that was a forward-looking decision in the direction of women empowerment. Kovind said he has seen very closely the struggle of the poor to get justice. Everyone has expectations from the judiciary. Yet, people generally hesitate to take the help of the courts. This situation needs to be changed to further increase the confidence of the people in the judiciary, the president said. He said that it is the responsibility of all that everyone gets justice in time. The judicial system should be less expensive, decisions should be in the language understood by the common people and the weaker sections should get justice, Kovind said. This will be possible only when all stakeholders bring necessary changes in their thinking and work culture and become sensitive, the president said. "Our judicial process would be strengthened with the arrangement of adequate facilities for the subordinate judiciary, increasing the number of working judges and providing enough resources as per the provisions of the budget." Kovind expressed confidence that the Allahabad High Court would set an example in all such areas with the cooperation of the state government. About choosing Allahabad for setting up the Uttar Pradesh National Law University, he said that given the importance of the Allahabad High Court and the reputation of the city as a centre of education, it is the ideal place for this law institute. The president stressed that quality legal education plays an important role in strengthening the rule of a law-based system. "World-class legal education is one of the priorities of our society and country. In this era of a knowledge economy, the ambitious policy of becoming a knowledge super-power is being implemented in our country. The establishment of Uttar Pradesh National Law University is a step forward in this direction." The president said a world-class institution should be built by implementing the world’s best practices in all aspects like the creation of modern facilities, selection of students, the appointment of teachers, preparation of curriculum and selection of styles of pedagogy. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prez-kovind-bats-for-increased-role-of-women-in-judiciary-to-achieve-inclusive-ideals-of-constitution-1029301.html
11-09-2021||National||India rejects criticism of Quad as 'Asian NATO'||India on Saturday dismissed China’s criticism against the Quad and stated that it was not right to call the four-nation coalition an “Asian NATO”. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, however, joined their counterparts from Canberra, Marise Payne and Peter Dutton, to reaffirm shared commitment to rules-based order in the Indo-Pacific region, where India, Australia, United States and Japan forged the Quad to counter the hegemony of China. As he and Singh hosted Payne and Dutton for the inaugural Delhi-Canberra 2+2 dialogue, Jaishankar formally confirmed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would later this month visit Washington DC, where he would meet Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia. Modi, Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga are likely to attend the Quad’s first in-person summit, which would be hosted by American President Joe Biden. Payne said that she and Dutton discussed with Jaishankar and Singh the “challenges” in the South China Sea and the East China Sea, where China’s expansive territorial claims were not only contested by the communist country’s maritime neighbours like Japan, Philippines and the South East Asian nations, but also protested by the United States and others. “I think a term like NATO is very much a cold-war term, looking back. I think Quad looks in the future, it reflects globalisation, it reflects the compulsions of countries to work together,” said Jaishankar, replying to a journalist, who asked for New Delhi’s response to criticism by China that called the Quad an “Asian NATO” led by the US. The Quad is a coalition forged by India, Japan, Australia and the US in 2007 and revived in 2017 to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter China’s expansionist moves in the Indo-Pacific. Modi, Biden, Suga and Morrison had held the first ever summit of the Quad through video-calls on March 12, elevating the four-nation coalition to the level of the leaders. The External Affairs Minister on Saturday pointed out that the Quad was currently focussed on cooperation on ensuring availability of anti-Covid-19 vaccine in the Indo-Pacific, supply chain resilience, education and connectivity in the region. “I can't see any relationship between such issues and the NATO or any other kind of organisations like that. So I think it is important not to misrepresent what is the reality out there,” he said, dismissing the criticism by China. The Australian Foreign Minister said during a joint news-conference after the 2+2 dialogue that the Quad nations were champions of the centrality of the Association of the SouthEast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in the Indo-Pacific region. “We are committed to supporting the practical implementation of the ASEAN outlook on the Indo-Pacific," she said. “India and Australia share an important partnership which is based on a shared vision of a free, open, inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific region. As two democracies we have a common interest in peace and prosperity of the entire region,” Singh said as he and Dutton agreed to expand military engagements across services, facilitate greater defence information sharing and to work closely for mutual logistic support. Dutton said that Australia would invite India to take part in the Talisman Sabre wargame in Australia in 2023. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-criticism-of-quad-as-asian-nato-1029319.html
11-09-2021||National||India's role as regional ally can have positive impact in Afghanistan: US official||India as a key regional player and ally of the US and its history of investments in Afghanistan could have a positive impact on the future of the country now under Taliban control, a US State Department spokesperson has said here. In an interview with PTI ahead of the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks this week, Zed Tarar reiterated US President Joe Biden’s message that the war in Afghanistan had achieved its central mission to eliminate the Al Qaeda terror network – behind the attacks on September 11, 2001. Now, the focus is on working with "like-minded partners and democracies", such as India, to look towards the next chapter of supporting the people of Afghanistan. "India being a regional ally has a role to play; and the humanitarian role and previous investment role is one that could have a positive impact on the future of Afghanistan,” said Tarar, the London-based Hindu/Urdu spokesperson for the US State Department. “India as an elected member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) has a role to play. We are in close consultations in New York, New Delhi and Washington with India on this issue,” he said. The US forces completed their withdrawal from Afghanistan ahead of the August 31 deadline, at the end of an “unprecedented airlift” to evacuate over 100,000 people by air from the Afghan capital Kabul. On some of the international voices questioning the timing and manner of the withdrawal, Tarar was categorical that it was time for the US to end the war. “I think what we have to be clear on is that the United States had an objective in Afghanistan and that was to eliminate Al Qaeda. We've completed that objective as of many years ago. We've also trained hundreds of thousands of Afghan forces over the last 20 years at a cost of over a trillion dollars. This was the time now to end the war in Afghanistan and remove US and allied forces from the country,” he said. “As President Biden has said, there was never going to be a perfect time to do this. We were never going to have perfect conditions on the ground,” he said, adding that the US President was determined not to hand over the war to the next incumbent in the White House. On the question of having to work with the Taliban in the future, the official said it was still early days as the US wants the Taliban to live up to its promises, also flagging the group’s designation as a terror outfit under US law. “At this time, it is very early days to say one way or the other whether we can or cannot work with the Taliban. We will have to see over time. Our interests align on the ISIS-K [terror group] issue, whether we can work together or not, is hard to say. I have to also point out that the Taliban are a designated terrorist group under US laws and the State Department executive branch will follow all federal regulations in dealing with the Taliban,” he said. With reference to the other player in the region, Pakistan, the US official noted that the country has a role to play in "promoting a stable, secure Afghanistan". "We understand Pakistanis have said quite clearly that they want to see a peaceful Afghanistan, in which human rights are respected, and we hope that continues to be the position," he said. Asked about the wider terror threat in the region and fears that the troop withdrawal has made the region more volatile, he reiterated that the US reserves the right to take any further action necessary against international terrorism. However, the focus must now also be on the terror threats of the next decade and beyond. Tarar said: “The United States takes the threat from international terror very seriously and we reserve the right to retaliate against and dismantle terrorist networks wherever we find them. The truth is, at this point, the new threat that we face is not emanating from Afghanistan but from Africa. “The threats we are monitoring are not 2001 threats but today's threats, in 2021. And, we are also looking at what the next 10 years of threats would be. To only look at Afghanistan and ignore the rest of the world is a mistake.” In this context, he flagged the Islamic State (ISIS) network in the Sahel region of Africa as the “Number One threat” being closely monitored by the US and its G7 partners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-role-as-regional-ally-can-have-positive-impact-in-afghanistan-us-official-1029322.html
11-09-2021||National||CJI Ramana terms Indira Gandhi's disqualification in 1975 a 'judgement of great courage'||CJI N V Ramanna on Saturday termed the Allahabad high court's decision in 1975 to disqualify the then-prime minister Indira Gandhi as a "judgement of great courage" and said that it resulted in the declaration of Emergency in the country. "In 1975, it was Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha from the Allahabad High Court who passed the judgment that shook the nation, when he disqualified Smt. Indira Gandhi. It was a judgment of great courage, which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of Emergency," the CJI said, while speaking on the occasion of laying of foundation stone of a new building complex of the Allahabad high court at Prayagraj. The CJI, however, added that he did not want to "elaborate the consequences" of Emergency. The Allahabad HC had disqualified Indira Gandhi and barred her from contesting elections for six years on a petition by socialist leader Raj Narain. Narain had lost to Indira Gandhi in the 1971 Lok Sabha polls in Raebareli. Hailing the glorious traditions of the Allahabad High Court, which has a history of 150 years, he urged the members of the Bar and the Bench to "take a lead in protecting the rights, liberties and freedoms of the citizens". He said that the importance of strengthening judicial infrastructure could not be overstated. "Sufficient judicial infrastructure can help improve access to justice, by catering to the ever-rising number of cases and litigants, and their changing needs" he added. The CJI said that the courts in India still operated from dilapidated structures, without proper facilities and remarked that such a situation was "severely detrimental to the experience of litigants and lawyers". "We neglected and failed to focus on providing good infrastructure for the Courts in India after the British left," he added. The CJI said that he was "championing the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC), which will develop concepts of the National Court Development Project and its implementation". "The NJIC shall be along the lines of different infrastructure development statutory bodies that work towards creating national assets across the country. One of the design principles that the NJIC will follow is socially responsible and inclusive architecture," he said. President Ram Nath Kovind, who was also present on the occasion, called for increasing the role of women in the judiciary. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-ramana-terms-indira-gandhis-disqualification-in-1975-a-judgement-of-great-courage-1029343.html
11-09-2021||National||Dangerous trend of govt agencies 'intimidating' independent media must stop: Editors Guild on IT 'surveys'||Expressing concern over the Income Tax 'surveys' conducted at the offices of two news websites, the Editors Guild of India on Saturday criticised the move saying the "dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating" independent media must stop as it undermines the constitutional democracy. On September 10, teams of IT officials visited the offices of NewsClick and Newslaundry and conducted investigations through the day, the body noted. The Guild said it is deeply disturbed about the IT 'surveys' at the offices of the two news websites. "The guild is deeply concerned that such indiscriminate seizure of journalists' data, which could include sensitive information such as details of sources, stories under works and other journalistic data, is in violation of free speech and freedom of press," it said in an official statement. While they were officially labelled as surveys by the IT officials, according to the statement issued by Abhinandan Sekhri, co-founder of Newslaundry, this was a clear intermediately and latent attack on their rights and therefore press freedom, the EGI said. "It is learnt that the IT team made clones of Sekhri's mobile and laptop, as well as some other office machines, And no hash value was given to them. "This is clearly beyond the mandate of service as defined under section 133 A of the income tax act which only allows data pertaining to the investigation to be copied, and certainly not personal and professional date of journalists. It is also in violation of procedures laid out in the Information Technology Act 2000," it said. This was the second visit by an income tax team at the office of Newslaundry, the earlier one being in June. In case of NewsClick, the Enforcement Directorate had conducted raids at the office as well as homes of their senior journalists and officials in February. "Both NewsClick and Newslaundry have been critical of policies and functioning of the union government," the EGI said. "The dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy," it said, adding that in July, income tax raids were conducted at the offices of the country's leading newspaper Dainik Bhaskar as well as a Lucknow-based news channel Bharat Samachar. These raids were conducted against the backdrop of some very critical coverage by both the news organisations on the government's handling of the pandemic. "The Guild demands that great care and sensitivity be shown in all such investigations so as to not undermine the rights of journalists and media organisations. Further, to ensure that such investigations are conducted within the prescribed rules and that they don't degenerate into instruments of harassment to intimidate independent media," the EGI said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dangerous-trend-of-govt-agencies-intimidating-independent-media-must-stop-editors-guild-on-it-surveys-1029345.html
11-09-2021||National||NEET-PG held across India with 1.6 lakh candidates appearing for it||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) – Postgraduate was held at 679 centres in 270 cities of the country on Saturday with 1.6 lakh candidates appearing for it following Covid-19 protocols. The exam was rescheduled twice in view of Covid-19. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, in a tweet, claimed that some students have complained to him about a last-minute change of exam centre that has led to their inconvenience. When asked about it, the Executive Director of the National Board of Examinations in Medical Sciences (NBEMS) Professor Pawanindra Lal said two centres each in Sonipat and Panipat were changed on September 8 and 9 respectively due to security issues and the candidates were moved to new centres in Delhi. Tagging screenshots of a tweet about change in exam centre, Tharoor wrote on the microblogging site: "Over a hundred NEET-PG, 2021, aspirants have written to me because the government doesn't respond!" "The exam is tomorrow and they are in crisis. The latest complication: many students have been informed at the last minute of a change of centre (one day before the exam); many haven't got admit cards," he said in the tweet. However, Professor Lal said, "All care was taken to inform each and every candidate individually by phone calls, emails and SMS to ensure they download and print the new admit card with new centres and are able to reach the venue on time." Initially, the NEET-PG was scheduled to be held on January 10 but was rescheduled for April 18 because of the Covid-19 situation. "It was again rescheduled because of the second Covid wave on the orders by the PMO. In those orders, it was mentioned that the exam would be held after August 31. Then the earliest possible date was announced for September 11," Professor Lal said. He said 1,66,259 candidates appeared for the NEET-PG on Saturday and all were provided protective gears comprising a face shield, mask and hand sanitiser for the safe conduct of the exam. On the day exams were held, the Delhi-NCR region received heavy rainfall leading to waterlogging and traffic jams in several parts of the city. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)– Undergraduate, 2021, will be held on September 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-pg-held-across-india-with-16-lakh-candidates-appearing-for-it-1029352.html
11-09-2021||National||Govt will introduce new bill on arbitration in Winter Session of Parliament: Law minister||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said the central government will introduce a bill on arbitration in the Winter Session of Parliament. The government wants to make India a global hub for arbitration, Rijiju said at a programme, where President Ram Nath Kovind laid foundation stones for the National Law University, a building for multilevel parking and an advocates' chamber at the Allahabad High Court. "After the university is established, 180 students in LLB and 80 students in LLM will be inducted every year," the law minister said here. He said apart from this, arrangements will be made for legal research at the university and hostel facilities would be available for all within the campus. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Centre wants to work closely with all the law universities and academies, the minister said, adding that the government is committed to strengthening the legal system of the country. Rijiju said the central government wants to work in coordination with the judiciary. It also wants to coordinate with the state governments so that issues faced by lower courts can be analysed, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-will-introduce-new-bill-on-arbitration-in-winter-session-of-parliament-law-minister-1029353.html
11-09-2021||National||India urges Australia to address students' difficulties due to travel restrictions||India on Saturday urged Australia to sympathetically address as soon as possible the difficulties being faced by Indian students due to the travel restrictions put in place by that country in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The issue was taken up during deliberations when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held the inaugural 'two-plus-two' dialogue here with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. "I specifically took up with Minister Payne the problems faced by Indian students in Australia and those wishing to go to Australia as well as the Indian origin community that is resident there," Jaishankar said at a press event after the talks. Jaishankar said during the talks he urged that the difficulties faced by students due to travel restrictions be sympathetically addressed as soon as possible. "I think their (students') frustrations, their feelings are completely understandable. Many of them would like to be at the institutions that they are already studying or want to study. So we discussed it in some detail today. Minister Payne shared with me what is Australia's thinking about when students will be able to come," he said. Jaishankar said that the Indian government has taken up the issue of problems being faced by students due to travel restrictions not just with Australia but with other countries like the US and Canada. "So I do want the students of the country and the parents of the students to know that it is something we take as very high priority and take up very vigorously with our foreign partners," he said. Australian Foreign Minister Payne said she understands the desire of students and their families that are not able to be in Australia for education and their desire for on campus experience. The Covid-19 restrictions have impacted travel to and from Australia, not just for students, but for Australians themselves and even for ministers, she said. "We (ministers) are required to comply with the same sort of quarantine restrictions and health requirements as all incoming travellers as you would expect. So our approach in Australia has been based on research and modelling commissioned by the government from the eminent Doherty institute and that gives us a four-phase pathway in terms of our response to Covid-19 and our progression through and out of the restrictions that have been in place," Payne said. She said her country is on the way to vaccinating Australians to a level which will give Australia the confidence to begin the sort of reopening that will enable students to return in phase three and then in phase four, a much more opened environment for international travel. "There is shared desire on both sides to see that travel resume between our countries as soon as it is safe to do so. I look forward to being one of the people at the airport to welcome the first arrivals of Indian students coming back to Australia," she said. Earlier, Jaishankar said he and the other ministers came together for the first time and also discussed their experiences and further collaboration in responding to the Covid-19 challenges. Decentralised globalisation, strategic autonomy and sharper sense of national security are some of the relevant outcomes, he noted. "We also underlined our commitments to creating secure and resilient global supply chains. We welcomed the renewed vigour with which both sides are now engaging on trade issues to fully expedite the complementarities between us," Jaishankar said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-urges-australia-to-address-students-difficulties-due-to-travel-restrictions-1029354.html
11-09-2021||National||SC sets aside Bombay HC order on penalty on ghutka manufacturer||The Supreme Court has set aside a Bombay High Court order, which confirmed about Rs 120 crore penalty and duty imposed by the Central GST Commissioner on a man for "clandestinely manufacturing and clearing ghutka" with a brand name 'Aryan Guthaka' at his two properties in Ichalkaranji, Maharasthra between March 2013 to August 2018.  A bench of Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose said there would be a stay on Rs 60 crore penalty but clarified that there would be no stay on recovery of Rs 60 crore duty and interest on the company. After hearing advocate Sanjay M Nuli, the court asked the High Court to decide the issue afresh as the company challenged vires of the constitutional validity of Section 3A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (which is the genesis of Rule 17(2) of the Pan Masala Packaging Machines Rules 2008). "The High Court has not at all addressed the issue on vires on merits in detail. The question of vires cannot be decided by the appellate authority/tribunal in an appeal against the order in original," the bench said, remanding the matter back to the High Court for fresh consideration. The top court further said its interim order of stay on penalty would continue till the High Court takes up the matter for further hearing.  "It is clarified that there shall not be any stay on recovery of duty and interest. It will be open for the Department to proceed further with the recovery of the duty and interest in accordance with law," it said. In his plea, the manufacturer contended an arbitrary order was passed on August 21, 2019, demanding a payment of excise duty of Rs 59,60,68,224 and additionally a collective penalty of Rs 59,60,53,224 which was highly imaginary. The petitioner further claimed the High Court refused to exercise its writ jurisdiction in spite of him raising the issues of the constitutional validity of the charging provision, violation of principles of natural justice, and denial of opportunity of cross examination. Notably, the larger issue on the constitutional validity of Section 3A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (which is the genesis of Rule 17(2) of the Pan Masala Packaging Machines Rules 2008) is still pending before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sets-aside-bombay-hc-order-on-penalty-on-ghutka-manufacturer-1029357.html
11-09-2021||National||Courts operate from dilapidated structures, infrastructure building neglected after British left: CJI||Courts in India still operate from "dilapidated structures, without proper facilities" as good infrastructure for judiciary has been neglected after the British left, rued Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Saturday. To address this issue, he championed the cause for setting up of National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC). The CJI, who along with President Ram Nath Kovind took part in programmes including the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University in Allahabad and a new building complex of the Allahabad High Court here, stressed the importance of strengthening judicial infrastructure in the country. "Courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures, without proper facilities. Such a situation is severely detrimental to the experience of litigants and lawyers. It is an unpleasant work environment for court staff and judges, making it difficult to effectively perform their functions. We neglected and failed to focus on providing good infrastructure for courts in India after the British left," Justice Ramana said. The head of the judiciary, who spoke few lines in Hindi at the start of his speech, said the importance of strengthening judicial infrastructure cannot be overstated. "That is the reason why I am championing the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC), which will develop concepts of the National Court Development Project and its implementation. The NJIC shall be along the lines of different infrastructure development statutory bodies that work towards creating National Assets across the country. One of the design principles that the NJIC will follow, is socially responsible and inclusive architecture," he said. Sufficient judicial infrastructure can help improve access to justice, by catering to the ever-rising number of cases and litigants, and their changing needs, he said. Hinting towards the "very worrying numbers" of pending criminal cases in Allahabad High Court, the CJI referred to the proposed construction of the new multi-level parking and advocates chambers complex and said this would re-energise bar and bench in tackling the huge pendency. "I hope that this new complex will re-energise the Allahabad Bar. I do not want to point any fingers or lay any blame regarding the pendency in the Allahabad High Court relating to criminal cases, which is very worrying. I request the Allahabad Bar and bench, to work together and cooperate to resolve this issue," he said. The CJI lauded the efforts of President Kovind for his role in helping the cause of poor litigants and said, "It was his idea to translate the judgments of the Supreme Court to vernacular languages to increase access to justice, which has now been implemented." At the outset, the CJI referred to the rich history of the city and said that this was the home to legendary freedom fighters and gave prime ministers and five chief justices to independent India. "In 1975, it was Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha from the Allahabad High Court who passed the judgment that shook the nation, when he disqualified Indira Gandhi. It was a judgment of great courage, which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of Emergency. The consequences of which I do not want to elaborate now," he said. The CJI also unveiled the portrait of legendary late advocate Anand Bhushan Saran, the father of sitting Supreme Court judge Vineet Saran and termed him as "one of the best and most respected senior advocates from Allahabad" who was well known for his wit and intellect, and for his ability to come up with practical solutions on the spot. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-operate-from-dilapidated-structures-infrastructure-building-neglected-after-british-left-cji-1029366.html
11-09-2021||National||People against diverse views at a loss, says Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan||"Vidhyam (education) gives you a sense of distinction between what you consider right or wrong or different shades of right or wrong...Diversity is the law of the nature. People who feel uncomfortable with the study of diverse views, I think they will not cause loss to anyone. They will cause loss to themselves," Khan told reporters here. State Minister for Higher Education R Bindhu said the department of education views the syllabus as problematic and that many other perspectives are not included. The university has been witnessing protests by students' unions since Thursday against its decision to include portions of books of RSS leader M S Golwalkar and Hindu Maha Sabha leader V D Savarkar in the course. "The Department of Higher Education is of the view that the syllabus is problematic...Many other perspectives are not included. The government has a social view that sectarian agendas should not gain power due to the syllabii. It will be dangerous to make a platform for sectarian ideas in classrooms, which should actually remain as a secular space," Bindhu wrote on social media. The Minister said articles contrary to the Constitutional values appearing in the syllabus was not right. A two-member expert committee was appointed to look into the matter and asked to submit its report within five days. On Friday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State government would not glorify ideas and leaders who had turned their back on the freedom struggle."Sometimes, the reactionary ideologies need to be critically evaluated. But no one should glorify such ideologies and the leaders who upheld those ideas," Vijayan said. Kerala Students Union (KSU), a wing of the Congress, and Muslim Students Federation (MSF), a wing of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), staged a protest on the campus on Thursday over the issue. According to the unions, the university included portions from Golwalkar's books such as "Bunch of Thoughts" and Savarkar's "Hindutva: Who Is a Hindu?" in the syllabus of the third semester students of MA Governance and Politics. The syllabus was not prepared by the Board of Studies but by teachers of Thalassery Brennen College and it was decided by the Vice-Chancellor, they alleged. The MA Governance and Politics is taught only in Brennen College that comes under Kannur University. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-against-diverse-views-at-a-loss-says-kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-1029409.html
11-09-2021||National||India expresses concern over lack of inclusivity in Afghan government||India on Saturday for the first time publicly expressed concern over the lack of inclusivity in the new interim government the Taliban recently announced in Afghanistan. On the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the United States, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar joined his Australia counterpart Marise Payne to stress that Afghanistan should not turn into a safe haven for terrorists again. They also tacitly expressed concern over reports of violation of human rights as well as the rights of the women and minorities. “Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner, by anybody for terrorism,” Jaishankar said after he and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh hosted their counterparts from Australia, Payne and Peter Dutton, for the first bilateral 2+2 dialogue. “We do share a very strong interest in ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for the breeding or the training of terrorists and that is an abiding concern of the international community,” added the Australian Foreign Minister. “The future of Afghanistan remains a central concern to both of our countries.” The Taliban on Tuesday announced an interim Afghan government dominated by the Pashtuns with hardly any representative of the other ethnic communities of Afghanistan. Most of the top brass of the all-male Taliban government are still under United Nations sanctions. It also has no representative of women of Afghanistan. “There are issues of concern about the inclusiveness of the dispensation, concerns about treatment of women and minorities, matters related to travel of Afghans issues regarding humanitarian assistance,” Jaishankar told journalists about his and Singh’s discussion with Payne and Dutton on Afghanistan. “I would also strongly reinforce Australia's views in relation to the position of women and girls. For 20 years, we have worked with the international community and the people of Afghanistan, to ensure that the circumstances for women and girls in relation to education participation in the workforce, the protection of their basic rights were preserved and in fact allowed to grow,” said Payne. She said that Australia stood with India and other members of the international community in seeking to ensure that the progress achieved in protecting the rights of women of Afghanistan was not wound back. The statements from India and Australia came on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States. The attacks had triggered the US to launch a military offensive against the mastermind Osama Bin Laden and his al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and resulted in the ouster of the Taliban regime led by Mullah Omar in Kabul. Two decades later, the Taliban militants on August 15 last took over Kabul after occupying many provinces in a swift military campaign across Afghanistan, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the US. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expresses-concern-over-lack-of-inclusivity-in-afghan-government-1029414.html
11-09-2021||National||SP leader whose 'saree' was pulled up in UP panchayat polls joins Congress||Samajwadi Party's Lakhimpur Kheri leader whose "saree" was allegedly pulled up by BJP workers during the UP panchayat polls joined the Congress in the presence of party’s national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra here on Saturday. Ritu Singh, who was the Samajwadi Party’s (SP) candidate for the post of the block pramukh in the recent polls and and became a victim of the BJP's high-handedness, joined the Congress along with her supporters, Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi said. During her visit to the state in July, Priyanka Gandhi had rushed to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet Ritu Singh after the incident. Ritu Singh, who met Gandhi along with her family members, said only the Congress and she (Priyanka) could fight the atrocities being committed on common people, Awasthi added. Awasthi said Singh said UP needs a Priyanka-like leader due to which she is joining the Congress. Singh regretted that no senior leader of the SP came to meet her after the incident. She assured that she will work wholeheartedly to ensure that the Congress forms the government in the state after the 2022 Assembly elections. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sp-leader-whose-saree-was-pulled-up-in-up-panchayat-polls-joins-congress-1029418.html
11-09-2021||National||Indian economy firmly on the path to recovery, long-term renewal: VP Naidu||The Indian economy is firmly on the path to recovery and long-term renewal, despite the second wave of Covid-19 slowing it down, aided by a series of timely measures and the policy reforms taken by the Centre, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said here on Saturday. He said the economy grew at a record pace of 20.1 per cent in first quarter of FY 2022 in contrast to the contraction of 24.4 per cent in the same quarter of the last fiscal. Various reports indicated a strong rebound in the manufacturing and construction sectors, he said. Naidu noted that the agricultural sector has been a 'consistent performer' by clocking a growth of 4.5 per cent in the first quarter against 3.5 per cent in the same period of last year, once again showing its 'resilience'. "Core sectors like fertilizers, cement, steel, coal and refinery products have also shown positive growth", he said, speaking at the platinum jubilee celebrations of the Hindustan Chamber of Commerce here. "We now stand poised on the cusp of economic transition and all indicators point to a long-term phase of growth and recovery in the coming months. The RBI has retained the growth projection of 9.5 per cent for FY 21-22", he said. "A series of timely measures and the policy reforms taken by the Centre, the economic situation has been improving gradually," Naidu said. With easing of restrictions in various states, the consumer confidence has returned and market sentiment has shown a positive trend, he said. Driven by the strong macro-economic fundamentals and forward-looking reforms by the Centre, including GST, opening up of Foreign Direct Investments, strengthening infrastructure, the economy has the potential to reach the $5 trillion mark in the coming years, he said. The Centre and the states should work in a 'Team India' spirit for the long-term revival of the economy and steer India to greater heights in all spheres, he said. Stating that the country was blessed with a huge population of educated youth and scientific manpower, the Vice President said technological and scientific innovations play a key role in driving the economy. "There has to be a greater focus on creating the right ecosystem for innovation to thrive by enhancing investments in research and development. In this context, public and private sector entities need to join hands and (trade) bodies like Hindustan Chamber of Commerce must play a proactive role", he said. Naidu said Tamil Nadu was an attractive place for investments with stable and investor friendly government. "Tamil Nadu has a rich cultural heritage with a hoary past. The carbon dating of some of the excavations have thrown fresh light on the ancientness of Thamirabharani civilization, revealing that it was 3,200 years old. We can also see the influence of Tamil Indian culture at Angkor Wat temple in Cambodia, which was built in the early 12th Century", he said. The Vice President also echoed Chief Minister M K Stalin's comments that the Indian subcontinent's history must be 'rewritten'. "I endorse the views of Stalin that the Indian subcontinent's history must be rewritten. It has to be rewritten with an Indian perspective and not through colonial lens", Naidu said. On Thursday, the Chief Minister, while unveiling in the assembly the finding of a study that pointed to a 3,200 year-old civilization in Tamil Nadu, said that the state archaeological department, in a bid to trace Tamil cultural roots, would undertake excavations in countries, including Indonesia and states such as Andhra Pradesh after getting due permission. The CM said it was the primary duty of the government, to establish through evidence, and based on science, that the history of the Indian sub-continent should be written, starting from the Tamil landscape. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-firmly-on-the-path-to-recovery-long-term-renewal-vp-naidu-1029419.html
11-09-2021||National||Chirag 'desperate' to invite Nitish to Ram Vilas Paswan's 'barsi'||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Saturday said that he was desperately seeking an appointment with Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar whom he wanted to invite for the 'barsi' (event marking the first death anniversary) of his late father Ram Vilas Paswan. The Jamui MP told reporters that he was willing to call on the chief minister "even in the thick of the night or early tomorrow morning" and expressed hope that the latter would grace the function in view of the cordial relations Kumar shared with his deceased father. "I would also like to appeal to the chief minister through the media, please do come. You may be angry with me and you might not like to bless me. But you shared excellent relations with my father who remained friends with all in Bihar during his political career that spanned over five decades," he said. Notably, Chirag had burnt his bridges with Kumar ahead of the Assembly polls last year when he pulled out of the NDA vowing to defeat the JD(U) leader against whom he levelled many accusations, including "misbehaviour" with his late father. While the JD(U) shrunk as a result of the politics of brinkmanship, Chirag himself has ended up being sidelined in the party founded by his father on account of a split that followed the revolt of his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras and cousin Prince Raj. Moreover, the BJP, to which Chirag has been proclaiming his loyalty, likening himself to Hanuman and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Lord Rama, also appears to have been miffed with the volatile young leader whom it suspects of hobnobbing with the opposition RJD. Replying to a query, Chirag said that he was looking forward to Paras, now a Union minister, attending Sunday's function. "We may have our differences but after the death of my father, he is my guardian in the family," said Chirag about his uncle with whom he is locked in a legal battle to retain control on the party and its symbol. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-desperate-to-invite-nitish-to-ram-vilas-paswans-barsi-1029420.html
11-09-2021||National||Haryana offers highest sugarcane price in country: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said the state now has the highest price of sugarcane in the country, two days after his government announced an increase of Rs 12 per quintal. The state government has fixed the price at Rs 362 per quintal. Khattar also took a swipe at the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, saying the neighbouring state raised the sugarcane price after four years because of the upcoming Assembly polls. Whereas the Haryana government has been increasing the price of sugarcane continuously and it is not because of any state elections, he asserted here. The Punjab government had recently raised the sugarcane price to Rs 360 per quintal following a stir by farmers. “Haryana is the state where the highest price of sugarcane is being given,” said Khattar. This year also, the government increased the price of sugarcane by Rs 12 per quintal and now the effective price has been increased from Rs 350 to Rs 362, he said. This is not only the highest price in the country, but it is also Re 2 more than the neighbouring state, he said. Several farmers under the leadership of Haryana BJP chief O P Dhankar on Saturday met Khattar here to express gratitude for announcing the hike in sugarcane rates, according to an official release. The farmers honoured the chief minister by presenting bouquets made from sugarcane plants and millets. The farmers also offered sweets to Khattar. Many farmers expressed gratitude by offering 'siropa' and a turban to the CM. Expressing gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for declaring the minimum support price for rabi crops, Khattar said the PM’s vision is to double the income of farmers by 2022. He added that during the tenure of previous Congress governments, the MSP was usually announced when crops were already sold by farmers at very low prices.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-offers-highest-sugarcane-price-in-country-khattar-1029421.html
11-09-2021||National||Return of Indian students to Australia only after vaccination reaches a certain level: Marise Payne||Australia will allow students from India to return to its academic institutions only when its Covid-19 vaccination programme will reach a level that will give it confidence to do so. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday took up with his counterpart from Canberra, Marise Payne, the issue of restrictions on return of students of India to the academic institutions in Australia. Payne later said that the Australian government was following the model suggested by Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity on withdrawing shutdowns and travel restrictions imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are on the way to vaccinating Australians to a level which will give us the confidence to begin the sort of reopening that will enable students to return in three phases, and then phase four will have a much more open environment for international travel and that will include students,” Australian Foreign Minister told journalists. She said that the travel restrictions were not only applicable for students, but for all, including the citizens of Australia. She said that even herself and Defence Minister Peter Dutton would have to go through quarantine procedure after returning to Australia. Payne and Dutton were in New Delhi to take part in the first India-Australia 2+2 dialogue. “There are still over 60,000 Indian students in Australia. But I do definitely understand the desire that those students and their families who are not able to be there have that desire for the on-campus experience, the in-country life and it is of course, very difficult,” she said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/return-of-indian-students-to-australia-only-after-vaccination-reaches-a-certain-level-marise-payne-1029422.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Political war continues over 'narcotic jihad' remark, Pala Diocese comes out with 'explanation'||The controversial 'love and narcotic jihad' remarks by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt continued to trigger ripples in Kerala's political circles as the BJP accused the CPI(M) and the Congress of supporting jihadis, while the latter warned against "Sangh Parivar agenda" to destroy Christian-Muslim harmony in the state. Amid mounting criticism, the Pala Diocese, under the the prominent Syro-Malabar Church, came out with an explanation saying that the bishop did not intend to hurt anyone and his remarks were not against any particular community. "He only gave a warning about the dangerous trends prevalent in society," Mar Jacob Muricken, the auxiliary bishop of the diocese, said in a statement. Urging all communities to view seriously the actions of fringe elements indulging in radical and anti-social activities using the names and symbols of religion, the diocese also shared the message of going forward unitedly ending all misleading propaganda. Lashing out at the ruling CPI(M) and opposition Congress leaders for criticising the bishop, senior BJP leader and union minister V Muraleedharan said mainstream political parties in the state should stop the practice of attacking and silencing those telling the 'bitter truth'. He said the leaders of the Marxist party and the Congress, who had opposed his statement, should make it clear whether they were the spokespersons of ISIS and the jihadis. "Those who attack the Catholic priest for saying that the agents of Islamic State are there in Kerala, are actually endorsing the ideology of jihadis to annihilate non-Muslims," the union minister told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram. Extending support to Kallarangatt, he said the bishop had never blamed any particular community but only took the stand against the extreme groups within the religion. "It is a well-known fact that drug trafficking is the main source of revenue of many terrorist groups including ISIS across the world. What is wrong in saying that it exists in Kerala also? '' he asked. Urging the Muslim community to declare that they were not with the jihadis, the BJP leader also criticised Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for his statement that he was coming across the term 'narcotic jihad' for the first time. The Chief Minister should study the issues more in-depth, Muraleedharan added. However, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly V D Satheesan continued to appeal to the representatives of the Christian and Muslim communities to refrain from making provocative statements over the issue. He said there has been a concerted effort on social media through fake IDs to trigger clashes between two religions over Pala bishop's statement. "Many of these were handled by the Sangh Parivar activists. The Christian and Muslim communities never get trapped in that Sangh agenda," he told reporters in Kochi. Some people were taking out marches to the Bishop House to protest his statement and this too must be opposed, he said. The Congress leader also urged the Left government to address the complaint of the bishop with due concern and resolve it after examining the matter. As the bishop's remarks triggered a political row, the Chief Minister on Friday said those who hold responsible positions should refrain from making statements causing division in society. While the Congress said the bishop has crossed limits, the BJP supported him by urging society to discuss the statement. Kallarangatt had said recently that Christian girls were falling prey to the alleged love and narcotic jihad in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-war-continues-over-narcotic-jihad-remark-pala-diocese-comes-out-with-explanation-1029251.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Congress exudes confidence of winning 100 seats in UP polls, says 'miracles do happen in politics'||Senior Congress leader Pradeep Mathur on Saturday exuded confidence that the grand old party would win 100 seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, saying miracles do happen in politics. Mathur said a majority of Congress workers want the party's national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to be the face of the organisation in the upcoming polls as they see a glimpse of former prime minister Indira Gandhi in her. "If everything goes well (in the UP Assembly polls), we think that we will get 100 seats," the senior Congress leader told PTI here. When asked as to whether the claims made by him are a bit unrealistic, as he is talking about jumping from the current tally of seven seats to triple digits, he said, "When the BJP can increase its tally from two to a majority, then why not the Congress. What I am saying is absolutely realistic and when Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will come to UP, this could be easily achieved." He said the 12,000 km-long yatra announced by the party ahead of the election will motivate party workers. "Miracles do happen in politics and the Congress can form the government in the state. Either the Congress will form the government in the state or without the Congress, no government will be formed," said the former Congress legislative party leader in the UP Assembly. Hitting out at the central government over the rise in fuel prices, he said when the BJP was in opposition, it used to say that it would sell petrol and diesel at Rs 30 per litre but now the prices of petrol and diesel touch almost Rs 100 per litre. Mathur slammed the BJP for its repeated attacks against the Congress's UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi. "It has become the habit of the BJP high command that whenever a senior leader of the Congress comes to Lucknow they become fearful because they know the Congress is the only party, which can give a befitting reply to the BJP. It is for this reason that they try to make absurd remarks against Priyanka Gandhi," he said. Mathur claimed that the people of the state are frustrated with the BJP government and are mulling to give mandate to the Congress in the next year’s elections. "There was mismanagement during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. How can people forget about the death of their near and dear ones during the second wave?" the Congress leader said. Expressing concern over the high number of fatalities due to dengue and viral fever in Firozabad, he said a special session of the UP Legislative Assembly should be convened to discuss the situation there. According to government records, 57 people, mostly children, have so far died due to the diseases, while 404 people are still undergoing treatment in the medical college hospital here. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-exudes-confidence-of-winning-100-seats-in-up-polls-says-miracles-do-happen-in-politics-1029286.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani removed as govt failed during Covid-19, says Congress||The Congress has alleged that Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani was removed because the state government failed to perform during Covid and provide relief to the public. Bharat Singh Solanki, former Union Minister and Congress leader said, "Rupani failed to provide relief during Covid and we demand Nitin Patel should also be removed as he has also failed to work in the interest of the people." His removal is proof that he failed on all fronts, said Solanki. The Congress leader alleged that it's a face-saving exercise by the BJP to divert people's attention and focus on the Prime Minister, as it cannot afford to contest elections on the basis of the performance of the state government. Solanki said, "now Congress has the challenge and opportunity to become a viable option in the eyes of the public." However, when asked if the Congress house is in order in Gujarat, Solanki said that the Congress is going to appoint the state In-charge and State President this month only. The Congress leaders say that the BJP won the Municipal elections because of other factors and will not be able to win the assembly polls whether they change the captain or not. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday tendered his resignation to Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat at his residence, Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar. "I am resigning from the post of the Chief Minister. I thank PM Modi and the party for giving me an opportunity to work for five years," Vijay Rupani told the reporters at Raj Bhavan. Rupani took the state's Chief Ministerial position on August 7, 2016, and is representing Rajkot West in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly. It is learnt from sources that the party will declare Rupani's replacement by Sunday. Most likely his replacement could be deputy chief minister Nitin Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-removed-as-govt-failed-during-covid-19-says-congress-1029304.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Vijay Rupani BJP's fourth CM to be replaced in last 6 months||Vijay Rupani became the fourth BJP's chief minister to be replaced in the last six months. In March, the saffron party replaced Uttarkhand's then chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat with Lok Sabha member Tirath Singh Rawat. In July, four months after being made chief minister, Tirath Singh Rawat was replaced by two-time MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami. After Uttarakhand, BJP replaced B S Yediyurappa with Basavaraj Bommai in Karnataka. A party leader claimed that chief ministers in Gujarat and Karnataka were replaced to bring in new leadership in the states. "In Karnataka, there was strong resentment against the chief minister and his son. Similarly, there was a demand in the Gujarat unit for the removal of Rupani by a section of the party saying it will be difficult to win next year's state polls under his leadership," he said. While in Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat was replaced to bring in a new face, he was removed due to his failure to get elected to the state Assembly within six months of being sworn in as chief minister of the state. Among all the replacement of BJP chief ministers, the current change of guard in Gujarat took place without any buzz. "There was a discussion and demand from a section in the party to change the chief minister but no one expected that the news would come this way. We have no idea that it will be announced after submitting resignation," a party leader from Gujarat said. In March, before replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat, the BJP had sent two members to the state, which included former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, to collect feedback. Similarly before replacing Tirath Singh Rawat, the BJP central leadership had called him to the national capital and explained to him about the constitutional and legal crisis. Amid months of speculation about a change of guard in Karnataka, Yediyurappa had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the top BJP leadership. Yediyurappa took his time and resigned after his government completed two years in July. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vijay-rupani-bjps-fourth-cm-to-be-replaced-in-last-6-months-1029318.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Rupani’s soft-spoken image may have been his undoing, say observers||Vijay Rupani may have been a soft-spoken chief minister, but political observers feel that it may have also contributed to his image of being a ‘weak’ CM, who allowed bureaucrats to overrule the political leadership in taking key decisions. Some observers also point to the way he handled the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic and economic and social distress that followed it, even suggesting that it may have contributed to his downfall. During his second stint as the CM, Rupani (65), who resigned from the post on Saturday over a year before the next Assembly polls are due, was instrumental in passing tough anti-conversion law against interfaith marriages, and another one against those involved in cow slaughter. Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the BJP’s face in the high-octane 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign in his home state, it was Rupani, belonging to the relatively small Jain community, who as CM steered the party machinery in Gujarat. Born in Rangoon (now Yangon, Myanmar) Rupani joined an RSS shakha as a schoolboy, before graduating to the BJP via the Sangh’s students wing--the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). Before he became the CM for the first time in 2016, Rupani worked mostly in the party organisation in Gujarat, and fought his first Assembly election in 2014, winning a bypoll from Rajkot West. Rupani, a low-profile RSS man, was back in the chief minister’s chair in 2017 after having survived the incumbency factor and a violent quota stir by the Patidars. A bachelor of law, Rupani was a Rajya Sabha member between 2006 and 2012. When he headed Gujarat Tourism Development Corporation in 2006, the hugely successful advertisement campaign ‘Khushboo Gujarat Ki’, featuring megastar Amitabh Bachchan, was launched to promote the state as a tourism hotspot. On February 19, 2016, he was appointed the chief of the Gujarat BJP. When the state’s first and only woman chief minister Anandiben Patel resigned in August 2016 following allegations of inept handling of the Patidar and Dalit agitations, Rupani was catapulted to the hot seat. Rupani honed his political skills in the crucible of the Gujarat Navnirman agitation, a socio-political movement in 1974 by students and the middle-class against economic crisis and corruption in public life. Rupani, who was then with the ABVP, was jailed for nearly a year during Emergency. As the mayor of Rajkot in 1996-97, he endeared himself to the people of the city with his initiatives for the improvement of the civic infrastructure. Rupani’s mettle as a politician was tested in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when Modi bid for a second shot at power.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rupani-s-soft-spoken-image-may-have-been-his-undoing-say-observers-1029332.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||RSS desists from commenting on 'Namaz room' in Jharkhand House||An RSS functionary in Jharkhand said on Saturday the organisation will comment on the controversy over allotment of a 'Namaz' room in the state assembly only after the government makes a decision based on the report of a House panel constituted to look at the issue. RSS' Jharkhand Sah Prant Karyavah Rakesh Lal said this while briefing the media here on the three-day visit of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat, who held marathon meetings with 'pracharaks' and other functionaries. "The Assembly has set up a committee over allotment of a room (for offering Namaz) and it seems the government would change the decision. The RSS will comment on the issue only after the government's decision," he said in response to a question. After a row erupted on the issue, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto had on Thursday formed an all-party committee of seven MLAs on the last day of the monsoon session to go into it and submit a report within 45 days. Lal said the RSS is a Hindu organisation which does not believe in casteism. Even in Shakha classes Swayamsevaks do not know each other's caste despite being together for 25 years. The RSS believes in social harmony, he said. Lal said the RSS chief took stock of the role played by its Swayamsevaks (volunteers) in helping people during the Covid pandemic in the state. He said Bhagwat advised them to cooperate with the government in combating the disease. "In the event of a possible third wave of Covid, RSS will set up isolation wards in each block of Jharkhand. The sites and workers have already been identified. Arrangements are being made for training the volunteers," he said. RSS volunteers and officials voiced concern over environmental degradation, particularly the increase in infertile land, and resolved to launch awareness among people for planting herbal plants, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-desists-from-commenting-on-namaz-room-in-jharkhand-house-1029342.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||People should rise against sale of PSU assets: Congress leader Kharge||People should raise their voice against the BJP government’s move to sell the prime assets of the country, Opposition Leader in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said on Saturday. Addressing reporters here, he said the government at the Centre has started selling one after another the numerous public sector units built by Congress governments over the years. While the BJP always alleges that the Congress did nothing for the country in 70 years, they are selling the assets created by the Congress governments while at the Centre, he said. Kharge criticised the Centre’s steps also to change the names of the places and schemes, which were given by previous governments. “We have done our work and named them after the leaders who made them possible. So, you should do your work and earn the name,” he told the ruling BJP. The number of job opportunities in the railways has fallen to 12 lakh from 16 lakh during the BJP rule. The jobs in the telecom sector have also come down. The government can consider privatising loss-making enterprises, but they are now keen on privatising sectors which are making profit, the Congress leader said. On the Kalaburagi city Corporation election results in Karnataka, Kharge said Congress has emerged as the single largest party with 27 seats while BJP got 23. Talks are on with Janata Dal (secular) which got four seats and an independent, and their response is awaited, he said. Earlier in the day, Kharge visited Congress veteran Oscar Fernandes at a hospital in the city, where he is undergoing treatment, and enquired about his health. Kharge later said he spoke to Fernandes’ wife, family members and doctors treating him. “Oscar and I have been sharing a very cordial relationship since the 80s,” he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-should-rise-against-sale-of-psu-assets-congress-leader-kharge-1029347.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Why Rupani resigned as Gujarat CM and how it might help BJP||Strong resentment among BJP cadre at ground level against him was one of the main reasons for Vijay Rupani's removal as Gujarat Chief Minister, sources told IANS. Rupani on Saturday resigned from office. A section in the party believes that the decision to replace the chief minister might help the party beat anti-incumbency against the government among its own cadre. While there is no clarity at what exactly led to Rupani's resignation, sources in the saffron party said that there were many reasons for his removal -- one of the primary reasons being strong resentment against him among party cadre. "There was a strong resentment among cadre against Rupani. His popularity is low among BJP workers. The removal of Rupani will help the party control the dissent at ground well in advance ahead of next year's assembly polls. In other words we can say that the move might help the party beat anti-incumbency against the government and the chief minister among its own cadre," a BJP leader said. It is learnt that while discussing the reasons for Rupani's removal, the party leadership decided keeping workers unhappy will adversely affect the party's electoral performance in the state polls, which is all set to become triangular with the entry of Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Another leader pointed out that it is a political course correction ahead of assembly polls. "By bringing a new face, BJP will try to address the issue of social engineering in the state, which played a crucial role in state politics," he said. A party insider claimed that Rupani lacks the quality of a firebrand leader and may not be able to take on Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which is all set to contest state polls scheduled in November-December next year. "He (Rupani) was good in executing the given works or assignments, but lacked the quality we needed in our chief ministerial candidate to take on Congress and AAP in assembly polls. Workers are demanding a leader who can lead the party from the front under guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah," he said. Rupani took the state's Chief Ministerial position on August 7, 2016, and is representing Rajkot West in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly. It is learnt from sources that the party will declare Rupani's replacement by Sunday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-rupani-resigned-as-gujarat-cm-and-how-it-might-help-bjp-1029385.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Nadda challenges opposition leaders to give account of work done by them in Uttar Pradesh||BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday threw an open challenge to leaders of opposition parties to give an account of work done during their respective tenures in Uttar Pradesh. “I challenge the leaders of SP, BSP and Congress to come forward with an account of their respective terms and our booth level workers are ready for an open debate with them over the same. None of the governments led by these parties did as much work as has been done in over four years of Yogi Adityanath government,” he said. He was speaking at a function to launch the party's ‘Booth Vijay Abhiyan’ for the state polls next year. Targeting the opposition parties for not extending enough support during Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP chief said, “Amid the pandemic outbreak, these parties did politics only through tweets and virtual press conferences by confining themselves in closed rooms. “History will remember that when people were in trouble, they (opposition leaders) turned themselves away from the people,” he alleged, adding that the Adityanath govt and BJP workers helped people not only of the state, but also the migrants who came from other states. Nadda said while the BJP government worked for ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas’, the governments led by the SP, BSP and Congress connived to benefit only one family as they had nothing to do with the people of UP. Lauding the UP government for the work done by it for developing religious places like Mathura, Kashi, Chitrakoot and Ayodhya, the senior BJP leader said, "There was a time when taking the name of Lord Rama in UP was difficult, ‘Ram sewaks’ were fired at, Congress had refused to accept the existence of Lord Rama and but today SP, BSP and Congress have started indulging in politics of convenience.” He asked as to why a grand temple of Lord Rama was not built during their governments and enumerated the work done during the Adityanath government like holding grand Kumbh in Prayagraj, Deepotsav in Ayodhya, Krishna Utsav in Mathura and resuming the tradition of Dev Deepawali in Varanasi. During the previous regimes, there was crime, corruption and anarchy but now the scene is different and it is development all round, he said, adding that UP has become riot free, women are safe and there is law and order. “Seva is our dharma and the target is poverty alleviation and we have zero tolerance policy for corruption and terrorism. Under PM Narendra Modi’s guidance and CM Adityanath's leadership, UP has written a new chapter of development by working for the progress of villages and the poor. UP is leading in 44 development schemes, he said. In an apparent reference to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Nadda said there are some leaders in the country who go abroad for vacation when parliament is in session. In an assurance to farmers, the BJP president said there will be no change in MSP and it will remain intact and there is no need for the farmers of the country to worry. Today the Modi government has given freedom to the farmers in the country to sell their crops anywhere at their preferred price, Nadda added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nadda-challenges-opposition-leaders-to-give-account-of-work-done-by-them-in-uttar-pradesh-1029400.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||National Monetisation Pipeline will take away reservations: Mallikarjun Kharge||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge alleged that the BJP government is only engaged in spreading falsehood and lies and are not doing anything good for the common man. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been asking, about what the Congress has done for the country in the past 70 years. We preserved democracy and Constitution in past seven decades. India had only five PSUs in 1951. Now, there are 366 PSUs. Is it not the work of Congress?" he asked. National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), announced by the Modi government, will take away the reservations for scheduled classes, scheduled tribes and backward classes. The mixed economy concept of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru helped in creating 84 PSUs by 1969, which changed the course of development in modern India with creation of assets. But Modi government wants to blindly sell these assets instead of creating more assets for growth of the country, he alleged. Coming down heavily on BJP’s support on NMP, he said the proposed national assets to be monetised were fetching a revenue of Rs 7  lakh crore for the government. Some units were incurring loss of Rs 37,000 crores. Giving some examples, he said selling off 26,700 km of roads for Rs 1.6 lakh crore, 400 rail stations and tracks for Rs 1.52 lakh crore, power transmission lines worth Rs 45,000 crore, will play havoc with the lower and middle classes as toll taxes, travel fares are bound to increase by many folds. Selling the PSUs, roads off to private players can weaken the national security and nation-building. Kharge said Modi government has a track record of promoting select few corporate groups with close ties to BJP. Thus NMP will be used to boost prospects of these business houses, he added. Modi government has been blaming UPA for bringing oil bonds and has been justifying the rise in price of petrol and diesel using oil bond payment issue. But in reality, oil bonds were initiated by Atal Bihari Vajpayee led NDA government during 1999 to 2004. The total payment of oil bonds is Rs 1.34 lakh crore, of which only Rs 3,500 crore was paid in the past seven years, he said. The Leader of Opposition said that the Opposition had been insisting on a discussion on the Pegasus surveillance controversy in the Parliament. But the government was not ready to cooperate. Earlier, Kharge had visited Rajya Sabha member Oscar Fernandes, who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mangaluru. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/national-monetisation-pipeline-will-take-away-reservations-mallikarjun-kharge-1029402.html
11-09-2021||National Politics||Rupani paid the price for BJP's failures: Congress, AAP||Opposition Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday claimed that Vijay Rupani, who resigned as Gujarat chief minister earlier in the day, paid the price for the BJP's failures. The saffron party can not cover up the failure of its "remote-controlled" government by simply changing the chief minister, the Congress said. "The party has made Vijay Rupani resign to hide the misrule and criminal negligence of the state government which caused three lakh deaths during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic," state Congress chief Amit Chavda said. Farmers are committing suicide in the state and the youth are unable to find jobs despite expensive education, he alleged. Senior Congress leader Arjun Modhwadia said the BJP had no option other than changing the leadership in view of the deteriorating law and order situation. The "remote control" of the government remains in Delhi and in the hands of state BJP chief C R Paatil, he said, adding that both the "remote control operators" have been a failure. Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly Paresh Dhanani said the Rupani government was being run through remote control, but for inflation, unemployment, corruption and Covid-19 pandemic, "only (Prime Minister) Narendra bhai (Modi) and (Union home minister) Amit Shah are directly responsible. "The resignation of CM Rupani has made it clear that the BJP has been unsuccessful in running the government," said another Congress leader Hardik Patel. "The real change will come after the state Assembly elections next year when the public will throw the BJP out of power," he said. Gujarat AAP leader Gopal Italia said Rupani's exit will not help the BJP. "Is BJP trying to convey that people will forget the pain they have been suffering due to the failure of the government after the chief minister is changed? The resignation is the reflection of the failure of the BJP's misrule of the last 27 years....Vijay bhai has been made a scapegoat," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rupani-paid-the-price-for-bjps-failures-congress-aap-1029417.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||1,000 mm and counting: Delayed monsoon yields highest rainfall in Delhi in at least 18 years||The southwest monsoon in Delhi may have been erratic and one of the most delayed this season, but it has given the highest rainfall to the national capital in at least 18 years — 1,005.3 mm so far.   This is the first time since 2010 that monsoon rainfall in Delhi breached the 1,000 mm mark. Normally, the Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered as the official marker for the city, records 648.9 mm of rainfall during the monsoon season on average, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. Between June 1, when the monsoon season starts, and September 10, Delhi gets an average of 586.4 mm of rainfall. "Delhi had recorded 1,005 mm rainfall in the monsoon season in 2003. We are already at an 18-year high," said senior scientist RK Jenamani. Delhi gauged 636 mm, 544 mm, 876 mm, 370.8 mm and 505.5 mm during the monsoon season in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. It recorded 524.7 mm rainfall in 2016; 641.3 mm in 2017; 762.6 mm in 2018; 404.3 mm in 2019 and 576.5 mm in 2020, according to IMD data. Intense bursts of rainfall pounded the capital in July and September — sometimes 100 mm precipitation in a few hours — that submerged roads, residential areas, schools, hospitals, and markets in knee-deep water and plunged vehicular traffic into chaos. Delhi recorded more than 100 mm of rainfall on two consecutive days at the start of the month — 112.1 mm on September 1 and 117.7 mm on September 2. It has so far received 248.9 mm precipitation this month, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Despite the monsoon embracing Delhi only on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital had recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years. The string of rainy days gave 507.1 mm rainfall in Delhi, which was nearly 141 per cent above the long-period average of 210.6 mm. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. The city recorded just 10 rainy days in August, the lowest in seven years, and a cumulative rainfall of 214.5 mm, lower than the average of 247 mm. Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said the monsoon pattern is changing due to climate change. "The number of rainy days has reduced over the last four to five years, and there has been an increase in extreme weather events," he said. "We have been recording short and intense bouts of rain, sometimes around 100 mm rainfall in just 24 hours. In the past, this much precipitation would occur over a period of 10 to 15 days," he said. Weather experts said such spells of rain do not help recharge groundwater and lead to flooding in low-lying areas. The water percolates in the ground if it rains slowly over four to five days. In case of heavy falls, the rainwater runs off quickly, a former IMD official said. "The rain washes away pollutants, but since the number of rainy days has reduced, the average annual air quality is also getting affected," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1000-mm-and-counting-delayed-monsoon-yields-highest-rainfall-in-delhi-in-at-least-18-years-1029148.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Karnal standoff: Another round of talks between farmers, officials on Saturday||Farm union leaders and the Karnal district administration will hold another round of talks Saturday, with both sides hoping for an early resolution of issues after a four-hour-long marathon meeting on Friday. Farmers had started a dharna outside the district headquarters in Karnal on Tuesday against the police lathicharge on August 28. Their main demands centred around the suspension of then SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of farmers if they cross the line. They had also claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration. As the farmers' sit-in outside the Karnal district headquarters entered its fourth day on Friday, both sides said the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere. “We held a discussion for four hours. Some positives have come out and another meeting will be held on Saturday,” Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav told PTI over the phone. Asked if the administration has agreed to any of the demands of the farmers, he said, “lt will not be right to comment anything more at this stage. Let another scheduled meeting take place first.” However, the DC said the talks remained positive. “Yes, there is positive development,” he said replying to another question. Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni and farmer leader Suresh Koth were among those present in the meeting. Koth told reporters that the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere. “The meeting was positive. But there are some things which we will take up in Saturday's meeting. We are hopeful that the issues will be resolved soon,” said Koth. However, he did not divulge details of what exactly transpired during the meeting. “As a follow-up meeting is scheduled on Saturday, let us first wait for that,” he said. Chaduni said, “We will also talk to other leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and apprise them of details of today's meeting.” When asked if the meeting can be termed as positive, Chaduni replied in affirmative. Some senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha are expected to take part in the Saturday's meeting. Meanwhile, the Haryana government resumed mobile Internet services in the district. On Thursday, Home Minister Anil Vij had said the government is ready for a probe into the last month's clash between farmers and police but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they're found to be at fault. Vij offered an "impartial" inquiry into the "entire Karnal episode" as farmers continued their dharna outside the Karnal district headquarters demanding action over the August 28 lathicharge. Earlier, talks between district officials and farmers had failed, after which the protesters had said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/karnal-standoff-another-round-of-talks-between-farmers-officials-on-saturday-1029150.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Amrapali home buyers, including Dhoni, asked to clear outstanding dues within 15 days||Over 1,800 home buyers of Amrapali housing projects in Noida, including former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, have been asked by the Supreme Court-appointed receiver to fill their data on his website and begin clearing their respective dues within 15 days. As per persons familiar with the development, this process has been initiated following the top court's direction to the receiver, senior advocate R. Venkataramani, to finalise the unsold inventory and sell it. According to a notice in a leading newspaper, the flat allocation will be automatically cancelled if the home buyers fail to register their name in the customer data and do not begin making payments within 15 days of the notice. According to the notice, Dhoni has booked two flats, C-P5 and C-P6, in Sapphire Phase-I, in Sector 45 Noida, while Arun Pandey, Chairman of Rhiti Sports Management that represents Dhoni, also has a flat, C-P4, in the same project. Dhoni, in April 2016, had resigned as brand ambassador of Amrapali, which is now non-operational. "It is necessary to identify the claimants regarding the units, especially those who have not taken steps to fill the customer data on the website of the court receiver and are most likely 'benami' in nature," said Kumar Mihir, counsel for home buyers. The Amrapali Stalled Projects Investment Reconstruction Establishment (ASPIRE), formed to complete the unfinished projects in Noida and Greater Noida, published the notice. According to the notice, all home buyers of these projects must mandatorily register their data online with the receiver. The list includes home buyers who have not paid any amount of their outstanding dues as per the top court's order in July 2019. The list also consists of home buyers who have neither registered their name in the customer data nor made any payment into UCO Bank, up to July 17, 2021, as reported to the top court. "Consequently, they are to be treated as defaulters and their units are liable to be cancelled," said the notice. On August 13, the Supreme Court was informed that nearly 9,600 homebuyers, in various Amrapali housing projects, have not come forward to claim their flats. A bench comprising Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi allowed the plea of the court-appointed receiver to treat these flats as unsold inventory, and if nobody comes forward to claim them, then the next step should be their cancellation and auctioning to raise money for construction of the remaining unfinished projects. According to a note submitted by the receiver in the top court, "it has emerged that 9,583 homebuyers have neither registered so far in the customer data maintained by the office of the receiver, nor have made any payments, subsequent to the judgment of the court in July 2019." The top court had said it would direct that a 15 day notice be issued to these home buyers to update their registration and make payments. Mihir said that swapping of units and sale of unsold inventory depends on the finalisation of the data regarding flat buyers. "Now that the banks are also considering lending project finance to Amrapali projects, a part of unsold inventory will be kept a security with them as well. All this can be done only after the data regarding the unsold inventory is finalised which is now being sought to be done by the notice in the newspapers," he added. State-owned NBCC has been asked to complete more than 20 housing projects with an estimated investment of over Rs 8,000 crore under the monitoring of a court-appointed committee. The top court-appointed receiver has issued notice to home buyers in Noida projects and soon, a separate notice will be published for buyers of Greater Noida projects. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amrapali-home-buyers-including-dhoni-asked-to-clear-outstanding-dues-within-15-days-1029175.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Heavy rains in Delhi leave part of airport, several areas of city waterlogged||Heavy rains lashed the national capital Saturday morning, leaving the forecourt of the Delhi airport and other parts of the city waterlogged. The Delhi airport said on Twitter here was waterlogging at the forecourt for a short period. "Our team was immediately aligned to look into it and the issue has been resolved." According to civic agencies, several areas in the city including Moti Bagh, RK Puram, Madhu Vihar, Hari Nagar, Rohtak Road, Badarpur, Som Vihar, Ring Road near IP Station, Vikas Marg, Sangam Vihar, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Munirka, Rajpur Khurd, Nangloi and Kirari also witnessed waterlogging. People posted pictures and videos of waterlogged streets on social media. In a video on Twitter purportedly showing waterlogging in Madhu Vihar, some DTC cluster buses could be seen standing in the water, and other commuters manoeuvring their vehicles through the inundated road. Twitter users also posted videos of waterlogging in the Sadar Bazar area, near Minto bridge, ITO, and Nangloi flyover. Officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said the filed staff is on the ground to pump out water from streets. "Due to heavy rain in the early morning (on Saturday), waterlogging occurred at a number of places. We are tackling those issues on priority. Our staff is present round the clock to monitor the situation," a PWD official said. The Delhi Traffic also posted tweets informing people about the stretches where they are expected to witness waterlogging. "Traffic Alert. Traffic is heavy due to water logging at GGR/PDR. Kindly Avoid the Stretch," it said in a tweet around 11 am. "Traffic Alert. Water logging near WHO on Ring Road. Kindly Avoid the Stretch," it said in another tweet.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-in-delhi-leave-part-of-airport-several-areas-of-city-waterlogged-1029203.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Mental health helpline 'Sukoon' provides succour to distressed Kashmiris||In trouble-torn Kashmir where over three decades of endless violence has been pushing many to mental ailments, including rise in suicidal tendencies, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have come up with ‘Sukoon’, a 24x7 counseling helpline for people in distress. ‘Sukoon’ (Toll-free Number 1880-180-7159) offers guidance to persons or their well-wishers who are experiencing anxiety, depression, stress, panic attack, suicidal thoughts, substance abuse, mental health emergency and pandemic-induced psychologists stress. It guides callers to avail services of clinical psychologists, therapists, counsellors, psychiatrists and provides 24X7 one-to-one support, free and confidential services to those experiencing mental health issues. Haseeb Rehman, commandant first battalion SDRF says the initiative was started in coordination and consultation with doctors and mental health experts. “When I joined the SDRF in April this year, a majority of calls we received were of suicide. People would call us very often to ask us to retrieve bodies,” he told DH. After a brief thought, Rehman discussed the idea of starting a helpline with V K Singh (IPS), DGP-cum-Commandant General of Jammu and Kashmir Home Guard, Civil Defence and SDRF. Singh liked the idea and it was taken further with J&K Chief Secretary, who suggested to them to refer people in distress to “Mission Youth J&K” who approach ‘Sukoon’ for assistance. The mission focusses on all individuals between the age of 15 to 25 years, and supports and encourages individuals in fulfilling their potential and aspirations while addressing their needs and concerns. “We have coordinated with professionals and doctors for this initiative and many experts are a part of the advisory board. Already we have referred 10 youths to “Mission Youth J&K” who approached them through ‘Sukoon’,” Rehman said. “I am collecting data of suicides in Kashmir Valley and with a team of experts we will study the reasons behind it and come up with some sort of solution,” he added. According to the SDRF data, in the first eight months of this year, 217 people in the Valley attempted suicides out of which 168 were rescued while 49 died.   Dr Muzaffar Khan, in-charge Youth Development and Rehabilitation Centre, run by J&K police in Srinagar says that in the last few months, there has been an increase in suicidal attempts. “Especially amid Covid-19, people have had to endure lockdowns. The immediate goal of ‘Sukoon’ is to receive a call from distressed persons and listen to their grievances, all seven days of the week. The next aim is to mobilise support for them," he said.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mental-health-helpline-sukoon-provides-succour-to-distressed-kashmiris-1029207.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Haryana govt orders judicial probe into Aug 28 incident, farmers call off Karnal sit-in||The Haryana government on Saturday ordered a judicial probe into last month's clash between farmers and police and sent the IAS officer who is at the centre of a row over his remarks on leave. Following this, farmers called off their sit-in outside the Karnal district headquarters. Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh said the probe will be conducted by a retired judge and will be completed within a month. Former SDM Ayush Sinha will remain on leave during the time, he said. A joint press conference by Haryana government officials and farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni was held in Karnal after both sides reached an agreement, leading to the ending of the stand-off. There was an indication of a possible ending of the impasse between the farmers and the Karnal administration on Friday evening itself as after a marathon meeting both sides had said that it was held in a cordial atmosphere. At the joint press conference, farmer leader Chaduni said they will call off their sit-in outside the Karnal district headquarters. About 10 protesters were hurt in the clash with police in Karnal on August 28 when they tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break the heads" of farmers if they cross the line. Following the incident, farmers had been demanding the suspension of Sinha. On September 2, he was transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department. Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh on Saturday said the meeting between farmer leaders and the government officials was held in a positive atmosphere. He said the Haryana government will get a judicial probe conducted into the August 28 incident by a retired judge of the high court. The probe will be completed within a month and Sinha will remain on leave during the time, Singh added. The additional chief secretary also announced that jobs would be given to two family members of a farmer, who, the protesters claimed, died after being injured during the lathi charge. The administration had earlier rejected this allegation. "The Haryana government will give jobs to two family members of deceased farmer Satish Kajal under sanctioned posts at DC rate in Karnal," Singh announced. Dubbing the farmers as "our brothers", he said it was a "respectable agreement". About former SDM Sinha, farmer leader Chudani said farmers had demanded that an FIR be registered against him and the police personnel involved in the August 28 incident. However, advocated opined that there could be chances of cancellation or quashing of an FIR by the high court if the administration registers it, he said. "But if the FIR is registered after a retired judge of the high court held an inquiry, there is neither any chance of its cancellation nor of influencing the probe." Chaduni further said that they had demanded jobs for two family members of the deceased farmer Satish Kajal and the administration accepted it. He said the deceased farmer's kin would get the jobs within a week. On Thursday, Home Minister Anil Vij said the government was ready for a probe into last month's clash but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they were found to be at fault. He had offered an "impartial" inquiry into the "entire Karnal episode". The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha over his alleged remarks. A mahapanchayat was held in the city and then the dharna began on Tuesday evening after an earlier round of talks between district officials and the farm leaders "failed". Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govt-orders-judicial-probe-into-aug-28-incident-farmers-call-off-karnal-sit-in-1029208.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Heavy rains delay flights in Delhi, snarl traffic||Heavy rains delayed flights and disrupted traffic in India's capital New Delhi on Saturday, inundating several places including the forecourt of Indira Gandhi International Airport. Delhi has received a 46-year high 1.0 metre (3.3 feet) of rain this monsoon season, said the Indian Meteorological Department. The season runs until the end of the month. Vistara, SpiceJet Ltd, IndiGo and other airlines issued travel advisories, asking passengers to check the status of their flights. "Due to waterlogging on account of heavy rains in Delhi, traffic congestion is expected. Customers travelling are advised to allow more time for their journey to the airport," Vistara tweeted. Airport authorities later tweeted that they had drained the water "and the issue has been resolved". Social media users posted videos of waterlogging of streets and the airport, as well as stranded busses. The rain caused major traffic disruption and severe flooding in low-lying areas of the city, said the weather department, suggesting people stay indoors. It has issued an orange alert, indicating authorities should be prepared to take action. It predicted thunderstorm with "heavy to very heavy intensity rain" in Delhi and neighbouring areas, that could case partial damage to vulnerable structures, plantations and standing crops, among others. The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted information to commuters about the stretches hit by rains and suggesting alternative routes. Check put the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-delay-flights-in-delhi-snarl-traffic-1029219.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh's Ladhpura Khas nominated as 'Best Tourism Village' for UNWTO award||Ladhpura Khas, a village in Madhya Pradesh's Niwari district, has been nominated in the 'Best Tourism Village' category for the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) Award, a senior state government official said. "The Union Ministry of Tourism has nominated Ladhpura Khas village near tourist town Orchha under the Best Tourism Village category for the United Nations World Tourism Organization Award. Along with this, two other villages have been nominated - (one each) from Meghalaya and Telangana," Madhya Pradesh Tourism and Culture Department's Principal Secretary, Sheo Shekhar Shukla, said in a statement. The 'Rural Tourism Project' has been started in villages across the state, including in Ladhpura Khas, with an objective of giving shape to the concept of village tourism by adding new dimensions, he said. "In the next five years, 100 villages will be developed from the point of view of rural tourism. Among these, suitable sites will be selected and developed around tourist places, including Orchha, Khajuraho, Mandu, Sanchi, Pachmarhi, Tamia, Panna National Park, Bandhavgarh National Park, Sanjay Dubri National Park, Pench and Kanha National Park, etc," he said. Shukla said that rural tourism provides an opportunity to local people to learn about the interests and needs of tourists while maintaining the importance of local culture and tradition. "The local community will directly benefit from the development of tourism in their area. MP Tourism Board is also providing training to develop tourism-related products with community participation," he said. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has congratulated all the officers and employees of the tourism department for nominating Ladhpura Khas village as the 'best tourist village' and said that it was a matter of pride for the state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradeshs-ladhpura-khas-nominated-as-best-tourism-village-for-unwto-award-1029221.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Private hospital in Muzaffarnagar sealed for lack of licence||The health department sealed a private hospital in Muzzaffarnagar allegedly for lack of a licence and arrested two people, officials said Saturday. They said the action was taken after a health department team conducted a raid at City Hospital last evening when the owner allegedly failed to produce a proper licence to run the medical facility. City Magistrate Abhishek Kumar Singh said a team led by drugs inspector Luv Kush Kumar checked the hospital and also seized medicines worth lakhs of rupees. The owner failed to show any document authorising him to run a hospital, he said, adding two employees of the facility have been arrested.  Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-hospital-in-muzaffarnagar-sealed-for-lack-of-licence-1029227.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi rainfall so far this monsoon season highest in 46 years; record-breaking spree continues||With more than 130 mm rainfall since last evening that threw normal life out of gear, Delhi on Saturday logged a 46-year seasonal high of 1137 mm rainfall as September turned out to be much more bountiful than the previous two months. As more rains are expected in the northwest and central India over the next 4-5 days, it is likely that Delhi may even breach the 1975 record of 1155 mm rainfall for the season as monsoon withdrawal is unlikely for at least another 8-10 days. This year’s seasonal rainfall has already surpassed the 2003 milestone of 1052 mm rainfall and is on its way to the 1975 mark or may even touch the 1964’s record of 1191 mm, depending on how the sky opens up in the next few days. The season’s best record was seen in 1933 when Delhi logged a record of 1420.3 mm of monsoon rainfall. Traditionally, the southwest monsoon used to retreat from Rajasthan by the first week of September and traversed the breadth of the country over the next four weeks to close the four-month-long southwest monsoon season by the end of September. The pattern seems to have changed in recent years. “This year we do not foresee monsoon withdrawal from north-west India before the end of the second week of September,” Mrutyunjay Mahapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department told DH. Last year too the withdrawal of monsoon from northwest India began on September 28 – after a delay of 11 days. The rainfall was more than 50% normal. The Saturday’s incessant rain disrupted air traffic and flooded a part of Delhi terminal, Aerocity and other areas in Delhi-NCR. The forecourt of the Delhi airport was waterlogged, three flights were cancelled and five diverted to Jaipur and Ahmedabad. The Aerocity area -- which houses multiple luxury hotels -- near the airport was also waterlogged in the morning. Waterlogging was reported from several parts of the national capital including Moti Bagh and RK Puram in south Delhi. Four domestic flights -- two of SpiceJet and one each of IndiGo and Go First -- were diverted to Jaipur while one international flight -- Emirates flight from Dubai to Delhi -- was diverted to Ahmedabad. Three IndiGo flights that were scheduled to depart from Delhi were cancelled. The second heavy downpour of September comes days after a deficient August when the all India rainfall was 9% deficient than the average precipitation. Explaining the reasons behind such heavy rains, Mahapatra said there had been three low-pressure zones in the Bay of Bengal this month and a fourth one was brewing, which would lead to more rains in Odisha and central India in the next 4-5 days. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-rainfall-so-far-this-monsoon-season-highest-in-46-years-record-breaking-spree-continues-1029262.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Students above 18 to be vaccinated on priority for reopening educational institutions, says J&K LG||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said a special drive will be launched to vaccinate students aged above 18 years on priority to enable educational institutions to reopen in the Union territory. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function at SKICC, Sinha said most of the teaching staff has already got vaccinated. “We are trying to vaccinate students aged above 18 years on priority and professors and teachers in the academic institutions as well because the aim is to restart the institutions," he said. A special drive will be conducted for the vaccination of students above the age of 18 as most of the teachers have already got vaccinated, Sinha said. Asked about the security scenario in Jammu and Kashmir, the LG said “all is well”, without commenting further. Earlier, Sinha released a book titled "Analysis of Accreditation Report of Union Territories of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh" at SKICC||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-above-18-to-be-vaccinated-on-priority-for-reopening-educational-institutions-says-jk-lg-1029281.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||JNU VC says probe into last year's violence on campus delayed due to Covid pandemic||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said the coronavirus pandemic has delayed the probe into the violence on the campus in January last year that left around 35 people injured. Asked why the committee set up by the university to probe the incident did not conduct online depositions, he said the students are already under a lot of stress and it is not the right time to send them notices for online depositions. A group of masked men armed with sticks and rods attacked students and teachers and damaged property on the JNU campus on January 5, 2020, prompting the university administration to call in the police. JNU Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh was among those injured in the violence. Days after the incident, JNU set up a five-member committee to probe the incident and recommend measures to ensure the safety of students. "The committee is looking into the matter. It has to call the students for deposition. Is it the right time to call them when they are in their hometowns? For this, we need to see the condition. These are our students. Considering the Covid situation, depositions have not been conducted. We are waiting for the situation to normalise," Kumar told PTI on Friday. Asked why the committee did not conduct online depositions, the VC said, "The situation is not conducive. We are waiting. Students are already under a lot of stress. It is not the right time to send them notices for participating in an online deposition. We don't consider our students as criminals. They are our own students." In August this year, the Lok Sabha was informed by Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai that the Delhi Police had not arrested anyone in connection with the JNU violence, even though several people were examined. After the violence, there was a clamour for Kumar's removal as the JNU VC and the Delhi Police came under attack for not acting when the mob was running riot on the campus and especially, for naming student union leaders, including Ghosh, in two FIRs for alleged vandalism. On the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers' Association's (JNUTA) objection to the renewal of the contract of security agency Cyclops for another two years by the university's Executive Council (EC), Kumar said the contract had not been renewed but extended till the process of appointing a new agency is completed. "If you want to appoint a security agency, then you have to follow the tendering process and the General Financial Rules laid down by the government. During this Covid period, many of our staff members were down (with coronavirus). You cannot suddenly ask the security people to pack their bags and leave and put the security of the campus at risk," he said. "The EC took a decision that the security company will continue," he said. The VC stressed that the contract hasn't been renewed but only extended till the process of appointing a new security agency is completed. This process will require at least six months, he said. In a statement issued on September 9, the JNUTA had said that the EC had renewed the security contract of Cyclops for another two years despite its failure to prevent the violent attack on students and faculty members on January 5, 2020 and the spate of burglaries on campus during the Covid-19 lockdown. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-vc-says-probe-into-last-years-violence-on-campus-delayed-due-to-covid-pandemic-1029290.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court asks Gujarat govt to frame parking policy||Expressing concern over traffic problems due to the non-availability of public parking, the Supreme Court has asked the Gujarat government to frame a parking policy that will be binding on all civic bodies. A bench of Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose observed that due to the lack of sufficient parking space in malls and other markets, people are compelled to park their vehicles on the road. "It cannot be disputed that the traffic problem in the metropolitan cities in the State of Gujarat is a very serious issue because of non-availability of public parking and even sufficient parking spaces in the malls and other markets. "The citizens are compelled to park on the road. There is no uniform policy and/or guidelines and/or notifications issued by the State Government," the bench said. The top court asked the state government to come out with common guidelines or notifications under the Town Planning Act or under the General Development Control Regulations (GDCR). "In the meantime, the Government must come out with a policy which shall be binding on all the Corporations and to see to it that the problem of parking/traffic is resolved. Counter Affidavits shall be filed by the Secretary, Home Department, Secretary, Urban Planning Department and Secretary, Transport before the next date," the bench said. The court will hear the matter next on September 14. The counsel appearing for Gujarat told the bench that a policy decision has been taken by the state government to adopt the parking policy adopted by the Surat Municipal Corporation. The apex court was hearing an appeal against a Gujarat High Court order which said that local authorities can prohibit owners of malls and multiplexes from collecting parking fees under the provisions of the Comprehensive General Development Control Regulation 2017 (GDCR). The high court had passed the order on an appeal filed by Ruchi Malls Pvt Ltd, challenging the order of a single-judge bench barring commercial complexes from collecting fees for parking vehicles for the first hour. The division bench had also held that the single-judge bench's order directing the state government to frame a policy to regulate parking was not permissible in the exercise of powers under Article 226 of the Constitution. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-gujarat-govt-to-frame-parking-policy-1029292.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand priests temporarily withdraw stir against Devasthanam Board after CM's assurance||The priests of the Char Dham temples on Saturday temporarily withdrew their agitation for the dissolution of the Devasthanam Board after Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami assured them that their concerns will be addressed by October 30. Eight Char Dham priests have also been invited to be part of the high-powered committee looking into the Devasthanam Board issue, they said. Priests of the Himalayan temples have long been demanding the dissolution of the board that they see as an encroachment upon their rights. Constituted during the chief ministership of Trivendra Singh Rawat, the Devasthanam Board is mandated to run the affairs of 51 temples in Uttarakhand, including the Char Dham. However, soon after taking over, former chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced during Kumbh that the temples will be removed from the board's control. But he had to step down before he could keep his word. "The chief minister assured us that our rights will remain intact. We will get representation in the high-powered committee looking into the Devasthanam Board issue and our concerns will be addressed," Gangotri Mandir Samiti president and Char Dham mahapanchayat convenor Suresh Semwal said after a delegation of priests met Dhami. "On an assurance from him that a solution to the issue will be found by October 30, we have decided to suspend our stir till then," he said. Dhami said the government will make a decision that is in the interest of the state after the high-powered committee headed by Manohar Kant Dhyani submits its report. He said he hoped that the committee will listen to the priests and come up with a solution to the issue. "Dhyani ji has worked among priests all his life. The only purpose of constituting the committee is to listen to the priests," the chief minister said. Dhami said the infrastructural development of Char Dham is the responsibility of the state government. Starting the Char Dham Yatra is also a priority. Char Dham mahapanchayat member Umesh Sati said the priests will decide their future course of action on the basis of the outcome of the government's efforts. "We have high expectations from the young chief minister... Our next course of action will depend on the outcome of the ongoing efforts," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-priests-temporarily-withdraw-stir-against-devasthanam-board-after-cms-assurance-1029309.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Students above 18 to be vaccinated on priority for reopening educational institutions: J&K L-G||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said a special drive will be launched to vaccinate students aged above 18 years on priority to enable educational institutions to reopen in the Union Territory. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function at SKICC here, Sinha said most of the teachers have already been vaccinated against Covid. "We are trying to vaccinate students aged above 18 years on priority and professors and teachers in the academic institutions as well because the aim is to restart the institutions," he said. A special drive will be conducted for the vaccination of students above the age of 18 as most of the teachers have already been vaccinated, Sinha said. Asked about the security scenario in Jammu and Kashmir, the L-G said "all is well", without commenting further. Earlier, Sinha released a book titled "Analysis of Accreditation Report of Union Territories of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh" by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) at SKICC. Speaking on the occasion, the lieutenant governor termed the assessment and accreditation process as an important factor to maintain the quality of education in universities and colleges. Sinha said the publication will work as an intelligent assistant for academicians, vice-chancellors, professors and students. Highlighting the need to introduce new reforms to meet the requirements of the rapidly transforming education system and the changing market dynamics, he said the university and colleges have immense power and a small shift in curriculum can have a decisive impact on the socio-economic environment. "The future belongs to those students and teachers who can realise their full potential and adapt to rapidly changing requirements," he said. "As we are heading towards an era which will be dominated by the knowledge economy, our biggest asset would be the human capital, a combination of talent, skill and creativity. We are making efforts to continuously improve the courses in universities and colleges, incorporating students' feedback to create a conducive environment for learning and innovation," Sinha said. The aim is to empower every student with technical and social skills to develop entrepreneurial thinking, he said, adding that the UT administration is consistently reforming the educational system with new tools to produce required skill sets. Pointing out some of the important observations made in the analysis, the lieutenant governor stressed on the need to improve the student-feedback mechanism and put in place a systemised and scientifically analysed system. This feedback system needs to be implemented as a constructive, public participation and contribution to society in order to inculcate a mix of skills and values in the student, he added. Sinha emphasised to lay special focus on various aspects of the modern education system, including introduction of interdisciplinary and short-term courses; promoting student-diversity, research and innovation, student mentoring, besides strengthening academia-industry connect and continuously upgrading of skill sets to develop the youth into a multi-skilled human capital. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-above-18-to-be-vaccinated-on-priority-for-reopening-educational-institutions-jk-l-g-1029367.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||BJP leader goes 'rafting' on waterlogged Delhi road, thanks Kejriwal for making it possible||Taking a dig at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the extensive waterlogging in Delhi after heavy rains on Saturday, BJP leader Tajinder Bagga went "rafting" on an inundated road and thanked him for making it possible in "every nook and corner" of the city. In a video posted on Twitter, the national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha asked Kejriwal to have boards put up across Delhi about his achievement. Record rains lashed many parts of Delhi on Saturday, causing waterlogging that affected operations at the Delhi airport, disrupted traffic on key roads and left passengers trapped in vehicles in flooded underpasses. The city recorded 117.9 mm of rainfall from 5.30 am to 2.30 pm. In the video, Bagga is seen sitting in a rafting boat on a submerged road in northeast Delhi's Bhajanpura area. Cars, motorcycles and buses are seen wading through the muddy water on the road. "This season, I really wanted to go to Rishikesh for rafting but I could not go due to coronavirus and repeated lockdowns. I want to thank Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal ji as he has made arrangements for rafting in every nook and corner of Delhi," the BJP leader said in the video. "I urge Arvind Kejriwal ji to put up boards about this across Delhi as he always does," he said. Many Delhiites shared pictures and videos on social media showing waterlogging in different parts of the city. In another video uploaded on Twitter, children are seen swimming on a heavily waterlogged road near the MCD Civic Centre. According to authorities, 262 waterlogging complaints were received by the Public Works Department and civic agencies till Saturday afternoon (1.30 pm). Last month, Kejriwal had chaired a meeting to review Delhi's drainage plan and said that a "world-class" drainage system would be developed in the city to resolve the issue of waterlogging. He had said that necessary changes, as suggested by IIT Delhi, would be made to bolster the city's drainage system and make it foolproof. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-goes-rafting-on-waterlogged-delhi-road-thanks-kejriwal-for-making-it-possible-1029372.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Bumper September in Delhi! 383 mm rain this month so far highest since 1944||The monsoon has dumped 383.4 mm of rainfall in Delhi this month till Saturday evening, the highest in September in 77 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).  The city gauged 417.3 mm of rainfall in September 1944, the highest in the 1901-2021 period. It has already received 383.4 mm of precipitation this September, till 5:30 pm on Saturday, an IMD official said.    Delhi had recorded 360.9 mm rainfall in 1914, 359.2 mm in 1945 and 341.9 mm in 1933, according to the IMD.  Delhi has also witnessed three heavy rain events this September -- 112.1 mm on September 1; 117.7 mm on September 2 and 94.7 mm September 11 (Saturday) -- the highest in the month in a decade.  It had recorded two heavy rain spells in September 2017.    G P Sharma, President (Meteorology), Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, cited two reasons for record-breaking rains this September in Delhi -- "a likely late withdrawal of the monsoon and formation of low pressure systems in quick succession". "In case of late withdrawal of the monsoon, the moist air mass persists for longer durations, goes far beyond its reach and rains over parts of Rajasthan, Delhi and Haryana,"  he said. "Secondly, low pressure systems are forming in quick succession. We are not even halfway through the month and we have already had two good systems. In August, we had only one such system," he said.     Delhi is headed for a new all-time rain record for September.   "Light to moderate rain is likely in the next two days. Another wet spell is predicted around September 17-18," the official told PTI. The September rainfall this year has been in marked contrast to last year, when the city got a meagre 20.9 mm precipitation in the month against the normal of 129.8 mm. Despite the monsoon embracing Delhi only on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital had recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years. The string of rainy days gave 507.1 mm rainfall in Delhi, which was nearly 141 percent above the long-period average of 210.6 mm. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second-highest ever. The city recorded just 10 rainy days in August, the lowest in seven years, and a cumulative rainfall of 214.5 mm, lower than the average of 247 mm. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bumper-september-in-delhi-383-mm-rain-this-month-so-far-highest-since-1944-1029374.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Woman deployed as marshal on DTC bus killed after being hit by truck in Delhi||A 38-year-old woman, deployed as a marshal in a DTC bus, was killed after being allegedly hit by a truck while crossing the road in south Delhi on Saturday, police said. The incident took place at at Pushp Vihar near Madangir bus stand, they said. Anita was a resident of Madangir here and worked as a marshal of a Delhi Transport Corporation bus, they said. The driver of the truck was nabbed at the spot. The accused was under the influence of alcohol, the police said. According to the police, the accident took place when Anita was returning home after her duty. She got down from a bus at Khanpur T-point at around 2 pm. She was crossing the road and heading towards Madangir when she was allegedly hit by the truck. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "We got information about the accident at Pushp Vihar. On reaching the spot, our staff found that the woman was crushed by the truck and was declared brought dead at the hospital." However, the driver of the truck, identified as Jamirulla, had been apprehended at the spot, he said. Jamirulla (25) is a resident of Soniya Vihar, he added. A case under section 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered and Jamirulla has been arrested, police said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-deployed-as-marshal-on-dtc-bus-killed-after-being-hit-by-truck-in-delhi-1029376.html
11-09-2021||North and Central||Video shows students cleaning school premises in UP, headmaster suspended||The headmaster of a primary school was suspended after a video of students being made to clean the school was posted on social media, a senior official said here on Saturday. The video shot at the primary school (Pipra Number 1) of the Sohov education area, showed boys and girls cleaning the school. After a preliminary inquiry, the headmaster of the school, Mrityunjay Kumar Singh, has been suspended with immediate effect, Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) Shivnarayan Singh said. A detailed inquiry has been ordered into the matter and the Block Education Officer, Nagar Nirbhay Kumar Singh has been directed to submit the inquiry report within 15 days, the BSA added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-shows-students-cleaning-school-premises-in-up-headmaster-suspended-1029383.html
11-09-2021||South||Project to test drone delivery of medicines, vaccines launched in Telangana||A pilot project to test the feasibility of delivering medicines, vaccines to remote locations by drones was launched at Vikarabad near Hyderabad on Saturday. ‘Medicine from the Sky’ is an initiative of the Telangana government, spearheaded by the Emerging Technologies Wing of the ITE&C Department, in partnership with the World Economic Forum, NITI Aayog, and HealthNet Global (Apollo Hospitals). The programme was inaugurated by union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Telangana's IT, industries and municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao. In the maiden attempt, a drone carried medicines, vaccines to a community health centre. The ‘Medicine from the Sky’ project entails India’s first organised Beyond Visual Line Of Sight (BVLOS) trials. Under this initiative, multiple drone consortia are operating together to establish the use-case of long range drone based medical deliveries. This is also the first drone program since the Ministry of Civil Aviation had recently liberalised its drone policy. “The ministry’s new drone rules have unlocked the drone industry and the innovation therein on the principles of trust, self-certification, and non-intrusive monitoring. Drones are a frontier technology that can be used to access the otherwise inaccessible areas, and thus allow equitable access to basic services like healthcare for even the farthest and remotest of areas. India is all set to become the drone hub of the world by 2030, and the potential of our innovators is only infinite” said Scindia. Medicine from the Sky would lay the drone delivery network to improve the access to vital health care supplies for remote and vulnerable communities. The project is a first-of-its-kind as it overlaps the two most regulated sectors in the world i.e. aviation and healthcare, officials said. The project has participation of eight consortia, comprising drone operators, experts in healthcare and airspace management, and would demonstrate short and long-range drone-based deliveries to assess the efficacy of low altitude aerial logistics in healthcare. The pilot includes a month long continuous trials by the eight consortia, batched into two per week on a lottery basis. They will conduct the BVLOS trials, collect data from every flight covering all the parameters. While the information would be used to adopt a drone based medicine delivery strategy for the state, the Telangana experience is expected to help other states of the country espouse similar approach. The eight consortia along with their operators are Airserve Consortium (Airserve Initiatives); Bluedart Med Express Consortium (Skye Air); CurisFly Consortium (TechEagle Innovations); Dunzo Med Air Consortium (Skye Air); Flipkart Air Consortium (DroneAcharya Aerial Innovations); Hepicopter Consortium (Marut Drones); Medisky Consortium (Sagar Defence Engineering); Redwing Consortium (Redwing Labs). Each consortium, in addition to having a drone operator, would also have an UTM (Unmanned Traffic Management) partner, and a healthcare/cold-chain partner. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/project-to-test-drone-delivery-of-medicines-vaccines-launched-in-telangana-1029241.html
11-09-2021||South||AIADMK hails TN govt’s announcements on freedom fighter Subramania Bharati||The opposition AIADMK on Saturday hailed Chief Minister M K Stalin’s announcements on the government’s decision to commemorate the death anniversary of India’s firebrand poet and freedom fighter Subramania Bharati as “Mahakavi Day” on September 11 annually. The announcement on observing September 11 as Mahakavi Day on behalf of the government is a welcome development, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam said. “Poet Bharati made the world realise the excellence of the Tamil language. He proved that only those who have affinity to language alone can live as a patriot,” Pannerselvam said. In a statement here the former Chief Minister paid rich tributes to Bharati and said he was a polyglot fluent in English, French, Telugu and Hindi. Bharati had worked as Tamil teacher at the Sethupathi Higher Secondary School in Madurai. His works aroused patriotism. He captured the feeling of unity of the Indians by his poems, Panneerselvam said and recalled that former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa renovated the house where Bharati lived in Triplicane, here. Various announcements by Chief Minister M K Stalin including those on observing the death anniversary as Mahakavi Day, presenting select poems and essays in book form to school students, bringing out low priced statues of the national poet through Poompuhar, conducting events like Perengum Bharati, Bharati on screen, setting up of a chair on the poet’s name at Trichy Bharathidasan University besides providing financial assistance on behalf of the government to maintain the house where Bharati lived in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh are welcome announcements, he said. “I welcome these announcements on behalf of the AIADMK,” Panneerselvam said and conveyed his “heartfelt gratitude” to Stalin for the gesture. On Friday, Stalin made 14 announcements in connection with the death anniversary of Mahakavi Bharati including a State level poetry competition for school and college students and giving away the 'Bharati young poet award' to honour the fiery freedom fighter.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-hails-tn-govt-s-announcements-on-freedom-fighter-subramania-bharati-1029279.html
11-09-2021||South||Raids across Tamil Nadu after 10-year-old dies eating stale biryani||The officials of food safety department in Tamil Nadu conducted raids across the state on eateries specifically non-vegetarian restaurants and hotels and wayside eateries on Friday and Saturday. Sources in the department told IANS that the raids were conducted after a ten-year-old girl in Arni, Tiruvannamalai district died of food poisoning after consuming stale biryani on Thursday night. Situation is tense at Arni after the ten-year-old girl died consuming biryani at Seven Star Biryani centre. At least 21 people were admitted at various hospitals following vomiting and nausea. Doctors said that stale food has led to complications. Food safety officials inspected the premises of the hotel and found after testing that 15 kg of stale chicken meat was stored in the hotel. Police and food safety officials sealed the eatery and a criminal case was registered against the owner, Kadar Basha, who has been taken in police custody along with his cook. Following the death of the ten-year-old girl and the hospitalization of 21 people at Arni, the food safety department conducted a series of raids at restaurants, hotels and wayside eateries across the state and recovered huge quantities of stale and contaminated food. This was on the directive of the state food minister R Sakkarapani who immediately on receiving information convened a meeting of senior officials of the food safety department and ordered raids on the eateries. The minister for food and civil supplies, R Sakkarapani while speaking to IANS said, "The state government is committed to take action against those who serve stale food to consumers and the action is following the death of a ten-year-old girl at Arni, Tiruvannamalai on consuming stale biryani at an eatery. Stale and contaminated chicken meat was recovered from this eatery and we have sealed it down." The minister also said that searches and raids are being carried out across the state and those who were found guilty of serving stale food would be taken to task. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/raids-across-tamil-nadu-after-10-year-old-dies-eating-stale-biryani-1029288.html
11-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Minister questions previous AIADMK's claims of 'power surplus' situation||Tamil Nadu Electricity Minister V Senthil Balaji on Saturday questioned the previous AIADMK regime's claims of ensuring a power surplus scenario, alleging the state was not producing even one third of its energy requirements from its own resources. Balaji was attending the review meeting to discuss the works related to both energy distribution and the field work. "When even one third of the state electricity needs were not produced from its own resources, how then the state could have become energy surplus," he asked. Such a claim was a 'farce,' he added. To a query on alleged coal shortage at the Chennai Ennore and Tuticorin Thermal power stations, he said investigation could be carried out only after completing inspections Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-minister-questions-previous-aiadmks-claims-of-power-surplus-situation-1029298.html
11-09-2021||South||Kerala govt conducts seroprevalence study to assess Covid spread||The Kerala government is conducting a seroprevalence study to take stock of the spread of Covid-19 virus among the people in the state. Health Minister Veena George said the study began earlier this month and is expected to be completed by the end of September. The study would help understand the Covid seropositivity rate among various age groups including children, she told reporters here. "The Health Department is conducting the seroprevalence study. It is expected to completed by this month end. It will be carried out among children as well as adults," the minister said. Asked about the schools reopening in the state, George said the study would help understand the seropositivity among children and the government would take further decisions about it after the study. The study report would be submitted to the CM, General Education and other concerned officials, who would take a call on the reopening of schools after that. On the concerns regarding Nipah virus, reported in Kozhikode last week, she said all the samples tested so far had turned out to be negative, which is a matter of relief. "Source tracing is equally important as that of the contract tracing. A special team from the National Institute of Virology is already collecting samples from the state to identify the source of the spread of the virus infection," she said. However, the minister said the ongoing strict vigil and the restrictions in the affected areas would continue for some more time. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said his government had conducted a complete house-to-house survey within three-km-radius from the house of the 12-year-old boy who succumbed to Nipah virus on September 5 as part of is fever surveillance. He said in the survey around 15,000 houses were included from the containment zone and details were sought from around 68,000 people. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-conducts-seroprevalence-study-to-assess-covid-spread-1029302.html
11-09-2021||South||Students to get laptops not cash as dole, says Andhra government||The Andhra Pradesh government is placing an indent to buy 6,53,144 laptops for distributing them free of cost to students above Class IX in the 2021-22 academic year. Of the total, 5,42,365 basic version laptops will be given to students of classes 9 to 12 under the Amma Vodi scheme in lieu of Rs 14,000 in cash given annually to mothers. Another 19,853 laptops will be given away under the Vasati Deevena scheme. Laptops with advanced configuration, numbering 90,926, will be distributed to students in polytechnics, industrial training institutes and degree classes under the Vasati Deevena scheme. The AP Technology Services (APTS) has been appointed as the nodal agency to float tenders and purchase the laptops soon. As the amount to be spent on the purchase is over Rs 100 crore, the tenders have been submitted to the Judicial Preview Commission for evaluation and seeking objections, if any. Accordingly, the Commission, a statutory body, headed by a retired judge of the High Court, invited objections and suggestions on the tenders from all stakeholders by September 17. After the retired judge gives his remarks and final view, the APTS will go ahead with the bid process, official sources said. Under Vasati Deevena, students of ITIs get a dole of Rs 10,000; of polytechnics Rs 15,000 and undergraduates Rs 20,000 every year. There are over 15.50 lakh beneficiaries under this scheme. In lieu of this, the government offered laptops to interested students. Under Amma Vodi, there are 44.48 lakh beneficiaries. In January next, more than 5.42 lakh of them will get laptops instead of cash. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/students-to-get-laptops-not-cash-as-dole-says-andhra-government-1029359.html
11-09-2021||South||Air India Express crash: AAIB report says pilot's non-adherence to SOP probable cause of Kozhikode mishap||The pilot's "non-adherence" to the standard operating procedure is the probable cause of the Air India Express plane crash at the Kozhikode airport last year but the role of the systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in the accident, according to the AAIB probe report. In the final report released on Saturday, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) has made 43 safety recommendations, including installation of an approach radar at the aerodrome and a DGCA study to establish prevalence of use of non-prescribed medications amongst aircrew, especially for diabetes. It also has 57 findings about the crash. From systemic failures to Air India Express's poor crew resource management to possibility of visual illusions due to low visibility and sub-optimal performance of the PIC's (Pilot-In-Command) windshield wiper, AAIB has mentioned about various other causes that have contributed to the crash. The crash, involving a Boeing 737-800 aircraft, killed 21 people, including the two pilots, and injured several others. While trying to land at the airport amid rain, the aircraft overshot the runway and later broke into pieces. There were 190 people onboard when the crash happened on August 7, 2020. The two pilots who died in the accident that happened at the airport in Kerala were Deepak V Sathe and Akhilesh Kumar. The report, which is more than 250 pages long, said the "probable cause of the accident was the non adherence to SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) by the PF (Pilot Flying)". The PF continued an unstabilised approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, "half way down the runway, in spite of 'Go Around' call by PM which warranted a mandatory 'Go Around' and the failure of the PM to take over controls and execute a 'Go Around'", it noted. According to the report, the investigation team is of the opinion that the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in this accident. "A large number of similar accidents/ incidents that have continued to take place, more so in AIXL, reinforce existing systemic failures within the aviation sector. "These usually occur due to prevailing safety culture that give rise to errors, mistakes and violation of routine tasks performed by people operating within the system. Hence, the contributory factors enumerated below include both the immediate causes and the deeper or systemic causes," it added. Among other recommendations, AAIB has suggested strengthening its own capacity in terms of filling up vacancies with full-time investigators, having a permanent aviation medicine specialist and establishing a state-of-the-art lab for flight recorders. AAIB, headed by Aurobindo Handa, has accepted the probe report. On Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scinida said the report would be made public in the next couple of days. "Whatever steps that have been advocated on the basis of that report, those steps will be and has to be executed. "... within the ministry, we will be also putting together a group of people that will be tasked with the responsibility of ensuring that the steps that have been recommended in the report are put in place at the airport," the minister had said. Last month, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh told the Lok Sabha that final compensation offers have been made to all the next of kin of the deceased passengers, but none of the "next of kin has sent their acceptance as of date". "Final compensation offers have been made to all the 165 injured passengers, out of which 73 passengers accepted the offer and have been paid a total amount of Rs 60.35 crore as the final settlement as of date," he had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-crash-aaib-report-says-pilots-non-adherence-to-sop-probable-cause-of-kozhikode-mishap-1029384.html
11-09-2021||South||Kerala logs 20,487 new Covid-19 cases, 181 deaths||Kerala on Saturday recorded 20,487 new Covid-19 cases and 181 deaths, taking the infection count to 43,55,191 and the death toll to 22,484. A total of 26,155 persons recuperated from the disease today, taking the total cured in the State to 41,00,355. State Health minister Veena George said 1,34,861 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 15.19 per cent. Among the districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of fresh cases -- 2,812, followed by Ernakulam with 2,490 and Thiruvananthapuram 2,217. "Currently there are 2,31,792 active cases in the state of which only 12.9 per cent patients have been admitted to hospitals," the minister said in a release. The minister said of those found infected today, 102 reached the state from outside while 19,497 contracted the disease from their contact. The source of infection of 793 is yet to be traced and 95 health workers are also among the infected. There are 4,108 wards across 794 local self-government bodies with a weekly infection population ratio above seven per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-20487-new-covid-19-cases-181-deaths-1029396.html
11-09-2021||State||Two new ESIC hospitals to come up in Karnataka||Haroholli and Narsapur in Karnataka will soon have two 100-bedded hospitals run by the Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). The decision was announced at the 185th meeting of the ESIC held in Uttarakhand's Rishikesh on Friday. Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav said approval has been given for the acquisition of five acres of land for the hospitals. Along with this, ESIC has also given approval for seven new ESIC dispensaries in Kerala. He also said 'Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana', a scheme for unemployment allowance paid at 50% of wages for three months to those insured persons who lose their jobs for any reason, till June 2022. The meeting also decided that wherever in-house facilities were not available in ESIC hospitals, patients would be referred to empanelled private medical service providers. Wherever any ESI facility is at a distance of more than 10 km, patients can directly approach the empanelled hospitals for treatment. A 30-bedded hospital was also approved for Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. The ESIC Dental College working from temporary structures at Rohini in Delhi would be shifted to a new building at the ESIC Hospital Basai Darapur campus. Besides Yadav, the meeting was also attended by Minister of State for Labour and Employment Rameswar Teli, Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen, Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra and Special Secretary Anuradha Prasad. Separately, Yadav also inspected the proposed 300-bed ESIC hospital in Haridwar. He said that the ESIC has already sanctioned Rs 297 crore for the proposed 300-bed hospital in Haridwar, apart from the two hospitals sanctioned in Dehradun and Kashipur.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-new-esic-hospitals-to-come-up-in-karnataka-1029252.html
11-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai designates ministers to oversee 'Amrith' schemes||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday assigned ministers to oversee the implementation of the 'Amrith' schemes, which he had announced on August 15 to mark the platinum jubilee of India's independence, in their respective districts. In an order, the Chief Minister said he had already appointed ministers in charge for districts to oversee the Covid-19 management and flood relief works. The order further said the ministers will also be tasked with implementing the Amrith schemes and chair meetings to identify the beneficiaries of the welfare programmes. Bommai, who holds the Bengaluru development portfolio, has designated Revenue Minister R Ashoka to oversee the implementation of the Amrith schemes in the state capital. The Chief Minister had announced various Amrith schemes to celebrate the 'Amrith Mahotsav' (Platinum Jubilee) of India's independence on August 15, including 'Amrith Nirmala Nagara', 'Amrith School', 'Amrith Anganwadi' and 'Amrith Gram Panchayat'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-designates-ministers-to-oversee-amrith-schemes-1029147.html
11-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hindu activists in Udupi barge into church during prayers, allege conversions||Tension prevailed in the coastal town of Karkala in Karnataka's Udupi district after activists from a Hindu group barged into a church at the time of prayers, alleging religious conversions. The incident took place on Friday. Karkala police have registered a case against the members of the right-wing Hindu Jagaran Vedike and a church priest. Security has been beefed up in the town of Karkala and Kukkandur village church. According to police, the members of the Hindu Jagaran Vedike barged into a church in Kukkandur village alleging that the church authorities assembled more than 35 Hindus there to carry out religious conversions. The police have questioned Benedict, the church pastor for allegedly carrying out conversions. Police sources said Benedict did not have permission to hold religious meetings. Earlier, there was a complaint filed against him on July 15 for organising religious meetings with the intention to carry out conversions. The pastor was warned by the police not to carry out such activities without permission. However, on Friday, the programme was held without permission, the police said. The police have also recorded the statement of Sunil, a labourer who participated in the prayer meeting, saying that Benedict forced him to attend the church prayers. The police have registered a case against Hindu Jagaran Vedike members under IPC sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 149 (offence committed during unlawful assembly), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) based on the complaint filed by Benedict. It was alleged that the activists misbehaved with women after barging inside the church, so the police have also registered a case under IPC 354 (assaulting or using criminal force on women). The police have also booked Benedict under sections 295 (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) and 298 (uttering words etc with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person). Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hindu-activists-in-udupi-barge-into-church-during-prayers-allege-conversions-1029339.html
11-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Was offered money while quitting Congress in Karnataka: Former BJP Minister Shrimant Patil||Shrimant Patil, a former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cabinet Minister in Karnataka and the party's Kagwad MLA, on Saturday said he was offered money at the time of quitting Congress by the BJP government. "But I declined the offer of money and demanded that I should be given a good position in the BJP-led government so that I can do social service," he added. "It was true that I was given an offer of money. I did not take the money and asked for a good portfolio. Accordingly, I was given a cabinet berth. Now, they (BJP) have dropped me from the new cabinet. However, I have the confidence of getting a cabinet berth in the coming days," he said. "I have discussed with senior leaders regarding the cabinet portfolio and Maratha community is also pitching in for me, demanding inclusion in the new cabinet. The senior BJP leaders have assured me that I will be accommodated in the cabinet," Patil added. Opposition parties in Karnataka have been targetting the BJP government alleging horse-trading of 16 MLAs belonging to the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) which ended their coalition government. Later, The BJP formed the government in the state under the leadership of former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. When Yediyurappa was asked to step down, Shrimant Patil, who was then a cabinet minister was not included in the cabinet of the new Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/was-offered-money-while-quitting-congress-in-karnataka-former-bjp-minister-shrimant-patil-1029358.html
11-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress accuses Karnataka govt of fudging Covid-19 death figures||Former Congress minister Ramalinga Reddy on Saturday dished out statistics and claimed that the BJP government was fudging Covid-19 death numbers to avoid paying compensation to people who succumbed to the virus.  Reddy, the BTM Layout legislator, also heads the Public Accounts Committee that is looking into complaints of Covid-19 mismanagement. ‘ According to Reddy, there is suspicion over the deaths of as many as 1.62 lakh people in Karnataka.  “As per information provided by the state government, the number of people who died due to Covid-19 is 37,318. As per information from the Chief Registrar of Births & Deaths, there were 4.83 lakh deaths in 2018, 5.08 lakh in 2019 and 5.51 lakh in 2020. "Every year, the number of deaths is increasing. In the first seven months of 2021, up to July, 4.21 lakh people have died. The number of deaths for the first seven months of 2020 was 2.64 lakh. That’s 1.62 lakh more. How did these 1.62 lakh people die? Was there a tsunami, earthquake or a cyclone in Karnataka? Or, was there cholera or plague,” Reddy asked.  The Congress working president said these statistics were “proof” that the government was lying about Covid-19 deaths.  “If coronavirus patients with comorbidities die, then they won’t get a Covid-19 death certificate. Also, if patients test negative later and then die, it won’t be a Covid-19 death. The 37,000-figure of the government is only for those people who had no other illness,” Reddy explained.  The Congress leader claimed that the government understated the deaths as it had committed to compensating the bereaved families. The government has ordered Rs 1 lakh to be given to BPL families whose adults die of Covid-19.   The Congress, which is doggedly pursuing its claim of false death figures, will raise the issue in the legislature session that starts September 13, Reddy said.   Health Minister K Sudhakar has, earlier, denied the Congress' claim that the government lied about Covid-19 figures.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-accuses-karnataka-govt-of-fudging-covid-19-death-figures-1029393.html
11-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At 801 new Covid-19 cases, Karnataka sees lowest daily tally in 6 months||Karnataka on Saturday reported 801 cases, the lowest daily number of cases reported in the past six months. On Tuesday, the state had reported 851 cases. Continuing with the dip in daily Covid tests, the state tested 1.19 lakh samples on Saturday. Last Tuesday also the state had tested 1.18 lakh tests. It had conducted up to two lakh tests in a day just last month. The number of active cases stands at 16,672. With 15 new deaths, the toll is now 37,487. Six districts: Chikkaballapur, Gadag, Haveri, Ramanagar, Vijayapura and Yadgir reported zero new cases on Saturday. Chikkamagalur and Dakshina Kannada districts reported four deaths each, Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru reported two deaths each, and Chamarajanagar, Dharwad and Kodagu reported one death each. Positivity rate for the day was 0.67 per cent and case fatality rate 1.87 per cent. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 207 cases, Dakshina Kannada reported 133 cases, Belagavi 93, Udupi 86 cases and Kodagu 59. The state administered 2,77,769 vaccine doses on Saturday, failing to meet its daily target of five lakh doses. So far, 4,74,27,330 doses have been administered in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-801-new-covid-19-cases-karnataka-sees-lowest-daily-tally-in-6-months-1029406.html
11-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ecology budget from next year, says Karnataka chief minister||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that state budget, for the first time, will include measures to bridge the ecological deficit and directed forest officials to conduct annual assessment of the loss of ecology. Speaking at a function to mark Forest Martyrs' Day, the chief minister said people have paid with their lives to protect the forests and remembered P Srinivas, who was murdered by forest brigand Veerappan. He said justice can be done to the sacrifices of martyrs only by protecting ecology and increasing the forest cover. "Karnataka's forest cover is 21 per cent (of total area). About 30-40 years ago, it was 30 to 40 per cent. I am giving a mandate to Forest and Environment Department to make annual assessment of loss of our natural resource assets and total deficit. For first time, I will introduce a budget that will have a provision to fill the ecological deficit," he said. Noting that the "forest is surviving because our ancestors saved it for us", he said the present generation has a duty to hand it over to their successors. "The younger generation is not taught about the crucial need to conserve forests and wildlife. We have become inhuman due to our indifference. The pace of degradation of forests has increased in the last 20 years. We have to adopt a sustainable lifestyle based on needs," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ecology-budget-from-next-year-says-karnataka-chief-minister-1029424.html
11-09-2021||West||Mumbai rape case: Victim still serious, unconscious||A day after being heinously raped and brutalised in a tempo in the Kharani Road area of Saki Naka locality in Mumbai, the victim continues to be serious and unconscious.  She is currently admitted to the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar. “She is unconscious and being treated,” said Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar. The Saki Naka police station has the accused in custody.   Shiv Sena MLC Manisha Kayande, who visited the hospital, said that the victim is serious. “The information that I got is that one surgery was conducted but she remains serious,” she said.  According to her, the victim is aged between 32 to 34, married with two kids. “Whether the act is committed by one person or whether it was a gang rape is a matter of investigation,” she said.  National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma has taken serious cognisance of the incident.  The victim was raped and a rod was inserted in her private parts. The accused has been booked under sections 307, 376, 323, and 504 of the Indian Penal Code. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has taken serious cognisance of the incident. Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis expressed shock over the incident. Latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-rape-case-victim-still-serious-unconscious-1029191.html
11-09-2021||West||PM Modi inaugurates Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated Sardardham Bhavan, Ahmedabad, via video conferencing. "Before starting any new work we offer our prayers to Lord Ganesh, and fortunately, inauguration of Sardardham Bhavan is also being done on the auspicious occasion of 'Ganesha' festival. Yesterday was Ganesh Chaturthi and today the entire nation is celebrating the festival," PM Modi said.  He further said, "Lokarpan of Sardardham Bhavan has been done on an important date. It's 9/11 today, a date that is remembered in the history of the world as an attack on humanity... but the same date also taught us about humanitarian values." According to a Prime Minister's Office (PMO) statement, Sardardham has been working towards educational and social transformation, upliftment of the weaker sections of the society and providing employment opportunities to the youth. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and Deputy CM Nitin Patel were also present. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-inaugurates-sardardham-bhavan-in-ahmedabad-1029212.html
11-09-2021||West||Mumbai woman, who was raped, brutally assaulted in tempo, dies in hospital||A day after a woman was heinously raped and brutalised in a tempo - similar to the Nirbhaya case - in the Kharani Road area of Saki Naka locality in Mumbai, the victim passed away after battling for 33 hours on Saturday. A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the incident and the trial of the accused would be conducted before a special fast-track court. “The incident is sad and shocking,” said leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis. The victim was allegedly raped and brutalised inside an open tempo parked off the Rashid Compound off the Chandivali Studios in the wee hours of Friday. A watchman alerted the Mumbai Police main control room informing the police about a man beating up a woman. Immediately, a police team was dispatched which reached the spit within 10 minutes and found the woman in a pool of blood. “The team did not waste a moment and drove the same tempo to the Rajawadi Hospital,” Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale told reporters in Mumbai. He said that the statement of the victim could not be recorded as she remained unconscious and passed away. He also ruled out gang-rape, saying that the CCTV footage obtained by police shows the presence of the accused only. “We have got the custody of the accused. The probe is underway. If there are any updates, we will come back,” he said. As far as the cause and motive is concerned, he said that it would be known only after detailed investigations. “The blood-stained clothes of the accused have been seized and have been sent for investigations,” he said. The SIT would be led by assistant commissioner of police Jyotsna Rasam, an experienced lady officer. The accused has been booked under section 302 (murder), 376 (rape) 323 (intentional hurt), 504 (intentional assualt) and of the Indian Penal Code. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-woman-who-was-raped-brutally-assaulted-in-tempo-dies-in-hospital-1029216.html
11-09-2021||West||Mumbai rape case accused sent to police custody till September 21||A court has sent the accused in Mumbai's Sakinaka rape and assault case to police custody till September 21. A day after the woman was heinously raped and brutalised in a tempo - similar to the Nirbhaya case -  in the Kharani Road area of Saki Naka locality in Mumbai, she passed away after battling for 33 hours on Saturday.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-rape-case-accused-sent-to-police-custody-till-september-21-1029256.html
11-09-2021||West||Vijay Rupani resigns; BJP likely to pitch Patidar as Gujarat CM||Barely a month after completing five years in office, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani resigned on Saturday, ending the strong speculations about his replacement for the last couple of weeks. The move is said to have been made primarily keeping in mind the Assembly polls slated to be held by the end of 2022. Speculations are also strong that the party will replace Rupani, 65, with a leader from the Patidar, in order to "appease" the community which has been demanding the post of chief minister from their midst. BJP officials said that on Monday, a legislative party meeting has been convened where the decision to replace Rupani is likely to be taken. Rupani tendered his resignation to governor Devvrat Acharya in Gandhinagar at around 2:30 pm. He was accompanied by deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya among other colleagues. Mandaviya is being reported as a possible replacement for Rupani. Praful Patel, the controversial administrator of two union territories, is also reported to be a frontrunner for the CM post. BJP officials said that soon after the announcement of resignation, Gujarat state-in-charge Bhupendra Yadav held a meeting with Mandaviya, union fisheries and dairy minister Parsottam Rupala and BJP general secretary BL Santhosh at party headquarters. Party sources have also not ruled out Rupala or deputy CM Nitin Patel's elevation to the CM post. "I am grateful to the BJP that a worker like me was given the important post of Gujarat chief minister to lead. In the journey of Gujarat's development, I was also given an opportunity to contribute five years ago. I am grateful to the prime minister. I believe that under the leadership of the prime minister, Gujarat needs a new energetic leadership. Keeping this in mind, I have resigned from the responsibility of chief ministership," Rupani said in a press conference at Raj Bhawan in Gandhinagar.   On August 7, 2016, Rupani, a jain from Rajkot, succeeded Anandiben Patel who was made to resign in the backdrop of Patidar agitation for reservation. Rupani's ascent to the top post was considered to be a "move" to neutralise the role of caste politics dominated by the Patidar community, the most influential vote bank whose support can make or break any political equation. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress described the development as BJP's "overall failure in managing the state." "The Rupani government was run by remote control...The change of guard is just a cover to hide its failure in preventing corruption, inflation and Covid-19 mismanagement," said leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani. Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani reacted on this Twitter account as saying, "Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani resigns: People of Gujarat would have appreciated had Mr Rupani resigned for his monumental mismanagement of Covid crisis. This resignation comes purely to take care of electoral arithmetic keeping 2022 Assembly polls in mind." The BJP leadership is looking at a major reshuffle in the government well in time before hitting campaigns for the 2022 Assembly elections. "Party is most likely replacing Rupani with a strong Patidar leader and will give prominent places in the cabinet to leaders from all dominant castes such as other backward castes and tribals to win 2022 polls," an insider said. He added, "The main reason behind removing Rupani is his image as being a remote control CM, party's state president (C R Paatil) as super CM, IAS officer more powerful than the ministers, people's anger due to Covid-19 mismanagement, among others." Another source said, "Recently the clamour for a Patidar at the helm of affairs in the state had increased." Top community leaders including Naresh Patel, President of Khodaldham, a religious and social organisation of Leuva Patels, in Saurashtra had said that the community would wish for a chief minister from Patidar. This holds importance for the fact that Leuva and Kadva Patels, two sects of Patidar community, have been "uniting" and BJP can't afford to ignore their demand. Incidentally, the decision to remove Rupani came barely 24 hours after union minister Amit Shah left for Delhi on Friday morning after spending 24 hours in Ahmedabad during his unannounced visit. The political drama in the state unfolded hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the Sardardham building in Ahmedabad constructed by Vishwa Patidar Samaj. In the event, Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vijay-rupani-resigns-bjp-likely-to-pitch-patidar-as-gujarat-cm-1029263.html
11-09-2021||West||Court sentences man to 10 years RI for raping toddler||A court has sentenced a 49-year-old man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a toddler in Maharashtra's Thane district. Additional sessions judge Kavita D Shirbhate found the accused, a resident of Mumbra, guilty of charges under relevant sections of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and sentenced him to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment. The court also fined the accused Rs 10,000 for raping the two-and-half-year-old daughter of an acquaintance. The copy of the order passed on September 4 was made available on Thursday. According to the prosecution, the victim's family and the accused hailed from the same village and the latter was living with them in Mumbra. On the night of May 5, 2014, the victim's family left the child and her elder sister in the care of the accused and went shopping. On their return, the family found the toddler lying unconscious and bleeding, while the accused was missing from the house, it was stated. The victim's parents rushed her to a hospital, where the doctors confirmed that she had been raped, following which a complaint was lodged and the arrest was made. At least eight witnesses were examined during the course of the trial, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-sentences-man-to-10-years-ri-for-raping-toddler-1029278.html
11-09-2021||West||Sakinaka rape: BJP demands law on lines of SC/ST Act||As the Sakinaka rape-muder incident snowballed into a political issue, the opposition BJP on Saturday demanded a law on the lines of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act so that accused involved in crime against women do not get bail easily. Both leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar raised the issue and expressed concern over the increase in crime against women. State BJP vice president Chitra Wagh lashed out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government and Woman and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur for the fact that the post of Maharashtra State Commission for Women is still vacant. "I am told that the file to appoint Chairperson on women's commission has been sent back eight times by the chief minister and deputy chief minister. How is this government going to defend it?" she asked. Wagh said Thakur was now pointing fingers at similar assaults on women that had occurred in the past. Wagh said that an act on the lines of the Atrocities Act should be enacted so that people involved in atrocities and crime should not get bail. "There are experts, lawyers and the state judiciary department who need to come up with better measures that would work as deterrents," she said, adding that it seems that for the MVA government, the Saki Naka incident is just a number. Fadnavis said that the accused deserves capital punishment. "I know that awarding a sentence is in the hands of the judiciary. But I feel the culprit in the Saki Naka rape should be hanged to death," he said, adding that the incidents is akin to the Nirbhaya case. Asked about the proposed Shakti Act, he said: “Existing laws are sufficient to take tough actions against the culprits. It is the will power of the state to take tough decisions and follow it up till the logical end.” Added Darekar: “The onus of this incident is entirely on the state government because there is no respect left for the law. I am deeply anguished by her death...I can not describe my feelings in words. It is not only shameful, but it has made me angry. The state needs to take some action," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sakinaka-rape-bjp-demands-law-on-lines-of-sc/st-act-1029307.html
11-09-2021||West||Fadnavis accuses MVA of 'interfering in police department', says cops should be treated with respect||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday alleged that there has been "increased interference" of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government in the state police department. "Even since the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, there has been increased interference in the police department. This government has been interfering in the police force, which is a disciplined force. The police should be treated with respect. There have been objections about the recent police transfers as some police officials complained about downgrading of their posts or being sidelined," Fadnavis told reporters. The former state chief minister claimed that several IPS officers met him and pointed out that protocols were breached in the recent transfers in the police force. When asked about NCP minister Nawab Malik's objection to the IPS officers meeting Fadnavis, he said, "When I was chief minister, many IPS officers used to meet NCP president Sharad Pawar. I never objected to it." He asserted that IPS officers keep meeting senior political leaders as per the tradition in the state. "There is democracy in Maharashtra...It should not be treated like West Bengal," the Leader of Opposition in state Legislative Assembly said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-accuses-mva-of-interfering-in-police-department-says-cops-should-be-treated-with-respect-1029321.html
11-09-2021||West||Despite patchy track record, Sawant may lead BJP into 2022 battle for Goa||Shoes were never really a part of former chief minister late Manohar Parrikar's wardrobe given his penchant for open footwear. When Pramod Sawant took over the state's reins after Parrikar's demise, it was not going to be easy for him to fill the four-time chief minister and Union defence minister's well-worn sandals. After Sawant assumed charge as CM on March 19, 2019, there wasn't much expectation from the 48-year-old mining machine operator's son to blaze a trail. All he was expected to do was to take directions from the state BJP's core committee and keep the show going till 2022. Sawant's early few months in power made him the face of the ruling BJP's brute efforts to raid the opposition's larder of legislators in order to consolidate power, a step deemed necessary after the death of the party's patriarch Parrikar. Working swiftly, Sawant ejected two coalition allies, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Goa Forward Party from his Cabinet. In months, 10 Congress MLAs, led by the Leader of Opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar, split from the party and merged with the BJP. The additional influx of 12 MLAs (including two from the MGP) made Sawant's majority unassailable in the 40-member house. Sawant, a Maratha by caste, took advantage of the 'culling season' by lopping off the key aides (mostly Gaud Saraswat Brahmins) of Parrikar from plum power positions, a move that has ended up irking the numerically small, but influential Brahmin community across the political spectrum. With a majority of 28 MLAs (including one independent legislator) and the legislative opposition virtually rendered numerically toothless, the going should have been smooth for Sawant in the run-up to the 2022 assembly polls. But here's where the metaphor about filling the shoes of a predecessor comes into play.  Sawant appears to have outdone his predecessor when it comes to popular outreach schemes like 'Swayampurna mitra'—which involves senior bureaucrats visiting village panchayats — or the aggressive vaccination programme or even using technology in matters of governance. However, he seems to have fallen short of the one master skill, which overrode all of Parrikar's failings — of which there were many — the ability to manage popular perception.  Parrikar's track record in his later regimes was marked by chronic U-turns, streaks of arrogance and dubious decision-making on broad policy issues, but he still managed to keep his reputation as a technocrat and an 'able administrator intact to some extent. Sawant has beaten Parrikar at governance-related U-turns, which has led his stock to take a severe beating on several counts. The list of chronicled reversals by his government, ranges across sectors environment, education, electoral politics, among others.  Sawant's latest flip-flop in the long queue of U-turns is the Bhumiputra Adhikarni Bill 2021. The bill was passed by the state government this year and allows occupants of illegal homes to legalise their structures, while also conferring the status of Bhumiputra (son of the soil) to immigrants.  The government was forced to send the legislation into cold storage after wholesale outrage in all sections of society. Sawant has had ugly and repeated run-ins with his own Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, first over the issue of setting up an Indian Institute of Technology-Goa campus at the Shel-Melaulim plateau in North Goa and later over the spate of deaths due to oxygen shortage at the state's top hospital when the second wave was at its peak. The scuffles between the two peaked to such an extent that Union Home Minister Amit Shah had to intervene and resolve the scrappy dispute between Sawant and Rane. But the high-profile wrangle appears to have considerably impacted Sawant's credentials as a leader. Sawant's inability to ensure victory in a municipal by-election in a ward in the Sanquelim municipal council located in his own assembly constituency has also cast doubts about his popularity on his own home turf. The party's repeated failure to get the crucial mining sector back on track, a legacy issue inherited from the erstwhile Parrikar regime, is also going to haunt Sawant. While Sawant did try to resolve the deadlock by aggressively pursuing the matter in the Supreme Court, the resumption of mining the industry in the state continues to be a distant dream, nine years after all the industry was stopped in its tracks due to prevalent illegalities.  For now, the lack of a credible Hindu face — BJP's lot of 27 MLAs has 15 Catholics — committed to the BJP appears to be the one factor which Sawant can take comfort in as far as the 2022 assembly polls are concerned. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/despite-patchy-track-record-sawant-may-lead-bjp-into-2022-battle-for-goa-1029350.html
11-09-2021||West||IMD forecasts more rain in Mumbai, Konkan, Western Maharashtra||Mumbai, the rest of Konkan, and Western Maharashtra are expected to receive 'heavy to very heavy' rainfall in the next three-four days, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. “The low-pressure area developed in the Bay of Bengal is expected to get converted into depression and move north-north-west in next couple of days. It is expected to bring more intense showers over Western Maharashtra, Konkan including Mumbai region starting from Sunday,” the official said. The IMD has issued an 'orange' alert for Raigad, Pune, Ratnagiri, Satara and Kolhapur while a yellow alert has been issued for Mumbai, Thane, Wardha, Palghar and Sindhudurg districts. An orange alert means local officials should remain prepared in case showers intensify. The yellow alert indicates less chances of heavy rain. The rest of Maharashtra is expected to receive light to moderate showers in the next 3-4 days. There could be more rain on Monday in northern Maharashtra as well as parts of eastern Vidarbha and Marathwada, the IMD said. However, the intensity of the showers will be higher in Western Maharashtra and Konkan region, said the met department. The intensity would decrease on Tuesday and Wednesday but some areas will continue to get showers, the forecast stated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-forecasts-more-rain-in-mumbai-konkan-western-maharashtra-1029371.html
11-09-2021||West||Gujarat BJP legislature party likely to meet on Sunday to choose new CM||The Gujarat BJP legislature party is likely to meet on Sunday to choose the new chief minister following Vijay Rupani's resignation, a party leader said here. Union Minister Amit Shah may join the legislature party meeting along with central observers, said state BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas. In a sudden development, chief minister Rupani resigned on Saturday, over a year before the assembly elections. Vyas was speaking to reporters after a meeting of senior leaders including national general secretary B L Santhosh and Union minister Bhupender Yadav at the party headquarters 'Kamalam' here. "The BJP legislature party is likely to meet on Sunday, but we will be able to confirm this once the central parliamentary board conveys the exact time of the meeting to us. All BJP MLAs will attend the meeting along with central observers," Vyas said. The name of the new CM will be decided in the meeting, he added. Santhosh and Bhupender Yadav met senior Gujarat BJP leaders including state unit chief C R Paatil, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, ministers Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and Pradipsinh Jadeja, state BJP general secretaries Pradipsinh Vaghela and Rajubhai Patel, and party's chief whip in the Assembly Pankaj Desai. Rupani did a lot of development work as chief minister and took Gujarat to new heights, Vyas said. "It is a common process in the BJP...he will be given a new responsibility. He was earlier state president, then became chief minister, and now he will take up a new responsibility," the spokesperson added.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-legislature-party-likely-to-meet-on-sunday-to-choose-new-cm-1029395.html
