12-09-2021||Comment||More women leadership need of the hour in higher education||The future of higher education in India is at an exciting turning point. The National Education Policy is all set to disrupt silos in higher education. On the horizon are Multidisciplinary Education and Research Universities (MERUs) and holistic undergraduate education with multiple exit points. Colleges are being nudged to reconceptualise degree programmes, embrace open-ended education, create cross-cutting curriculum, adopt new-age technologies and get ready to exercise greater autonomy in the decade to come.  Transformative change on a massive scale is indeed possible. In recent years, assessment, accreditation and ranking initiatives have led to radical changes in the quality framework. The top-ranking colleges and universities have enough experience, professional competence and acumen to immediately move on to the new paradigm. While there are huge variations in quality standards and access to resources, aspirations run high across the country. The best institutions are champions of change, set the benchmarks and lay the road map to guide others towards excellence. Then institutional leadership matters. As we celebrate the 2021 NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) awards, the time is ripe for flagging two issues. First, NIRF currently ranks institutions under categories labelled as Overall, Universities, Engineering, Management, Pharmacy, Colleges, Medical, Law, Architecture and Dental. A new cross-cutting category of Research has been introduced in 2021. NEP will necessitate the merging of institutional categories to reflect the agenda of multi-disciplinarity and holistic education. Second, as NEP aims to future-ready the young population for the workplace, the focus will be on strengthening excellence with equity, diversity and inclusion. In particular, gender equity has to be manifest, mainstream and commensurate with the aspirations of half the population. The AISHE (All India State of Higher Education) and NIRF data show that while female enrollments and out-turn in higher education is on the ascendant, there is a lack of equitable career opportunities in higher academia across the disciplinary spectrum. The number of female faculty in postgraduate and research departments is abysmally low. Female academic talent and strategic vision is constrained to flourish in the silos of undergraduate education that is offered in colleges. The NIRF 2021 top hundred colleges are an eclectic group that includes 28 all-women, four all-male and 68 co-educational colleges. There is near gender parity with 45 female principals, 17 of them leading co-educational colleges. Five in the top ten are female-led. The performance of all-women colleges has consistently been stellar. Miranda House has retained its position as the top college for five consecutive years since 2017. Lady Shri Ram College, another premiere institution, is a close second. It is noticeable that 28 colleges of the University of Delhi figure in the list with as many as 16 having female principals of which 10 are women-only colleges. These institutions are a fine example of holistic liberal education in arts and basic sciences with focus on beyond the classroom activities that leverage innovative mentoring opportunities. The graduating students are veritable talent in motion, with female students often outshining. The alumni list spans pioneers who have influenced the narrative in all fields of endeavour. By contrast, NIRF top universities have just 10% female vice-chancellors. Jamia Millia Islamia stands out. Ably led by a female vice-chancellor, it figures in eight categories. The engineering stream with merely 7% women directors is starkly non-inclusive across the pipeline, be it students, researchers, faculty or women leaders. With fewer institutions participating, other categories have a slightly better gender leadership profile with 11% in pharmacy, 15% in dental, 15% in management, 17% in law, 20% in medical, and 28% in architecture. It is disconcerting that Institutions of National Importance lag on gender equity with only nine (7%) of the 130 listed by the Ministry of Education having female directors. The prestigious IITs and IISERs have never had a woman director. AIIMS did make history with one female director more than 30 years ago. Two NITs and two NIPERs now have female directors. According to UGC, seven (13%) of the 54 central universities; 52 (12%) of the 437 state universities; 10 (8%) of the 125 deemed universities; and 23 (6%) of the 388 private universities have female vice-chancellors. In January 2005, the then Harvard University president made controversial comments about women’s capacity to excel in science evoking issues of intrinsic aptitude. Soon afterwards, Harvard hired its first woman president in 2007 who upheld the pole position for 11 long years. Several other top-ranking universities followed. The recently released 2021 Times Higher Education Rankings affirmed that 24 of the top 100, and 41 of the top 200 universities are led by female leaders. Bucking the trend are the top-ranked Oxford University, three of the ivy league institutions in the US, Imperial College and London School of Economics, amongst other highly sought institutions. They stand testimony to the potential of women in leadership roles. The NIRF gender leadership index should be a wake-up call. Having a significantly large number of women leaders only in the colleges is a matter of concern. Their relative absence in other categories reinforces the stereotype that teaching in schools and colleges is a woman-centric profession but higher academia is a different territory. The education sector that takes pride in being progressive has to lead by example as its women alumnae are increasingly storming all other domains, including space, engineering, healthcare and digital technologies. NASSCOM has been successfully led by a female president and Engineers India Limited recently appointed its first female executive head. At least six of the Covid vaccines have emerged from research or companies led by women. Even where underrepresented, female talent is in abundance. As the new education policy reboots the system, there is a need to change mindsets, improve the organisational culture, gender climate and lived experience of the community. Women in decision-making roles can catalyse new ways of thinking and doing. Then SMART actions must include establishing clear pathways for women’s advancement. As the system gears up to fill the many vacant positions at the top, the first step is to overcome the obvious bias, set up gender-responsive search committees, fair and transparent selection processes that recognise women as thought leaders and institution builders.  (Pratibha Jolly is former Principal of Miranda House and Academic Consultant NAAC. She is developing the framework for GATI (Gender Advancement for Transforming Institutions), a DST supported initiative for enhancing gender equity in STEMM disciplines. Priyanka Nupur and Roja Rawal are members of the GATI research team)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/more-women-leadership-need-of-the-hour-in-higher-education-1029657.html
12-09-2021||First Edit||Putting politicians in their place||The Madras High Court has rightly deprecated the use of photographs of political functionaries, including that of the chief minister, on school bags and stationery. The order was passed on a PIL which sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to continue distributing the unused stock of school bags, stationery and textbooks which had photographs of former chief ministers E Palanisamy and J Jayalalithaa. However, even before this direction, the M K Stalin government had announced that while the existing stock will be issued to students, the practice of printing photographs on school material would henceforth be dispensed with — a decision that won the praise of the court. This led to a saving of Rs 13 crore and Stalin deserves to be complimented for acting like a statesman though his decision was strongly opposed by his party men considering the acrimonious relationship between the ruling DMK and the previous AIADMK government. Some time ago, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath too had gone ahead with the distribution of school bags that had pictures of his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav. However, laptops meant for students were recalled and the screensavers with photographs of Yadav were replaced with that of Yogi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Abhorring the practice of affixing photos of politicians on material meant for school children who did not even have the right to vote, the court observed that public funds cannot be misused for the personal interest of any politician. To Stalin’s credit, he has also done away with the practice of printing the chief minister’s photographs on certificates awarded to best teachers on Teacher’s Day or on Covid food kits distributed to households. While politicians have every right to seek publicity when they invest their own funds, misusing the taxpayer’s money for their personal aggrandisement has become a norm in the country today. An RTI query has revealed that the Modi government spent a whopping Rs 5,000 crore on publicity since 2014, while states too would not be far behind. The penchant for self-promotion among our political class is such that while it is common to find photographs of the prime minister and chief ministers staring out of advertisements taking personal credit for works executed through public funds, even Covid-19 vaccination certificates have not been spared from this malaise. The Madras High Court has set the ball rolling and considering that politicians will not on their own put an end to this trend, one would look up to the judiciary to rein them in at least when it comes to material supplied to school children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/putting-politicians-in-their-place-1029653.html
12-09-2021||In Perspective||Ganesha, India’s most revered ‘export’||There’s no dispute that Ganesha is the most worshipped Hindu deity. Whether one is a Shaivite or Vaishnavite, Jain or Buddhist, Ganesha appeals to all. And aside from idols, the ‘Elephant God’ is now also artistically depicted on lamps, calendars and pendants, and he adorns T-shirts, keychains, candle-holders, coffee mugs, etc. Drawings and sketches of him in new forms and designs show an explosion of human creative imagination. His birthday – Ganesh Chaturthi – is also the most widely celebrated of our festivals. But is Ganesha’s popularity only in India? Is it only amongst Indians in India and those outside India in countries such as Singapore, Malaysia, the US and UK, Germany, Australia, etc., where there are large Indian populations? Sculptures of Ganesha have been found across the world, from Asia to the Americas, though in some places, his depictions differ from what Indians in India are used to seeing. In Thailand, he’s worshipped as Phra Phikanet, a deity of fortune and the remover of obstacles. The logo of the Department of Fine Arts, Thailand, is Lord Ganesha. Thailand also boasts of having the largest standing bronze idol of Ganesha. In Cambodia, he is known as Prah Kenes. Prior to the Khmer period, i.e., before the ninth century, Ganesha was flat-bellied, standing, and without the snake and mouse, but later, during the 12th century, the idol was seated, with the big belly and a snake around the neck. Even in Tibetan Buddhism, he’s represented as the “deity of wealth”, but he also is represented in Tantric Form as the fierce and red Maha Rakhta. The tantric form is also found in Indonesia, where Ganesha can be seen adorned with skull ornaments, right from the headdress to the pedestal. Indonesia, though a Muslim-majority country, reveres Ganesha. In Indonesian culture, Ganesha was born with the elephant head. In 1998, the country issued a 20,000-Rupiah currency note with an emblem of Ganesha. Perhaps the only currency in circulation in the modern era that carries an emblem of a god. Several South and South-East Asian countries had trade links with India. Hence, Ganesha also become a traveller along with the peoples of these countries. Mongolia, China and Japan also embraced Ganesha once, but today he flourishes only in Japan. In Mongolia, he was called Totkhar-our Khaghan, and in China he was Kuan-shi t’ienor Ho Tei, the large-bellied ‘God of Happiness’.  In Japan, he’s known as Kangi-ten, Vinayaka-ten, Binayaka-ten, Ganapatei, etc. Kangi-ten is often represented as an elephant-headed male and female pair. The Japanese even today worship Ganesha and Ganesha Chathurthi is celebrated with much fervour and devotion, just like in India. One can understand Ganesha’s popularity in South and South-East Asia, China, Japan and even Persia. He was popular throughout Central Asia, in Iran and Syria, and in Afghanistan, wherefrom Gandhari, the wife of Kaurava king Dhritrashtra, came. The foray of Islam in Afghanistan is only 1300 years old. It was only around the 10th century that the Hindu Shahi kings who ruled Afghanistan were defeated by Mahmud Ghazni and the Islamic empire started. Most of the temples and monasteries in the Hindu-ruled land were destroyed. Only some remnants remain today. Even to this day, Ganesha idols belonging to 4-5th century are currently housed and guarded at Dargah Pir Ratan Nath Ji Mandir, Kabul. With the current situation in Afghanistan, will the people preserve him or will he preserve the people? But how did Ganesha reach the Americas? How, indeed, did Indians? Had Indians explored the Americas thousands of years ago? Have we wrongly credited Christopher Columbus with having discovered America? The Mayan civilization, which comprised south-eastern Mexico, all of Guatemala and Belize, and the western portions of Honduras and El Salvador, started around 2600 BC and collapsed around 900 AD, has many references to Hindu culture and Hindu gods. Mexico’s famed Mayan archaeological site Chichen Itza has similarities to Indian temples. For one, Chichen Itza has 1,000 columns -- just like the 1,000 pillars in the temples of Rameshwaram, Madurai, Srirangam, Chidambaram, Warangal, etc. Similarly, alien figurines have also been found in ancient Indian temples. Did Indians have contacts with the Mayan civilization? According to Mayan legend, the ‘Pyramid of the Magician’, as it’s now called, at Uxmal, Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico, was built by the magician god Itzamna in one night. Sounds familiar? The ‘Palace of Maya’, built by the Pandavas at Indraprastha, was built by Mayasura in one night. Statutes of Ganesha, Shiva, Hanuman are said to have been excavated at Uxmal, Campeche, Gautemala, Honduras, Peru and El Salvador, areas that encompassed the Mayan civilisation. What is it about the elephant-headed, pot-bellied, snake-for-a-belt, mouse-riding Hindu god that has endeared him to so many cultures around the world?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/ganesha-india-s-most-revered-export-1029640.html
12-09-2021||In Perspective||Government needs to focus on care for those in their sunset years||As a demographic and epidemiological transition sweeps across India, we see that the share of senior citizens as a percentage of the total population stands at 8.57% (Census 2011) while the current life expectancy hovers around 69.96 years. It is, hence, rather difficult to fathom that cumulative improvements in health and life expectancy for a country that spends less than 1.2% of its GDP on health are now being viewed as a strain as the proportion of elderly becomes more visible. While there are glimpses of specialised geriatric care facilities in urban areas discounting the low insurance coverage of this segment, the only recourse to the rural elderly is through the public health infrastructure. And the programme in focus is the National Programme for the Health Care of the Elderly (NPHCE) that envisaged a geriatric unit and beds to be made available for patients at government primary health centres and sub-district facilities. Disconcertingly, much of the geriatric healthcare available at the peripheries is only through isolated non-governmental organisations and charitable institutions. Rural-urban disparities, socio-economic divide and the old-age dependency ratio being comparatively higher for rural India probably indicate the higher limitations that the rural elderly are likely to face. The average Indian older adult is overly dependent on his/her family, having no recourse to formal occupation-linked pension schemes, and finds themselves in a changed social milieu that is largely indifferent and uncertain. With public healthcare spending as a proportion to the GDP remaining low and flat, geriatric care is still a far cry from being a prioritised focus. Interestingly, the discourse around care for older persons in India can be traced back to the global gerontological discourse that pathologises ageing and attempts to set it right through the provision of universal, medical and technical solutions. This argument tends to ignore the subjective articulation of needs by older adults in different socio-cultural contexts and the capacity or inherent willingness of family members and children to respond to these needs. As the lifespan of the elderly increases, they are more likely to experience difficulties that are age and lifestyle-related. The commonly seen impairments include difficulties in activities of daily living (ADL), instrumental activities of daily living (IADL), hearing impairment, vision impairment, edentulousness, memory issues, mental health, locomotor issues, etc. Much of these can be locally addressed through the provision of specialised comprehensive geriatric care services at the remote peripheries. While the nation’s focus no doubt still rests on effective maternal and child health services and without discounting its inherent value proposition, there is an emergent need for an equal and concerted focus for our ageing citizens. While the National Policy for Older Persons (NPOP) encourages ageing in place through the family provision of care to the elderly, there is a growing undercurrent that highlights that modern-day children and family caregivers are often unable to carry out caregiver duties effectively and are under stress managing the work-family balance. There is a need to provide caregiver support and aid primary caregivers in managing eldercare within the family environment. Preparing a cadre of trained geriatric caregivers, home nurses and home health aides, who can provide home-based care and support to this growing population segment, is a possible solution. If the notion of ‘ageing in place’ is to be carried forward, policy provisions that support caregivers and recognise their contribution are vital. The national policy framework for older persons needs to be monitored in line with the changing demographic and social fabric inputs to maintain the relevancy of the policy. Eliciting interest from the burgeoning private as well as non-governmental sector can bring in disruptive innovations. It is also primordially relevant to have caregivers included as key stakeholders in the planning process as they are recognised as a primary source of care for the geriatric population in India. Creating supportive awareness about ageing, supporting the formation of social support network groups, capacity building of family caregivers as well as home health aides/caregivers, and understanding the needs of the elderly through a bottom-top approach will help address local complexities and provide solutions relevant to both urban and rural India. Understanding and documenting societal understanding of ageing, addressing care needs of the geriatric population and developing empathetic solutions for older people that aim to reduce ageism, abuse and neglect and bring about the inclusivity of older persons into the community at large are hence the immediate aspirations of senior citizens that India needs to respond to. (The author is a member of the Health Policy Group at IIMB and serves as faculty at the Centre for Public Policy, IIMB)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/government-needs-to-focus-on-care-for-those-in-their-sunset-years-1029656.html
12-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Adani' tag removed from Mangaluru airport name||After months of sustained protests by local social activists, the tag 'Adani airports' has been removed from the name boards of the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). The original name boards, prior to the Adani group taking over the handling of operations of the airport, have now been restored, social activist Dilraj Alva, who took up the issue with the airport authorities, told reporters here on Saturday. Alva said the Adani group had changed the name, adding 'Adani airports' to the name boards after it took over the handling operations. However, as per the agreement for operations and maintenance of the airport, there was no provision to change the airport name, which was revealed through an RTI reply. A legal notice was served in March this year to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the MIA director questioning the 'Adani' tag attached to the name boards. The legal battle waged in this regard has now yielded result and the original name board has been restored from Friday. The changes have been made in MIA's official Facebook and twitter accounts also, Alva said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adani-tag-removed-from-mangaluru-airport-name-1029577.html
12-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivakumar blames state leaders for missed opportunity in Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar blamed the state leadership of the party for missing an opportunity to wrest Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike from BJP after 15 years. Speaking to media persons at the party office on Sunday, he said the State leaders under various compulsions gave party tickets to wrong candidates, which resulted in at least five winnable Congress ticket aspirants contesting as rebel/ independent candidates; and the defeat of our official candidate. “State level leaders, including me, will take the blame for missed opportunity in Hubballi-Dharwad,” he said. Congress won 33 of the 82 wards in HDMP, results of which were announced on September 6. He, however, ruled out the impact of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) on the Congress vote share. The Asaduddin Owaisi-led party has won three wards and dented the prospects of Congress candidates in at least eight other seats. Claiming moral victory, Shivakumar said Congress is satisfied with the results in two of the three municipal corporations that went to polls recently. “We have improved our vote share and seats in HDMP, while in Kalaburagi we are the single largest party and have every possibility of administering it. In Belagavi, we were hopeful of winning 20 seats but ended up with just 10. We will work to improve our number there,” he said. Misusing power Blaming the BJP for misusing the State election commission for unscientific delimitation and conduct of elections to three city municipal corporations in a hurry, Shivakumar questioned as to why the State government has not made any efforts to conduct elections for the appointment of chiefs for the 10 urban local bodies (ULBs), including Ballari City corporations that went to polls in April. “Just because Congress won six of these ULBs the BJP government is not holding polls to elect presidents/ mayor. BJP is trying ‘operation kamala’ to manufacture a verdict in their favour in these ULBs,” he alleged. 'Accepting misgovernance' Shivakumar said changing of four chief ministers in three states in the last few months by the BJP shows that their leaders have failed in giving good governance in the time of pandemic and were indulging in corruption. “By this, the central leadership of BJP has accepted misgovernance by their chief ministers and their lack of trust in these CMs,” he said. Check DH latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivakumar-blames-state-leaders-for-missed-opportunity-in-hubballi-dharwad-mahanagara-palike-1029642.html
12-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ganeshotsava Katte damaged in Shiradi village, one held||The Uppinangady police arrested a man on the charges of damaging Ganeshotsava Katte utilised for Sarvajanika Ganeshotsava at Udane in Shiradi village of Dakshina Kannada. According to DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane, the arrested is Ravindra Kumar (25), a native of the Bhagalpur district in Bihar. Ganeshotsava was observed in a simple manner on September 10 and the idol was immersed the same day. When the organisers visited the venue on September 11, they noticed damages to the cement structure and the homa kunda and banana stems strewn around.  Accordingly, a complaint was registered. The police who swung into action arrested the culprit within 24 hours. The arrested person has been remanded in judicial custody.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ganeshotsava-katte-damaged-in-shiradi-village-one-held-1029686.html
12-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Daylight robbery' attempt turns out to be a mock drill||A video clipping of thieves attempting to snatch a woman's bag near St Agnes college in Mangaluru in broad daylight went viral on social media. A few hours later, however, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar clarified that the entire attempted robbery was a mock drill. But the video clipping continued to be shared with a message urging the public to track down the car without the licence plate, used in the mock drill.  Mangaluru police in association with Swaraksha for Women Trust had conducted the mock drill. As part of the drill, an attempt was made to snatch the bag from Shobhalatha Kateel who was walking by the side of the road. But Shobhalatha from Swaraksha retaliated, forcing the bag snatchers to flee from the spot in a car without licence plate and tinted glass. Local residents immediately dialled Emergency Response Support Sysetm ( ERSS) 112 at 11.03 am. ERSS 112 reached the spot at 11.08 am. Kadri inspector and staff reached at 11.18 am. Even higher officials unaware about the mock drill rushed to the spot. The control room had issued an alert, across all check posts. "Police personnel also intercepted suspicious vehicles," the Police Commissioner said. “During the mock drill, the woman retaliated. Public too rushed to the woman's rescue by chasing the vehicle in two bikes and a car. Public also shared details about the miscreants with police who had reached the spot,” Commissioner informed. Many also tweeted their displeasure over the mock drill on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/daylight-robbery-attempt-turns-out-to-be-a-mock-drill-1029704.html
12-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Why ‘operation Kamala' when we are holding talks with JD(S): Shettar||Former Karnataka chief minister Jagadish Shettar said the question of ‘operation Kamala' does not arise in Kalaburagi as party leaders are directly in talks with Janata Dal (Secular) leaders over the formation of administration in Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike. Speaking to media persons on Sunday, Shettar said BJP has done exceptionally well in Kalaburagi by improving its seats. “JD(S) holds the key for the formation of administration in KMP. Our party leaders have given enough indications that an alliance is going to be stitched. Let us wait till the announcement of mayor polls,” he said and added that party senior leaders will decide on offering mayor post to JD(S). Responding to a charge of KPCC president D K Shivakumar regarding non-holding president/mayor polls for the 10 urban local bodies that went to polls in April, Shettar said the decision to hold elections rests with the State election commission and not the state government. “BJP was not in favour of holding elections for three City Municipal corporations till December as there was a threat of Covid. However, due to Court’s order, the elections were held. The party could not perform much to the satisfaction due to shortage of time, wrong selection of candidates and some internal politics played by BJP leaders,” he said and added that had there been a higher voter percentag, the party would have bagged more than 45 seats in HDMP. Regarding the debate over Congress’ demand for Covid death audit, the former chief minister said the state government is prepared to give an answer to all the questions that Congress wish to raise in the assembly. “Last time also Congress leader Ramalinga Reddy raised similar doubts on the government. However, he was silenced by the government by putting forward facts. This time too the same will be repeated,” he said. Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/why-operation-kamala-when-we-are-holding-talks-with-jds-shettar-1029645.html
12-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shrimant Patil does a U-turn, says he joined BJP voluntarily||A day after claiming that the BJP offered him money for jumping ship from Congress, Kagwad MLA Shrimant Patil retracted his statement on Sunday saying that he voluntarily joined the saffron party. "The Union government has been giving good governance. I have joined the BJP out of my appreciation for it," Patil said on Sunday. On Saturday, Patil had claimed it was true he was offered money for joining BJP, but he refused it. "I told that I do not want a single paisa. I had sought a decent position in the government to render public service," he had said. Patil claimed that the chief minister has promised him a ministerial berth.  Meanwhile, Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar said that she was the first to raise voice demanding a ministerial berth for Patil. "I have invited him to join Congress," said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shrimant-patil-does-a-u-turn-says-he-joined-bjp-voluntarily-1029696.html
12-09-2021||National||2+2 talks between India, Australia very productive: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described first 2+2 talks between India and Australia as very productive, and said this was a sign of growing strategic convergence between both countries. He also thanked his counterpart Scott Morrison for his focus on the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two counties. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held the 2+2 talks here with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. The two Australian ministers also paid a courtesy visit to Modi later, a PMO statement said. Modi tweeted, "Was happy to meet Ministers @MarisePayne and @PeterDutton_MP. The 1st Ministerial 2+2 Dialogue between India and Australia was very productive. I thank my friend @ScottMorrisonMP for his focus on the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between our nations." The PMO added that a number of issues were discussed during the ministerial meeting, including possibilities of further expanding bilateral strategic and economic cooperation, the common approach of both countries towards the Indo-Pacific region, and the growing importance of the Indian community in Australia as a human-bridge between both sides. Appreciating Morrison for his role in rapidly advancing the comprehensive strategic partnership instituted between both countries last year, Modi renewed his invitation to him to visit India at his earliest convenience, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-talks-between-india-australia-very-productive-pm-modi-1029444.html
12-09-2021||National||CISF official Geeta Samota becomes 'fastest Indian' to summit two peaks||CISF official Geeta Samota on Saturday became the "fastest Indian" to summit two peaks located in Africa and Russia, Indian High Commissioner to Tanzania Binaya Pradhan said. "Congratulations to @geeta_samota for successful summit of #MountKilimanjaro, highest peak in Africa; earned the title of Fastest Indian to do Dual Summit (Mt Elbrus on 13 Aug & Mt Kilimanjaro today)," Pradhan said in a tweet. While Mt Elbrus (5,642 mts) is in Russia, the Kilimanjaro peak (5,895 mts) is located in Tanzania and is Africa's highest peak. Samota works with the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), a central paramilitary force under the command of the Union home ministry. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisf-official-geeta-samota-becomes-fastest-indian-to-summit-two-peaks-1029445.html
12-09-2021||National||Centre submits fresh guidelines in Supreme Court on Covid-19 death certificates||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that it has issued "broader and more inclusive" guidelines, declaring loss of lives within 30 days from the date of having been clinically determined, would be treated as deaths due to Covid-19. "As per the study by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 95% deaths take place within 25 days of being tested Covid-19 positive. To make the scope broader and more inclusive, deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing will be treated as deaths due to Covid-19, even if the death takes place outside the hospital/ in-patient facility," it said. However, the death of a Covid-19 patient in hospital even after 30 days of having tested positive will be treated as Covid-19 death, it said. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and the Indian Council of Medical Research jointly issued guidelines for issuance of an ‘official document’ for Covid-19 related deaths. According to the fresh guidelines, loss of life due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, or accident will not be considered as Covid-19 deaths even if the disease is an accompanying condition. "For the purpose of these guidelines, Covid-19 cases are those which are diagnosed through a positive RT-PCR/ Molecular Tests/ RAT or clinically determined through investigations in a hospital/ in-patient facility by a treating physician, while admitted in the hospital/ in-patient facility," it added. Covid-19 cases which are not resolved and patients have died either in hospital settings or at home, and where a Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) has been issued to the registering authority, will be treated as a Covid-19 death. Registrar General of India (RGI) will issue necessary guidelines to Chief Registrars of all States and Union Territories in this regard, it stated. The guidelines also directed the states and UTs to notify a committee at the district level consisting of Additional District Collector, Chief Medical Officer of Health (CMOH), Additional CMOH/ Principal or HOD Medicine of a Medical College and a subject expert, for issuance of the official document for Covid-19 death in case certificate is not available or kin of the deceased are not satisfied with the cause of death mentioned in the certificate.  Such committee would examine the grievance of the kin on their petition and dispose of the matter within 30 days. The government submitted its guidelines through an affidavit in compliance with the apex court's order issued on September 3 following a judgement passed on June 30 on petitions filed by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-submits-fresh-guidelines-in-supreme-court-on-covid-19-death-certificates-1029505.html
12-09-2021||National||India reports 28,591 new Covid cases, lowest in over 2 weeks||India reported 28,591 new coronavirus cases and 338 more deaths in the last 24 hours, according to data by Union Health Ministry updated on Sunday. Of these, Kerala accounted for 20,487 new cases and 181 deaths. The death toll climbed to 4,42,655 with 338 daily fatalities reported Sunday, the data released at 8 am showed. The number of active cases declined by 6,595 in a span of 24 hours to stand at 3,84,921, constituting 1.16 per cent of the total infections, while the Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the health ministry said. Also, 15,30,125 tests were conducted Saturday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for the detection of Covid-19 in the country to 54,18,05,829. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.87 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the past 13 days. The Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.17 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the past 79 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,24,09,345, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 73.82 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 2 crore on June 23. The 338 new fatalities recorded Sunday include 181 from Kerala, and 35 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,42,655 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,096 from Maharashtra, 37,487 rom Karnataka, 35,46 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,874 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,484 from Kerala and 18,567 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-28591-new-covid-cases-lowest-in-over-2-weeks-1029508.html
12-09-2021||National||Pensioners body seeks PM intervention in release of DA, DR arrears||Bharatiya Pensioners Manch (BMS) has sought intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the release of dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) arrears for central government employees and pensioners at the earliest. In April last year, the Ministry of Finance had put on hold an increment in dearness allowance (DA) till June 30, 2021, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In July this year, the government hiked DA and DR to 28 per cent from July 1, 2021, which benefited more than 48 lakh central government employees, and 65 lakh pensioners. The rate of DA from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, was 17 per cent. Thus no DA and DR arrears were released for central government employees and pensioners respectively. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the BMS stated, "It is urged upon you to kindly intervene into the matter and direct the Ministry of Finance for early release of the freeze DA/DR with effect from January1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. An early and immediate action with a line of reply to this organization will be highly appreciated." The BPM opined that during this period (DA/DR freeze) the retail inflation had shot up and the price of auto fuel, edible oil and several pulses had soared to record level. The very basis of payment of DA/DR is to compensate employees and pensioners for increase in the cost of living. After the cost of living has gone up, it is unfair to deny the compensation to employees and pensioners, it submitted. The most of the pensioners being in their old age are required medical assistance and now the rate of every commodity has risen many-folds due to the crisis of Covid-19. Most of the pensioners are in hand to mouth financial condition, it mentioned. "The pensioners who are senior citizens are most vulnerable in the fight of Covid-19 and any stoppage of DR in their case at this juncture is not an appreciable decision on the part of the government. "No doubt, the country has been passing through a financial crisis due to Covid-19, but the most of the pensioners have already contributed one day pension to the Prime Minister CARES Fund," the body stated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pensioners-body-seeks-pm-intervention-in-release-of-da-dr-arrears-1029530.html
12-09-2021||National||Will follow challenge method to select states under MITRA: Official||The Textiles Ministry will follow a "challenge method" to select states for the proposed Mega Investment Textiles Parks (MITRA) scheme, under which seven parks will be set up in the country, a top government official has said. The scheme, which was announced in the Union Budget 2021-22, is at advanced stages of approval, Textiles Secretary U P Singh said. "We are expecting that in the next 15 days, we will get (cabinet) approval on the MITRA scheme," he told PTI. He said that there are more takers for the scheme as some states want two or three such parks and because of that "we will follow a challenge method to select states". Apart from 1,000 acre land for one such park, the ministry will look at some important things like nearby availability of raw material, all kinds of infrastructure including port, road and rail connectivity, water and power availability, and incentives of states among others. States will have to apply for the scheme and "we will float expression of interest (EoI) kind of thing. We will seek documents as per a format and then we will do evaluation," Singh said. He added that a portal will also be developed for that. Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal had recently stated: "We need competition among states to capture business opportunities and we will see that competition in the MITRA scheme. We have to finalize 6-7 textile parks. States will have to commit for land, labour laws, infrastructure and power at attractive rates." The government has proposed the MITRA scheme to enable the textile industry to become globally competitive, attract large investments, boost employment generation and exports. Talking about the production linked (PLI) incentive scheme for the textiles sector, the secretary said by September-end, detailed guidelines will be issued for the scheme. The Union Cabinet on September 8 approved the PLI scheme for MMF (man-made fibre) and technical textiles worth Rs 10,683 crore, which will be provided to industry over a five-year period. "It is a fund limited scheme. We are expecting that more people will come forward for this and for that, we are putting certain criteria. There will be certain criteria for selection of companies, which would get the benefits of this scheme," Singh said. He said the companies that would invest in aspirational districts and tier 3/4 towns would get preference. Preference will also be given to the companies that will go to small cities, create more employment, and have better financial and technical capabilities, he added. "If we will get more applications in two months above Rs 10,683 crore, then we will select them based on this criteria," Singh said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-follow-challenge-method-to-select-states-under-mitra-official-1029532.html
12-09-2021||National||Transforming UP from West Bengal? UP govt ad boasts of development with picture of Kolkata bridge||In preparation of next year's Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the face of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has started cropping up in advertisements as the government boasts of development under the BJP government. But its latest advertisement in Sunday's Indian Express may have gone wrong. The front page of The Sunday Express on September 12 shows a full-scape Adityanath waving, along with a flyover of a bridge and an industry site, with workers in orange construction hats pointing at the installation. The picture lost its sheen when Twitter users pointed out that the flyover is not in Adityanath's state at all, but is in TMC-ruled Kolkata, West Bengal. The picture of the industry site was also found to be from a company called HSE Vision.  A reverse image search on Google verifies this. Accusing the Yogi government of plaigarism, many posted pictures of the front page on social media. Ajay Bisht is transforming Uttar Pradesh by using Bengal's Maa Flyover picture. At the bottom of this adv by Ajay Bisht is shown a flyover. While Yogi uses Kolkata's infrastructure to highlight his work in UP,facts r loud&clear The photo used is of Maa Flyover, Kolkata,3rd Longest flyover in India. "Thuggy Yogi in his UP ads with Kolkata’s MAA flyover, our JW Marriott & our iconic yellow taxis!" TMC leader Mahua Moitra tweeted. Thuggy Yogi in his UP ads with Kolkata’s MAA flyover, our JW Marriott & our iconic yellow taxis! Change your soul or at least your ad agency Gudduji! Other TMC leaders also joined in to critique the "double engine" BJP government, slamming the chief minister for piggybacking on the development of TMC-ruled Bengal to flex its initiaves.   Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi, also the UP in-charge, also slammed and the advertisement and said the people of the state have seen through their "false claims" and are going to change the chief minister and the government. "First they were caught giving false advertisements on employment. Now their advertisement with false images of flyovers and factories have been exposed," Priyanka Gandhi said in a Facebook post in Hindi. The people of UP have seen through the reality of their "hollow claims" and are now going to change the chief minister and the government, the Congress general secretary said. In a tweet in Hindi, she further attacked the state government, saying it is their job to give false advertisements.  First, they lied about giving employment to the youth of UP and are now making "false claims" of development by putting "fake pictures of flyovers and factories", the Congress leader said. There is neither an understanding of people's issues, nor there is any concern for them, it is only a government of false advertisements and claims, Priyanka Gandhi said. BJP leader Amit Malviya in a retort to TMC said, "The chaps in TMC and assorted opposition jumped up and down in excitement as a result. Who will now compensate for killing their excitement? Double whammy this." However, several others, including TMC leaders questioned why the the publication was issuing an apology when the final say on what gets published as an advertorial lies with the state agency. (With PTI inputs)  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transforming-up-from-west-bengal-up-govt-ad-boasts-of-development-with-picture-of-kolkata-bridge-1029536.html
12-09-2021||National||India, Australia pitch for 'broad-based and inclusive government' in Afghanistan||India and Australia have called for a "broad-based and inclusive" government in Afghanistan to ensure long-term peace and stability in the war-torn country, signalling their clear unwillingness to accord any recognition to the Taliban regime. In a joint statement issued early on Sunday following the inaugural India-Australia 2+2 ministerial dialogue, the two sides sought the protection of rights of women and children and their full participation in public life and expressed concerns over targeted violence against the defenders of their rights. The two countries underlined the urgent need for all countries to take "immediate, sustained, verifiable and irreversible" action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such strikes. Australia reiterated its condemnation of terrorist attacks in India, including 26/11 Mumbai, Pathankot and Pulwama attacks, and reiterated its support for New Delhi in the fight against terrorism, the joint statement said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held in-person talks on Saturday with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. In the talks, the ministers renewed commitment to achieving an "early harvest" announcement by December on an interim agreement to liberalise and deepen bilateral trade in goods and services that would pave the way for an early conclusion of a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA). "The ministers also underscored the importance of an early resolution of the issue of taxation of offshore income of Indian firms under the India-Australia Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement," the joint statement said. On the situation in Afghanistan, the statement said the ministers expressed deep concern over it. "The ministers called for the Taliban to guarantee safe passage for foreign nationals and Afghans wanting to leave the country. They reiterated calls on those in positions of power and authority across Afghanistan to adhere to counterterrorism commitments and human rights, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 2593," the statement said. UNSC resolution 2593, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter and train terrorists and plan or finance terrorist attacks. The joint statement said the ministers noted reports of a rapid roll-back on women and girls' rights and access to services and public spaces, as well as targeted violence against the defenders of their rights. "In this regard, the ministers reiterated their call for protection of rights of women and children and their full participation in public life," it said. "The ministers agreed that a broad-based and inclusive government is necessary for long term peace and stability in Afghanistan. The ministers also agreed to remain alert to the broader repercussions of the developments in Afghanistan for the ongoing terrorist threats around the world, and in our region," it said. The joint statement said Australia also expressed its strong support for India's membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG). Referring to the threat of terrorism, the two sides strongly condemned terrorism in all its forms and the use of terrorist proxies for cross-border terrorism. "The ministers underlined the urgent need for all countries to take immediate, sustained, verifiable and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks," the statement said. It said the two sides agreed to continue cooperation in the sphere of counter-terrorism, including countering radicalisation and violent extremism, combating the financing of terrorism, and preventing exploitation of the internet for terrorist activities. The two sides also reiterated their commitment to furthering cooperation in counter-terrorism in multilateral fora such as the UN, G20, FATF, as well as in Quad consultations. "They also reaffirmed their support for the early finalization and adoption of a UN Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism that will advance and strengthen the framework for global cooperation and reinforce the message that no cause or grievance justifies terrorism," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-pitch-for-broad-based-and-inclusive-government-in-afghanistan-1029537.html
12-09-2021||National||No full sleeves, no shoes: Strict dress code for NEET 2021 candidates||The national medical entrance exam, NEET 2021, will be held today from 2 pm to 5 pm across 202 cities in the country. Close to 16 lakh candidates are expected to appear for the exam on Sunday. While a lot of precautionary measures will be taken in view of the Covid-19 situation, some strict rules have also been introduced to do away with any kind of cheating. The NEET admit card includes Covid-related guidelines that students need to follow, but it is the stringent dress code, which includes various restrictions for the examinees, that grabbed much attention. Female examinees are not allowed to wear full sleeves, clothes with elaborate embroidery, flowers, brooches, or large buttons. Slippers, sandals with low heels are permitted, while shoes are not allowed. Any kind of jewellery such as earrings, nose rings, rings, pendants, necklaces, bracelets and anklets are strictly prohibited.  Male candidates have been asked to wear half sleeve shirts, T-shirts, trousers and simple pants. Zip pockets, big buttons, and clothes with elaborate embroidery are not allowed. Closed shoes are not allowed and candidates should wear slippers or other simple footwear with thin soles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-full-sleeves-no-shoes-strict-dress-code-for-neet-2021-candidates-1029538.html
12-09-2021||National||9/11 stark reminder of continuing threat of terrorism: Ambassador Sandhu||September 11 is a “stark reminder” of the continuing threat of terrorism and the world must unite against this menace, India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu has said, as he paid homage to the victims of the terror attacks at the 9/11 Memorial here. “Paid respects at the 9/11 Memorial in #NewYork today. Remembering all the innocent victims of the dastardly attacks," Sandhu said in a tweet on Saturday. "20 years on, 9/11 is a stark reminder of the continuing threat of #terrorism. The world must unite against this menace!” Sandhu said. Sandhu, accompanied by India’s Consul General in New York Randhir Jaiswal and officials from the Indian Embassy and Consulate, visited the 9/11 Memorial and paid respects at the memorial pools that sit in the footprints of the former North and South Towers that had collapsed as American Airlines and United Airlines planes hijacked by Al Qaeda terrorists crashed into them. The names of the 2,983 people who were killed in the 2001 and 1993 terrorist attacks are inscribed on the bronze parapets edging the memorial pools. Flowers and national flags were placed on the bronze edges of the memorial pools in memory of the victims of the 9/11 attacks. The Indian tricolour was also placed near the names of some of the people who were from India and had died in the attacks. Nearly 3,000 people from over 90 countries, including India, were killed in the 9/11 terror attacks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited the 9/11 memorial site in September 2014 and paid a solemn homage to victims of the 2001 terror attack, placing five rose buds one by one on the memorial slabs where names of the victims are etched. As America marked the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks, President Joe Biden visited all three sites of the 9/11 attacks - New York City; Arlington, Virginia; and Somerset County, Pennsylvania - where the hijacked planes had crashed. Biden, along with First Lady Jill Biden and accompanied by former Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton and former First Lady Michelle Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton observed moments of silence at the 9/11 Memorial where the Twin Towers were brought down as the hijacked planes crashed into them. During the memorial, relatives and friends read out the names of all those who had died in the attacks. On the eve of the 9/11 anniversary, Biden in a video message said that the 2,977 people from more than 90 nations killed on September 11, 2001 in New York City, Arlington, Virginia, and Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and the thousands more who were injured, America and the world commemorate you and your loved ones. The pieces of your soul. “We honour all those who risked and gave their lives in the minutes, hours, months and years afterwards. The firefighters, police officers, EMTs and construction workers and doctors and nurses, faith leaders, service members and veterans. All of the everyday people who gave their all to rescue, recover and rebuild.” “But it is so hard. Whether it's the first year or the 20th. Children have grown up without parents, parents have suffered without children, husbands and wives had to find ways forward without their partners in their life with them,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9/11-stark-reminder-of-continuing-threat-of-terrorism-ambassador-sandhu-1029548.html
12-09-2021||National||Central Railway and Western Railway teams catch criminals on the run||In an operation that displays jointmanship, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) teams of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) arrested four accused who were on the run from Kerala after an attempt to murder case.  The Kerala police team have now taken custody of the accused, officials said.  On September 5, the RPF Mumbai Division of CR received information from RPF Thiruvananthapuram regarding four suspects in an attempt to murder case who were on run from Thrissur district of Kerala.  A case against these suspects was egistered at Nedupuzha Station, Thrissur on August 27.  A special team was formed under the supervision of PCSC Central Railway, which included RPF Post Inspectors of Kalyan and Bhiwandi and boarded Train No. 06506 KSR Bengaluru-Gandhidham special train from their respective stations.  The train was thoroughly searched and all four suspects, named Arun NS Shanmunga (26), Sajith Sasi (29), Lidhin A.M (29) and Jishnu P.B (22) were identified.  The information regarding these suspects onboard the train were passed on to RPF Western Railway where another special team was readied at Vasai Road station by Post Inspectors of Vasai Road and Virar.  All four suspects were detained by RPF at Vasai Road and Thrissur Police was informed.  The team of police reached Mumbai on September 7 and the accused were handed over to Kerala Police. “In an astonishing series of events, the RPF teams of Mumbai Divisions of CR and WR showed exemplary promptness and smooth coordination in a joint operation. The teams conducted a joint operation in which four accused in an attempt to murder case were caught from running train and handed over to Kerala Police,” WR chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railway-and-western-railway-teams-catch-criminals-on-the-run-1029561.html
12-09-2021||National||Rahul slams Modi govt over job losses||Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday targeted the Narendra Modi government over the issue of joblessness, saying there is no difference between working days and weekly off days as there are "no jobs". Tagging a news report on US auto giant Ford deciding to stop vehicle manufacturing in India that could lead to shutting down of 4,000 small businesses, he tweeted, "The 'development' under the BJP government is such that the difference between Sunday and Monday has ended." "When there are no jobs, how does it matter whether it is Sunday or Monday!" he added. भाजपा सरकार का ‘विकास’ ऐसा कि रविवार-सोमवार का फ़र्क़ ही ख़त्म कर दिया… Rahul has been consistently attacking the government over its economic policies, which he claims is leading to unemployment among other things. He also attacked the government over price rise saying that the Modi government has no vision to overcome the difficulties in the economy. He has been saying Modi lacks a "new vision" to take the country out of the mess created by his government as the economic strategy adopted between 1991 and 2012 was "no more working". Check latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-slams-modi-govt-over-job-losses-1029567.html
12-09-2021||National||I get motivation, inspiration from you all: PM Modi to para athletes||Moving swiftly from one table to another, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recognised, exhorted, lauded and patted the para athletes for their incredible performance in the Tokyo Paralympics, telling them that he felt motivated and inspired watching them compete. Recognising their stellar campaign in Tokyo, which yielded an unprecedemted 19 medals, including five gold, Modi said India's celebrated para athletes have a "lot more to offer" to the country and urged them to play a role outside the sports arena to bring about a change. "I get motivation, inspiration from you all," he said during the interaction on Thursday, the video of which was made public on Sunday. The PM was presented with an autographed stole and their personal gear by the athletes. "Aapne haari hui maansikta ko haraa diya, bohot badi baat hai (You have defeated a defeatist mindset with your achievements, it's a big thing)," he added. "Even small things by you can motivate the country a lot, how can you motivate the country further. You can visit schools, localities. Apart from the world of sports, you can do something else for the country and help bring about a change." He pledged his support to the players and said the whole country shares their dreams of sporting excellence. "You have a lot to offer to the country ... the future is bright and I am always there to support you, your dream is our dream and to realise that, I will do all it takes," he added. On Thursday, the prime minister hosted the Indian contingent for Tokyo 2020 Games at his residence in a breakfast meet. Well-versed with their back-stories and their Paralympic campaign, Modi asked gold-winning shuttler Krishna Nagar his thoughts behind dedicating his medal to COVID-19 warriors. "I found it very touching but what were you thinking when you did that?" asked Modi. "I saw health workers doing their duty without thinking about themselves, that's what inspired me to make that gesture," responded Nagar. Athletes got candid during the interaction with silver-winning paddler Bhavinaben Patel revealing that she overcame a viral infection and bout of fever during the Games. "I didn't have a good first match because of that. It was a difficult day but I thought of your words during the send-off and I was not among those who met you that day. So I decided that I would everything to meet you. I also thought that this might be my only chance," she said. "Never think negatively, you are a giant-killer," Modi said. During the interaction, Modi congratulated them for their record-breaking performance at the Games. The Paralympics was held from August 24 to September 5 in Tokyo where India had sent its biggest contingent. A total of 54 Indian athletes competed across nine sports events. Apart from five gold, the country also claimed eight silver, and six bronze medals. The PM said the achievements of the para athletes will help develop a sporting culture in the country. "I think there needs to be a workshop on coaching disabled athletes, a book can also be written," Modi said lauding the indomitable spirit and willpower of the athletes. Present during the session was 19-year-old shooting Avani Lekhara, who won a gold and bronze, India's greatest ever paralympian Devendra Jhajharia, and shooters Singhraj Adhana and Manish Narwal among others alongside sports minister Anurag Thakur and his predecessor Kiren Rijiju. "Like you had told us during the send-off, give your best and don't take any pressure, I only did that during the Games. Medals happened by sticking to that," said Lekhara, the first Indian woman to win a gold and two medals at the Games. Like he did with the Olympic-returned stars, the PM also advised the para athletes to not let success get to their head and defeat trouble their mind. "Your indomitable spirit and willpower are praiseworthy in light of the insurmountable odds that the para-athletes have overcome in their lives," said Modi during his interaction. The para-athletes thanked the prime minister for inviting them and said that they feel honoured to share a table with him, terming it a big achievement for them. Speaking during the session, Jhajharia, who won his first gold medal at the 2004 Athens Games, said his mother had to sell her jewellery to fund his trip to the Greek capital, highlighting the change that has happened since then. Since its debut in 1968, India had won 12 medals until the 2016 Rio edition. Out of 162 nations, India finished 24th in the overall medal tally in Tokyo. What has come as a pleasant surprise for the athletes is that the PM also knew some of their backstories of struggles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-get-motivation-inspiration-from-you-all-pm-modi-to-para-athletes-1029582.html
12-09-2021||National||Employee can't insist on transfer to particular place, says SC||An employee cannot insist on a transfer to a particular place and it is for the employer to shift the staff considering the requirement, the Supreme Court has said. The apex court observed this while dismissing a petition by a lecturer challenging a October 2017 order of the Allahabad High Court. The high court had dismissed her plea against the rejection of her representation by the authority concerned for transfer from Amroha to Gautam Buddha Nagar. "It is not for the employee to insist to transfer him/her and/or not to transfer him/her at a particular place. It is for the employer to transfer an employee considering the requirement,” an apex court bench of justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose said in its September 6 order. In her petition filed in the high court, the woman, who was posted as a lecturer in Amroha district, had said that she had made a representation for her transfer to a college at Gautam Buddha Nagar and it was rejected in September 2017 by the authority. Her counsel had argued before the high court in 2017 that she was working at Amroha for the last four years and under the government policy, she was entitled to a transfer. The high court had noted that the order passed by the authority concerned showed that she had remained posted at a college at Gautam Buddha Nagar for about 13 years from the date of her initial appointment in December 2000 to August 2013 and, therefore, her request for posting her again at the same institution was not justified. In its order, the high court had said the petitioner was not entitled to be posted at a place where she had already worked at a stretch for about 13 years. The high court had said that in case the petitioner has completed the requisite number of years at the place of her present posting, she may request for transfer to some other place but not to a place where she had already worked for 13 years. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employee-cant-insist-on-transfer-to-particular-place-says-sc-1029596.html
12-09-2021||National||FinMin, Rural Ministry figures on women beneficiaries differ||How many women: 20.64 crore or 20.63 crore: were benefited by the Narendra Modi government's PM Garib Kalyan Yojana under which Rs 1,500 was transferred in three instalments during the Covid-19 pandemic? An official statement by the Ministry of Finance and an RTI response by the Ministry of Rural Development issued within a span of three days contradict each other with the latter's figures showing a difference of 1.26 lakh. Even two statements by the Ministry of Finance in a span of one year also show substantial variations. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on 26 March, 2020 that over 20 crore women Jan Dhan account holders will get Rs 500 each for April, May and June as part of the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana during the Covid-19 pandemic. An RTI reply from the Ministry of Rural Development received by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak on August 31 shows that the number of beneficiaries who received Rs 500 each in three instalments ran into 20.64 crore (20,64,26,947). However, an August 28 statement by the Ministry of Finance said it has given out Rs 30,945 crore under the scheme. Though the Ministry did not give the exact numbers in statement, Nayak said, a calculation would show that the number of 20.63 crore beneficiaries only and the difference between its figure and Ministry of Rural Development's would be 1.26 lakh beneficiaries. Nayak also points to further discrepancies within the two statements issued by the Ministry of Finance. A statement issued on 3 June 2020 had said that 20.05 crore women (98.33% of women Jan Dhan account holders) were transferred Rs 500 each in April 2020 while the number rose to 20.62 crore, which it said was 100% coverage. However, if one takes this August's statement, there was an increase of 2.26 lakh beneficiaries in June 2020 compared to May. If this is true, the Ministry's claim that it covered all the beneficiaries in May would be wrong. "Until the Ministry of Finance clarifies which of the above figures are accurate, the discrepancy in the data it has disclosed proactively, will remain," Nayak said. If one goes by the RTI, calculation shows that complete payment of Rs 1,500 per beneficiary would require a total payout of Rs 30,964 crore. But the August 28 statement by the Ministry of Finance says, it is only Rs 30,945 crore. "This could mean that all the 20.64 crore women (mentioned as beneficiaries of the scheme) did not receive all three installments. Rs 30,945 crore would have fully covered only 20.63 crore beneficiaries," Nayak said.    Also, a perusal of statements by the Ministry of Finance shows that it dispersed Rs 10,029 crore in first instalment for 20.05 crore women, which was 98.33% of beneficiaries at that time. In May, it said it gave out Rs 10,315 crore for 20.62 crore beneficiaries, which it said covered all. This would mean that the third instalment payment was Rs 10,601 crore, which is Rs 286 crore more than the payment of the second instalment. Nayak said this would mean that the claim of the Ministry in June last year that it covered all beneficiaries may not be correct. "There is a lot that both Ministries have to account for publicly regarding the manner of spending over Rs 30,000 crores on the scheme. This is not an ordinary sum. In addition to domestic budgetary support, a significant proportion of the expenditure has been incurred by way of low interest loans secured from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. So the taxpayer is not only footing the bill during the pandemic but will continue to do so until the loans are repaid," he said. Beneficiaries: In a nutshell * UP tops list with more than 3.2 crore beneficiaries followed by Bihar 2.43 crore and West Bengal 1.96 crore* Madhya Pradesh with 1.67 crore and Rajasthan with 1.48 crore occupies fourth and fifth positions* Together, these five states account for 52.2% of total beneficiaries* Karnataka at tenth with 80.64 lakh beneficiaries* District-wise, West Bengal's Murshidabad has the highest number of beneficiaries at 17,10,775 Beneficiaries in Karnataka Bagalkot: 1,87,436Bangalore Rural: 1,80,726Bangalore Urban: 5,65,382Belgaum: 5,65,457Bellarv: 3,42,060Bidar: 3,26,434Bijapur: 1,44,239Chamarajanagar: 2,42,128Chikmagalur: 1,18,329Chitradurga: 2,31,803Dakshin Kannad: 1,99,674Davangere: 3,29,025Dharwad: 1,97,467Gadag: 69,845Gulbarga: 3,84,186Hassan: 2,04,399Haveri: 1,20,433Kodagu: 67,835Kolar: 2,03,347Koppal: 2,00,107Mandya: 2,33,364Mysuru: 5,04,365Raichur: 2,36,119Shimoga: 2,53,830Tumkur: 3,43,567Udupi: 1,06,554Uttar Kannada: 2,53,846Unspecified: 12,52,395Total (Karnataka): 80,64,352   (Source: RTI response from Ministry of Rural Development to transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finmin-rural-ministry-figures-on-women-beneficiaries-differ-1029600.html
12-09-2021||National||Need to instil ideals of Swami Vivekananda in today's youth: CJI Ramana||Swami Vivekananda firmly believed that the true essence of religion was the common good and tolerance and to fulfil the dream of making a resurgent India through these principles there is a need to instil his ideals in today's youth, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Sunday. Justice Ramana while virtually addressing an event to mark the 22nd Foundation Day of Vivekananda Institute of Human Excellence, Hyderabad and the 128th anniversary of the historic Chicago Address of Swami Vivekananda said:, "Swami Vivekananda, in his address, propagated the idea of tolerance and universal acceptance. He analysed the dangers posed by the meaningless and sectarian conflicts in society to the nations and the civilisations. There is greater need today, in contemporary India, to pay heed to the words spoken by Swami Vivekananda as early as in 1893." Swami Vivekananda's address in the World "Parliament of Religions" at Chicago in 1893 drew the world's attention to the ancient Indian philosophy of Vedanta. He popularised practical Vedanta as it preached love, compassion and equal respect for all, the CJI said, pointing out that his teachings have great relevance for all times to come. "He was prophetic. Long before the painful churning that took place in the subcontinent during the freedom struggle resulting in framing of an egalitarian Constitution of India, he advocated secularism as if he foresaw the events to unfold. "He firmly believed that the true essence of religion was common good and tolerance. Religion should be above superstitions and rigidities. To fulfil the dream of making resurgent India through the principles of common good and tolerance, we should instil the ideals of Swamiji in today's youth," Justice Ramana said. Swami Vivekananda believed that youngsters in India are the chain that binds our past to a greater future. He believed that anything is possible if one has the required belief, he said. It is imperative for the youth to be aware about the social realities and challenges, the CJI said, adding "Remember, any change in the nation's trajectory always stems from its youth and their participation. It is for you to build the ideal nation and society that you desire to witness." "The democratic rights that we take today for granted are a result of the struggles of thousands of young people who took to the streets fighting authoritarian figures either during the freedom struggle or the dark days of emergency. Many lost their lives, sacrificed lucrative careers, all for the greater good of the nation and society," Justice Ramana said. Trust the youth to check the deviations in a society's journey towards peace and progress, he added. "Although it is desirable to be independent and economically successful, at the same time we must not forget our duties towards our family, our community and the nation," he said. "The youth often perceive every action with a clear set of principles-they don't tolerate injustice either towards themselves or towards others. They don't compromise with their ideals come what may. They are not only selfless but also adventurous. They are willing to sacrifice for the cause they believe in. It is these unadulterated minds and pure hearts which form the backbone of our nation," the Chief Justice said. Justice Ramana further said today resources are available at one's fingertips and there is unlimited access to a world of information. "These advantages come with a heavy burden. The hyper awareness that modern society allows, with the ease of flow of information mandates that students are more socially and politically aware." Justice Ramana also advised youth to focus on their health and engage in physical activities and sports. "Visit the slums to be conscious about the divides that exist even within urban spaces, visit villages to be aware about rural living. Beyond a mere awareness of the issues, you need to have the mentality to find solutions, and take action to make meaningful change in society. You need to be aware that your actions are a part of the process of nation building," he said. He further called upon educational institutions to inform and create awareness in the students about rights and restrictions. They should promote and transmit a culture of lawfulness, of respect for the law. Institutions should equip young minds with knowledge about their rights and duties and empower them to be change-makers in society, Justice Ramana added. Check out the latet DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-instil-ideals-of-swami-vivekananda-in-todays-youth-cji-ramana-1029603.html
12-09-2021||National||Centre working to ensure tap water connection for every household by 2024: Shekhawat||Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is working to ensure that every household in the country has a piped water connection by 2024. Shekhawat was speaking to reporters here late on Saturday night as he arrived on a day-long visit to the district. When PM Modi announced the Jal Jeevan Mission on August 15, 2019, only 3,29,00,000 households out of 19 crore had tap water connections. Mothers and sisters in 83 per cent of the households had to fetch water, the minister said. Five crore tap water connections have been provided to households across states since the mission commenced in December 2019. The figure will soon cross 8 crore, he said. As many as 1,10,000 villages have achieved 100 per cent success in providing tap connections to households, Shekhawat said. Telangana, Gujarat, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh have achieved 80 per cent to 100 per cent of their targets under the Jal Jeevan Mission, he said. Unfortunately, some states are lagging behind and Rajasthan is one of them, he added. Shekhawat said he recently presided over a review meeting with Rajasthan government officials and found that only 10 per cent of the work under the mission had been completed. The central government had approved a project to provide 83 lakh tap water connections and had also sanctioned a budget accordingly. However, the Rajasthan government has issued work orders for only 8 lakh connections so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-working-to-ensure-tap-water-connection-for-every-household-by-2024-shekhawat-1029613.html
12-09-2021||National||SC to hear on Monday pleas seeking independent probe into Pegasus snooping row||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged snooping on certain people in India involving Israeli spyware Pegasus. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had on September 7 had granted more time to the Centre to decide on filing a further response on the petitions after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that due to some difficulties he could not meet the officials concerned to take a decision on the filing of the second affidavit. The Centre had earlier filed a limited affidavit in the apex court saying the pleas seeking an independent probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations are based on "conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material". On August 17, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on the pleas, making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security. In its short affidavit filed in the court earlier, the Centre had said the position on the issue has already been clarified in Parliament by Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. With a view of dispelling any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and examining the issues raised, the government will constitute a committee of experts, it had said. The top court, while issuing notice on the pleas, had said that it did not want the government to disclose anything related to the national security and had asked the Centre what is the "problem" if the competent authority files an affidavit before it on the issue. "Our considered response is what we have respectfully stated in our last affidavit. Kindly examine the issue from our point of view as our affidavit is sufficient," the law officer had told the bench, adding, "The Government of India is before the highest court of the country." The law officer had said if the government of any country divulges information about which software is used and which is not used, then those involved in terrorist activities may take preemptive measures. The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-on-monday-pleas-seeking-independent-probe-into-pegasus-snooping-row-1029617.html
12-09-2021||National||Don't sacrifice intellectual freedom on altar of party politics: Shashi Tharoor||Intellectual freedom should not be sacrificed at the altar of party politics and under the "foolish" belief that ignorance of someone's ideas will help defeat them, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Sunday. His statement was in apparent support of Kannur University's decision to include portions of books of RSS leader M S Golwalkar and Hindu Mahasabha leader V D Savarkar in its post graduate course on Governance and Politics. The varsity's decision has drawn criticism from various student unions, which have alleged saffronisation of the university, and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who said his government will not glorify the ideas and leaders who had turned their back on the freedom struggle. Tharoor, however, in his Facebook post said, "Intellectual freedom is far too important a value in our society to be sacrificed at the altar of party politics. It is foolish to believe that ignorance of someone’s ideas will help you to defeat them. I have quoted Savarkar and Golwalkar at length in my books, and refuted them." He said that "some friends" have disapproved of his stand that academic freedom "requires us to read, understand and debate every point of view, including those we disagree with". "If we don’t read Savarkar and Golwalkar, on what basis will we oppose their ideas? Kannur University also teaches Gandhi and Tagore," he said in his post. Vijayan, at a press meet, had said that no one should glorify reactionary ideologies and the leaders who uphold such ideas. He had also said a two-member expert committee has already been appointed to look into the matter and necessary steps will be taken by the university based on the panel's recommendation. The committee, comprising experts outside the varsity, has been asked to submit its report within five days and further decision on the syllabus would be taken after that, university vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran had said. According to the students unions, the University has included portions from Golwalkar's books including Bunch of Thoughts and Savarkar's Hindutva: Who Is a Hindu? in the syllabus of the third semester students of MA Governance and Politics. The syllabus was not prepared by the Board of Studies but by teachers of Thalassery Brennen College and it was decided by the Vice Chancellor, they have alleged. The MA Governance and Politics is taught only in Brennen College under Kannur University.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-sacrifice-intellectual-freedom-on-altar-of-party-politics-shashi-tharoor-1029619.html
12-09-2021||National||Chairman of Nova cycles Harmohinder Pahwa dies of cardiac arrest||Noted industrialist Harmohinder Singh Pahwa, the chairman and managing director of Nova cycles, died of cardiac arrest here on Sunday at the age of 76. He is survived by his son and two daughters. Pahwa had gone to a local club where he suffered a heart attack. He was immediately taken to a private hospital where he breathed his last. D S Chawla, the president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association said, "All his life he (Pahwa) worked for the growth of the cycle industry. He was a gentleman industrialist."  His cremation will take place after one of his daughters return from London.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chairman-of-nova-cycles-harmohinder-pahwa-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-1029620.html
12-09-2021||National||Pakistan now accuses India of training Islamic State, comes out with new dossier on 'atrocities' in J&K||Buoyed by its success in facilitating Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan, Pakistan on Sunday sought to turn up the heat on India by publishing a dossier on Kashmir and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi of running five training camps for the Islamic State. Ahead of the United Nations General Assembly, Pakistan came out with a 131-page dossier compiling its oft-repeated allegations against India about “atrocities, war crimes, extrajudicial killings, arbitrary arrests and torture” as well as “rapes and molestation of women” in Jammu and Kashmir. Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government not only reiterated its allegations against the Government of India and its armed forces on human right violations in J&K, but went on to allege that New Delhi was training the Islamic State terrorists in camps in Gulmarg, Raipur, Jodhpur, Chakrata, Anupgarh and Bikaner. The activities of the Islamic State (IS) or the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) in South Asia and Central Asia returned under scanner in the region, after one of its offshoot – Islamic State Khorasan Province or the ISIS-K – was accused by the United States of carrying out an attack near the Hamid Karzai Airport in Kabul on August 27. It killed over 110 people, including US soldiers as well as the Afghans, who had thronged the airport and the adjoining areas, scrambling to fly out in the wake of the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan on August 15 last. New Delhi has not yet officially responded to the dossier published by Islamabad. A source in New Delhi, however, dismissed the dossier as nothing but yet another example of Pakistan’s baseless propaganda against India. The source also rubbished it as “preposterous and outlandish” Pakistan’s new allegation against the Modi Government about training the IS terrorists in India. Khan’s National Security Advisor Moeed Yusuf joined Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Human Rights Minister Shireen Mazari to release the dossier in a news-conference in Islamabad. Yusuf said that the dossier on India’s "atrocities" on J&K was a tribute by Pakistan to Syed Ali Shah Geelani, who had passed away in Srinagar on September 1 after leading the separatist movement against India in J&K for decades. Qureshi said that most of the information in the dossier had been sourced from documents released by the international human rights organisations and media. He said that Pakistan would share the dossier with the international community to "expose" India, particularly its "atrocities and human rights violations" in J&K and its "support" to terrorist organisations. “We expect the United Nations to compel the Government of India to allow free access to Special Procedure Mandate Holders of the UN Human Rights Council for independent investigations of human rights violations,” said the Pakistani Foreign Minister. The Prime Ministers of Pakistan and India are expected to address the UN General Assembly in New York on September 24 and 25. The dossier published by Pakistan accused 1,178 officers and personnel of the security forces of India of committing 3,432 cases of “war crimes” in J&K. Another source in New Delhi told DH that Islamabad’s new allegation about the Modi Government’s "role in supporting" the IS was intended to embitter India’s relations with the US and Russia. Islamabad in the past blamed India for several terror attacks in Pakistan, including the recent ones, which maimed and killed citizens of China, ostensibly to take advantage of the slide in New Delhi’s relations with Beijing over the military stand-off in eastern Ladakh.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-now-accuses-india-of-training-islamic-state-comes-out-with-new-dossier-on-atrocities-in-jk-1029630.html
12-09-2021||National||Centre appoints 31 people as members in NCLT, ITAT ahead of SC hearing on tribunals||Days after the Supreme Court criticised the Centre for not appointing members to various tribunals, the government has appointed 31 people as members -- judicial, technical and accountant members -- in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT). Eight judicial and 10 technical members have been appointed to the NCLT, which had vacancies of 19 judicial and 14 other members, while six judicial and seven accountant members -- 25 judicial members and 27 other members -- were cleared for the ITAT. The appointments came on Saturday, even as the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the matter concerning the huge vacancies in tribunals, which has irked the apex court, on Monday. On September 6, the Supreme Court said that it does not want any confrontation with the Centre but its patience is running out due to delay in appointments in tribunals. It also said it was extremely upset with the way the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021 was passed in disregard to its previous judgements.  As of August 5, there were 19 vacancies of Chairmen, including 15 in Debt Recovery Tribunals, 110 judicial members and 111 technical and other members. With the appointment of 31, this number has now come down to 209 at present from 240 on August 5. Other than NCLT and ITAT, the tribunals which have a high number of vacancies include Railways Claims Tribunal -- 20 judicial and five other members -- and Central Administrative Tribunal -- 18 judicial and 14 other members. Besides Debt Recovery Tribunals, there are vacancies of Chairperson in National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal in Kolkata, Appellate Tribunal for Forfeited Property (ATFP) and National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). In NCLT, Andhra High Court Judge Justice Telaprolu Rajani, Retired Bombay High Court Judge Justice Pradeep Narhari Deshmukh, Retired Madras High Court Judge Justice S Ramathilagam and District Court Judge Deep Chandra Joshi are among those appointed as the judicial members. The appointments will be for five years from the date of assumption of charge of the posts or till attaining the age of 65 years or until further orders. Six judicial members have been appointed to the ITAT -- Additional District and Sessions Judges Shatin Goyal and Anubhav Sharma, lawyers Sonjoy Sarma, S Seethalakshmi and T R Senthil Kumar and Law Officer in SBI Manomohan Das. Besides, there are seven accountant members -- Chartered Accountants Bhagirath Mal Biyani, Balakrishnan S, Jamiappa Dattatraya Battuli, Padmavathy S, Arun Khodpia, Rathod Kamlesh Jayantbhai, and Commissioner of Income Tax Ripote Dipak Pandurang. The appointments in ITAT were made for a period of four years.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-appoints-31-people-as-members-in-nclt-itat-ahead-of-sc-hearing-on-tribunals-1029632.html
12-09-2021||National||Deeply disturbed: Editors Guild condemns IT 'surveys' at offices of media houses||The Editors Guild of India has condemned the Income Tax 'surveys' at the offices of news websites NewsClick and Newslaundry, saying it is a "dangerous trend" of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media. "Deeply disturbed" about the IT surveys, the Editors Guild said, it said this must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy. Teams of IT officials visited the offices of the two organisations and conducted investigations on September 10. The Editors Guild statement said it is learnt that the IT sleuths made clones of Newslaundry co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri’s mobile and laptop, as well as some other office machines but no hash value was given to them. "This is clearly beyond the mandate of surveys as defined under section 133A of the Income Tax Act, which only allows data pertaining to the investigation to be copied, and certainly not personal and professional data of journalists. It is also in violation of procedures laid out in the Information Technology Act, 2000," it said. "The Guild is deeply concerned that such indiscriminate seizure of journalists’ data, which could include sensitive information such as details of sources and other journalistic data, is in violation of free speech and freedom of the press," it said. The survey was the second visit by an Income Tax team at the office of Newslaundry, the earlier one being in June. In the case of NewsClick, the Enforcement Directorate had conducted raids at their office as well as homes of their senior journalists and officials in February 2021. "The dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy. In July 2021, Income Tax raids were conducted at the offices of country’s leading newspaper Dainik Bhaskar, as well as a Lucknow-based news channel, Bharat Samachar. These raids were conducted against the backdrop of some very critical coverage by both the news organisations on the government's handling of the pandemic," the Editors Guild said. It demanded that great care and sensitivity be shown in all investigations so as to not undermine the rights of journalists and media organisations. "Further, to ensure that such investigations are conducted within the prescribed rules and that they don’t degenerate into instruments of harassment to intimidate independent media," it added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deeply-disturbed-editors-guild-condemns-it-surveys-at-offices-of-media-houses-1029641.html
12-09-2021||National||Swiss bank to reveal data on real estate properties of Indians for first time||India will get this month the third set of Swiss bank account details of its nationals under an automatic exchange of information pact with Switzerland and this will include for the first time the data about real estate properties owned by Indians there, officials said on Sunday. Marking a key milestone in the Indian government's fight against black money allegedly stashed abroad, India will get this month the complete information on flats, apartments and condominiums owned by Indians in Switzerland as also on earnings made from such properties to help it look into tax liabilities associated with those assets. The move assumes significance on the part of Switzerland as well as the European Alpine nation is trying hard to reposition itself as a key global financial centre while warding off the long-persisting perception about the Swiss banking system being an alleged safe haven for black money. While it would be the third time that India will get details about bank accounts and other financial assets held by Indians in Switzerland, it will be the first time that the information being shared with India would include information about the real estate assets. While the Swiss government has agreed to share details of real estate assets, the information about contributions to non-profit organisations and other such foundations, as also details on investments in digital currencies still remain out of bounds from the automatic exchange of information framework, officials said. Experts and those engaged in the business of attracting investments to Switzerland said the move would help clear misconceptions about all fund inflows into Swiss assets being illicit and would go a long way in establishing Switzerland as a preferred investment destination, including for real estate properties. Himanshu, Founder and CEO of Switzerland For You SA, the parent firm of IDDI Investments, which is engaged in the business of attracting investments from India and other countries to Switzerland including in startups and real estate, said transparency has its own virtues and the proposal of the Switzerland government to share information about property ownership of foreign clients with other countries including India is welcome. "We find no valid reason for Swiss authorities to hide such information. After all, the ownership of property is not something which can be kept under wraps," said the India-origin entrepreneur who goes by his first name only and is settled in Geneva for many years. "Sharing of such information with other countries under AEOI will bring in more transparency and act as deterrence for those intending to buy Swiss properties from ill-gotten wealth. The move will go a long way in making Switzerland an attractive investment destination," he added. India had received the first set of details from Switzerland under AEOI (Automatic Exchange of Information) in September 2019. It was among 75 countries to get such information that year. In September 2020, India received the second set of Swiss bank account details of its nationals and entities, along with 85 other recipient countries with whom Switzerland's Federal Tax Administration (FTA) exchanged information on financial accounts within the framework of global standards on AEOI last year. From this year, Switzerland's Federal Council, the country's top governing body, has decided to implement a key recommendation of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, under which Swiss authorities will also share details about investments made by foreigners in the Swiss real estate sector. However, some other recommendations of the Global Forum, including about sharing of information on digital currency accounts and contributions made to foundations and non-profit organisations are yet to be accepted and therefore those details would not be shared by Switzerland with India or any other countries for now. Hectic lobbying is underway globally to convince Switzerland to start sharing information about digital currency accounts and contributions made to non-profit entities as well. In each of the last two years, Switzerland has shared details about nearly three million financial accounts with various jurisdictions, while the count is expected to be higher this year. For the last two years, India has been among prominent countries with which Switzerland has shared details about financial accounts of clients of Swiss banks and various other financial institutions, while it is also expected to figure high this year with regard to details about real estate properties. Resident and non-resident Indians, as well as Indian companies, would account for a sizeable number in the overall list of those figuring in this year's exchange of information by Switzerland, officials privy to the development said. Besides, Swiss authorities have already shared information about more than 100 Indian citizens and entities so far this year on receipt of requests for administrative assistance in cases involving probes into financial wrongdoings including tax evasion, the officials added. This count has been similar in the past few years. These cases mostly relate to older accounts that might have been closed before 2018, for which Switzerland has shared details with India under an earlier framework of mutual administrative assistance as Indian authorities had provided prima facie evidence of tax-related wrongdoing by those account holders. AEOI is applicable only to accounts that are active or were closed during 2018. Some of these cases relate to entities set up by Indians in various overseas jurisdictions like Panama, the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands, while the individuals include mostly businessmen and a few politicians and erstwhile royals as well as their family members. The officials, however, refused to share details about the exact number of accounts or the quantum of assets held in the accounts held by Indians, for which the information has been shared with India, citing strict confidentiality clauses governing the exchange framework. The information shared by Swiss authorities includes identification, account and financial information, such as name, address, country of residence and tax identification number, as well as information concerning the reporting financial institution, account balance and capital income. The exchanged information allows tax authorities to verify whether taxpayers have correctly declared their financial accounts in their tax returns. The 86 countries covered under the AEOI in 2020 included 11 new jurisdictions -- Anguilla, Aruba, Bahamas, Bahrain, Grenada, Israel, Kuwait, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Panama and the United Arab Emirates -- in addition to a list of 75 countries, with whom information was shared in 2019. Switzerland's first such exchange took place at the end of September 2018 and involved 36 countries, but India did not figure in the list at that time. Nearly 10,000 entities, including financial institutions such as banks, trusts and insurers, as also condominium and apartment owners' associations are expected to have shared details about their overseas clients with the Federal Tax Authority of Switzerland for further sharing with foreign jurisdictions. Switzerland has committed itself to adopt the global standard for the international automatic exchange of information in tax matters. The legal basis for the implementation of AEOI in Switzerland came into force on January 1, 2017. However, AEOI only applies to accounts that are officially in the name of Indians and they might include those used for business and other genuine purposes. The Global Forum of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) reviews AEOI implementation. According to experts, the AEOI data received by India has been quite useful for establishing a strong prosecution case against those who have any unaccounted wealth, as it provides entire details of deposits and transfers as well as of all earnings, including through investments in securities and other assets. On condition of anonymity, several officials said the details relate mostly to businessmen, including non-resident Indians now settled in several South-East Asian countries as well as in the US, the UK and even some African and South American countries. A Swiss delegation was in India in August 2019 before the first set of details could get shared and the two sides also discussed possible steps to expedite the execution of tax information-sharing requests made by India in specific cases. It is feared many Indians might have closed their accounts after a global crackdown on black money led to Switzerland buckling under international pressure to open its banking sector for scrutiny to clear the long-held perception of Swiss banks being safe haven for undisclosed funds. Switzerland agreed to AEOI with India after a long process, including a review of the necessary legal framework in India on data protection and confidentiality. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swiss-bank-to-reveal-data-on-real-estate-properties-of-indians-for-first-time-1029658.html
12-09-2021||National||SC directs for handing over 416 acres land for Shivaram Karanth Layout||The Supreme Court has directed Karnataka's Department of Revenue to deliver possession of 416 acres 13 guntas of government land notified for the formation of Dr Shivaram Karanth Layout to the Bangalore Development Authority. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna took note of a status report filed by the BDA Commissioner stating the land has been notified for the layout. The court also directed the BDA to issue certificates to the landowners indicating their entitlement for allotment of developed lands under the 40:60 scheme or voluntary surrender scheme immediately on taking possession of their lands.  It also said for any reason, if such certificates have not been issued so far, the BDA would do so within a period of four weeks. It also allowed a plea by the BDA for an extension of time for receiving the application from the revenue site holders till October 31, 2021. The court also directed the BDA to inform the general public about the extension of time. The bench also directed the BDA to file the next status report within 15 days after consulting the Justice A V Chandrashekar committee. The court passed its order while examining compliance to its judgement delivered on August 3, 2018, directing the Bangalore Development Authority not to drop the land acquisition from the proposed layout, posing serious repercussions to those who built the houses over there.  However, the top court had earlier decided to protect the buildings and dwelling houses which have come up on about 650 acres of land meant for the layout proposed initially in 2008.  In a related development, the top court pulled up the state government for transferring Dr H R Shantharajanna, who was working as engineer member, engineering Section of the BDA.  "Despite our order of August 19, 2021, he was transferred by the state government to some other department. We direct the State of Karnataka to re-transfer him to the position forthwith," the bench said. The court noted that the officer was heading the engineering section and was in charge of the formation of Dr Shivaram Karanth Layout along with other responsibilities in the BDA. "In fact, he had filed an affidavit dated 06.02.2021 before this court in terms of our order dated 25.01.2021 indicating the plan of action for the formation of Layout," the bench pointed out.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-for-handing-over-416-acres-land-for-shivaram-karanth-layout-1029676.html
12-09-2021||National||New Vande Bharat trains likely to be available for commercial operations by mid next year||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing plans to roll out 75 new Vande Bharat Express trains by August 15, 2023, Indian Railways is expecting to have new sets of ultra modern trains commercially available from June 2022 onwards.  “The first prototype rake is planned to be rolled out in March 2022 and the same will be put for commercial service by June 2022,” a senior railway official said. The railways already told Hyderabad-based firm Medha to advance its production plan, so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by next March, said the official.  Medha secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for 44 Vande Bharat trains in February this year. The railways also floated a tender for 58 new Vande Bharat trains including design, development, manufacture, integration and testing of traction propulsion electrics.  With both the tenders, the railways expect to have 102 Vande Bharat trains by 2024, two months before the general election. The new Vande Bharat train sets will have more passenger amenities and safety features including better seating, security system, four emergency windows per coach, disaster lights in all coaches and four emergency push buttons per coach, said the official In the new sets of trains, there will be a Centralized Coach Monitoring System for all electrical, climate control and functioning of other vital systems of the train. With the passengers complaining of discomfort in the existing two Vande Bharat trains, in the new trains, there will be a push back arrangement for reclining seats for better passenger comfort, said the official.  To ensure reliability during heavy rains, the trains will also be provided with higher flood protection underframe equipment, said the official. The coaches will also have the availability of ventilation for three hours in case of failure of power supply to the roof-mounted AC package unit. At present there are two Vande Bharat trains operating between New Delhi-Varanasi and New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra. The Prime Minister on August 15 had announced that 75 Vande Bharat Express trains will connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks of the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-vande-bharat-trains-likely-to-be-available-for-commercial-operations-by-mid-next-year-1029678.html
12-09-2021||National||TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee joins Koo platform||Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday joined Koo social media platform, an Indian microblogging site available in several regional languages and English. A senior TMC leader said Banerjee who tweets frequently on various issues will also be using Koo in a big way in the coming days and party members and supporters will be asked to install it on their mobile phones. The Lok Sabha MP of Diamond Harbour is one of the key persons in the TMC who popularised Twitter among functionaries of the Mamata Banerjee-led party and its different wings. The TMC and its Tripura unit already have Koo accounts and Abhishek Banerjee is following them. His first post on Koo was on the use of a purported image of a Kolkata flyover in a full-page advertisement by the Uttar Pradesh government showcasing transformation of the state under its Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "Transforming UP for @myogiadityanath means stealing images from infrastructure seen in Bengal under Mamata Banerjee’s leadership and using them as his own! Looks like the ’DOUBLE ENGINE MODEL’ has MISERABLY FAILED in BJP’s strongest state and now stands EXPOSED for all!", his post read. Banerjee also attached the advertisement to the post. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-leader-abhishek-banerjee-joins-koo-platform-1029699.html
12-09-2021||National||NSUI passes resolution to make Rahul Gandhi Congress president||The National Students' Union of India, the student wing of the Congress, on Sunday passed a resolution to make Rahul Gandhi the national president of the party. The resolution was passed on the concluding day of the two-day long national executive of the NSUI, which was organised to discuss the future pursuits. "The NSUI in its two-day national executive 'Sankalp' resolves and proposes in one voice that Shri Rahul Gandhi be appointed as president of the Indian National Congress," the resolution said. It added that students feel "safe and secure" under Rahul Gandhi's guardianship and visionary leadership for socio-political governance. "We recognise Rahul Gandhi's dedication to India's student and re-affirm our faith in his keen leadership abilities and statesmanship under which India can reach the pinnacle of success developing into a more sustainable and peaceful society. We hereby undertake this resolution and look forward to its fruition," the resolution said. The NSUI also passed a proposal to celebrate 75th anniversary of Independence across the country under which the NSUI will organise student-related programmes. On the second day of the National Executive, senior leaders of the Congress attended the event and guided all workers. Congress national spokesperson Pawan Kheda said the party has everything be it leadership, ideology, experience, legacy or passion. The NSUI statement quoted Kheda as saying, "Rahul Gandhi called us 'Babbar Sher' so now we have to fight the BJP by roaring out the truth and drive them out of the country, for India's growth and everlasting development." Maharashtra's Union Minister and National President of Congress SC Department Nitin Raut claimed that the BJP is working to break the country. "These people ask what the Congress has done in 70 years. Nevertheless, we have done everything to bounce back the country into a successful state ever since Independence," Raut said. Congress minority department chairman Imran Pratapgarhi, while addressing the national executive, said that when the country became independent, whatever it was, "Pandit Nehru ji made the country bloom by working hard day and night, but the BJP is pledging it". The NSUI statement quoted Pratapgarhi as saying, "Narendra Modi is playing with the sentiments of the people of this country by faking tears." Youth Congress national president Srinivas BV said that no government can last long if students are determined. "In present times it is the responsibility of the students to fight together against this dictatorial government to save the country,' Srinivas BV said in the statement.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsui-passes-resolution-to-make-rahul-gandhi-congress-president-1029707.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Rupani made 'scapegoat', resigned due to infighting in Gujarat BJP: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday alleged that Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani was "made a scapegoat" and his resignation was due to "intense infighting" within the BJP unit in the western state. Sixty-five-year-old Rupani resigned from his post over a year ahead of elections to the 182 seats in Gujarat Assembly due in December 2022. "There has been misgovernance in Gujarat under the BJP rule but that was not the factor behind the sudden stepping down of Rupani. He was made a scapegoat and his resignation was due to the intense squabble in the Gujarat unit of the saffron party. "We wonder why Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not quitting despite the all-round failure of BJP to rule the country?" Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told reporters. The TMC is targeting the assembly elections due before the 2023 Lok Sabha polls to expand its national footprint. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rupani-made-scapegoat-resigned-due-to-infighting-in-gujarat-bjp-tmc-1029443.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||BJP sold everything that Congress built in 70 years: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked the BJP-led Centre, saying they “sold” everything in seven years that the Congress-led governments set up in 70 years. Addressing the national executive of the Congress-affiliated National Students' Union of India (NSUI), he said Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was dubbed a weak PM at the time of the Mumbai terror attacks but the media did not question Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the time of Pulwama attacks. "The Congress has always been a building block for the country and all our hard work of 70 years has been sold by the BJP in mere seven years. When the Mumbai attacks had happened, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was called a weak PM by the media. The media did not raise questions at the time of Pulwama attacks," he said. He also praised NSUI members for working hard during the coronavirus period. Congress general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP K C Venugopal also praised the NSUI members for their hard work. "I myself have been a part of the NSUI family and used to sit at the same place where the members are today. We can change the government for good," he added. While addressing the executive, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda said democracy in the country is in danger at present. The BJP government is not listening to farmers and constantly trying to silence the voice of the opposition, he said. Rajya Sabha MP Shaktisinh Gohil said even when the BJP had two MPs "we respected them as opposition" but today the BJP is working to suppress the opposition and is not giving a chance to speak in Parliament. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-sold-everything-that-congress-built-in-70-years-rahul-gandhi-1029480.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Media was critical of UPA during 26/11 attack, not the same with Modi govt: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the media had been critical of former prime minister Manmohan Singh during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, but it is not doing the same with the Modi government after several similar incidents. He said this while addressing the National Students' Union of India (NSUI) national executive meeting. Gandhi was asked by some members why the good work done by Congress governments was not highlighted. Gandhi cited that several terror-related incidents, similar to the Mumbai attack, had taken place during the Narendra Modi government, but it was not criticised by the media the same way as the UPA was, sources said. He also alleged Chinese incursions into Indian territory and citing the farmers' agitation said that the media was not covering their protest, even when it is non-political, the sources said. Gandhi said that farmers have been on protest for several months now. Farmers are protesting against three Central agri laws at Delhi border points since last year and demanding the legislations be repealed. The Congress leader also asked young students to work hard against the "anti-democratic government and put every effort possible to work for student welfare", the sources said. He also exhorted them to strive for increasing the presence of the NSUI across the country. Watch latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/media-was-critical-of-upa-during-26/11-attack-not-the-same-with-modi-govt-rahul-1029493.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Gujarat BJP legislators to meet; decision on Rupani successor likely today||The suspense over who will succed Vijay Rupani as Gujarat chief minister will be over after a meeting of BJP legislators later on Sunday, party sources said. Central observer Narendra Singh Tomar, who will attend the meeting, met state BJP chief C R Paatil on Sunday morning. BJP has appointed Union ministers Tomar and Prahlad Joshi as observers for the legislature party meeting to elect a new chief minister. "We have come here to hold further discussions on the issue (new chief minister). We will discuss it with state BJP leaders," Tomar said at the airport. "I will hold consultations with Gujarat leaders, then the central leadership will take a decision," said Joshi. BJP general secretary Tarun Chaag has also reached Ahmedabad. There is talk that Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the union territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is among the top contenders. Also reportedly being considered are Parshottam Rupala, the Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairy and Mansukh Mandaviya, the Union Health Minister. Both of them also belong to the Patel or Patidar community. The names of Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and state agriculture minister RC Faldu, both from the Patel community, are also doing the rounds. Rupani (65) on Saturday resigned from the post, his sudden announcement coming over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December 2022. Rupani (65), the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister – his second stint as CM - in December 2017. "I have resigned as chief minister of Gujarat,” Rupani told reporters after meeting Governor Acharya Devvrat and submitting his resignation letter. "I was allowed to serve the state for five years. I have contributed to the development of the state. I will further do whatever is asked by my party,” said Rupani, who completed five years in office on August 7 this year. He first became the chief minister on August 7, 2016, following the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel, and continued in the office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 Assembly elections.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-bjp-legislators-to-meet-decision-on-rupani-successor-likely-today-1029524.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Arvind Kejriwal re-elected as AAP national convenor||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was on Sunday elected as AAP's national convenor for the third time at a time the party is hoping to have an impressive performance in the Assembly polls in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur. Kejriwal was unanimously chosen to lead the party for another five years at an online meeting of the national executive. His election for the third time comes as the party had earlier amended its Constitution to allow more than two consecutive terms for one to lead the party. The meeting also chose Pankaj Gupta as the national secretary and ND Gupta, a Rajya Sabha MP, as national treasurer, as their "work and experience makes them the best candidates" for the posts. The executive unanimously cleared the proposal to elect Kejriwal as national convenor as he is the "guiding light of the party since day one" and that he stood for the party and its ideology even in the most unprecedented times. "It would be the wisest decision to elect him for the third time consecutively," the executive felt. "The meeting reinforced their belief in the fact that he is the most popular leader of the party, considering that he has won the public's mandate thrice as the Chief Minister of Delhi," a party statement said. The national council had met on Saturday during which a 34-member national executive was elected. The executive members include senior AAP leaders Manish Sisodia, Satyendar Jain, Imran Hussain, Rajendra Pal Gautam, Raghav Chadha, Atishi and Rakhi Birla among others. The next national executive meeting will discuss the upcoming state Assembly elections and the current political scenario of the country. AAP has already started its preparations for the polls in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh with Kejriwal visiting the states more than once. In UP, AAP has also started a 'tiranga yatra' in a bid to counter the BJP. A recent survey had shown that AAP may emerge as the single largest party in Punjab, pushing the ruling Congress to the second position. Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/arvind-kejriwal-re-elected-as-aap-national-convenor-1029563.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||UP Muslims also seek caste census for its backward sections||As the demand for caste census gains momentum among various political parties, the Muslim community in Uttar Pradesh is also keen on caste enumeration of the Backward Castes. The All-India Pasmanda Muslim Mahaz, which has been carrying on a campaign for reservation facilities to the Muslim backward communities, has demanded that a caste census of the minority community also be held. In this connection, a meeting of 17 Muslim organisations was recently held to chalk out further action plan. Mahaz President Ali Anwar Ansari said the caste census should not be restricted to the Hindu community but should be extended to the minority community as well, since Muslims also follow the caste system. Ansari said, "Muslims, like Hindus, are divided among different castes and sub castes. Since the caste census has not been done since 1931, this is a reason why the benefits of the government's policies have not reached the relatively weaker sections and smaller castes. Backward classes should be sub categorised into backward and most backward." "The sub-categorisation should be done at the central level and extended to the rest of the country", he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-muslims-also-seek-caste-census-for-its-backward-sections-1029564.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Moily says some leaders 'misused' G-23, calls for Prashant Kishor's induction in Congress||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Sunday said some leaders "misused" the G-23 and asserted that if anyone persists with its institutionalisation it would be for "vested interest" as reform of the party was already underway under Sonia Gandhi. The former Union minister also voiced strong support for poll strategist Prashant Kishor's induction into the Congress and said those opposing his entry into the party were "anti-reform". In an interview with PTI, Moily, who was among the 23 leaders who wrote to Gandhi last year seeking organizational overhaul, opposed the institutionalisation of the G-23 and said "some of us put our signatures only for reform of the party from within and to rebuild the party, not to destroy it". "Some of our leaders misused the G-23. No sooner did Sonia ji think of reforming the party from within and from the grassroots level, we did not subscribe to the idea of G-23," the senior Congress leader said, without taking any names. He said with the initiation of reform under party chief Sonia Gandhi's leadership, the G-23 has "no role and has become irrelevant". "If they (some leaders) persist (with G-23) that means there is a vested interest for a few of them to work against the Congress party which we don't subscribe to and rather oppose it," Moily said. Anybody who again uses the instrument of G-23 is doing a great disservice to the Indian National Congress and its legacy, he said, adding such actions would help the Congress' rivals. His remarks assume significance as many leaders of the G-23 have either distanced themselves from it or have been silent following the letter they wrote last year. Out of that group of 23 leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi, Jitin Prasada has switched over to the BJP. A few members of the G-23 had got together at social gatherings a couple of times at Kapil Sibal's residence recently and reportedly discussed party issues. At one of the gatherings, Sibal had invited a host of opposition leaders as well to his residence. Moily said the "major surgery" of the party that he has been talking about to revitalize the organisation was already being contemplated by Sonia Gandhi. "She (Sonia Gandhi) is active and taking decisions, such decisions are needed," he said, adding he was happy with the steps taken by the party chief. Asked about speculation that Kishor could join the Congress, Moily said it was advisable that he joins the Congress and injects reforms from within. Moily urged those within the party opposing Kishor's entry into the Congress not to do so, saying it was important for the country and the Congress that the party be reformed, which, he said, was the intention of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. According to sources, Congress president Sonia Gandhi will take a final call on the induction of Kishor and has held discussions with several senior leaders on the issue. Asked if he thinks Kishor's induction will be beneficial for the party, Moily said the poll strategist has proved that he is successful in working out strategies. "Instead of working from outside, if he joins the party, it will be quite beneficial," he added. "Let there be strong willpower to join hands with Sonia ji to ensure that the party's organisation is strengthened within a couple of months. This is what I proposed that Prashant Kishor can inject that kind of resurgence of the Congress party (that is needed) by plan and design," Moily said. He also said the Congress is the main plank of the politics of this country. "We may lose sometimes but it cannot be said that we will lose forever. For example, in 1977 we lost and in 1980 with all the allegations against her (Indira Gandhi), ultimately the people found that they wanted the Congress and Indira ji came back, this is the history of the Congress," he said when asked about NCP chief Sharad Pawar's remarks suggesting that Congress' situation was now like impoverished landlords. Moily also pointed out that Pawar himself has acknowledged that Congress was the only party in power in multiple states that could take on the BJP. "Congress is the fulcrum of the strength of the politics of this country," Moily asserted. Asked if Congress would be the fulcrum of an Opposition alliance to take on the BJP in 2024 elections, he answered in the affirmative. "Ultimately the government cannot function to serve the interest of a group of people, few castes or few religions, it cannot be done. Just because the people are silent it does not mean that they cannot stage a political revolution, they can do it but only under the leadership of the Congress," Moily said. It should be remembered that the integrity of the Constitution of India is under threat under the NDA regime, he alleged. Hitting out at those alleging that the Congress was all about the benefit of one family, Moily said Sonia Gandhi had sacrificed for the country and never hankered for posts. "We should not forget that Sonia ji represents martyrs like Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, and also the Congress' virtues brought independence and sustained democracy in the nation," he said. The Congress is the backbone of forces to take on the BJP, Moily said. Asked about calls from within the Congress that Rahul Gandhi should be made the chief of the party again, he said the Wayanad MP was best suited to lead the party but added that presently it was important to turn attention to reorganise and revamp the party. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/moily-says-some-leaders-misused-g-23-calls-for-prashant-kishors-induction-in-congress-1029568.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Eyeing 2022 Assembly polls, BJP pitches low-profile Bhupendra Patel as Gujarat's new Chief Minister||The BJP on Sunday picked first-time MLA Bhupendra Patel as the new chief minister of Gujarat, as the party sought to mollify the powerful Patidar community that has eyed the post for long and nip any anti-incumbency in the bud before the 2022 Assembly polls. The 59-year-old will be succeeding Vijay Rupani, who stepped down from the post on Monday in a decision that surprised many.   Patel's name was announced at the BJP headquarters in Gandhinagar following a legislature party meeting attended by Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, scores of party MLAs, two Union ministers — Prahlad Joshi and Narendra Singh Tomar — and party's national secretary Tarun Chaung. A builder by profession, the low-profile Patel emerged as a dark horse as his name wasn't on the list of favourites doing the rounds as possible CM candidates. An MLA from Ghatlodia Assembly constituency in Ahmedabad, a Patidar-dominated seat, Patel made his debut in state politics in the 2017 Assembly polls and won with a record margin. Ghatlodia used to be represented by ex-chief minister Anandiben Patel, the current governor of Uttar Pradesh. Belonging to Kadva Patel community, a Patidar sub-caste, the new CM is said to be a protege of Anandiben. Patel has a diploma in civil engineering and is a former chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) as well as ex-chairman of Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.  After the formal announcement of his name, Bhupendra Patel thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, party's national president J P Nadda and outgoing chief minister Vijay Rupani for trusting him for the top job. Patel met the Governor Acharya Devvrat at 6 pm and staked a claim to form the government. Patel will be sworn in as chief minister on Monday, said state party president C R Paatil. Party sources said that several new faces are likely to be inducted in Patel's cabinet.  The party is still maintaining secrecy over the role of current deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is said to be upset with the development.  "We don't know what is going to happen to Nitinbhai. Things will be clear after two days," said a BJP functionary. "The name of Bhupendrabhai as next CM has stunned everyone. We were not expecting it. But he has a clean image with no criminal record or allegation of corruption," he added. Meanwhile, prominent Patidar leader Hardik Patel, the working president of Gujarat Congress, released a statement late in the evening congratulating Bhupendra Patel. However, he added that the BJP has given "Bhupendra Patel the new responsibility to hide the party's failure". Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eyeing-2022-assembly-polls-bjp-pitches-low-profile-bhupendra-patel-as-gujarats-new-chief-minister-1029591.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Mamata eyes alliance with Samajwadi Party in UP polls||The Trinamool Congress is looking towards an alliance with the Samajwadi Party for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, due early next year. A decision on this is expected to be taken by the leaders of both parties in the coming weeks. The Trinamool has already launched its mass contact programme in Uttar Pradesh from Pilibhit where farmers had staged a protest on the issue of cane dues. At least two districts in each of the 18 divisions will be covered to gauge the mood of the people and their expectations. Trinamool state president Neeraj Rai said, "We will tell the people about the policies implemented by us in West Bengal and will seek public feedback on the welfare policies of the state government. We will prepare the manifesto of the Trinamool Congress based on the expectations of the people." He said the Trinamool was focusing on building a strong organisational structure and cadre base in Uttar Pradesh. "The party has added 100 committed members in more than 30 districts through the membership drive launched in May. The party leadership wants a strong unit in UP with a committed workforce ahead of the 2024 General Elections. Wherever we go, people want to know how we defeated the BJP in West Bengal," he added. Sources in the Samajwadi Party said that the alliance with Trinamool could materialise since Akhilesh Yadav shares a warm rapport with West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Chief Mamata Banerjee. "Besides, she is now an opposition mascot who crushed communal forces in her state against all odds. Her campaign in UP will certainly boost the opposition in general," said a SP spokesman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-eyes-alliance-with-samajwadi-party-in-up-polls-1029599.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi begins 2-day Rae Bareli tour to energise workers ahead of UP polls||Faced with a stiff challenge to halt Congress's slide in Uttar Pradesh, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday began a tour of Sonia Gandhi's Rae Bareli constituency to energise workers for the electoral battle for UP scheduled early next year. Priyanka Gandhi, during her meeting with party workers, said that the Congress this time, plans to declare candidates well in time for the state assembly elections, a party leader told PTI. Beginning the two-day tour of her mother's parliamentary constituency, Priyanka Gandhi made the first pit stop at a Hanuman temple in Churuva on the Lucknow-Rae Bareli border, and offered prayers. Rae Bareli, the bastion of the Gandhi family since the days of Indira Gandhi, has five assembly seats out of which two are with the Congress and the BJP each, and one is with the Samajwadi Party. Congress president Sonia Gandhi represents the Rae Bareli constituency in the Lok Sabha. The parliamentary constituency of Rae Bareli consists of Bachhrawan (SC), Harchandpur, Rae Bareli, Sareni and Unchahar assembly segments. In the 2017 UP assembly elections, the Congress registered wins in Harchandpur and Rae Bareli assembly constituencies. Rakesh Singh and Aditi Singh won from Harchandpur and Rae Bareli respectively. BJP's Ram Naresh Rawat won from Bachhrawan (SC) and Dhirendra Bahadur Singh won from Sareni. Unchahar is represented in the state assembly by Manoj Kumar Pandey of the Samajwadi Party. Elaborating on Priyanka Gandhi's meeting with party workers, spokesperson of the District Congress Committee of Rae Bareli Vinay Dwivedi told PTI, "Office bearers of the district unit and city unit of the party met Priyanka ji. Members of various frontal organisations, party candidates and zila panchayat members of the Congress also met her." At the meeting, she said that party candidates will be declared well in time as the declaration of candidates was rather late in the previous elections, Dwivedi said. He added that the meeting which started on Sunday morning continued till evening. "She also went to Tiloi in the neighbouring district of Amethi, after some party workers from Amethi informed her about an accident. She will tour the rural area of Rae Bareli before leaving for Lucknow," he said. Priyanka Gandhi visited Dodarpur village in Amethi's Tiloi area where three children died in a wall collapse on September 6. The Congress general secretary reached Todarpur village at around 8 pm and met family members of the deceased. Priyanka Gandhi consoled them and assured of all possible help. She also inquired about the well-being of two other children who were injured in the accident. The deceased were Vansh (5), Satyam (10) and Divyanshi (7). The injured were Ashish (9) and Shiva (7). The Congress was reduced to seven seats in the 2017 UP assembly polls and now the grand old party is looking at the party secretary general for a turnaround in the heartland of politics. The Congress's fortunes took a downward slide after the Ram Janmabhoomi issue took centre-stage in the early 90s. Upon her arrival in Rae Bareli, Priyanka Gandhi was welcomed by party leaders and workers. Subsequently, she was welcomed and garlanded in Bachhravan, Harchandpur, Jagdishpur village and Civil Lines area of the city. From there, her cavalcade proceeded towards the Bhuyemau guest house, UP Congress media panelist Priyanka Gupta said. The neighbouring Amethi Lok Sabha constituency consists of the assembly segments of Tiloi, Salon (SC), Jagdishpur (SC), Gauriganj and Amethi. In the 2017 elections in the state, the BJP emerged victorious in the constituencies of Tiloi, Salon, Jagdishpur and Amethi, while the SP registered a win from the Gauriganj assembly constituency. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tasted defeat at Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections at the hands of Union minister Smriti Irani. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-begins-2-day-rae-bareli-tour-to-energise-workers-ahead-of-up-polls-1029601.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Kerala Bishop's remarks: Congress, BJP's verbal duel intensifies||The verbal duel between the Congress and BJP over the controversial 'love and narcotic jihad' remark by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt, intensified on Sunday with the former saying it does not want the Sangh Parivar to gain foothold here while the latter claimed that both CPI(M) and Congress were cornering the Bishop over the issue. Senior Congress leader K Muraleedharan, while speaking to the media said the party was not attacking the Bishop but was only pointing out a mistake as the prevalence of liquor and drug mafia in the southern state should not be foisted upon a certain religious community. That is where Congress has a difference of opinion with the Bishop remarks, he said and added that the party does not want any communal disharmony in the state nor does it want the Sangh Parivar to gain a foothold here. Responding to Muraleedharan's comments, BJP state president K Surendran said that the Bishop's remarks were against terrorism, "but it hit Congress and CPI(M)" who are now attacking the Bishop from all sides, which is "unacceptable". Addressing reporters at the 84th birthday of SNDP leader Vellapally Natesan, Surendran alleged that the response of the two parties indicated that the Congress and CPI(M) were encouraging religious terrorism "as part of their vote bank politics".  He further said anyone speaking the truth "was being branded as a member of the Sangh Parivar". The link between drug mafias and religious terrorist's world over was clear as daylight, he said and added that if Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan cannot see that "then we need to fear such forces". He said that BJP will provide all support to the Bishop against the attacks by Congress and CPI(M). Earlier, Muraleedharan said such issues should not happen and any differences between religious groups should be discussed by sitting together. He said that he expected the Bishop himself to take steps to resolve the controversy. We do not want any agitations in the state over the Bishop's remarks, he said.  The controversial 'love and narcotic jihad' remarks by Kallarangatt triggered ripples in Kerala's political circles as the BJP accused the CPI(M) and the Congress of supporting jihadis, while the latter warned against "Sangh Parivar agenda" to destroy Christian-Muslim harmony in the state. Amid mounting criticism, the Pala Diocese, under the prominent Syro-Malabar Church, on Saturday had come out with an explanation, saying the Bishop did not intend to hurt anyone and his remarks were not against any particular community. Urging all communities to view seriously the actions of fringe elements indulging in radical and anti-social activities using the names and symbols of religion, the diocese also shared the message of going forward unitedly ending all misleading propaganda. While the Congress had said the bishop crossed limits, the BJP supported him by urging the society to discuss the statement. Recently, Kallarangatt had said that Christian girls were falling prey to the alleged love and narcotic jihad in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth. Meanwhile, Kerala Congress (M), a key constituent of the ruling left in Kerala said the Pala Bishop's words were misinterpreted as he was only pointing to the evil impact of drugs in the society. KC(M) leader Jose K Mani, who met the media here, said the Church has always created awareness in the society against the drug menace. His statement comes after a Church organ today asked Mani to clarify his stand over the controversy, which has been raging for the past few days in Kerala. "Bishop Kallarangatt was pointing to the evil impacts of drugs in the society and cautioned against it. The church has always created awareness among the believers and the general public against its social evils," Mani, whose core vote base constitutes Catholic Christians in central Kerala, said. "The resistance which was formed against dowry and caste discrimination should also be formed against drug mafia. However, those who are attacking him (Bishop), for calling for action against the drug mafia are in fact trying to destroy the peaceful and secular fabric of the society. This should be opposed," Mani said. Mani's statement in a way contradicts what Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said. Condemning Bishop Kallarangatt's statement, the CM on Friday said those who hold responsible positions should refrain from making statements causing divisions in the society. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-bishops-remarks-congress-bjps-verbal-duel-intensifies-1029608.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Uttarakhand Congress MLA Rajkumar returns to BJP||Uttarakhand Congress MLA Rajkumar on Sunday returned to the BJP, with the saffron party now aggressively poaching from rival camps. He is the second MLA after Pritam Singh Panwar, an independent MLA who was a Minister in the Harish Rawat-led Congress government till 2017 to join the BJP, which is hoping to retain Uttarakhand where it has changed two Chief Ministers in a span of months this year. Uttarakhand is heading for polls early next year. Rajkumar joined the party in the presence of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik. Rajkumar was with the BJP from 2007 to 2012 but he was denied a ticket in 2012 and 2017 following which he joined Congress. "The BJP is working towards making people from the lower castes independent, while Congress has made these people dependent on subsidies since Independence. I have joined the party today after seeing BJP's great work in Uttarakhand," Rajkumar said. A survey by ABP-CVoter earlier this month has predicted that the BJP may return to power this time too but it may not be able to repeat the 2017 results when it won 57 out of 70 seats. The BJP last week appointed Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi as the BJP election in-charge of Uttarakhand. Sardar RP Singh will be co-in-charge in Uttarakhand, assisting Joshi. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-congress-mla-rajkumar-returns-to-bjp-1029612.html
12-09-2021||National Politics||Earlier only those who used to say 'Abba Jaan' got ration: Yogi launches attack on SP, calls Cong mother of terrorism||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Sunday fired fresh salvo at Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party saying that previous governments in the state were busy in appeasing a particular community.  Addressing a rally, the CM said that while everyone in the state is provided with ration now, earlier only those who used to say "Abba Jaan" were digesting all the ration. Adityanath on Sunday also dubbed the Congress as “mother of terrorism” and the Samajwadi Party a “bichhu” without naming it. The chief minister launched the attack on the opposition parties in Kushinagar while laying foundation stones for projects worth Rs 400 crore in the district, shortly after inaugurating the district prison in Sant Kabir Nagar built at the cost of Rs 126 crore. Adityanath also accused the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party governments of liking “darkness”, after allegedly having failed to ensure proper power supply to people. "The Congress is the mother of all terrorism in the country," said Adityanath, adding it “will not get shoulders of even two people after the 2022 assembly elections”. He also attacked the Samajwadi Party without naming it. "Those who fired bullets at devotees of Lord Ram and support the Taliban with their casteism and dynastic mindset will never be tolerated by the people of the state. Remember, a 'bichhu' (scorpion) will sting, wherever it is," he said. "What was UP lacking? What has the Congress, SP and BSP given it except the disease, unemployment, mafia rule and corruption?” asked Adityanath. “Had work been done on developmental schemes in the past, the Congress would not have got merely seven seats in the last assembly elections,” said the chief minister, adding “they will not get the shoulders of even two people in the 2022 elections”. "Congress gives only diseases, insults the faith of Lord Rama and encourages the mafia. But the BJP makes the people healthy, paves the way for the building of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya and sends the mafia to their rightful place," he said. "The Congress is the mother of all terrorism in the country. There is no need to tolerate those giving wounds to the country. The BJP gives respect to all and all faiths," the chief minister added. Attacking the SP and BSP, Adityanath asked people if they are getting power supply and ration presently. As they replied in the affirmative, he asked again if they used to get it during the "Abba Jaan" and "Bahan Ji" governments and went on to answer himself, “The SP and BSP used to like darkness." Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/earlier-only-those-who-used-to-say-abba-jaan-got-ration-yogi-launches-attack-on-sp-calls-cong-mother-of-terrorism-1029674.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||BJP's core agenda is to malign Samajwadi Party: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday alleged that maligning his party through misinformation was the core agenda of the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh. The former chief minister also said that the BJP's "biggest strength is lies". Addressing party workers, Yadav said, "The BJP is engaged in breaking social harmony and maligning the Samajwadi Party through misinformation and this is the core agenda of the BJP." "The BJP's biggest strength is lies and it believes that development is not a sensitive issue and adopts business approach in all matters. The BJP keeps looking for business in politics as well," Yadav said. Referring to the next year assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, he said, "The 2022 election is an election to save the country and democracy, and change will start from Uttar Pradesh, where people have taken a decision in this regard." Yadav said that the truth of the BJP doing politics in the name of black money, corruption and terrorism is now before the people, and its behaviour is against democracy. The country has to be saved from "fascist forces", he said, and termed the attitude of the BJP government towards social justice as unfortunate. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-core-agenda-is-to-malign-samajwadi-party-akhilesh-yadav-1029478.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Post-mortem report says NC leader Wazir was shot dead; hunt on for two prime suspects||The post-mortem report of National Conference leader Trilochan Singh Wazir stated that he was shot dead, police said on Saturday. Multiple teams of Delhi Police’s Crime Branch with technical assistance from the Special Cell are conducting raids in neighbouring states to nab the two prime suspects — Harpreet Singh and Harmeet Singh — against whom a look out circular has been issued, they said. Wazir (67), also former Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council member, was found dead in a flat in West Delhi's Moti Nagar Thursday morning. "We have substantial leads in the case and our teams are working on them. In a complaint received from the deceased’s brother, four people have been named, but as of now, we are focusing on the two prime suspects. However, we are looking into all the allegations raised by the family and investigating the case from all angles,” a senior police officer said. The post-mortem of the NC leader was conducted at a government hospital here on Friday for which a board of doctors was constituted. According to police, the autopsy report has revealed that the victim suffered gunshot injury in the temple area of head. Police said Wazir had visited Delhi even in August, but if the suspects had any plans to target him then or not will be ascertained only after the two absconders are nabbed. "We are in touch with our counterparts in the neighbouring states too. Our teams were also sent to Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab in connection with the probe," a senior police officer had said. During the investigation, Harpreet's female friend, who lived in the same flat, told police that she was not aware about the body probably because the air condition was on throughout and she did not get any foul smell. Wazir’s body was found to be in a highly decomposed state with his head wrapped in a plastic bag at the flat which was taken on rent by his acquaintance Harpreet, a native of Amritsar, police had said. A case of murder was registered in the matter and the investigation was transferred to Delhi Police's Crime Branch with the force's Special Cell to assist them, officials had said. According to police, CCTV footage of the area was analysed and it found that the accused were present in the building on Wednesday, a day before Wazir’s body was found. Prime facie, it looks like the NC leader was killed on September 2, they had said. According to them, Wazir arrived in Delhi on September 2 and was staying with Harpreet and his friend Harmeet, a native of Jammu, at their rented flat in Basai Darapur area. The victim was supposed to catch a flight to Canada the same evening to meet his family there. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/post-mortem-report-says-nc-leader-wazir-was-shot-dead-hunt-on-for-two-prime-suspects-1029483.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Search operation underway to track down suspected terrorists in J&K's Rajouri||Security forces on Sunday launched a cordon and search operation in the upper reaches of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir following information about suspected movement of terrorists from across the Line of Control (LoC), officials said. The officials said the search operation is underway but there was no contact with suspected terrorists so far. The search operation was jointly launched by the police and the Army in the forest area of Barote Gali in Manjakote and parts of Thanamandi in the early hours of Sunday, the officials said. The twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a spurt in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Three soldiers also laid down their lives in the earlier operations. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/search-operation-underway-to-track-down-suspected-terrorists-in-jks-rajouri-1029525.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature a notch below normal, moderate rain likely during the day||The national capital Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 23.4 degrees Celsius, one notch below the season's average, the India Meteorological Department said. The relative humidity was recorded at 94 per cent in the morning, it said. The weatherman predicted a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain thundershowers during the day. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 31 degrees Celsius. With record rains on Saturday, the air quality index remained in the "satisfactory" category at 54 at 8.05 am, according to the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor'', 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-a-notch-below-normal-moderate-rain-likely-during-the-day-1029528.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Noted Kashmiri writer Aziz Hajini passes away||Noted writer and former secretary of Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages Aziz Hajini passed away here after a brief illness, family sources said on Sunday. He was 64. Hajini passed away late on Saturday night, the family sources said. He was laid to rest on Sunday morning here. Hajini, who hailed from Hajin Sonawari area of north Kashmir's Bandipora district, held several positions in academic and literary circles, including as secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages, and authored several books. Several organisations, political parties and leaders have expressed condolences over Hajini's demise. “Dr Aziz Hajini's demise has a left a big void in the literary circles of J&K. Hajini Sb, a noted writer & former Secretary Cultural Academy was also the author of numerous acclaimed books.His absence in Art & culture circuit will be deeply felt. May his soul rest in eternal peace,” the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) wrote on Twitter. “May Allah (SWT) bestow the departed soul place in Jannah and perseverance to the bereaved family for this irreparable loss,” the People's Conference said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noted-kashmiri-writer-aziz-hajini-passes-away-1029543.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||'Red rot' disease affects sugarcane cultivation in Punjab districts||In a survey conducted by the Punjab government in an area spanning over 50,000-acre across 36 villages, it was found that the deadly ‘red rot’ disease has spread across some major sugarcane producing districts of Punjab. Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Pathankot and some parts of Ludhiana are some of the major cane growing districts that have been affected by the red rot disease. What is the red rot disease? Red rot is a fungal infection in sugarcane plants that occurs due to 'Colletotrichum falcatum' fungus. High humidity (90 per cent) and heavy rains in the past few days in Punjab have resulted in infecting sugarcane plants in the state. The other reasons behind the red rot infection in Punjab include drought conditions in the initial growth phase, water-logging, growth of weeds, continuous cultivation of sugarcane in the same field every year and presence of susceptible varieties in the surroundings. How can Punjab sugarcane cultivation be affected by the red rot disease? The red rot disease, which is also known as the cancer of sugarcane crops, can wipe out entire standing crops.  The infection can reduce the sugarcane’s weight by 29 per cent and result in poor quality of cane. As much as 25-75 per cent sucrose is reduced in diseased cane as compared to the healthy cane. “Initially, the affected stalks show orange to yellow discolouration in the top two to three leaves. Gradually the entire foliage turns yellowish and dry. Later, the whole clump dries up,” said Dr Amrik Singh. “On splitting open the cane, the tissue is found to be reddened but the discolouration is not uniform and is interspersed with white patches running across the width of the split cane. The affected cane emits the alcoholic smell,” he added. Experts say that if the prevailing weather conditions of Punjab continue, then the red rot disease will be able to spread more as this is the most favourable conditions for them. If preventive measures fail, then there’s no way to stop the spread of this disease. However, experts have also suggested that the 'CO-0238' variety of sugarcane which is largely grown across Punjab (covers 60 per cent of the cultivation) can be saved through preventive measures. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/red-rot-disease-affects-sugarcane-cultivation-in-punjab-districts-1029560.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Increase cane prices, double PM KISAN funds: BJP MP Varun Gandhi writes to UP CM||Seeking various relief measures for farmers in Uttar Pradesh, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday wrote to state Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath demanding substantial rise in sugarcane prices, bonus on wheat and paddy, doubling the amount of PM KISAN scheme and subsidy on diesel. Gandhi, a three-term MP from UP, has been advocating for re-engaging with protesting farmers to reach a common ground. In the two page letter to Adityanath, the Pilibhit MP listed out all the problems and demands of the farmers and at the same time also suggested solutions for the same. In the letter, Gandhi suggested increasing the sugarcane selling price to Rs 400 per quintal that is currently fixed at Rs 315 per quintal in UP. Cane is mainly grown in western UP, which is the epicentre of the farmers' protest in the state against the Centre's farm laws. Farmers should be given additional bonus of Rs 200 per quintal above the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat and paddy, Gandhi said in the letter. He also demanded that the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme should be doubled to Rs 12,000 per annum for farmers with the state government contributing Rs 6,000 from its own funds. The PM KISAN scheme is an initiative by the Centre through which all farmers will get up to Rs 6,000 per year as minimum income support.  Sharing the farmers' concern of high prices of electricity and diesel, Gandhi in the letter requested the UP Chief Minister to give subsidy of Rs 20 per litre on diesel to farmers and reduce the power prices with immediate effect. Earlier on September 5, when large number of farmers gathered in Muzaffarnagar for a mahapanchayt organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha against the three farm laws, Gandhi had said the government should re-engage with them to reach common ground as they are "our own flesh and blood." "Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground," Gandhi had tweeted by posting a video of the large crowd in attendance. The mahapanchyat was held ahead of the crucial UP assembly polls early next year. The farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws at the borders of the national capital. Several rounds of discussions were also held between the representatives of protesting farmers' unions and Union ministers but talks have remained inconclusive. The Centre has been insisting that the reforms have given farmers new opportunity to sell their produce and rejected the criticism that the laws are aimed at doing away with the MSP regime and agricultural markets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-cane-prices-double-pm-kisan-funds-bjp-mp-varun-gandhi-writes-to-up-cm-1029580.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Police officer shot dead by militants in Srinagar||A police officer was shot dead by militants in the old city Khanyar area of Srinagar on Sunday. Police said that Arshid Ahmad, a probationary sub-inspector, was fired upon by a pistol-borne militant from point-blank range in Khanyar at around 1:35 pm. Video of the shootout has emerged on social media, showing a militant with a pistol opening fire on the police officer in broad daylight barely a few meters away from Khanayar police station. After firing, the militant is seen fleeing from the spot. The injured officer was immediately shifted to tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Soura, where he succumbed to his injuries, reports said. Immediately after the attack, the area was cordoned off by the police and security forces and a hunt was launched to nab the attackers. On June 22, militants had shot dead an inspector of J&K police's Criminal Investigation Department (CID) at Kanipora area of Nowgam on the outskirts of Srinagar city in similar circumstances. Prior to that two policemen were killed after militants fired upon them indiscriminately in the uptown Barzulla area of Srinagar on February 19. According to official figures, nearly 1,700 policemen, including 508 personal security officers (PSOs) protecting VIPs, have been killed in the line of duty in Jammu and Kashmir since the beginning of the insurgency in the union territory in 1989. The J&K police have lost men from low-ranks to DIG-level officers during the last more than three decades. In 2004 a deputy inspector general of police was shot dead outside a masjid in Srinagar. Militant organisations like Hizbul Mujahideen and Lashkar-e-Toiba have several times released threats on social media warning policemen and other security personnel to resign or face dire consequences. “Local policemen are unsung heroes as it is their efficiency that a large number of militants and top commanders have been eliminated. And whenever terrorists face losses at the hands of security forces, they try to find soft targets and sometimes off-duty policemen become easy targets for them,” a senior police officer said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-officer-shot-dead-by-militants-in-srinagar-1029604.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||AAP to contest all seats in UP assembly polls: Sanjay Singh||Asserting that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, senior leader Sanjay Singh has said it would be a mistake to consider AAP a minnow as it had emerged "stronger" than the Congress in the recent panchayat polls. The Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP made it clear that it is not in talks with any other party for an alliance in the UP assembly election due early next year. "Our party is stronger than the Congress in the state. While the Congress won 40 seats in panchayat polls, we scored a victory in 83 panchayats. AAP got over 40 lakh votes in these polls, where 1600 party candidates contested," Singh, who is AAP's UP incharge, told PTI in an interview. The Congress was reduced to seven seats in the 2017 election to the 403-member UP Assembly. The AAP had earlier tested poll waters in the 2014 and 2019 Parliamentary elections on some selected seats in UP without any success. After coming to power in Delhi, it emerged as the main opposition party in Punjab and has been trying to expand its base in other states like Goa, Uttarakhand and Gujarat. Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal had himself contested against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi in 2014 and stood second ahead of the Congress and the Samajwadi party nominees. AAP had also contested three seats of Saharanpur, Aligarh and Gautam Budh Nagar in UP but could not do much. "We are preparing to contest on all 403 seats alone. We are presently not in talks for an alliance with any other party. Our focus is to strengthen our base in the state and in the past one and a half months, we have made over one crore members," Singh said. "The party has made Vidhan Sabha incharges in 100-150 seats and our leaders are meeting those who want to contest,"  said 49-year-old Singh who hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Singh, who is a Rajya Sabha MP, said the main issue to be raised by the AAP in the assembly elections "will be BJP's nationalism versus AAP's nationalism". "BJP's nationalism is fake. Its nationalism is full of hatred and communalism. At the same time, the nationalism of the AAP is providing good education, good health, free electricity,free water, women's security and happiness," he said, He hit out at the BJP, claiming it was "afraid" of the AAP's model of governance and was indulging in vindictive politics. "Sixteen cases including that of sedition were filed against me. I got a stay from the Supreme Court in a sedition case. The BJP is doing vindictive politics. Our office here was closed by them. We are facing them strongly," he said. "AAP's model of governance focuses on education, health, education and providing basic facilities to the poor and needs. Our model is an answer to casteist and communal politics played by the BJP," Singh said. Providing jobs, unemployment allowance and better prices to farmers" are among the issues the party will take up, he said. The outcome of the UP assembly polls is considered important as it would reflect on the 2024 general election. The opposition sees an opportunity against the BJP in the bellwether state especially due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the SP and BSP have already launched their election campaign to woo various communities, the Congress under the leadership of its General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is sparing no effort to revive the party at the grassroots level. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM, AAP and over a dozen small caste-centric regional parties have also announced that they are entering the ring in the politically significant state.        ingh said they will highlight the "failures" of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during the past four and a half years. "We are exposing them at the grassroots level. This government as promised during the polls made 'Shamshan' (cremation ground) in every village. In corona pandemic, every village became 'Shamshan' and people died without treatment and lack of medicines," he said. "The government failed to control crime and criminal activities. Incidents like Hathras and others exposed tall claims on law and order. There are scams galore and even Kumbh and Ram Temple were not spared by scamsters," he said. In the BJP regime, the state went "backwards" as they have "no concept of development", he said adding that without increasing the "purchasing power" of people there will be no economic boost. About the presence of Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM in UP polls and other fronts of smaller parties, Singh said, "Everyone has the right to contest in democracy." Kejriwal, who entered politics after gaining the spotlight during Gandhian Anna Hazare's movement for the Lokpal legislation, is also spearheading the party's campaign in neighbouring Uttarakhand, where the AAP is projecting itself as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-contest-all-seats-in-up-assembly-polls-sanjay-singh-1029607.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir ANTF recovers 1,000 kg poppy straw||Anti Narcotics Task Force (ANTF) of J&K police have recovered 1000 kilogram of poppy straw from three Punjab based truckers in Sonmarg area of central Kashmir’s Ganderbal and Leh districts. Officials said after receiving an input regarding the smuggling of narcotic substances, the ANTF with the help of police, intercepted two trucks (PB 07-AL 2229, HP 55B- 0711) near Sonamarg hill station on Srinagar-Leh national highway. Upon search of these vehicles 800 kg of poppy straw-like substance was recovered, they said and further investigation revealed that one truck carrying poppy straw had already left for Leh. “The truck was intercepted near Leh and poppy straw-like substance weighing in quintals was recovered. Two non-locals driving the trucks were arrested from the Valley and one from Leh,” officials said and added a total of 1000 kgs of poppy straw has been recovered which is one of the biggest catches in the recent past. The ANTF was formed by the J&K government last year to deal with the menace of drugs and drug peddlers in the Union Territory (UT). It has also been tasked to tackle the emerging threat of narco-terrorism in the region. The force is under the overall superintendence and control of the Inspector-General of Police, Crime J&K. In March this year, the ANTF had frozen five bank accounts that were directly linked to a drug cartel of Kashmir allegedly headed by one Masood Ahmed Dar of Bijbihara in Anantnag district. A total amount of Rs 54.27 lakh was frozen as the cartel had been supplying Hashish from Kashmir to other parts of the country, apart from supplying and distributing psychotropic drugs in the UT. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-antf-recovers-1000-kg-poppy-straw-1029623.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Pratigyan Yatra, ghar wapsi, soft Hindutva: Priyanka Gandhi's plan to revive Congress in Uttar Pradesh||Striving hard to remain politically relevant in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress has decided to adopt a multi-pronged strategy to revive itself in the state, which includes a 12,000-kilometre-long Pratigyan Yatra, ghar wapsi of the old guards and soft Hindutva.   The grand old party, which has been reduced to a fringe player in the politically crucial state, has also decided to project itself as a ''real alternative'' in UP, where assembly polls are due in March next year. Congress general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been camping in the state since Friday, has asked the party leaders and workers to make the Pratigyan Yatra, which is slated to begin from September 20, a big success. The decision to undertake the Yatra was taken at a meeting of the party held in Lucknow in the presence of Priyanka. ''We will expose the BJP government over its mismanagement of the second wave of Covid-19, deteriorating law and order, rising crimes against women and unemployment,'' said a senior UP Congress leader. Priyanka has also asked the senior party leaders to speak to the old guards, who have either left the party or are inactive, and urge them to return to the party fold before the polls. ''If need be I will myself visit them to persuade them to come back,'' Priyanka was quoted as having told the party leaders at the meeting. Priyanka, who arrived at Raebareli, her mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi's Lok Sabha constituency on Sunday, paid obeisance at the famous 'Churwa Hanuman Temple' in the district. The senior Congress leader said that the party would 'stick' to its soft Hindutva policy in the state. ''We will not let the BJP's strategy to project us anti-Hindu succeed,'' he added. Priyanka had in the past visited famous Hindu temples in Saharanpur and Prayagraj, dropping hints that she would follow soft Hindutva to counter the BJP in the UP polls.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pratigyan-yatra-ghar-wapsi-soft-hindutva-priyanka-gandhis-plan-to-revive-congress-in-uttar-pradesh-1029627.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||UP jails no more fun centres for criminals: Yogi Adityanath||Jails in Uttar Pradesh are no more "fun" centres for criminals and they have turned into "reform homes" for them, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday. The chief minister proclaimed it while inaugurating and laying foundation stones for 122 developmental projects worth Rs 245 crore in Sant Kabir Nagar district. The projects also included the district prison built at Rs 126 crore. "We have converted state jails into reform homes where criminals are being given an opportunity to reform. The UP jails are no more places of fun for criminals,” an official statement quoted the chief minister as saying on the occasion. “There was a time when the power used to be a slave of mafias. Today the government bulldozers run on their houses," Adityanath said. The chief minister warned that his government will not let mafias have their say. "Our message to mafias is very clear. If mafias want to make the lives of the poor, farmers and traders hell, our government will not let this happen,” he said. Expressing satisfaction over the newly built jail in the Sant Kabir Nagar district, the chief minister said the prisoners from here will not have to be sent to Basti district and this prison would become a model reform home. Adityanath also accused the previous governments of making the state a synonym of “dynastic politics, nepotism, appeasement, dacoity, hooliganism and riots”. "The jobs for youths were auctioned and the poor were deprived of their morsels. Jobs were earlier mortgaged. If anyone tries to auction a job today, we will get their house auctioned," he added. The UP government has given over 4.5 lakh government jobs to youths on the basis of their merit, with complete transparency, the UP CM said, adding that recruitment for around 90,000 more government jobs is to start soon in UP. The recruitment of 30,000 women policemen is an important step in this direction, the chief minister said, adding the government is continuously taking up several schemes like Mission Shakti, Kanya Sumangala and destitute women pension in their interest. He reiterated that youths preparing for various competitions will get a 'competitive examination allowance' in the state. The Uttar Pradesh government has also decided to distribute tablets along with digital access to youths of the state. The chief minister also envisaged turning Sant Kabir Nagar into a hub of readymade garments. "Once Khalilabad in this district used to be a big centre of looms and handlooms. In such a situation, why can't it become a hub of readymade garments?” he asked. “If we link women with the market by giving them modern sewing machines, every house will start making readymade garments. In such a situation, we can even overtake Bangladesh and Vietnam in terms of production of readymade garments," he added. Adityanath also recalled another strong point of the district – its utensils industry in Bakhira – and said it would be another source of growth for Sant Kabir Nagar. "It was forgotten by the previous governments, but we are working towards making Bakhira's utensils industry recognised on the global stage. It will become a major source of employment for youths and women at the local level," he said. Adityanath also announced his government’s plan to set up a medical college in the district under the PPP model. Expressing concern over the flood situation in Sant Kabir Nagar, the CM said the government is providing relief kits in sufficient quantities to every victim. Adequate availability of anti-snake venom and the anti-rabies vaccine has been ensured in the flood-affected areas, he added. “Sant Kabir Nagar will not lag behind any district now on the scale of development,” he said, adding the land of Baba Tameshwarnath and great Sufi saint Kabir was on the path of development. “Political announcements were made for development earlier too but they were never implemented. But in the last four and a half years there has been a change,” Adityanath said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-jails-no-more-fun-centres-for-criminals-yogi-adityanath-1029643.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Navjot Sidhu writes to Punjab CM, seeks action on farmers' demands||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday wrote to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, seeking action on farmers' demands including cancellation of "unfair" FIRs registered against growers during their agitation. Asserting that the Congress stood by farmers' agitation against the farm laws at every stage, Sidhu, however, asked the state government, "we must do more" and "not let the three black laws be implemented in Punjab at any cost." Sidhu wrote to the chief minister two days after meeting representatives of 32 farm bodies which had raised their demands with him. In a meeting with representatives of all political parties except the BJP, the farmer leaders had told them not to carry out electioneering till the Punjab polls are announced. In a letter to the CM, Sidhu wrote, "This is to bring to your attention and request for necessary action, upon the demands raised by 32 farmer unions at the meeting called by them." Sidhu said farmer leaders demanded "the cancellation of unjust and unfair" FIRs registered against the farmer unions due to cases of violence during the agitation in the state." Noting that the Congress and the state government provided support to farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws, Sidhu said, "Yet, some FIRs have been registered due to untoward incidences," adding that the government could set up a mechanism to consider each case on compassionate grounds and cancel all "unfair" cases. Referring to farmers' fear of demand for land records by the Centre before the crop procurement, Sidhu asked the state government to fight against the Centre's "injustice". "I personally believe it is unfair," said Sidhu, adding that partition of land had not happened in many parts of the state for decades. "This is also an attack on the resilient system of procurement by MSP through Arthiyas and to push the farmers away from APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committees) mandis towards private markets where no such records are being demanded. Thus, I strongly feel that the Central Govt is actually creating 'One Nation, Two Markets' with different rules for APMC and private markets. This injustice we must fight against!," wrote Sidhu. Sidhu also pointed out a hike in budget allocation for agriculture, Rs 7,181 crore of power subsidy, Rs 5,810 crore of farm debt waiver and Rs 520 crore of loan waiver for farm labour and landless farmers. "Noting the efficiency of Govt procurement done by the Congress Govt. Congress workers and leaders have stood by the farmer agitation at every stage of the protest. "Yet, we must do more, standing firmer on our resolution passed in Vidhan Sabha in October 2020, We should not let the three blacks be implemented in our state at any cost!," he stated. Sidhu stressed on procurement of pulses and oilseeds through state corporations to increase farmers' income. "We must take steps ahead from the farmer agitation's fight against the three black laws to do more and present the vision for Punjab agriculture, to increase Punjab's farmers' income using every resource and power we have as a state to stand with the farmers," he wrote. He said, "We must begin procurement of 'dals' and oilseeds through state corporations." "Further, invest in diversification with giving MSP on more crops, giving storage capacity in hands of farmers and strengthening farmer's financial capabilities through cooperatives and forward linkages to trade without dependence on corporates," he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-sidhu-writes-to-punjab-cm-seeks-action-on-farmers-demands-1029677.html
12-09-2021||North and Central||Six temples of different deities in Ram temple's final blueprint||Six temples of different deities will be constructed on the Ram Janmabhoomi temple complex, according to the final blueprint prepared by the Ram temple construction committee. The construction of the foundation of the Ram temple is in full swing and is expected to be completed by October-end or first week of November, Ram Mandir Trust member Dr Anil Mishra said. According to the final blueprint, six temples of different deities will be constructed in the Ram Janambhoomi premises. The deities include Lord Surya, Lord Ganesha, Lord Shiva, Lord Durga, Lord Vishnu and Lord Brahma. "These six temples of deities will be build along the outer periphery of the Ram temple but within the premises. Along with worshipping Lord Rama, worshipping these deities is also very important in Hindu dharma," Mishra told PTI. The construction of the base (plinth) of the super structure of the Ram temple will start from the end of October or from the first week of November after the completion of the filling of foundation, he said. For in-situ setting of stones in the structure of the grand temple, four tower cranes will be installed at four different locations, Mishra added. The filling of the excavated foundation area of 1,20,000 square feet and 50 feet deep was expected to be completed by the end of October. Now, the temple Trust has decided to construct four additional layers on the foundation area to bring the foundation to 107 meters above the sea level, he said. Earlier, in the foundation where 44 layers of engineered fill material was to be used, has now been increased to 48 layers, the Ram Mandir Trust member said. According to sources, after the completion of the foundation filling, the casting of the seven-foot raft will be done again. This casting will be done from concrete in which cement will also be used. So far, cement was not being used in engineered field material, but stone dust and fly ash was being used. According to Ram Janmabhoomi Trust General Secretary Champat Rai, cement absorbs more heat, which will increase the heat in the atmosphere. To avoid this, minimum use of cement is being done. The plinth of the super structure of the Ram temple is to be constructed with the 3.5 lakh cubic feet stones from Uttar Pradesh's Mirzapur, contract for the cutting and setting of the stones has been given to two Mirzapur-based private firms, he said. The sources said that due to only 10 to 12 hours of electricity supply in Mirzapur, cutting and setting of stones has slowed down. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-temples-of-different-deities-in-ram-temples-final-blueprint-1029700.html
12-09-2021||Opinion||We chose growth, development suffered. Now, try the other way around||Policymakers, right from the planning era of P C Mahalanobis to the present times, have always regarded economic growth, not urban development, to be the primary instrument for promoting progress, job creation and societal satisfaction. Despite this unifocal approach, growth performance has been uneven. It was insipid during the heydays of planning, forcing the 1991 liberalisation. It improved thereafter. We did well in the first two post-liberalisation decades in terms of parameters such as GDP, per capita income, exports, forex reserves and fiscal balance. Yet, readers will recall that societal dissatisfaction with the results of growth was visible by the end of the second decade. Inequalities created by growth were causing problems. Jobless growth and social unrest were noticed. Dissatisfaction with environmental damage was rife and livability, as also the air quality indices of several cities, had turned problematic. “Why growth?” was often debated. India experienced a growth collapse by the middle of the third decade. The arrival of Covid worsened matters. Now, Covid seems to be weakening. There are hopes that growth may pick up. Schemes to boost manufacturing, exports, agriculture and poverty elimination keep getting announced. However, urban development continues to be neglected, barring some national/state capital-focused schemes. The adequacy or lack of GDP growth dominates the policymaking mindspace, though the principal Indian cities are creaking with inward migration-induced space congestion despite low growth. Though the census identified 7,935 centres as having urban characteristics, less than half of them have municipalities. There are nine mega- and 44 more ‘million plus’ cities. But the pyramid thereafter narrows sharply and is unbalanced geographically. Only a handful of other cities provide any semblance of a full urban experience. This is the primary reason for the perennial migrant problems and, perhaps, growth challenges. The official urbanisation level is only around 34%; it was 31.2% (37.7 crore) as per the census of 2011. However, it is much higher — 55.3% — as per World Bank estimates, based on satellite night lights data. This is the share of population living in urban-like density or ‘agglomeration index’, the globally used alternative measure of urban concentration in the absence of consistent cross-country census figures. It suggests that in major centres, population growth occurs outside the fringes of ‘official’ cities and thus fails to get recorded in official statistics. Further, such settlements come up due to large-scale migration of people to cities, seeking fulfilment of their rising educational, job and ‘quality of life’ aspirations, which are difficult to meet in rural areas. In fact, villages, for long the refuge of many, are now considered passe, as the needs of the people have transformed, converting them into hapless consumers of the seemingly more attractive urban products. In return, the only saleable product they have is their labour, but skill levels are not high. The resultant tacit, yet unauthorised, compromise is often called India’s ‘messy urbanisation’. Recently, this view received further affirmation with the draft Delhi Master Plan 2041 itself observing that 85% of the residents of Delhi cannot afford a house in planned areas and live in unauthorised or unplanned settlements, making planned development a notional exercise. It is in this backdrop that we need to understand the difference made to the employment markets between the tacit permissions to growth of unauthorised settlements as currently witnessed, versus formally planned urbanisation with its accompaniments of education, health and recreation facilities like parks and playing fields and other forms of well-managed public spaces, practised in other countries. Admittedly, the latter comes with extra costs for residents -- an annual property tax, higher fees for transfer of property, higher utility charges, restrictive land-use regulations, and building codes. But it is often forgotten that alongside come a variety of new jobs such as those of gardeners and park attendants, suppliers of various municipal and facility maintenance services apart from the jobs created by the new educational, health and recreational complexes. Since we have not gone in for widespread planned urbanisation, the share of municipal, public administration, social security, defence and law and order type of jobs is only 1.5% in India. The global average share is much higher at 4.3%, often going above 7% in the advanced economies. It is a major job gap. About 10 million relatively low-skill jobs did not materialise because of our continued pre-occupation with Mahalanobis-inspired ideas of what constitutes progress. Similarly, in education and health type of services, Indian employment is 5.1%, as against a global average of around 9.5%, going up to 23% for the advanced economies. This clearly shows that at least 15 million additional higher skill jobs which ought to have existed, did not materialise. The Indian story thus suffers in two ways -- an avoidable shortage of dignified jobs, and an unwarranted shortage in skills created purely by a demonstrated, even if not intended, official apathy for organised widespread, well-managed, urban development and its essential components of education, health and recreation. These essentially pay for themselves, as is seen elsewhere in the world, yet are not provided here. It is no wonder then that there is so much angst about jobless growth and rising inequalities in India. It may be a good time now to revisit our strategies in the oft-neglected area of urbanisation. It may also actually help to reignite growth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/we-chose-growth-development-suffered-now-try-the-other-way-around-1029446.html
12-09-2021||Opinion||Test cricket is risky, but cash-rich IPL is game||As Team India players arrived in Manchester on Wednesday evening to participate in the fifth and final Test at the Old Trafford of the five-Test series, they were asked to take the RT-PCR test. The man conducting the tests was none other than assistant physiotherapist Yogesh Parmar, whose own Covid-19 result came positive some 16 hours later on Thursday morning. Ideally, the match should have been called off or counted as forfeited, right then and there, but then this was not just an ordinary series or a typical match. This was Lancashire Cricket County Club's chance to make up for the county's enormous losses during the Covid pandemic. The debate whether the England team should have been awarded this game to make the final result 2-2 would go on for quite some time because of the lack of clarity over such issues in the rule book of the International Cricket Council. But it may severely impact the England Cricket Board (ECB)'s immediate financial condition.  For example, if the ICC decide to call off the Test due to Covid, the fifth Test will be treated as abandoned, and India will be awarded a 2-1 series victory. In this scenario, the ECB is unlikely to receive any insurance pay-out as "it is not covered for this eventuality". However, if the ICC declares the game as "forfeited", the series would end at 2-2, and the ECB would be eligible to make a claim for an insurance pay-out of about 30 million pounds. The fact remains that being the most powerful cricket board, the BCCI has managed to get the ECB to agree to a deal of cancelling this final game and "try and reschedule it to some later day". It remains to be seen how the two Boards can work out a window for the game, but given the packed FTP (Future Tours Programme) schedule, there is just one way to try and sandwich it when India return to England next year to play limited-overs series. Well, that's the order of the day. The ECB can't blame the BCCI for flexing its muscles. Being the wealthiest cricket board in the world and one which has been providing that extra share of the money to players from all around the world, except Pakistan, no one can dare to raise their voice against India. So, the ECB happily accepted all that big 20-million-pound approximate loss that Lancashire Country Cricket Club would suffer due to this cancellation, hoping to get more money-spinning India tours or compensated in other ways. The ECB understood it much better than anyone else by their own experience only a few months back. It withdrew halfway from the South Africa tour earlier this year on an almost similar pretext. Also, Australia followed England's footsteps and cancelled a tour to the less powerful cricketing nation, South Africa. Fielding second-string team Another point of debate has been whether India could have fielded a second-string team, just like the Border-Gavaskar Trophy win at Brisbane in January this year, if some of the top players wanted to be in isolation. India won in Australia with as many as six reserves players playing their part in the victory. But not a single player has come from Team India camp in Manchester, ready to take to the field. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, secretary Jay Shah, skipper Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma had a long video conferencing session. Only one thing emerged: "We're not interested in playing this game." Agreed there were apprehensions about getting positive results during the match. Though, there were none till the morning of the Test. But given the nature of the Covid virus, no one can rule out that more positive cases would not come in the course of the next five days. The ECB did try and reason out with the help of a medical expert that "PCR tests now are more trusted and Indian players are anyway double vaccinated to be counted in safe zone". Though neither camp is vocal enough to blame any individual, a whisper campaign has started against skipper Kohli and coach Ravi Shastri. They were both instrumental in risking the safety of players by taking them out of the safe bio-bubble to the latter's book launch. The BCCI is particularly unhappy with Shastri as he didn't seek any permission before launching his book "Star Gazer" two days before the Oval Test. And all the Team India players, as could well be expected, were made to attend the book launch event because they had no other choice but to follow the diktat. It was Shastri earlier, before the start of the Test series, who was seen attending a crowded football game in the Euro Championships. Later, Rishabh Pant was tested positive for committing a similar mistake as Shastri after watching a full-packed England vs Germany game on June 30. IPL over Test cricket? Ideally, any scared team or players would go in isolation after cancelling such an important game. But the entire Indian camp, and the BCCI, got into action to arrange the charter flights for the entire Team India players out of England to avoid getting stuck in strict United Kingdom Covid-related protocols. This was obviously to save the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL) starting in the United Arab Emirates from September 19. According to the UK rules, any player turning positive would have feared the consequences of a minimum of 10 days isolation, forcing him to miss a part of the IPL. In simple terms, the IPL is worth crores of rupees to Indian players and thousands of crores to the BCCI. Captain Kohli thus conveyed on behalf of his players that "an infection could show up in the next couple of days as the negative Covid-19 test results on the eve of the match were not a guarantee of infection not germinating." Without wasting any further time, Mumbai Indians secured Rohit Sharma, pace bowler Jasprit Bumrah, batsman Suryakumar Yadav in Abu Dhabi, while Royal Challengers Bangalore's chartered flight reached Dubai by Sunday morning with Kohli and pace bowler Mohammed Siraj on board. (The writer is a sports journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/test-cricket-is-risky-but-cash-rich-ipl-is-game-1029588.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||No country for whistle-blowers||Last month, a Supreme Court judge said speaking truth to power is every citizen’s right. Commenting on the tendency of totalitarian governments to rely on falsehoods and data manipulation, he noted that it was the duty of intellectuals to expose such lies. What he did not touch upon is, who will protect such people from a vindictive system for daring to call a spade, a spade. Speaking truth to power will result in harassment and perhaps injury, whereas keeping silent steers one out of harm’s way – this is the bitter lesson that a corrupt system is teaching a 26-year-old in a remote village of Bengal. Young Probir (name changed) used the democratic and constitutional method of evidence-based advocacy to question the local administration’s ‘patron-client’ style of implementing the PM-Kisan Yojana. Today, he faces a tough choice between principles and personal safety. Having initially resisted the centrally-sponsored cash transfer scheme, the Bengal government decided to implement PM-Kisan after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) returned to power with a thumping majority. While the local administration is duty-bound to verify applicants’ eligibility as per criteria laid down in the Yojana rulebook, decision-making about who will be allowed to receive the Rs 6,000 annual payment is apparently controlled by functionaries of the ruling party. When Probir’s father, a marginal farmer, and others tried to submit the mandatory self-declaration forms to the panchayat, they were directed to meet the booth-level party functionary, who allegedly insisted on signed application forms seeking membership of the party as a precondition. Those who gave in to such pressure were “verified” successfully and started receiving payments. Others remained empty-handed. An enraged Probir chose the RTI route to seek a solution. He filed RTI applications with the Union Agriculture Ministry, which funds PM-Kisan, inquiring about the verification process. The ministry advised him to approach the ‘Nodal Officer’ and other field-level officers of the state’s Agriculture Department. Probir downloaded the beneficiaries list of his village from the PM-Kisan website and identified 35 persons — doctors, schoolteachers and non-residents who ought not to have got the Yojana money. In one instance, a husband and wife both received payments, despite the guidelines saying only one beneficiary per household. Probir dutifully emailed a list of such ineligible beneficiaries, along with a complaint, to the Nodal Officer. Instead of resulting in a probe, as one would have hoped, a copy of the complaint reached the booth-level party functionary, who promptly tried to persuade Probir’s father to withdraw the complaint. When he did not budge, a village meeting was summoned and Probir’s father was publicly chided for his son’s “adventurism”. He was told not to make a fuss about the distribution of “government” money. They warned him that they would make him cough up the entire amount if the administration sought refund from ineligible beneficiaries. Some talked about boycotting the family during the sowing season, and the local ruffians threatened to beat up Probir if he stepped into the local bazaar. After reading about my RTI interventions to make the PM-Kisan Yojana more transparent, Probir contacted me for help. Apart from arranging legal assistance to deal with any precipitous situation, I apprised a senior TMC functionary about his struggle. He was kind enough to alert the District Magistrate (DM) to Probir’s predicament. Probir emailed a detailed complaint to the DM about the irregularities and the threats he faced. Two days later, father and son visited the DM’s office, as her subordinates demanded their personal presence. They returned home after waiting several hours for a darshan. The DM was too busy to meet them. Probir’s family continues to live in fear. Seven years ago, Parliament enacted a law to protect whistle-blowers like Probir. The Whistle-blowers Protection Act is the first of its kind in the world to recognise citizens as legitimate whistle-blowers in matters of corruption and mismanagement of public funds. Why the NDA government does not want to implement it is a sarkari secret.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/no-country-for-whistle-blowers-1029447.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||The plunge of Indian English cricket broadcasting||As Indian men’s Test cricket enters one of its storied phases under Virat Kohli’s captaincy, one wonders about the role of our cricket commentators. What is their commentating cred? On air, why are the Indian English commentators pandering to jingoism and cheerleading Indian cricketers ad nauseam? True, India have fought when under the pump and there is much to celebrate, but where should a cricket commentator’s loyalties lie – with the art and craft of the sport or with satisfying ‘nationalist’ urges? In the ongoing Test series, Indian English cricket commentary has plunged in quality, and certainly in the live, post- and pre-match day conversations and analyses. Some of our iconic cricket moments have generally been captured with the comical brio of Ravi Shastri behind the mic. To some degree, that characteristic appears to have remained as a residue in commentary mentality. There’s been a lot of ridiculing of Gavaskar, Bhogle, Manjrekar online. Whenever I got a snatch of a Test day’s proceedings, I invariably hit the mute button on the TV remote when the said gents came on. Their collective thoughts and the general programming were gushing and hyperbolic even when things got dull or when India played badly. There were moments of unintended irony. In the third Test at Headingley, India was bowled out for 78 on day one. They gave away a big lead and then pulled things back somewhat on day three when England were ordinary, and India batted better to get to 215/3. England was due to take the new ball, which it did, but ‘bad light’ was called and the Indian batters took the challenge to day four. India was still in a fragile spot. But our commentators that evening babbled as if India had made a comeback, as if they were finally batting to their potential, as if the match was as good as being in the bag. The next day, India were blown away in the first hour. One of them intoned, “the castle that India’s batting so painstakingly built is crumbling in front of their eyes”. Really? Was a day’s decent batting worthy of being called a “castle”? But a word about the overall viewing experience, too. There were breaks with asinine car ads, stubbled buff men pitching deo sprays, or tongue-in-cheek ads with former India bowlers likened to OGs. I grew up scarred with the thrashings the said OGs got in the 1990s and 2000s. One of them had a slower ball that bounced more than his bouncer; another may have had nightmares bowling against Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Such ads aim to show to T-20-loving younger Indians that we were world-beaters in the past. When it rained or at session breaks or when India lost with a day to spare, TV beamed old games that India won in England or elsewhere, lending an overall impression of Indian supremacy. Truth is, even struggling Pakistan has had a better Test record in England over the last many years. The intent to be pro-India makes channel producers ignore the fuller picture of the past. The commentary is interspersed with feed from Sky Sports. You listen to Holding, Hussain, Warne, Atherton, and you know you are in the presence of superb interpreters and conversation stylists. They are invariably trying to read the game from many sides and dimensions. Their commitment is to the art and the craft of the game; not just one nation or a bunch of players. Indian TV commentators once spoke their minds. Have at least two of them softened? In my view, a reason for this may be the impact of the man who is now the coach of the Indian team. If he was your biggest notable in the commentary box, what models to follow? The on-air fracas between him and Nasser Hussain in the 2011 India tour to England, which India lost badly, showed the divide: the independence of one and the pro-team bias of the other. One can also see that this sort of commentating environment can make one of the greats of the game write about Black Lives Matter and the role of sport and take up larger questions surrounding some of the serious issues in global society and international sport. Michael Holding has opened a powerful avenue for discussions that need to take place in the sport. It’s a credit, too, to Sky Sports. India is the powerhouse of the sport. But those on TV abroad appear to be more committed to how the game is viewed and understood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-plunge-of-indian-english-cricket-broadcasting-1029448.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||What’s Xi doing?||Something big is happening inside China. With the latest ‘common security’ concept, President Xi Jinping is rebooting domestic issues, with long-term consequences to its private sector, innovation, employment and market economy. Xi’s ire has shifted to the private sector, which constitutes over 60% of China’s GDP, 70% of technological innovation, 80% of urban employment and has over 90% of market players. ‘Common Prosperity’ has emerged in the Chinese lexicon recently as a panacea for all its socio-economic ills. This comes in the wake of announcements on completing the “poverty alleviation” campaign. Like many other such concepts in the Communist Party (CCP)-dominated political space, such as “getting quick rich” (Deng Xiaoping), “three represents” (Jiang Zemin), “harmonious world” (Hu Jintao) and others, this is also expected to have a short political shelf life, though the projections are till 2035. The ‘Common Prosperity’ slogan is currently an effort to reinforce the CCP’s hold over the private sector, technological innovation, cultural industry and others that became prominent in the last four decades of reform, catapulting China to the world’s second largest economy. The reforms seemed to have loosened the CCP’s (or Xi Jinping’s) hold over the levers of power. ‘Common prosperity’ is to reboot and apply a mid-course correction. In the run-up to next year’s 20th party congress, these are significant developments in China. On August 17, Xi, addressing the 10th meeting of the Central Financial and Economic Affairs Commission, spoke about ushering ‘common prosperity’. Xi called it “an essential demand of socialism and an important characteristic of Chinese-style modernisation.” He talked about “adhering to people-centred development ideology,” and discussed “coordinating and doing the work of forestalling major financial risks well.” Xi is said to have invoked ‘common prosperity’ 65 times this year. One of the issues to be addressed is the growing inequality between urban and rural incomes in China – measured in Gini coefficient – which is one of the highest in the world. China’s official figures put it at around 0.4 on a scale of 0 to 1 (with 0 referring to equality, while reaching 1 would mean socio-economic breakpoint). China had stopped issuing official data since 2000, although a Southwestern University of Finance and Economics report of 2012 suggested that the Gini coefficient has reached an alarming 0.61. China has more than 1,000 billionaires, double that of the US and other countries – who have quickly become the target of the ‘common prosperity’ campaign. Xi’s latest campaign has attacked the country’s bourgeoning private sector -- ed-tech, fin-tech, food delivery and ride hailing services -- and the cultural industry. After Alibaba chief Ma Yun (Jack Ma) was silenced last year, as with Tencent, Meituan, Didi Chuxing and others, the rich coastal province of Zhejiang became the victim, with the party chief of its capital city, Hangzhou, Zhou Jiangyong replaced and put under “investigation” on August 21. Coincidentally, Alibaba’s headquarters is in Hangzhou, and Zhou’s family allegedly sought shares in the company. That the private sector is falling in line can be seen from the fin-techs and others pledging their hard-earned money to the country’s welfare schemes. Tencent donated an entire year’s profits and contributed $10 billion for a fund to promote ‘common prosperity’. Alibaba, under regulatory siege for the past one year, announced $15 billion. Several Chinese economists dubbed this campaign as “robbing the rich to give to the poor”. While Xi may be trying to reduce the influence of his political rivals in the CCP, the recent campaign is expected to unsettle the private sector in the short term, with an expected slow-down due to the “double circulation” strategy under implementation, too. The campaign is expected to increase property tax on the private sector, regulatory mechanisms and other measures and create further fissures in global supply chain mechanisms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-s-xi-doing-1029449.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||What did those on ICHR’s poster think of Nehru?||That the Indian Council of Historical Research published a poster of freedom fighters without Jawaharlal Nehru among them says more about those currently at the helm of ICHR, and their political masters, than about Nehru. To them, I say, you can remove Nehru’s name from any place you want, but you can do nothing about the fact that it was Nehru, along with Gandhi and Vallabhai Patel and many others, that stood up against the British through the freedom struggle, for over 30 years. You can’t change that, or any other, part of history. You can’t erase the fact that until 1929, Gandhi was willing to accept Dominion status for India under the British empire, but it was Bose and Nehru who insisted that India must have full independence. It was Nehru who hoisted the tricolour on the banks of the Ravi and got the ‘Poorna Swaraj’ declaration passed at the Lahore session of Congress. You can’t change the fact that Nehru spent nearly 10 years of his life in jail fighting for freedom (while his wife ailed and died of tuberculosis and his daughter couldn’t attend school). You can’t change the fact that on the momentous occasion of India achieving freedom – “A moment comes, which comes but rarely in history…when the soul of a nation, long suppressed, finds utterance — on the night of August 14-15, Bharat Mata, the Gods, destiny or whatever it is that you believe in, chose Nehru to announce it to the nation, to set its future direction. There is nothing you can do about it! On the ICHR’s poster, there are Gandhi, Bose, Patel, Bhagat Singh, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malviya, B R Ambedkar and Veer Savarkar. What would they have said about the omission of Nehru from their midst? What did those on the poster think of Nehru and his place in India’s freedom struggle and contemporary history? Let’s start with Gandhi, Nehru’s inspiration and mentor. Their relationship is well-documented, especially in the thousands of letters and telegrams they exchanged. They differed with each other on fundamental questions and argued vehemently over them. Yet, Gandhi summed up his assessment of, and blessings for, Nehru after over 30 years of their association in one line in a letter 10 days before he was assassinated by Nathuram Godse, in the midst of communal riots in Delhi. Gandhi had gone on a week-long fast in protest. Unbeknownst to him, Nehru, then Prime Minister, too had gone on fast even as he went around Delhi, jumping into crowds and daring the rioters, physically separating the antagonists, admonishing them. Gandhi wrote, “May you live long and continue to be the jewel of India.” (Italics mine) Bhagat Singh wrote an article in 1928 titled Naye Netaon ke Alag Alag Vichar (The Different Views/Ideologies of New Leaders) in the journal Kirti, comparing Nehru and Bose, who were then the two rising stars of the Congress Left. After an analysis of Nehru and Bose’s different ideas and appeal, Bhagat Singh concluded: …The other man (Nehru) is an epochal change-maker (italics mine) who is fuelling not just the heart, but also the mind…The need of the hour now is for the youth of Punjab to understand and strengthen revolutionary ideas. At this time, Punjab needs food for the mind, and this can only be found with Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru...” Bose himself did feel betrayed when Nehru would not support him against Gandhi and the Congress Right (led by Sardar Patel, GB Pant, Rajendra Prasad, et al), which eventually ousted him from Congress. Yes, Nehru also strongly opposed Bose joining hands with Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan. But guess what, when Bose formed the Azad Hind Fauj, he named his brigades, Gandhi Brigade and Jawahar Brigade. Nehru and Patel differed on some issues post-Independence as they shaped the new democratic nation and its structure together. But they did so with the utmost respect to each other and without falling out. At the beginning of August 1947, in the face of a controversy over whether or not Patel would have a place in Nehru’s cabinet, Nehru wrote a short, touching letter inviting Patel to join the cabinet, saying almost sheepishly that the invitation was “superfluous, because you are the strongest pillar of the Cabinet.” In response, Patel wrote: “Our attachment and affection for each other and our comradeship for an unbroken period of nearly 30 years admit of no formalities. My services will be at your disposal, I hope, for the rest of my life, and you will have unquestioned loyalty and devotion from me in the cause for which no man in India has sacrificed as much as you have done…” (Italics mine) I rest my case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-did-those-on-ichr-s-poster-think-of-nehru-1029450.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||Burdened telecom sector awaits government intervention||The recent news of Vodafone Idea Limited’s (VIL) near-bankruptcy situation has sent shockwaves across the telecom sector. VIL accounts for the highest share of rural subscribers in the country. While the overall telecom sector’s financial distress is well known, a significant player like VIL's potential exit is not desirable. Should it exit, the mobile operators' space would become a duopoly with Reliance Jio and Airtel, and the PSU BSNL/MTNL being a fringe player. We had 15 operators back in 1999 and 21 in 2009, and now, it is down to four. Many large global telcos found it challenging to play in the highly competitive Indian market and no wonder, all of them wound up operations during the past decade. So, how many operators would be ideal for India? The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, or HHI, is often used to measure market concentration and is a metric used to determine market competitiveness. An HHI < 1,500 is a highly competitive market while 1,500 to 2,500 is seen as moderately competitive and greater than 2,500 is a highly concentrated market. HHI trends in the Indian mobile telephony have always been below 1,500 until 2015. In 2018, the HHI moved to around 2,000 and now it is over 2,800. If VIL exits the Indian market and the subscriber base is shared between Airtel and Reliance, the HHI will be above 4,000. Globally, only China has an HHI of 4,400. China also is unique as all the three mobile operators in the country are controlled by the government. Brazil has about 2,800; USA about 3,000. India would need at least four-five players with relatively similar market shares for a competitive setup that can spur innovation and help mobile subscribers with a better user experience. BSNL+VIL: A game-changer? The VIL has debts close to Rs 1.8 lakh crores with 90% payable to the government. The company is struggling with its operations with an ARPU (average revenue per user) of Rs 107, the lowest when compared with the other two private telcos who have an ARPU of Rs 140. While VIL and Jio have similar spectrum holding, Jio has 60% more users per Mhz spectrum than VIL. Increasing the tariff is not an option for VIL as more subscribers will port out and worsen its operational parameters. As per a TRAI report, VIL has lost 42.8 lakh subscribers in June 2021. To stop predatory pricing by mobile operators, VIL has been persuading the government to establish a floor price and provide a level playing field. Like airline ticket prices, can the government create a price range for telcos as well? For the sake of Indian subscribers, direct and indirect employment generated by VIL and more importantly, to emphasise India’s commitment to the telecom sector, the government should bail out VIL. Can it acquire a controlling stake in or merge with BSNL? But this needs to be done cautiously by setting clear performance parameters. The deal construct should be directly linked to improving subscriber experience parameters. When successive governments have failed to improve BSNL/MTNL’s fortune for decades, can the government be successful in reviving VIL? There are bound to be challenges including HR aspects. However, a strong governance board with experts should oversee the performance of the entity. Globally, there are several examples of government intervention in the private sector yielding significant success to the overall ecosystem. Can the VIL+BSNL become a game-changer and we have a strong government-run mobile operator like China Mobile?      Satellites for broadband While India has created an extremely competitive mobile telecom market, we will need four-five operators for sustaining this competitiveness and innovation for a healthy market. Although the entry barrier is high, we should encourage new local companies or global players to provide services in the country. The price per GB of data in India at $0.16 is the cheapest in the world and no wonder, the average data usage has increased to over 15GB per month, among the highest in the world. However, over 50 crore Indians are not using mobile data. The government should open satellite communication services for improving data coverage. The ultra wide band (UWB) spectrum in the Ku and Ka bands for satellite communication can provide data rates of over 25Mpbs (although theoretically, much higher data rates are possible). This would provide internet access in the most remote areas. Several global players like Amazon’s Project Kuiper, OneWeb (backed by Airtel), Starlink from Elon Musk’s SpaceX and Canada’s Telesat are at various stages of offering broadband data globally. The spectrum for UWB cannot be auctioned as these are global frequencies. The Indian government should consider allocating spectrum on an administrative basis, of course with appropriate fees and the right checks. Satcom would help the digitally unconnected Indians to become connected. The government must fast-track the much-delayed 5G auctions. At the same time, spectrum pricing must be handled carefully and unsold spectrum avoided. The government must improve the fibre optic backbone in the country as this will decide our ability to rapidly move into 5G technology. The overall debt in the telecom sector means that telcos are unable to upgrade their infrastructure. The government should lower the burden on them by reducing taxes and regulatory levies. Presently, Indian telcos pay over 25% (including GST, licence fees, etc) of their gross revenue as tax, compared to less than 10% in other countries. News reports indicate that the government is working on a relief package for the telecom sector, triggered by the VIL issue. This could provide a breather for VIL, but from a long-term perspective, we need a multi-pronged approach for strengthening the telecom sector. (The writer is an ICT professional and columnist based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/burdened-telecom-sector-awaits-government-intervention-1029655.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||Off the record: September 13||Guests requested to maintain time The traditional Kashmiri wedding is quite a sophisticated affair. It consists of a series of traditions that are religiously followed by both the bride and the groom and their respective families. Kashmiri weddings are as surreal and vibrant as the Paradise on Earth - Kashmir. The traditions and cultures are full of love and acceptance. And experiencing a traditional Kashmiri wedding is no less than living in a fairytale. But one thing is common in most Kashmir marriages: Lunch is served at dinner time and dinner sometimes is served at midnight even after the invitation card mentions in bold letters “guests are requested to be on time.” Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Small step towards a healthy trend People and media were in for a shock when they saw the certificates awarded to beat performing teachers last week were plain with no photograph of Chief Minister Stalin. For over a decade, the certificates featured the chief minister’s face. However, this year, the instructions not to carry his face came from none other than incumbent CM M K Stalin. The CM is particular that his face should not be featured on certificates. He has also instructed officials not to carry his photos on school bags or kits distributed to people. Though partymen are unhappy over the decision, Stalin seems to have won over the hearts of several people.  E T B Sivapriyan, Chennai Contention on quota Not all in the BJP are happy with the recent Constitutional amendment that empowered states to draw their own lists of Other Backward Classes (OBC). At the sidelines of a recent event attended by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, a senior BJP leader rued how the constitutional amendment, supported by almost all major parties, had the potential to trigger discord in various states of the country. "There are demands from various groups to include them in the list. Now, as the Centre puts the ball on the court of various states, communities with significant political representation can pile pressure on state governments and demand OBC status," he said. This, according to the senior leader, had the potential to trigger unrest, especially in the volatile region of North India. “It could well be a recipe for disaster, as there are several communities who won’t think twice about hitting the streets to be included in the list,” he said, adding that it will have ramifications for groups that benefit from reservation. Akram Mohammad, Bengaluru Tripura media faces election heat Media organisations in poll-bound Tripura are literally feeling the heat of Assembly elections slated in early 2023. Media organisations and journalists are coming under attack during the increasing incidents of violent clashes between workers of the ruling BJP, Opposition CPI(M) and Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC). In a letter to the Press Council of India on Saturday, the National Union of Journalists said suspected BJP supporters vandalised the office of a local news channel and a Bengali daily in state capital Agartala on September 8, before they attacked the office of CPI(M), burning vehicles and injuring workers of the left party. "The media persons in the state are so much panicked that none is ready to move out after sunset,” the Union said while calling for urgent steps to ensure the safety of journalists as such attacks are likely to increase as the election nears.  Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati CM Bommai receives appreciation Chief Minister S R Bommai’s quick decision-making process has received appreciation from Union ministers. The Karnataka government in 2019 had agreed with the Union Road Transport Ministry to share the cost of land acquisition for the proposed Satellite Town Ring Road around Bengaluru connecting Dobaspet to Hosur. However, the state government decided to share the cost. When Bommai earlier this week met Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari to discuss the ring road project, to be built by the National Highway Authority of India, Gadkari pointed out the pendency of the decision on the state's side. Immediately, the CM asked Karnataka Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar, who was with CM, to hold talks with the concerned joint secretary of the Ministry and prepare a minute of the meeting and sign it. By the same day evening, minutes of the meeting were prepared and both Chief Secretary and Joint Secretary signed it. Appreciating the quick decision of the CM, Gadkari asked Bommai to complete the land acquisition soon and assured of starting the work in six months. In the recent casual meeting with some of the Union ministers, Gadkari recalled Bommai’s skill of taking quick decisions on pending proposals and appreciated it. Ajith Athrady, New Delhi Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-september-13-1029659.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||Beauty in being one's own self||Several years ago, there was this strapping guy, my son’s schoolmate, who was a staunch aficionado of an American Sitcom. He was such a sucker of the show that, with a singular focus, he’d watch it and strive hard to mimic the accent/mannerisms of all main actors. Finally, he was fairly successful in acquiring a fabulous accent, but, as a fallout, had failed in fortifying his lexicon base. To an extent, he couldn’t comprehend even a tad complex word, when his friends tried communicating with him. In fact, he was endowed with enormous memory, which he could have exploited in enhancing his other language skills. Instead, what he wasn’t bestowed with, he tried bolting after it, only to bag it in bits and pieces! Next, there was this neighbour, who I could hear coaxing and coercing her child into learning Carnatic music, as the children in her friends’ circuits were into it. Though she discerned her daughter was just dabbling in it, like a dilettante dissipating dollops of their dough, she didn’t do a damn about it. More so, when she could see what had actually captivated the child’s fancy was the violin notes. If only she had given her progeny plenty of leeways, to pursue her passion, maybe the girl would have vaulted ahead in life, in being a violin virtuoso today. Even on the academic front, it is common to find people, propelling their progenies, into pursuing courses, that paves the path in procuring plum jobs, when the latter would be having a penchant for something else. It’s like pushing a child, with a predilection for Fine Arts, into taking up Medicine, which calls for profuse pluck, phenomenal patience, persistence power, pertinacity to hang on, and importantly, profound passion, the absence of which can make that child concede and chicken out midway. We must know life isn’t a race, and that we aren’t competing with others. When we blindly try aping others, isn’t it then a total waste of what we are, and waste of our own abilities, talents, intellect, etc? Not to discount, by losing our own identity, individuality, and unique personality, we even end up being a bad clone of somebody!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/beauty-in-being-ones-own-self-1029660.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||Taliban govt formation has complicated matters for international community||Formation of an interim government in Kabul consisting of only the members of the dreaded Taliban and the complete exclusion of members of other ethnic groups in Afghanistan poses a serious challenge to Indian security and diplomacy. It is becoming more complicated diplomatically for the rest of the world in general and India in particular to engage with the Taliban. Since their occupation of Kabul, there seems to be a lack of consistency between their rhetoric and action. It is being argued whether the Taliban have become moderate. But their behaviour and their articulated fundamental goals show there’s no such change.     The international community eagerly waited for the formation of an Afghan government post-US and NATO withdrawal with the expectation that the Taliban would form an inclusive government to restore normalcy and stability to the war-torn country. This expectation arose out of initial statements from the Taliban that sounded more rational, less brutal and indicated a desire on the part of the Taliban to seek international endorsement and recognition for the new government. However, all expectations were belied when an announcement was made about the formation of the interim government consisting of only the Taliban leaders some of whom were notorious for their acts of terror and brutality. It is clear that warring factions within the various Taliban sub-groups ultimately allowed Pakistan to interfere and the ISI chief dashed to Kabul and engineered an interim government that comprised of dreaded terrorists, such as Sirajuddin Haqqani. He has been the mastermind behind several terrorist activities aimed at India. The statement by the Taliban that they would not play a part in Indo-Pakistan differences over Kashmir and would stay away from Sino-Indian border tensions sounds hollow. India needs to stay alert for surprise attacks and strategise with like-minded countries to prevent Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, terror-sponsoring Pakistan and terror-supporter China from creating a strategic troika in South and South-West Asia. Pakistan has got yet another opportunity to build its long-dreamed “strategic depth”, China got a chance to shield its own human rights violations in Muslim-dominated Xinjiang province, and the Taliban government is expecting China to pump in money to ward off economic calamity in Afghanistan. It is surprising that despite China being a victim of its own policy on the Uighur uprising, it wants to support the Taliban, which in a way has made a link in Xinjiang. Indian diplomacy seems to be in its best place to respond to the emerging security challenge. One of the indications of Indian diplomacy at work is the visit to Delhi by the CIA Chief and the chief of the Russian spy agency. The Taliban poses a clear threat to US security and other interests. Its claim that it would not allow the Al Qaeda and IS-K to operate from its territory is coming apart. Had it not been so, there would have been no need for the Biden administration to rush back 6,000 troops to secure Kabul airport and avenge the death of 13 US soldiers in a blast. Russia has been aware of the Afghan situation and even before the departure of US and NATO forces, it sent troops to the Tajik border and conducted exercises to handle any spillover of the Afghan conflict. Moreover, New Delhi and Tehran are also exchanging notes and views to manage the situation. Indian policymakers are aware that if the Taliban does not intend to keep its promise on not allowing terrorist organisations to operate from Afghan soil, it will not go against the JeM and LeT, whose agents have already landed in Afghanistan, with the full knowledge and support of Pakistan. There is no denying the fact that the Taliban will remain pivotal to global and regional instability. The Al-Qaeda, which seems to be dormant, could get activated. Once Al-Qaeda regains, with the support of Taliban, there are going to be serious challenges, and perhaps a great intensification in terrorist activities. The US and India will remain the top-most targets and hence there is an urgent necessity to see how the US and India can work together to contain the Taliban. India has to be alert. It has to use all its capabilities to thwart any attempts made by the Taliban and Pakistan in the intensification of cross-border terrorism. The US will understand the deteriorating geopolitical environment of South Asia. It will have to part ways with Pakistan in due course and work with a single-minded aim to dismantle all the major terrorist groups located in Pakistan, Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (POK) and Afghanistan. Dealing with the Taliban will remain a challenging task. India needs to change how it operates – taking action at the right time rather than sharing dossiers and giving evidence to the very sponsors of terrorists. India’s timely intervention will usher in both global and regional peace and stability. India will be successful in containing jihadi terrorism on its soil supported by Taliban and Pakistan if it has the will and the confidence to do so. (Chintamani Mahapatra is Rector, Jawaharlal Nehru University; Arvind Kumar is Professor of United States’ Studies and chairs the Centre for Canadian, United States and Latin American Studies at the School of International Studies, JNU, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/taliban-govt-formation-has-complicated-matters-for-international-community-1029682.html
12-09-2021||Panorama||Para-athletes deserve a level-playing field||When 19-year-old Avani Lekhara won a gold medal in shooting at the recently concluded Tokyo Paralympics, she became the first Indian woman to achieve such a feat. She and a couple of para-athletes helped India collect 19 medals including five gold — a record haul.  That was almost three times more than the medals won by their able-bodied counterparts in Tokyo a few days earlier. Their brilliant performance exemplified the triumph of the human spirit against fierce odds with the athletes proving there is ability in disability. The plaudits came thick and fast. Our prime minister said that the momentum that India has gained in sports cannot stop. He also offered congratulatory messages via telephone to some of the medalists. Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra congratulated javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia and Sundar Singh Gurjar who won a silver and a bronze, respectively at the Paralympics. Industrialists too jumped on the bandwagon. Mahindra Chairman Anand Mahindra, always generous in gifts to achievers, announced gift vehicles to the gold medal winners, specially designed to be differently-abled-friendly. Rajeev Chadha, head of MG Motors, made a similar announcement, as did Vikram Kirloskar. Some of the winners were also offered brand ambassador roles. All these are very good and in order. However, what is of paramount importance is to raise our country’s ability to translate the celebratory tone into recognition, support, encouragement and awareness of the rights of the differently-abled, to make their life easier and better. India is certainly not known for being friendly to the differently-abled. It has a long way to go when it comes to removing infrastructural, institutional and attitudinal barriers for them. For starters, most public places and buildings lack the basic facilities needed for such people in their everyday life; educational institutions in the country lack basic sporting facilities for the differently-abled persons who are not even provided with the opportunity to participate in the annual sports or in any games. There is a lack of technology and multi-sensory essentials to enhance potential talent and ensure effective participation of persons with disabilities. Now that our Paralympians have brought home more medals from Tokyo than our regular Olympians and with the spotlight now on sports in India, our differently-abled athletes deserve a level-playing field to be treated on a par with the other players. All they need is equal rights, facilities, support and encouragement. It is needless to say the achievements of our para-athletes are exemplary given the many constraints they have to overcome on a daily basis. Despite the odds, they went on to excel in the global arena by sheer hard work and determination. It is not that the Paralympics is less competitive. Thousands of competitors from over 100 countries vie fiercely for those coveted medals. What is more remarkable is that most of our para-athletes are from humble backgrounds and rural or semi-urban areas where sporting facilities are lacking. It was nothing but their grit to pursue a sport they loved and excel despite their infirmities from a young age. Bhavnaben Patel, a silver medalist in table tennis, was diagnosed with polio when she was a baby; Another silver medalist Nishad Kumar whose right hand was severed by a grass-cutting machine when he was just eight years old, suffered from Covid-19 earlier this year. Gold medalist Avani Lekhari was left wheelchair-bound after serious spinal cord injuries in a car accident. The silver-winning discus athlete, Yogesh Kathuniya, reportedly, said that he is still training without a coach! While our differently-abled athletes are slowly gaining recognition and support and matters improving marginally in recent years — thanks to the government’s Target Olympic Podium Scheme — a lot more needs to be done. Apart from providing proper infrastructure and sporting facilities for the differently-abled right from early school days and organising regular sports at the state and national level, inclusive opportunities and policies should be a pressing priority. An essential need is also greater media coverage of para-athletes and their inspiring stories, their sporting events as well as sponsoring them for sports-related endorsements. There are some 26.8 million people with disabilities in India, accounting for 2.21% of the country’s population, according to the 2011 population census figures. Today, that number could well be much more. It is indeed high time, we, as a nation whole-heartedly support and encourage differently-abled persons (including sportspersons) and bring about not only an overall attitudinal change towards them but also the way we look at disability. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based independent journalist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/para-athletes-deserve-a-level-playing-field-1029684.html
12-09-2021||Right in the Middle||H Narsimhaiah: The man in the khaddar cap||“Mane illa, matha illa... hendathi illa... makkalu illa….” (No home, wife, children...) “So why should I siphon off college funds?” he laughed. We were seated in the kitchen on two newspapers spread on the floor. “Newspapers do have their uses,” he added mischievously. This was an interview with H Narasimhaiah (HN) in 1984 when he was awarded the Padma Bhushan. He had invited me to the “poor boys’ home” of the National High School for a meal of anna, saaru and majjige—his diet since 1935 when he arrived here. He had walked 85 kms barefoot from his village for two days and two nights to reach his destination. He had completed half a century in this institution as a student, lecturer, principal, professor, president and finally the architect of several affiliated schools and colleges. But, HN did not change with time or circumstances. He remained the son of a poor labourer in Hosuru near Gauribidanur, sitting on the kitchen floor and eating a sparse meal. As head of Bangalore University, “the barefoot Vice-Chancellor” walked the corridors without footwear. Schooling was the beginning of a long journey for HN. After completing the Master’s degree in Physics, he returned to the National College in a new avatar. From there, it was just one step away from a doctoral program at the Ohio State University in the US. A big leap for a village lad who could read, write and speak only Kannada throughout his primary school days. “Come and see my terrace”, he said after lunch. We stepped into a tiny enclosed space adjoining the kitchen. Hanging on a clothesline were a khadi shirt, panche and towel—HN was a brand ambassador for Gandhi’s homespun khaddar cloth. A Gandhian in the purest sense, he lived a spartan life. His belongings could still fit into the small black trunk he carriedfrom his village. “I am saved the trouble of locking my door,” he quipped. HN’s easy humour was a part of his persona. I remember how he held up his hand when the audience clapped at an impressive university gathering, and whispered: “Don’t disturb the people sleeping in the back rows!” Again, during a minister’s speech in his college, I asked him “Do you mind if I leave?”  He retorted: You mean “escape”? The president’s office in the National College was always open. No one guarded its doors. HN sat at a long table with his Gandhi cap perched jauntily on his head. Students, teachers and admission-seekers walked in and out freely. A visiting journalist recalled how he saw this director of twelve institutions coolly climb onto the table to retrieve a file from the top of a cupboard. That spoke volumes about a man whom power or rank could not corrupt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/h-narsimhaiah-the-man-in-the-khaddar-cap-1029650.html
12-09-2021||Second Edit||Pact promises peace in Assam||The signing of a peace accord by five insurgent groups operating in the Karbi Anglong district, the Assam government and the Centre in Delhi will hopefully put an end to insurgency in the district. Assam’s hill districts have seen unrest and militancy for a long time and the agreement, in the form of a Memorandum of Settlement, comes after extended negotiations. It promises greater autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC), which is already in place, and to take steps to protect the identity, culture and language of the Karbi people, including notification of Karbi as the official language of the Council. KAAC will be given more legislative, administrative and financial powers. A special development package of Rs 1,000 crore has been promised for the next five years and a Karbi Welfare Council will be set up for Karbi people living outside the KAAC area. The agreement also will lead to about 1,000 armed cadres abjuring violence and joining the mainstream society.  The agreement addresses two major issues which are usually at the root of disaffection and unrest among racial, linguistic or other minority groups within states. These are the fear of loss of identity and lack of development. There are a number of communities in the Northeast which have seen such militancy. The discontent has found expression in demands ranging from secession to statehood and greater autonomy within states. The best method to address such unrest is to ensure that the identities are protected and development reaches all people. New structures of governance which ensure greater autonomy and better development have been put in place in Tripura, Mizoram and the Bodo areas of Assam. Some of them have worked and others are works in progress. The Karbi Anglong agreement is the latest, and partners to the agreement should try to make it a success. Such agreements fail because of various reasons. State administrations sometimes try to create problems in the working of the autonomous bodies. Interest groups capture these bodies from within and misuse development funds. The rehabilitation of militants is not always done well and some of them become antisocial elements. So, implementation of the agreement in letter and spirit is important in the case of this and other agreements. There should also be action in the case of the two most important insurgencies of the region — the ULFA and the Naga insurgencies. Both groups have factions also. Though talks have taken place with some factions, there have been no agreements, for different reasons. These two insurgencies have inspired and supported other militant groups in the region and so there can be no peace in the region till there is peace with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pact-promises-peace-in-assam-1029652.html
12-09-2021||South||DMK allies oppose R N Ravi’s appointment as Tamil Nadu Governor||The appointment of R N Ravi, a former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, as Governor of Tamil Nadu has kicked up a political storm. Congress and VCK – allies of the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) – have taken strong exception to Ravi’s transfer from trouble-torn Nagaland to Tamil Nadu.  While Chief Minister M K Stalin welcomed Ravi to the state and expressed the hope that the new Governor will help the government’s efforts on the development of the state, the DMK has not issued any statement so far. BJP and AIADMK have welcomed Ravi’s appointment citing his “contributions” to the country’s development. However, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) chief K S Alagiri has issued a strong statement questioning Ravi’s appointment. VCK chief and Chidambaram Lok Sabha MP Thol. Thirumavalavan also punched holes in the Union Government’s decision to replace Banwarilal Purohit with Ravi in the Raj Bhavan in Chennai. The allies questioned the need for appointing a former police officer with experience in the Intelligence Bureau (IB) as Governor of Tamil Nadu, which is now ruled by the DMK. The appointment comes amid the Tamil Nadu Assembly passing two resolutions against farm laws and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).  “We suspect that there is an ulterior motive in the appointment of R N Ravi as Tamil Nadu governor. The Union Government has in the past made such appointments to create obstacles for state governments ruled by Opposition parties. We have been witnessing this trend for the past few years,” Alagiri said in a statement.  He also referred to “interference” by retired IPS officer Kiran Bedi in the functioning of the Puducherry Government during her tenure as Lt. Governor from 2016 to 2021.  Alagiri sought to know whether the BJP which lost the elections is trying to “intimidate” the Opposition parties by appointing Governors with the “sole intention” of obstructing the functioning of democratically elected governments.  He also said the Congress suspects Ravi’s appointment is a carefully chosen plot and referred to Ravi’s work as an interlocutor in peace talks with Naga insurgents.  Thirumavalavan demanded the recall of Ravi’s appointment and asserted that allies will stand behind the DMK if the Union Government attempts to create trouble for a government elected by the people.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-allies-oppose-r-n-ravi-s-appointment-as-tamil-nadu-governor-1029648.html
12-09-2021||South||Kerala teenage girl grabs attention for bullet repairing skills||Teenage girls riding bullet motorcycles is no more news. But a teenage girl in Kerala has grabbed attention as she is into repairing Royal Enfield's bullet motorcycles. Diya Joseph, who just turned 18, has been assisting her father Joseph Dominic, who is a specialist in bullet motorcycle repair. A native of Kottayam district, Diya dreams of going on long bullet rides with her younger sister Maria and hence, she hopes that learning bullet-repairing will boost her confidence in fulfilling her dream. With videos of Diya repairing bullets at the workshop going viral on the social media, the local Royal Enfield dealers honoured her. Apart from the appreciation the teenage girl is getting, Dominic and his wife Shine are also being appreciated by parents of girl children for allowing their daughter to pursue her dream. Diya, who just completed her higher secondary studies with 98 per cent marks, has been assisting her father at the workshops on the premises of their home over the last couple of years. 'The only difficulty I am facing is the heaviness of the vehicle and its parts. It is quite difficult to handle for a girl of my age and physique. But as I gain experience, I will also attain the strength and skills to handle bullets and repair it with ease,' says Diya who is ambitious of pursuing a career in automobile engineering. Dominic, who has been a bullet mechanic for more that 30 years, said that Diya was catching up the skills quite fast. Despite her higher secondary studies, she used to find time to assist him at the workshop. She has also acquired the skill of riding bullets and is awaiting her driving licence test soon. "I am more happy as parents of many girl children have called me to appreciate for inspiring them too to allow their girl children purse the career of their wish," said Dominic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-teenage-girl-grabs-attention-for-bullet-repairing-skills-1029649.html
12-09-2021||South||19-year-old dies by suicide in Tamil Nadu due to fear of NEET; AIADMK blames DMK||A 19-year-old medical aspirant from Salem died by suicide due to the fear of appearing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled for Sunday, prompting the AIADMK to launch a blistering attack on DMK on the “false promise” of doing away with the entrance exam.  S Dhanush, a resident of Mettur in Salem district, died by suicide on Sunday hours before the NEET exam was scheduled to start. Dhanush had appeared for NEET twice in the past and this was his third attempt, his family said, adding that he was anxious about the exam for the past few weeks. Suicides due to the fear of appearing for NEET or failing to clear the exam have rocked Tamil Nadu for the past few years. NEET is considered discriminatory against students from rural areas who are forced to compete with those from cities – almost all political parties in Tamil Nadu are opposed to the exam.  As usual, the suicide triggered a political slugfest but this time the DMK being at the receiving end. Former Chief Minister and Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami sought to know from DMK on the status of its promise to get NEET scrapped once it came to power.  “You (DMK) said you will scrap the exam. You spoke of a secret (idea) to do away with the exam. What happened to the idea and when will you implement it?” Palaniswami, who paid respects to Dhanush in Mettur, asked.  In his condolence message, Chief Minister M K Stalin blamed the Centre’s “adamant attitude” of not realizing the ill effects of NEET as the reason for students taking the extreme step of ending their lives. He also said he will write to Chief Ministers of various states asking them to raise their voice against NEET. “The legal fight against NEET begins in Tamil Nadu tomorrow (September 13). The DMK government will pass a law seeking permanent exemption for Tamil Nadu from NEET in the Assembly…The legal fight will continue till the exam is dispensed with by the Centre,” Stalin said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/19-year-old-dies-by-suicide-in-tamil-nadu-due-to-fear-of-neet-aiadmk-blames-dmk-1029663.html
12-09-2021||South||Kerala Bishop's remarks: Political row a threat to communal harmony||While the 'narcotic jihad' remark of a Bishop in Kerala has led to communal campaigns and counter campaigns, the mainstream political parties in the state, the CPM and the Congress, are in a tight spot as two minority communities are on either side of the issue, whereas the BJP is trying to cash in on the opportunity. After Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, a Bishop of Pala in Kottayam district under the prominent Syro Malabar Church made the controversial remark that jihadis were trying to destroy non-Muslims through 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad', the state has been witnessing protest marches by pro-Muslim outfits against the Bishop's view and demonstrations backing the Bishop by pro-Christian outfits. Even as the top leader of the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front and the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front, like Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan flayed the Bishop's statement, the pro-Muslim and pro-Christian coalition parties in both the camps are making open statements condemning and backing the 'love and narcotic jihad' theory. Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K Mani, which is a coalition partner in the Left Front, backed the Bishop's view stating that he only pointed out a social evil. The CPM and Congress leaders are also showing some reservations in strongly rejecting the love jihad theory or backing it. The obvious reason is the minority vote banks of Kerala as the state has a 27 per cent Muslim population and 18 per cent Christian population as per the 2011 census and both communities can decide the fate of an election in the state. Meanwhile, BJP leaders including Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan is strongly backing the Bishop, with the obvious motive of making inroads into Christian vote banks. He even accused the CPM and the Congress of supporting jihadis. Political analyst Josukutty C A said that the mainstream political parties in Kerala, the CPM and the Congress, would only take a diplomatic stand on such issues as they would not like to invite the wrath of any minority community. However, for the BJP, the row seems to be an opportunity to strengthen their base in Kerala, he said. As the discussions over the Bishop's statements continue, there are serious concerns that it would adversely impact the communal harmony of Kerala. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bishops-remarks-political-row-a-threat-to-communal-harmony-1029680.html
12-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu administers 28.36 lakh vaccine doses on Sunday||Setting a new record, Tamil Nadu on Sunday administered Covid-19 vaccine doses to 28.36 lakh persons by holding 40,000 special vaccination camps as part of the initiative to inoculate the eligible population as early as possible.  The government had set a target of 20 lakh vaccine doses for Sunday, but the number surpassed the figure and stood at 28.36 lakh at 8.45 pm. As many as 21.07 lakh persons received their first dose, while the number of those receiving their second dose of vaccine stood at 7.29 lakh. With Sunday’s vaccination figures, the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in Tamil Nadu has crossed 4 crore. The state had administered 1.55 lakh doses on September 11, 1.32 lakh doses (September 10), 3.03 lakh doses (September 9), and 3.44 lakh doses (September 8).    Chennai district stood first with 1.85 lakh vaccine doses, followed by Coimbatore (1.51 lakh), Tiruppur (1.21 lakh), Tiruchirapalli (1.10 lakh), and Thanjavur (1.10 lakh). With 21,029 vaccine doses administered on Sunday, Virudhunagar stood last in the list. The government had made elaborate arrangements to administer over 20 lakh vaccine doses on Sunday. Health Minister Ma Subramanian led from the front by visiting vaccination camps in over 5 districts and overseeing the special drive. Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu visited several special camps organised by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), while ministers and MLAs oversaw the drive in their respective constituencies and districts. The vaccination drive laid a special emphasis on vaccinating the eligible population in districts bordering Kerala. The government is taking efforts to achieve 100 per cent vaccination in Coimbatore, Dindigul, Kanyakumari, Tenkasi, The Nilgiris, Theni, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur and Virudhunagar districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-administers-2836-lakh-vaccine-doses-on-sunday-1029681.html
12-09-2021||South||Use English while communicating with Tamil Nadu: Madras High Court tells Centre||Ruling that the Union Government cannot use Hindi for official correspondence with Tamil Nadu, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that the Centre was bound to use English for the “purpose of communication” with the southern state.  The court passed the order in August, which was made public recently, on a petition filed by Madurai Lok Sabha MP and Sahitya Akademi award-winning writer Su Venkatesan seeking a direction to the Union Government to use English in all official communication with Tamil Nadu.  The MP had received replies in Hindi to the letters he had written in English to various departments of the Union Government. Several other MPs from Tamil Nadu have also been complaining that the Centre was replying in Hindi to their correspondence in English on matters relating to their constituencies.  “Admittedly, the State of Tamil Nadu has not adopted Hindi as its official language, whereas it has adopted two languages formally viz., Tamil and English. As per Proviso to Section 1(a) of the (Official Languages) Act, the Central Government is bound to use English for the purpose of communication with the State of Tamil Nadu,” the court said. The bench of Justices N Kirubakaran (now retired) and M Duraiswamy said Hindi cannot be used for official correspondence with Tamil Nadu and observed that it would be appropriate, and it is expected that the Central Government gives its reply to the citizens, in their respective language as stated in Article 350. The judges also observed that the language issue is a very sensitive one and it should be approached very sensibly and recalled the anti-Hindi protests in Tamil Nadu.  “Even if an inadvertent mistake is made regarding the use of language that will be a cause for many issues in the society. Therefore, the Central Government is duty-bound to follow the provisions of the official languages Act…Once a representation is given in English, it is the duty of the Union Government to give a reply in English only which will also be in consonance with the statute, viz., the Official Languages Act,” the Bench said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/use-english-while-communicating-with-tamil-nadu-madras-high-court-tells-centre-1029685.html
12-09-2021||South||Relaxation to Mohanlal's car at Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple to invite action||Security personnel at the famed Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple at Thrissur in Kerala is likely to face action for allowing popular actor Mohanlal's vehicle to a restricted area on the temple premises. According to sources, the temple administrator sought an explanation from the security personnel on the matter. Three security personnel were also directed to keep off from duty. Mohanlal and his wife came to the temple to attend the wedding of NRI businessman Ravi Pillai's son. The elaborate decorations made at the temple premises for the wedding had earlier invited Kerala High Court's intervention.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/relaxation-to-mohanlals-car-at-guruvayur-sri-krishna-temple-to-invite-action-1029697.html
12-09-2021||South||Refundable fee for Sabarimala token under consideration||In view of the restrictions in the daily number of pilgrims to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala, the temple authorities have mooted a refundable fee of around Rs. 200 for virtual queue booking. According to sources, during the previous months when the temple opened for monthly poojas many who took online tokens for virtual queue did not turn up for darshan. Pilgrims were allowed only through virtual queue now owing to Covid and only up to 15,000 pilgrims were allowed daily. Hence many were denied the opportunity for darshan as people who took tokens did not turn up. This tendency was also affecting the temple's revenue. Hence the temple administration mooted the idea of a refundable fee of around Rs.200 for getting token. The matter is only under consideration, said government sources.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/refundable-fee-for-sabarimala-token-under-consideration-1029698.html
12-09-2021||State||Bengaluru couple among 8 killed in jeep-lorry collision||In a gruesome accident involving a jeep and a lorry, eight people were killed while seven others sustained grievous injuries, near Marinayakanahalli on Chintamani-Madanapalli road on Sunday. According to the police, deceased are Narayanaswamy (55) of Sonnashettahalli, Munirathnamma (49) of Gounipalli, Venkatalaxmamma (45), a native of Marinayakanahalli and Ramesh (49), the jeep driver, Munikrishna and Nikhil, all natives of Chintamani town and Rajappa and Monica couple from Bengaluru. The jeep that was carrying excess passengers was plying between Taadihal Cross and Chintamani while the cement-laden lorry was on its way to Madanpalli in Andhra Pradesh. The impact of the crash has turned the jeep into a mangled heap of metal. Bodies were strewn all over the collision site. Locals rushed the injured to the Chintamani government hospital. The toll may go up as the condition of some of the injured is said to be critical. The accident has put the spotlight on the menace of overloading of passenger vehicles in the villages and towns bordering Andhra Pradesh. In Taadigol Cross, Gounipalli and Srinivaspur jeeps and other transport vehicles operate without authorised licence. The locals expressed their anguish against the inaction of the police and the RTO officials on the menace. Legislators M Krishnareddy, K R Rameshkumar, K Y Nanjegowda among others visited the accident spot and instructed the officials to conduct a thorough probe. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-couple-among-8-killed-in-jeep-lorry-collision-1029689.html
12-09-2021||State||Need to conduct probe into misuse of kits for labourers: U T Khader||Mangalore MLA U T Khader alleged that food, immunity and safety kits being distributed to construction labourers through the labour department by the government were being misused. "There is a need to conduct a thorough investigation into the alleged misuse of kits," he demanded while addressing media persons at Circuit house on Sunday. "The rice, which was part of the food kit, had worms. The other two kits were not much beneficial. According to the available information, the government had spent Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per kit. Fund from Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Board was misappropriated," he charged. "The cost per immunity kit was Rs 700. An amount of Rs 600 was spent on each safety kit containing sanitiser, soap, masks and others," Khader said. In the Mangalore constituency, only 5,000 such kits were distributed. While in other constituencies, 10,000 to 15,000 such kits had been distributed. Crores of rupees have been misappropriated in the name of kits for labourers," he alleged. Discussion on NEP MLA said there was a need for people to understand the pros and cons of National Education Policy 2020. "We will seek a detailed discussion on NEP in the Assembly session which will begin from Monday," he said. Khader said that fishermen are not getting subsidies for diesel on time. "I will raise the issue of Udupi-Konaje health corridor, metro rail survey and other issues in the session." Khader claimed that no houses for the poor had been sanctioned in Karnataka after the BJP government came to power. The MLA said that the government had directed to conduct the survey of the homeless before the election. "But, the poor are still waiting for a roof over their head. The issue of housing projects will also be raised in the session," he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/need-to-conduct-probe-into-misuse-of-kits-for-labourers-u-t-khader-1029702.html
12-09-2021||State||NEET exam: 148 students absent in Dakshina Kannada||The National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses was held at 10 centres in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. A total of 148 students remained absent from the exam. As many as 5,005 students had registered for the NEET and 4,857 students appeared for the exam. The students were screened at the entrance for their body temperature before entering the classrooms. The exams were held at Alva's Institute of Engineering and Technology, Mangalore Institute of Technology and Engineering, Canara Engineering College, Govinda Das College, Mount Carmel School, Sridevi Institute of Technology, The Yenepoya School, Sharada Vidyalaya, Sahyadri College of Engineering and Srinivas Institute of Technology.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/neet-exam-148-students-absent-in-dakshina-kannada-1029705.html
12-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai government's first legislature session from Monday||The first session of the Karnataka legislature, after the change of guard in the state, will begin here from Monday, as opposition parties are all set to corner the government on host of issues including price rise, law and order situation, handling of Covid-19 pandemic, implementation of National Education Policy, among others. The ten-day monsoon session is the first for Basavaraj Bommai, as the Chief Minister and his new cabinet, which took charge following the exit of state BJP strongman B S Yediyurappa in July-end. The legislature session will be held from September 13 to 24. This monsoon session is being held by following Covid-19 guidelines. The previous session was the budget session, which ended on March 24. The Congress, which recently held its legislature party meeting, under its leader Siddaramaiah to discuss the party's strategy during the session, has said it will raise the issue of price rise, deteriorating law and order situation and distressing financial position of the state, among others. Pointing out the recent incident of a gang rape in Mysuru, Siddaramaiah, who is also the leader of opposition in the assembly, had expressed concern about the deteriorating law and order situation and had said that murders, theft, extortion and incidents of rape have become common. The principal opposition party is also likely to target the government on issues such as rise in the price of essential commodities, its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic with high number of deaths during the second wave, the administration's alleged failure to supply oxygen to hospitals and providing relief to those affected by floods, financial position of the state, the implementation of the NEP without proper consultation. The JD(S) too is likely to put pressure on the government on developmental issues, issues relating to regional pride and implementation of key projects across inter-state rivers of Cauvery (Mekedatu) and Mahadayi (Kalasa-Banduri), to which neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Goa are opposed to respectively. For the ruling party too, it is kind of a new beginning under the leadership of Bommai who will lead the treasury benches, amid simmering discontent within by aspirants who could not make it into the new Ministry, also disgruntlement among a couple of Ministers about their portfolios. Interestingly, Yediyurappa who led the ruling side in the assembly till the previous session, will be occupying one of the back seats of the treasury benches. This session also comes after the recent urban local body poll results which was bittersweet for the ruling BJP, as the saffron party swept the Belagavi city corporation election, but failed to cross the majority mark in its bastion of Hubballi-Dharwad and finished second in Kalaburagi. It also comes ahead of the polls for taluk and zilla panchayats, amid apprehensions that the government is attempting to delay it following the recent cabinet decision to create a delimitation commission to redraw panchayat boundaries, that was earlier done by the State Election Commission (SEC). The session may also see renewed demand to make the caste census (Social and Educational Survey) data, that was commissioned by the then Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015, which is currently with the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, to be made public. According to official sources, the findings of the survey is allegedly contrary to the traditional perception of the numerical strength of various castes in Karnataka, making it a political hot potato. The session has also come amid demand from various communities to revise the existing reservation, including by the numerically large Panchamasali Lingayat community to be considered under Category 2A of OBC. A total of 18 Bills are lined up to be tabled in the session, of which 10 are new, four are to replace ordinances and four are pending in the Assembly. Karnataka Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri had last week said that the Ethics Committee of the state legislature is likely to be formed during the session. Also, the "Best Legislator" award will be given away at the end of the session. A joint session of both the Houses of the legislature would be convened on the last day of the session on September 24 to discuss ways for prevention of disruption of proceedings, Kageri had said, adding that Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla would be invited to speak. The Speaker has also asked Ministers must be present on all the 10 days, and not to submit applications seeking permission for absence during the session, other than on the health and emergency grounds. The bar on general public from attending and viewing the proceedings of the house has been lifted this time. fThe public were barred from the visitors gallery of the Assembly, since the Covid-19 pandemic began in 2020. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-governments-first-legislature-session-from-monday-1029585.html
12-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||803 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths in Karnataka ||Karnataka logged 803 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 29,61,735 and the toll to 37,504. The day also saw 802 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,07,548. Out of the 803 new cases reported on Sunday, 255 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 107 discharges and six deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 16,656. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.80 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.11 per cent. Coming behind Bengaluru Urban in number of deaths was Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Hassan and Mysuru (2 each), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 255, Dakshina Kannada 153, Udupi 90, Kodagu 63, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,41,425, followed by Mysuru 1,76,873 and Tumakuru 1,19,656. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,18,000, followed by Mysuru 1,73,798 and Tumakuru 1,17,911. A total of 4,52,94,928 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,00,176 were on Sunday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/803-new-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-in-karnataka-1029671.html
12-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar to arrive for Karnataka assembly session in bullock carts||Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah and state Congress President D K Shivakumar will arrive at the Vidhana Soudha in bullock carts on Monday, to attend the monsoon session of the state legislature, in protest against the price rise. The 10 day long session will be held from September 13 to 24, at Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat here. As part of the protest, organised by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee against price rise and "anti people" policies of the state and central governments, Siddaramaiah will leave for the Vidhana Soudha in a bullock cart at 9 am on Monday, his office said in a statement. Shivakumar too will leave for the Vidhana Soudha in a bullock cart from his residence, a statement from KPCC said. The Congress, which recently held its legislature party meeting, chaired by its leader Siddaramaiah, to discuss the party's strategy during the session, has said it will raise the issues of price rise, deteriorating law and order situation and distressing financial position of the state, among others. This is the first session of the Karnataka legislature after Basavaraj Bommai took charge as the Chief Minister and his new cabinet assumed office, following the exit of state BJP strong man B S Yediyurappa. Check out the latest DH vidoes here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-shivakumar-to-arrive-for-karnataka-assembly-session-in-bullock-carts-1029683.html
12-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC directs ex gratia to 2nd pillion rider who was victim of an accident||The high court has directed an insurance company to pay compensation to the accident victim, who was a second pillion rider on a motorcycle. The court said it has not been established that three persons riding a motorcycle itself constituted contributory negligence. The insurance company had challenged the 2012 award passed by a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal at Kalaburagi. The insurer was told to pay Rs 8.10 lakh to the family members of the deceased. The accident had taken place in November 2011 when the deceased was riding pillion. The insurance company contended that there were three persons riding on a motorcycle and there was a violation of the policy conditions. This apart, the company alleged that the rider of the motorcycle did not possess a valid driving licence. The claimants cited a Supreme Court order in Mohammed Siddique and another v/s The National Insurance Company Limited case. Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy rejected the appeal filed by the insurance company. “In the absence of any material to establish that three persons riding on a motorcycle itself constituted contributory negligence, the insurer cannot contend that it was exonerated from the liability to pay compensation,” the court said. The court directed that the amount be transmitted to the Tribunal for necessary orders. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-directs-ex-gratia-to-2nd-pillion-rider-who-was-victim-of-an-accident-1029688.html
12-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Temple demolition in Nanjangud draws flak from Hindu outfits, politicians||The demolition of illegal religious structures on public property in compliance with the court order, has drawn widespread criticisms from various Hindu outfits. Addressing media persons here on Sunday, Mysuru-Kodagu MP Prathap Simha, warned of launching a state-wide movement to save temples, if the district administration continued the demolition drive. The district administration has initiated demolition of places of worship as per a list, since a few days. Accordingly, Mahadevamma temple at Uchagani of Nanjangud taluk was razed on September 8 triggering protests by the Hindu outfits. “I have learnt that there are also plans to raze 101 Ganesha temple in Agrahara - constructed in 1954,” Simha alleged. In 2009, the Supreme directed not to give permission for religious structures on public properties. If so, how was permission given for a mosque at Kyathamanhahalli, the MP questioned. “Why are the authorities targeting the temples while others are being spared. It is not possible to equate the temples with other religious structures. Churches and mosques are prayer halls. But, in temples, the idols are consecrated” Simha said. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah too in a series of tweets has condemned the demolition of ancient temple on the pretext of encroachment clearance. The authorities should have spoken with the locals about it, he said. MLA G T Devegowda took exceptions for targeting only the temples. It is not right for the authorities to hurt the religious sentiments of the Hindus, he opined. Rashtriya Hindu Samiti has condemned the district administration for razing several Hindu temples in the city. In a press release, Samiti president Vikas Shastri warned of launching a protest if the operation was not stopped. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/temple-demolition-in-nanjangud-draws-flak-from-hindu-outfits-politicians-1029692.html
12-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NEET: Medical aspirants find chemistry, biology easy, physics tricky||Students who appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday said the physics paper was tricky.  According to candidates and subject experts, the chemistry and biology papers were relatively easy. However, many calculation-and multi concept-based questions in physics section were tricky. The test was conducted as per the Covid-19 safety protocols and the directions issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA).   Milind Chippalakatti, Head of Academics, Deeksha, said, “All the questions were primarily from NCERT textbook. Overall, it was a student-friendly paper.” “The biology paper more or less was easy with 69 simple and straight questions, 22 moderate and 9 difficult questions. In biology, an average student can score between 250-260 marks. The physics paper was moderately difficult with 15 easy questions, 22 moderate and 9 difficult questions. In physics, an average student can score between 50-60 marks. The chemistry paper was moderately easy with 35 easy questions, 11 moderate and 4 difficult questions. In chemistry, an average student can score between 100-110 marks.” There were no out-of-syllabus questions. The physics paper was a little difficult (lengthy) compared to last year,” added Milind. “There was also a change in the pattern when compared to last year’s question papers. For biology, botany and zoology questions were given in different sections, physics had a section-B with optional questions that have been added and which is a little tougher,” said a medical aspirant.  Aashish S Raman, a student of Deeksha, said, “Physics was tricky and it was stressful to finish the extra 20 questions in the same 3 hour time limit. However, I was able to finish just in time, and starting with physics helped a lot. Overall the paper went well and I am expecting good results.” Madhu Murali Krishna, another candidate said, “I found physics section B hardest in the paper. Chemistry and biology were mostly from NCERT. The safety measures were in place and we were all comfortable.” Separate arrangements were made for the Covid positive candidates. It was must for the candidates to declare a form about their Covid status. The NEET UG dress code was followed by all the candidates as determined by the National Testing Agency. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/neet-medical-aspirants-find-chemistry-biology-easy-physics-tricky-1029693.html
12-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shivamogga blast: Sixth victim identified after seven months||After a gap of nearly seven months, the sixth victim in Hunasodu blast that took place in Shivamogga taluk, has been identified. The victim was Shashi (32) of Bhadravathi taluk who was serving as an auto driver. Police sources said that the identification of the sixth victim became an uphill task as the body was completely mutilated due to high intensity of the blast. So, blood samples of parents and relatives were taken and sent to Forensic Science Laboratory in Bengaluru. The report confirmed that the body is that of Shashi.  Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police BM Laxmi Prasad said ten persons have been arrested in this case so far. The  other five victims had been identified as Pawan Kumar (29), Javeed (28), Chelimanu Raju (24), Praveen (36) and Manjunath (35). It may be mentioned here that the incident that took place on January 21 this year had uncovered illegal mining activities in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shivamogga-blast-sixth-victim-identified-after-seven-months-1029701.html
12-09-2021||West||Union ministers Pralhad Joshi, Tomar likely to visit Gujarat Sunday as BJP central observers||Union ministers Pralhad Joshi and Narendra Singh Tomar are likely to visit Gujarat on Sunday as the BJP's central observers to a meeting of the legislature party to choose the new chief minister following Vijay Rupani's resignation, sources said. Gujarat Chief Minister Rupani submitted his resignation to the Governor on Saturday. His resignation came 15 months before the election to the 182-member Assembly that is due in December 2022. Rupani (65), the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister in December 2017. BJP's general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh and Gujarat state unit in-charge Bhupender Yadav met party functionaries soon after Rupani announced his resignation. Party sources said the issue of Rupani’s successor will be discussed in the legislature party meeting likely to be held on Sunday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/union-ministers-pralhad-joshi-tomar-likely-to-visit-gujarat-sunday-as-bjp-central-observers-1029492.html
12-09-2021||West||Hindu Sena in Gujarat plans to install Godse's statue in Jamnagar||A saffron organisation named "Hindu Sena" has announced that it will install a statue of Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse in Jamnagar on the occasion of his death anniversary on November 15. The organisation led by its president Pratik Bhatt held a meeting earlier this week where this decision was taken.  In a press release, Bhatt said the statue will be installed in Saurashtra's Jamnagar in order to "instill nationalism in the hearts of youths". Apart from Bhatt, other functionaries of the outfit including Mayur Patel, Rajdip Gohil, Bhavesh Thummar, Yogesh Amreliya and Dhiren Nanda were present in the meeting.  The meeting was held at Dwarkadhish temple on Wednesday where it was also decided that a committee of 30 members will be formed to do necessary arrangements. "We held a meeting to install a statue of Mahatma Godse in Jamnagar to give a message to our youths on patriotism. There is a lot of energy in today's youth but there is no guiding figure who could channelise this energy in nation building. Besides, there is a lot of negative information floating around on the life of Godseji. Therefore, we have decided to come up with a statue in his memory in Jamnagar," Bhatt told DH on phone. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hindu-sena-in-gujarat-plans-to-install-godses-statue-in-jamnagar-1029503.html
12-09-2021||West||Running low on supplies, Tata Memorial Centre appeals to people for blood donations||The Tata Memorial Centre, a recognised training centre for cancer education and research, and one of the pillars of cancer treatment in the country, is facing a blood shortage and has appealed people to come out forward to donate. “We are facing a shortage of blood at the Tata Memorial Centre. Please step up to donate blood - it is perfectly safe, and you'll save lives. Please contact our blood bank on 022-24177000 Extension 4690 If you would like us to come to your society for a donation drive, please contact us," Tata Memorial Centre tweeted. CS Pramesh, Director of Tata Memorial Centre, said that the centre has hospitals in Mumbai, Kharghar, Varanasi, Vizag, Guwahati, Sangrur, and Muzaffarpur and another at Chandigarh will be operational soon. “People can donate blood at any of these locations,” he added. “We would be very happy to organize camps in housing societies where there are a reasonable number of donors. We've done that right through the pandemic, with strict adherence to physical distancing and all precautions” CS Pramesh emphasised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/running-low-on-supplies-tata-memorial-centre-appeals-to-people-for-blood-donations-1029510.html
12-09-2021||West||Assembly elections 2022: Shiv Sena to contest 100 seats in UP, 20 in Goa||The Shiv Sena announced that it is planning to contest 100-odd seats in Uttar Pradesh and 20 in Goa during the forthcoming polls to State Assemblies in 2022. The Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly has 403 seats while Goa Legislative Assembly comprises 40 seats. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the party would contest around 100 and 20 seats in Uttar Pradesh and Goa, respectively. Sanjay, however, refused to comment on the chain of political developments in the neighbouring state of Gujarat. “That is the BJP’s internal matter,” Raut told reporters on Sunday. The states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Gujarat, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh are set to go to polls in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/assembly-elections-2022-shiv-sena-to-contest-100-seats-in-up-20-in-goa-1029547.html
12-09-2021||West||New Gujarat CM needs to be popular, experienced and acceptable to all, says Deputy CM Nitin Patel||Ahead of the Gujarat Legislature Party meeting on Sunday to elect Vijay Rupani's successor as chief minister, Deputy CM Nitin Patel said the leader "will have to be popular, strong, experienced, and the one who is known and acceptable to all". Patel, whose name is doing the rounds for the top post in the state, told reporters in Gandhinagar that he will not speak about any individual's name at this stage and the BJP's central leadership will decide on the new chief minister. Rupani (65) on Saturday resigned from the chief minister's post, his sudden announcement coming over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state, where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December next year. Asked who is capable of being the new chief minister of Gujarat, Patel on Sunday said the leader "will have to be popular, strong, experienced, and the one who is known and acceptable to all. I am not here to express my personal opinion on the possible name. The exercise to elect the next chief minister is not just a work to fill in a vacancy. Gujarat should get a successful leadership so that the state can develop, keeping all together," the deputy CM told reporters outside his residence in Gandhinagar. He said two observers -- (Union ministers) Narendra Singh Tomar and Prahlad Joshi -- appointed by the BJP's parliamentary board reached Gujarat on Sunday to hold meetings with the party MLAs and other senior state leaders. They began meetings with state BJP president CR Paatil and others, Patel said. Patel also said that senior party leaders, including national general secretary B L Santhosh, Union minister and Gujarat in-charge Bhupender Yadav, joint in-charge Sudhir Gupta, among others, reached the state on Saturday and were gathering opinions on the possible name of the next CM of the state. The two observers (Tomar and Joshi) will take the opinions of the MLAs in the meeting at 3 pm on Sunday, and convey the same to the party's parliamentary board, he said. "I believe that all the processes will be completed today and the national leadership will decide on the name of the new chief minister, as per the opinions gathered from the MLAs and senior Gujarat BJP leaders," Patel said. He said the BJP performed "very well" in the local bodies elections held earlier this year in Gujarat, and the party and the next leadership will take decisions and work together to ensure the state develops and wins the state Assembly polls due in December 2022. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-gujarat-cm-needs-to-be-popular-experienced-and-acceptable-to-all-says-deputy-cm-nitin-patel-1029551.html
12-09-2021||West||NCW team meets Mumbai rape victim's kin, visits crime spot||Shocked by the Sakinaka murder-rape in Mumbai that bore similarity to the Nirbhaya incident, the National Commission for Women (NCW) has swung into action and a team visited Mumbai on Sunday. The NCW has also taken objection to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale’s statement, who had said, “Police reached the spot within ten minutes. It can't be present at every crime location. They will reach only after getting information. Police worked to the best of their capability.” “The statement is extremely unfortunate. Police can't run away from their responsibility,” NCW member Chandramukhi Devi stated.  Meanwhile, an NCW team visited the family members of the rape-murder victim, a woman aged between 32-36 and a mother of two. They also visited the crime scene and the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, where she passed away after remaining unconscious for nearly 33 hours and the Sakinaka police station.  A 45-year-old man, Mohan Chauhan, a resident of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, has been arrested, and he is being questioned in detail. Chauhan works as a driver in Mumbai. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncw-team-meets-mumbai-rape-victims-kin-visits-crime-spot-1029554.html
12-09-2021||West||Know-how of Saline Gargle RT-PCR technique transferred to MSME Ministry||In a significant step forward in India’s fight against Covid-19, the Nagpur-based National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has transferred the know-how of the indigenously developed Saline Gargle RT-PCR technique.  The know-how has been transferred to the Union Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME), on a non-exclusive basis. The Saline Gargle RT-PCR technology is simple, fast, cost-effective, patient-friendly and comfortable. It provides instant test results and is well-suited for rural and tribal areas, given minimal infrastructure requirements.   This would enable the innovation to be commercialized and licensed to all capable parties, including private, government and various rural development schemes and departments. The licensees are expected to set up manufacturing facilities for commercial production in the form of easily usable compact kits. In the light of the prevailing pandemic situation and probable third wave of Covid-19, CSIR-NEERI fast-tracked the know-how transfer process to potential licensees for its wider dissemination across the nation.  The ceremonial transfer of the Standard Operating Procedure and Know-How of the Saline Gargle RT-PCR technique was done in the presence of the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari.   “The Saline Gargle RT-PCR method needs implementation across the nation, especially in resource-poor regions like rural and tribal areas. This would result in faster and more citizen-friendly testing and will strengthen our fight against the pandemic. The MSME unit had approached CSIR-NEERI for commercializing the Saline Gargle RT-PCR technology developed by CSIR-NEERI,” said Gadkari. The principal inventor of Saline Gargle RT-PCR technology is NEERI scientist Dr. Krishna Khairnar and the team of research scholars of Environmental Virology, at CSIR-NEERI, Nagpur.  Dr. Srivari Chandrasekhar; Chairman, Technology Transfer, CSIR-NEERI, Dr Atul Vaidya; MSME Unit Director Rajesh Daga and Kamlesh Daga were also present during the transfer of know-how to the MSME Unit.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/know-how-of-saline-gargle-rt-pcr-technique-transferred-to-msme-ministry-1029576.html
12-09-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray steps in to save protected birds at Panje wetland||Amid the firecracker scare that threatened protected birds at Panje wetland in Uran in Raigad district, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has stepped up and asked officials to stop the menace. Thackeray asked Forest Secretary Venugopal Reddy to monitor the issue. Environmentalists have called for a thorough investigation by the Crime Branch CID into the horrific incident. The wetland is under the control of the now de-notified Navi Mumbai SEZ which has already been served notice by the Forest Department.  A public notice cautioning the public against harming the protected birds has been put up at the site. The official notice also warned that action as per the law will be taken against those who harm the birds at this place which are protected under the Wildlife Act 1972. “While we appreciate the prompt action by the Forest Department, it is essential to go beyond to get to the bottom of the conspiracy to kill the wetland by hook or crook,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation in his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  “We are happy that the CM has swiftly acted and hopeful of equally quick action to conserve the wetland,” Kumar said. Panje, the destination for over 150,000 migratory and local birds, has been repeatedly under attack as all the five water inlets have been choked rendering the wetland totally dry. With the monsoon rains, some water accumulated here attracting hundreds of birds, Kumar said. Assistant Conservator of Forest Sanjay Waghmode confirmed that preliminary investigation is going on into the firecracker incident. He has already visited the spot with his team. “I am assuring you nobody shall be protected by the Forest department,” he said in exchange of communication by NatConnect Foundation. Two men with identity cards hanging around their necks with lanyards could be seen in a video that was shot while they set crackers on fire and with the loud noise hundreds of birds could be seen flying helter-skelter. Later, the two men could be seen with a couple of men in uniform, Kumar pointed out and requested the investigators to zoom in the photographs and ascertain what they were doing at the spot. Regional Forest Officer Shashank Kadam confirmed that a notice was sent to NMSEZ for this illegal act. Action will be taken as per the Wildlife Protection Act, he said. Earlier, Deputy Conservator of Forests Neenu Somraj wrote to Raigad district collector and CIDCO Managing Director drawing their attention to a complaint by photographer Aishwarya Sridhar about scaring the protected birds. Somraj, also the member secretary of the High Court appointed Wetland Redressal Committee, reminded the authorities that the birds visiting the site are protected under the Wildlife Act and that the officials must ensure that the birds are not harmed. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-steps-in-to-save-protected-birds-at-panje-wetland-1029614.html
12-09-2021||West||BJP threatens to 'expose' two more Maha Vikas Aghadi ministers||Mounting pressure on the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the opposition BJP on Sunday claimed that it has dossiers of two more ministers and would 'expose' them in the days to come.  “I will expose the ministers. I have the relevant documents. I have discussed the matter with my party leadership,” senior BJP leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya said.  According to him, while one of the ministers is from Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, another is from Sharad Pawar-led NCP.  “I will expose one minister this week and another next week,” said Somaiya.  “I have numerous documents to back the claims,” he said, adding that the act of the two ministers will attract several provisions of law. Since Thackeray-led MVA came to power in November 2019, the BJP has kept on mounting pressure. This year, in February, forest minister Sanjay Rathod of Shiv Sena had to resign, while in April, home minister Anil Deshmukh of NCP had to quit office. Rathod had to resign after TikTok star Pooja Chavan (22) allegedly died by suicide by jumping off the Heaven Park building in Pune’s Wanwadi locality on the intervening night of February 7-8, 2021. Deshmukh faces investigation by the CBI and ED in the wake of charges levelled by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, who has alleged that he had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for former assistant police inspector and encounter specialist Sachin Vaze.  Thackeray’s close aide and state transport minister Anil Parab too faces some allegations and BJP has demanded his resignation.  It may be recalled that a few months ago, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil had claimed that two more MVA ministers would have to resign.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-threatens-to-expose-two-more-maha-vikas-aghadi-ministers-1029618.html
12-09-2021||West||Bhupendra Patel to take oath as Gujarat CM on Monday||Bhupendra Patel will take oath as the Chief Minister of Gujarat on Monday, state BJP president C R Paatil said. Talking to reporters on Sunday, Paatil said, "Bhupendra Patel will take oath as the chief minister...Only the chief minister will be sworn in tomorrow." He added the new cabinet will be formed after consultation with the senior leaders in a couple of days. No discussion was held in the legislature party meeting about the deputy chief minister's post, he said. Patel, who was also present there, told reporters that he was grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief J P Nadda, and Union minister Amit Shah for the trust they reposed in him. He said he was also grateful to the trust reposed in him by the Gujarat leadership, including outgoing CM Vijay Rupani and Deputy CM Nitin Patel, C R Paatil and other leaders. He said the blessing of former CM Anandiben Patel were with him all the time. "The government has worked well so that development reaches the last person. We will plan anew and discuss with the organisation to take forward the development works," he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhupendra-patel-to-take-oath-as-gujarat-cm-on-monday-1029625.html
