13-09-2021||Comment||Cast(e) this idea away||It is Census time, and the contentious question to count castes or not has once again reprised itself in political discourse. Understanding contemporary developments, especially those fraught with potential divisions, is a challenge and therefore open to interpretations. The idea of counting castes is, arguably, more self-defeating than might first be supposed by its proponents or opponents alike. The ayes advocating it as a realistic effort to restructure State power, and the nay-sayers dismissing it as a demand driven by expediency rather than justice appear in equal measure to have reflected more on assumptions than its real-world implications. Every Census in independent India — from 1951 to 2011 — has published data on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, but not on other castes. Hence the question: Is counting castes in the population a necessary condition in our quest for a progressive, equitable and democratic society? What purpose does the Census serve? The Census operations are not intended to serve as a social justice initiative, but a serialised pan-Indian project. It is a direct survey of the population, in which the enumerators go to the people to collect data on the numbers and their attributes — gender, age, occupation, etc. The data collected can be compared across space-time, and the data fields in the questionnaires centre on consistency in the classification models. The Census data thus provides a representation of the features that characterise us as a country. It generates a collective picture, if you will, with empirical facts and figures of who we are as a national community, and thus offers us the opportunity to look at ourselves and how we are doing. It is ironic but true that the idea of caste within the framework of State policy was the result of Census operations in colonial India. Even at that time, the introduction of caste in the Census raised complex problems of identification and classification, and the history of enumeration in the Census illustrates the difficulties of defining and classifying castes into one pan-India list. Second, caste as a denominational identity is unique to India and determines power privileges, material resources, and access to opportunity. The Indian State, regardless of the government and its ideological underpinnings, has been characterised by power coalitions in which personal relationships — who one is, and who one knows — form the basis for social organisation. The neo-liberal policy thrust in India, for the privatisation of enterprises, education, and health has, if anything, reinforced the importance of caste ties. This de-facto nature of the Indian State has, over time, resulted in a limited access society and the absence of impersonal economic and social rights. Caste today constitutes a major barrier to India transitioning from a traditional hierarchy-bound society to a modern democratic country. Yes, we have thus far failed to exorcise caste, but to cite our collective failure to eliminate caste inequality despite a caste-less Constitution does not constitute rational grounds for a caste census. In the everyday world, we need more anti-casteism, not less. The Constitutional State — the foundations of which are enshrined in the Constitution — envisioning India as a casteless society, must remain the national aspiration. The Constitution does not legitimise a caste or religion-based governance. It, in fact, defines the normative boundaries for the political State. The Right to Equality — Articles 15(4) and 16(4) – do not refer to castes but classes. The political State and the political parties, on the other hand, thrive on caste-clientism. The solution to this is not undertaking a caste census, but to reform the electoral laws in the country to proscribe caste or community-based nominations in elections or caste-based appeals to voters. In a democracy, certainly of the kind that has developed in India, this presents a serious challenge — the challenge to define the scope and the range of the public. In practice, where the public should end and the sphere of the private begin is a difficult question. The caste identity in private life must be a function of agency, and one is free to choose or reject caste-based practices; but that should not be a societal or State imposition in public life. We need to bring alive the conception of justice enshrined in the Constitution towards a progressive, non-sectarian practice of justice; one that centres more on a secular, distributive justice for the contemporary communities facing disadvantage and vulnerability and less on righting past or historic wrongs. We have far graver injustices to address: human trafficking, oppression of women by patriarchy, and multi-dimensional poverty — of health, education, livelihood, nutrition — that are unconscionable, regardless of castes. Besides giving a headcount of castes, the caste census does nothing more. The evidence that the Census already generates on gender, literacy, life expectancy, occupation, and household assets provide the empirical basis to strive to achieve the transformative vision of the Constitution. Though well and widely known, the principles that represent the foundations of the idea of India as enunciated in the Preamble to the Constitution need constant repetition such that we imbibe them in practice: Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. As we survey our society today, it remains one dominated by certain central human problems — questions of identity and belonging, inequality and deprivation, narrow ideologies, violence and extremism, and divisive politics – that, by virtue of our humanity, ought to nudge all of us to advance scientific humanism. Ironically, as individuals and communities, we choose instead to limit ourselves by narrow allegiances — religion, caste, ethnicity, and language. It is perhaps this strangulation in the formative years that transforms otherwise intelligent and sensitive youth to be preoccupied with narrow denominational issues rather than the universal values so essential for societies to thrive and grow as plural, tolerant and bound by solidarity. The Constitution must inspire us to transcend contemporary binaries — Mandal and Kamandal — and notions of a sectarian political State. The integrity of the Census as a secular, non-sectarian national exercise must remain an inestimable national value. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/caste-this-idea-away-1030017.html
13-09-2021||First Edit||Modi-Shah play safe in Gujarat||The replacement of Vijay Rupani with Bhupendra Patel in Gujarat is the third change of chief minister in a BJP-ruled state in the last two months, after the appointment of Pushkar Dhami and Basavaraj Bommai in Uttarakhand and Karnataka. The BJP also found a new chief minister in Himanta Biswa Sarma after the recent Assembly elections in Assam. These are states where the party is well entrenched and so the turnover sends some clear messages about the change in politics happening in the states and at the central level. The changes in these states have been made well in time for the Assembly elections to be held sooner or later, but before the next Lok Sabha elections, and the party wants the new leaders to settle down in government before the elections. But it will be noted that the new chief ministers are not leaders with any large political base and following.  The exit of Vijay Rupani was in the air for some time as his government’s poor performance in Covid management was very obvious and would have created a strong anti-incumbency sentiment. But more importantly, the party wanted to appease the politically powerful Patel community before the elections. The community has provided a strong support base for the BJP but was aggrieved that there was no one from it as chief minister, except for a brief period. There were other grievances also and the party could not have gone to the elections with the community in a restive mood. But Bhupendra Patel is almost a greenhorn, a first-time MLA with no administrative experience. This underscores the high command culture that has taken hold of the BJP. Chief ministers are nominated and appointed, as in the Congress, and no longer elected. Being nominees, they will be beholden to the central leadership.  This is in consonance with the party’s approach to elections in the recent past. Even state elections are fought with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the leader and with campaign strategies and themes decided at the central level. All state parties and governments are under the central leadership’s control, except perhaps in UP, where the personalities and circumstances are different and it is risky for the party to upset the present arrangement. The party has also tried different experiments in social engineering, with castes as counters, in different states. While it has attempted to widen its caste base with helpful policies that addressed larger groups like the intermediate castes, it has also tried to give leadership positions to persons from smaller castes. These experiments have had indifferent and diverse results. In Gujarat, it has decided to go back to the party’s base for leadership, too, leaving nothing to chance, though the leader’s surname will only be in name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/modi-shah-play-safe-in-gujarat-1030021.html
13-09-2021||In Perspective||Who benefited from the ‘forever war'?||The Taliban’s stunning takeover of Afghanistan in the aftermath of a bungled US departure has triggered a debate as to who really benefited from the ‘forever war'?  The US spent $2.26 trillion on the war in Afghanistan, or $300 million a day, over the 20 years since 2001. About $800 billion was spent on direct war-fighting costs and $88 billion for training the now-trounced Afghan army. The US government also spent $145 billion in trying to rebuild Afghanistan. The second biggest line item of $530 billion in the US budget is the estimated interest payments on the money the US government borrowed to fund the war. A Brown University study projects that the cost of interest on the US' Afghan war debt will go up to $6.5 trillion by 2050.   Within weeks of the US withdrawal, the 300,000-strong Afghanistan armed force laid down arms in the face of the Taliban’s advances. The $145 billion spent by the US to rebuild Afghanistan has also turned out to be a damp squib. 90% of the Afghan population still lives on less than $2 a day. Afghanistan's economy grew 9.4% between 2003 and 2012, mainly driven by the aid-supported services sector. But between 2015 and 2020, economic growth slowed to about 2.5% per year.  The Afghanistan war effort was effectively a privatised endeavour, with the US military relying heavily on private contractors to power the logistics of America’s ‘forever war’. The workers of military contractors outnumbered US soldiers in Afghanistan three to one. There were nearly 7,800 DoD contractors in Afghanistan, according to a Pentagon report in July. These contractors were tasked with supporting the military with everything from lodging, laundry, and food to transportation, equipment maintenance, and fuel. The Pentagon has spent $107.9 billion on contracted services in Afghanistan since 2002, a Bloomberg analysis shows.  It turned out to be a profiteering exercise till the very end. A former CIA contractor and academic, Chalmers Johnson, says, “I guarantee you, when war becomes that profitable, you’re going to see more of it.” Top US defence companies are other major beneficiaries of the war in Afghanistan.  Think about this: $10,000 invested in US defence stocks (evenly divided among America’s top five defence companies) when the ‘War on Terror’ began in September 2001 is now worth about $100,000. This is a far greater return earned than the average in the overall US stock market over the same period. $10,000 invested in an S&P 500 index fund in September 2001 would now be worth $61,613.  The top five biggest US defence companies — Boeing, Raytheon, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, and General Dynamics – are, of course, part of the S&P 500 index. It means that the top US defence stocks outperformed the overall US stock market returns by 58% during the period of the Afghanistan war. In addition to defence companies, oil companies like ExxonMobil, which shipped fuel for the US army, profited immensely from Washington’s lucrative defence contracts.  In fiscal 2020, US defence contract spending hit a record high of $447 billion — representing nearly two-thirds of overall federal contract spending. Lockheed Martin led the US defence companies by bagging contracts totalling more than $74 billion. Raytheon, General Dynamics and Boeing bagged contracts worth $27.4 billion, $22.6 billion and $21.5 billion, respectively, in 2020.   Corporate ties with the US defence companies have to rule the roost at Pentagon. According to Bloomberg, the current US Secretary of Defence, retired US Army General Lloyd Austin, may have received as much as $1.7 million when he divested his shares in Raytheon, of which he was a director in the four years between 2016 and 2020 (during the period after his retirement from the US Army and assuming his current post). He has also been a partner in an investment firm that has been buying small defence firms.  The decision by President Joe Biden to nominate Gen Austin as Secretary of Defence has drawn a new wave of questions about the corporate ties of the Pentagon boss. Gen Austin's move from the weapons business to a leadership role in the Pentagon continues a pattern begun by former President Trump. President Trump picked James Mattis, also a retired four-star general who later served on the board of General Dynamics, as his first defence secretary.  After 20 years and trillions of dollars flowing through the Pentagon’s war chest, the real winners of the 'forever war' were thousands of private military contractors, US defence companies, middlemen and go-getters that profited immensely. The Afghan people are not the winners. Osama bin Laden may have been killed, but terrorism has not been. (The writer is a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/who-benefited-from-the-forever-war-1030016.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shahapur police nab 4 for assaulting, stripping woman off after video goes viral||Shahapur police have arrested four persons after a video of woman being stripped off and assaulted went viral on social media.  The police said the arrested have been identified as Ningaraj Bhimaraya Bevinahalli, Ayyappa Sangappa Natikar, Bhimashankar Mallayya and Sharanu Mahadevappa Nayakodi. Based on a statement by the woman, Shahapur police registered a case under column 354(b), 366, 376,(d), 594,506 r/w and the SC/ST Act.  Superintedent of Police C B Vedamurthy said the accused have been produced before the court.  In a video clip that went viral, the youths are seen beating the woman by stripping her off while she pleads the accused to let her go.   The incident is learnt to have taken place about six months ago. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shahapur-police-nab-4-for-assaulting-stripping-woman-off-after-video-goes-viral-1029811.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Trouble brewing for widening of NH169 from Bikarnakatte to Sanoor||Landowners, who alleged that the process of acquiring land for the four-laning of NH169 from Bikarnakatte to Sanoor was in violation of guidelines, have succeeded in bringing a stay to the acquisition process from court. The farmers in Saloor, Tenka Edapadavu, Puthige, Padumarnadu, Badaga Mijar and Tenka Mijar, who had received notices from land acquisition officials, have got the stay order. Brijesh Shetty from Mijar, whose land was identified for acquisition, told DH that as per guidelines of Central Valuation Committee (CVC), land extent up to 12.5 cents (rural areas) or less and 20 cents (in Mangaluru city) are to be registered as per 100% conversion rate. Sale prices of these lands are being excluded while considering the acquisition of land. “These lands must therefore be included while calculating the sale price. The NHAI under the supervision of the previous Special Land Acquisition Officer (SLAO) had sent compensation value for the villages, including the sale prices for 12.5/20 cents in calculations. But the regional officer in his letter dated January 21, 2021, had instructed the project director to exclude the same which resulted in one-third reduction in compensation value, which we are opposing,” Shetty said. NHAI authorities are following CVC guidelines partially, Shetty charged. "If NHAI authorities consider sale deeds of these 12.5 cents / 20 cents as converted lands, why don’t they include them in the calculation of the sale price of converted lands?" he sought to know. In Tenka Mijar, compensation for agricultural land per cent was Rs 27,000 and Rs 2.68 lakh per cent for converted land. In Tiruvail, it was one lakh for one cent of agricultural land and Rs 6.98 lakh per cent for converted land. “The compensation amount being quoted by NHAI is meagre and landowners are expecting fair compensation,” Rashtriya Heddari Bhoomalakara Horata Samiti, NH169- Mangaluru to Sanoor, members said while submitting a representation to Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel. Landowners also charged that after the government’s 3A notification in 2016, the applications for conversion of lands adjacent to the NH-169 were not accepted citing order from government authorities. According to NHAI Project Director Shishu Mohan, “The compensation is paid as per CVC guidelines. The work on the highway is expected to begin in October.” As land acquisition officials issues notices, the number of people approaching court is likely to increase. The four-laning project The 45-km-long four-laning work was awarded to Dilip Buildcon Private Limited. The stretch will have two flyovers near Kaikamba and Moodbidri and underpasses and two bypasses near Gurpura and Moodbidri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/trouble-brewing-for-widening-of-nh169-from-bikarnakatte-to-sanoor-1029819.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Demolition of religious structures in Mysuru temporarily halted'||The district administration has temporarily stalled the demolition of religious structures at public places in the district. Around 96 religious structures were identified for demolition as per the list prepared in 2009. The Corporation has now decided to conduct a resurvey on this. Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy said that the corporation was acting on the orders of the Supreme Court. It had been decided to conduct a resurvey and analyse whether they could be regularised or relocated as per the order. The demolition of religious structures outraged some outfits with several leaders and Hindu outfits staging protests. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/demolition-of-religious-structures-in-mysuru-temporarily-halted-1029990.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tahasildar dances on Kannada hit songs during Ganesha idol immersion||Tahasildar B N Girish surprised everyone at the Nirashrithara Kendra run by Social Welfare Department at Turchaghatta village in Davangere taluk by dancing to film songs during the immersion ceremony of Lord Ganesha idol installed there. The officer danced to Kannada film numbers 'Kuladalli Keelyavudo Huchchappa' from the film Satya Harishchandra and 'Huttidare Kannada Naadalli Huttabeku' from the film Aakasmika starring Dr Rajkumar and enthralled inmates of the centre and the officials. The Centre in-charge Superintendent Nalini had organised various games including musical chair, passing the ball and cultural programmes for inmates on the occasion. The Tahasildar, who has drawn attention of people through his unique style of functioning, said cultural programmes had been organised to instill sense of confidence in the inmates. They actively participated in the events and had a gala time, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tahasildar-dances-on-kannada-hit-songs-during-ganesha-idol-immersion-1030010.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four arrested for assaulting, raping woman in Yadgir a year after incident||A video clip of a woman, a mother of three, being allegedly stripped and assaulted went viral on Monday.  Superintendent of Police C B Vedamurthy told DH that the survivor has said that she was been gang-raped by four people and the incident took place about a year ago.    Shahapur police have arrested the four suspects after the video clip went viral and they have been identified as Ningaraj Bhimaraya Bevinahalli, an autorickshaw driver;  Ayyappa Sangappa Natikar,a worker with a fuel station; Bhimashankar Mallayya, a pan shop owner and Sharanu Mahadevappa Nayakodi, a worker with an egg rice cart. All are the residents of Shahapur.  The SP said the survivor has stated that the incident took place a year ago and suspects, who took her mobile phone, are giving a contradictory statement that it has occurred one-and-a-half years ago. Hence, the police are investigating on the basis of scientific evidence and call details, he said.  The woman, a native of a village in Shahapur taluk, stated that she was waiting for a bus at the Shahapur bus stand. The suspects, who were keeping a watch on her activities, took her in a car and sexually abused her near Rastapur. They stripped and assaulted her in the mobile torchlight and vehicle headlight, Vedamurthy said quoting the survivor. “We have formed three police teams to investigate the incident and 50% of investigation has been completed. The survivor is being interrogated. She will be sent to a state home for women in Kalaburagi. She was living alone in her village while her husband and three children are staying in Pune,” he said.  A case has been registered under columns 354(b), 366, 394, 376(d), 504, 506 r/w of IPC and the SC/ST Act.  In the video clip, the suspects are seen beating the woman up with a sugarcane stick and the woman is seen begging them to let her off. DC meets survivor Deputy Commissioner Dr Ragapriya R met th survivor and consoled her. She gave a cheque for Rs 25,000 on behalf of the women and child development department and Rs 50,000 of the social welfare department. The DC said she would be trained in self-employment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-arrested-for-assaulting-raping-woman-in-yadgir-a-year-after-incident-1030025.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi Airport gets security nod to start cargo service||The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) has given a green signal for starting the cargo service at Hubballi Airport, in association with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and AAI Cargo Logistic and Allied Services Company Limited. In a press release, Hubballi Airport director Pramod Kumar Thakre stated that the air cargo terminal has now got the final security nod and the company would begin other procedures and recruitment of staff soon. The cargo terminal, developed at a cost of Rs 60.6 lakh, has 1,500 MT annual storage capacity and there is a proposal to develop cold storage facility also. Indigo and Star Air have already shown interest to operate from the cargo terminal, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-airport-gets-security-nod-to-start-cargo-service-1030028.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gajapayana, first leg of Dasara, held in Mysuru||Gajapayana, the first leg of Mysuru Dasara, also dubbed as ‘Mini Dasara’, indicating at Jamboo Savari, was held at Veeranahosahalli, under Nagarahole Reserve Forest, Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district, from 9.30 am to 10.15 am, during the auspicious Tula lagna, on Monday. Elephants Abhimanyu, 56, and Gopalswamy, 38, from Mathigodu camp; Ashwathama, 34, from Doddaharave camp; Dhanajaya, 43, and Kaveri, 44, from Dubare camp; and Chaitra, 48, and Lakshmi, 20, from Rampura camp; were offered puja by dignitaries under the guidance of priest S V Prahallada Rao and his team. Golden howdah Abhimanyu is slated to carry the famed golden howdah, in which an idol of Goddess Sri Chamundeshwari, described as Nada Devathe, will be taken out in a procession, in the famous Jamboo Savari, restricted to Mysuru Palace premises, in the wake of the Covid crisis, for the second consecutive year. MP Prathap Simha, MLA H P Manjunath, Mayor Sunanda Palanetra, Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam, Superintendent of Police R Chetan, Zilla Panchayat CEO A M Yogeesh and Deputy Conservators of Forest V Karikalan and Kamal Karikalan were present. They invited a total of 24 caretakers of the elephants to come to Mysuru, to participate in Dasara, to make it a success. Compared to last year, the presence of people, including families of government officials, was more. The Gajapayana was held under cool climatic conditions. It had rained just before the start of the Gajapayana. Aranya Bhavan stay Vikrama, 58, reached Mysuru directly from Dubare camp in Kodagu district. All elephants reached Aranya Bhavan, the office complex in Mysuru, by evening, along with their caretakers, including mahouts and kaavadis. They will be welcomed at Mysuru Palace on September 16. Arrangements have been made on the premises of the Mysuru Palace, to house the elephants and their caretakers. They will shortly start rehearsals for the Jamboo Savari. They will be fed with a special diet to make them fit for the procession. It has to be noted that the celebrations of Dasara, scheduled to be held from October 7 to 15, have been scaled down due to the Covid crisis. Covid effect Last year, only five elephants took part in Dasara and its grand finale, the Jamboo Savari, due to the same Covid crisis. In normal years, the families of the elephant caretakers used to accompany them. However, since last year only caretakers are accompanying the elephants. Gajapayana was in practice during the time of the erstwhile Wadiyar kings. The Wadiyar kings used to visit the forests and extend invitations to the caretakers of the elephants to participate in Dasara. The Wadiyars kings used to offer puja at Anjaneya temple before Gajapayana, said a priest of the temple. But, it was discontinued later. However, the event resumed in 1998 at Nagapura tribal rehabilitation centre, near Veeranahosahalli, with the efforts of the then district-in-charge minister A H Vishwanath. In 2018, the event returned to its old venue, Veeranahosahalli. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gajapayana-first-leg-of-dasara-held-in-mysuru-1030037.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pall of gloom descends on Congress offices after Oscar Fernandes' demise||A pall of gloom descended on the Udupi district Congress office in Udupi and Mangaluru following the death of their charismatic leader Oscar Fernandes.  His close aide M A Gafoor and family members remained inconsolable throughout the day. They could not come to terms with the fact that their beloved leader, whose political career spanned for more than five decades, was no more. The congress office in Brahmagiri wore a deserted look with all leaders rushing to Mangaluru in order to catch a glimpse of their favourite leader. "Regardless of political differences, the soft-spoken Oscar was like by all. During his political career he had earned more friends than enemies and was rightly dubbed as "person without hatred," Congress leaders in Udupi declared. Ashta mutt seers, observing Chaturmasya, declared that Oscar's death is a huge loss to the political fraternity and temple town.  Oscar, according to Udyavar Nagesh, a confidante of the late leader said, "He was the epitome of simplicity and words are insufficient to express the leader's good deeds." Molahalli Jayasheela Shetty (who had worked as Managing Director of Brahmavara Sugar Factory when Oscar was serving as President) recollected that a record 1.43 lakh tonnes of sugarcane were crushed. He had struggled to get the works done at the factory, Shetty recollected. MLA U T Khader highlighting the contributions of Oscar Fernandes said, "It was Oscar Fernandes as Union Minister for Road Transport and Highway who gave the nod for concreting the Shiradi Ghat stretch which was riddled with potholes. As an MP, he had played a pivotal role in rolling out the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, considered as the flagship programme of the UPA government." Following opposition for the acquisition of land for the Konkan Railway project, Oscar as MP had visited villages and had convinced landowners to support the ambitious railway project. Former Chief Minister of Karnataka M Veerappa Moily, condoling the death of Oscar, described Oscar as a great builder of the party, a great motivator and committed to party ideals. "Many leaders of today were nurtured by him," he stressed. Nobel Peace Laureate Kailash Satyarthi in his condolence declared Oscar Fernandes as a good friend who supported the cause against child labour. "I remember him as a hardworking minister who never hesitated to meet people in the middle of the night in his office. "Prayers for the departed soul."  Oscar's Jolly club Oscar Fernandes since his college going-days was involved in social activities. He, along with like-minded friends, had launched ‘Jolly Club’. When post-matric results declined to below 18% in 1958, many students from Udupi had failed to clear their examinations. Oscar through the club motivated these students to study. As a result, the overall pass results improved within three years, the friends recollected. When Ajjarakadu area in Udupi faced acute shortage of water in 1960s, he supplied water to people continuously for over three years. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pall-of-gloom-descends-on-congress-offices-after-oscar-fernandes-demise-1030054.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||UPA did nothing about fuel prices when in power: Bommai slams Cong protest||Faced with bullock cart protests by Congress on rising fuel prices, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the grand old party did nothing on this issue when the UPA was in power.  “Fuel prices went up 100 per cent when the UPA was in power. They didn’t do anything about it then. If they had, then their protest now would have meant something,” Bommai told reporters.  “I’m sure they will raise in the Assembly and I’ll answer there,” he added.  Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, DK Shivakumar, G Parameshwara, MB Patil, Eshwar Khandre and other legislators rode a bullock cart to Vidhana Soudha, the venue of the 10-day legislature session starting Monday, which is the first for the Bommai administration.  “Life has become difficult with prices of essential items going up. The Centre is simply lying and cheating people,” Siddaramaiah said.  “They blame international prices for the fuel price rise. The price of a crude oil barrel is down to $69 from $120. Still, a litre of petrol is ₹106 and diesel will soon touch ₹100,” he said.  Siddaramaiah also contended the argument on debt position. “They say the previous government had borrowed huge loans. The loans amounted to just ₹1.30 lakh crore, whereas the Centre has earned a revenue of ₹24 lakh crore in excise duty,” he said.   The bullock cart rally choked traffic in the Vidhana Soudha vicinity. “Bullock carts aren’t allowed inside the city. This is just a drama the Congress is staging. They can raise the issue in the Assembly instead of inconveniencing citizens,” Cooperation Minister ST Somashekar, who got stuck in the traffic jam, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/upa-did-nothing-about-fuel-prices-when-in-power-bommai-slams-cong-protest-1029793.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will function as ordinary BJP MLA and ensure Siddaramaiah continues in Opposition after 2023 polls: Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who attend the legislative assembly session for the first time after demitting office, on Monday said he will function as an ordinary BJP MLA and would make all efforts to ensure Congress leader Siddaramaiah continues to remain in Opposition after the 2023 assembly polls in the state. The BJP strongman said his successor Basavaraj Bommai was doing a "good job" as the Chief Minister and that he would extend all kinds of support and cooperation to him. "I don't have any such thing, with utmost happiness I will function as an ordinary BJP MLA, there is nothing that I want to function only as Chief Minister. As an MLA sitting in the back benches, I will appreciate the good work of the government and do everything to ensure that the opposition parties continue to remain in opposition in the days to come," Yediyurappa said in response to a question on attending the session as an MLA. Speaking to reporters here, he said he will continue work for the BJP along with other party leaders by travelling across the state after the assembly session. "We will do everything to ensure that Siddaramaiah (now LoP) sits in the opposition, in case he wins the next election...bringing BJP back to power is my resolve and I will travel across the state along with other leaders for it," he added. Interestingly, Yediyurappa who led the ruling side in the assembly till the previous session in March, occupied one of the back seats of the treasury benches on Monday, the first day of the 10-day long monsoon session of the state legislature. "...as someone who was the Chief Minister I had requested the Speaker to allot me a seat next to the Chief Whip, he has agreed to it. I will participate in the proceedings of the assembly from there," he said in response to a question. Yediyurappa is MLA from the Shikaripura Assembly constituency in the Shivamogga district. This is the first session of the Karnataka legislature, after the change of guard in the state. The 78-year old BJP veteran had stepped down as the Chief Minister on July 26, as his government completed two years in office, paving the way for Basavaraj Bommai to take charge and form a new cabinet subsequently. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-function-as-ordinary-bjp-mla-and-ensure-siddaramaiah-continues-in-opposition-after-2023-polls-yediyurappa-1029899.html
13-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ex-CM B S Yediyurappa now back-bencher in Assembly||Former chief ministers B S Yediyurappa and Jagadish Shettar occupied the last row of the treasury benches when the Legislative Assembly session started Monday.  Yediyurappa, who is attending his first session after resigning as CM, told reporters that he had requested the seat in the last row. "I requested the Speaker to allot me a seat next to the Chief Whip. He agreed to it. I will sit there and participate in the proceedings," Yediyurappa told reporters. Shettar, who was also a minister in the previous Yediyurappa Cabinet, was seen sitting to Yediyurappa's right during the first day of the session. "With utmost happiness, I will function as an ordinary BJP MLA," Yediyurappa said. "It's not that I want to work only as the CM. As a legislator sitting in the back benches, I will appreciate the government's good work," he said, adding that he would extend all cooperation to the Bommai administration. His proposed state tour will be taken up after the monsoon session concludes, he said, adding that BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel and other ministers would participate.  "We will do everything to ensure that (Leader of the Opposition) Siddaramaiah remains in the opposition, if he wins the next election, that is," he said, adding that his resolve was to bring the BJP back to power.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ex-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-now-back-bencher-in-assembly-1029948.html
13-09-2021||National||Over 95% registered candidates appeared for NEET at over 3,800 centres across India||Over 95 per cent registered candidates appeared for the medical entrance exam NEET at over 3,800 centres across the country on Sunday, according to officials. A record 16.14 lakh candidates had registered for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) this year. Last year, over 85 per cent registered candidates had appeared for the exam amid the Covid pandemic. "Over 95 per cent candidates appeared in the exam conducted today following all Covid protocols," a senior official said. The 13 languages in which the test was conducted this year are Hindi, Punjabi, Assamese, Bengali, Odia, Gujarati, Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Tamil, Urdu and English. Among the languages, Punjabi and Malyalam were the new additions. In a first, the exam was also held at a centre each in Dubai and Kuwait. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate), which was earlier scheduled on August 1, was postponed to September 12. The number of cities where examination is conducted were increased from 155 to 202. The number of examination centres was also be increased from 3,862 used in the 2020. Last year, it was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 13.66 lakh candidates had appeared in the exam of whom 7,71,500 qualified. The uniform entrance examination is for admission to MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BHMS and other undergraduate medical courses in approved medical, dental, AYUSH and other institutions. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-95-registered-candidates-appeared-for-neet-at-over-3800-centres-across-india-1029738.html
13-09-2021||National||India logs 27,254 new infections; active Covid cases dip by 10,652 in last 24 hours||India reported 27,254 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, while the active cases declined by 10,652, according to data by Union Health Ministry updated on Monday. Of these, Kerala accounted for 20,240 new cases and 67 deaths. The infection tally in the country rose to 3,32,64,175, while the count of active cases declined to 3,74,269, according to the data. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,42,874, with 219 daily fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The count of daily new cases has remained below 50,000 for 78 consecutive days now, according to the ministry.  The tally of active cases has declined to 3,74,269, which comprises 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.54 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 10,652 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,08,247 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Sunday, taking the total of such examinations to 54,30,14,076. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.26 per cent. This has been below three per cent for the last 14 days, and below five per cent for 97 consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.11 per cent. The figure has been below three per cent for the last 80 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,24,47,032, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 74.38 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 219 new fatalities include 67 from Kerala and 46 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,42,874 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,142 from Maharashtra, 37,504 From Karnataka, 35,168 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,883 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,551 from Kerala and 18,577 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-27254-new-infections-active-covid-cases-dip-by-10652-in-last-24-hours-1029774.html
13-09-2021||National||Tamil Nadu inoculates hesitant Nilgiris' tribal groups, achieves 100% first dose vaccination||In a remarkable feat, Tamil Nadu successfully administered the first dose of vaccines against Covid-19 to tribal groups in Nilgiris district, pushing India's vaccination efforts to cover communities across the country that are vulnerable to the virus.  The Tamil Nadu government administered the first dose of the vaccine to all those eligible in the community of over 27,000 and has started on the second dose. The district has a population of 7.2 lakh, of which 27,032 are tribals from six tribes that are listed in India's particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG).  These include Irulas, Kotas, Paniyas, Kattunayakans, Kurumbas and Todas. According to the report, 97 per cent of all 5.9 lakh eligible people in the district have taken their first dose and 24 per cent have received their second shot. Nilgiris, known for its tea plantations, was hit badly during the second Covid wave, affecting both consumers and producers. The first Covid wave didn’t see too many cases in the district, however, there was a significant rise in the second wave. This is why the local administration sprung to action in terms of vaccinations to keep away a possible third wave since tea plantations are covered under essential services. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-inoculates-hesitant-nilgiris-tribal-groups-achieves-100-first-dose-vaccination-1029778.html
13-09-2021||National||Covid-19: Goa makes 5-day quarantine mandatory for travellers from Kerala||The Goa government has made five-day quarantine compulsory for people, specially students and those coming for work purposes from Kerala, in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the southern state, officials said. In a notification issued on Sunday, the Goa administration also extended the ongoing statewide curfew till September 20, continuing ban on several activities, including casinos, in the coastal state. The 24-hour curfew was first imposed on May 9 this year and since then it has been extended regularly. The Goa government has opened majority of activities in the tourist state, but activities like casinos are yet to be reopened. The notification also mentioned that "all students and employees coming from Kerala" shall undergo institutional quarantine for five days. “The arrangements for quarantining students will be made by the administrators or principals of the educational institutions,” the notification said. “For the employees, it shall be done by respective offices, companies or firms,” it adds. The notification further said that after the end of five days, those who were quarantined shall undergo RT-PCR test. People, other than students and employees, arriving from Kerala should produce the RT-PCR negative test report and remain in home quarantine for five days, the notification said. "The constitutional functionaries, health care professionals and their spouses, children below two years of age, those arriving to attend death of a family member or medical emergency and passengers in transit from and to Kerala via any mode of transport are exempted from being quarantined," the notification added. Kerala on Sunday reported 20,240 fresh coronavirus cases and 67 deaths, which pushed the total infections in the state to 43,75,431 and the fatalities to 22,551, the state government said. Goa's Covid-19 tally on Sunday increased by 38 to reach 1,74,837, while one death took the toll to 3,217, an official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-goa-makes-5-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-travellers-from-kerala-1029779.html
13-09-2021||National||4.2 magnitude earthquake hits Kargil, Ladakh||An earthquake of magnitude 4.2 hit Kargil, Ladakh at 9.16 am today, the National Center for Seismology informed. More to follow... Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/42-magnitude-earthquake-hits-kargil-ladakh-1029781.html
13-09-2021||National||SC collegium approves 3 names as permanent judges of Gauhati HC||The Supreme Court collegium has approved a proposal for appointment of three additional judges as permanent judges in the Gauhati High Court. Headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, the collegium approved the proposals at a meeting held on September 9 which were uploaded on the apex court website on Monday. The names which have been approved are justices Soumitra Saikia, Parthivjyoti Saikia and S Hukato Swu. Besides Ramana, justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar are part of the three-member collegium which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-approves-3-names-as-permanent-judges-of-gauhati-hc-1029795.html
13-09-2021||National||Fire breaks out at BigBasket's warehouse in Pune; no casualty||A fire broke out at a warehouse of the online grocery platform BigBasket in Maharashtra's Pune district, gutting the property, but there was no report of any casualty, fire brigade officials said on Monday. The blaze erupted in the godown located in Bawdhan area on Pune city's outskirts at around 11:30 pm on Sunday, they said, adding that 12 fire brigade vehicles were rushed to the spot. "Some part of the warehouse's shed made of tin made it difficult for the fire brigade teams to douse the flames. We had to remove the fallen tin sheets with the help of JCB machines," a fire brigade official said. The flames were doused after about two-and-a-half hours, he said. "Items kept in cold storage, other groceries and some two and four-wheelers were damaged in the fire," the official said, adding that the exact cause of the blaze was not yet known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-bigbaskets-warehouse-in-pune-no-casualty-1029796.html
13-09-2021||National||Rain batters Odisha as Bhubaneswar, Puri receive record rainfall||Odisha capital Bhubaneswar received 195 mm rainfall in 24 hours, breaking a 63-year-old record, as rain clobbered large parts of the state and prompted authorities to issue a flood alert, officials said on Monday. Two people were learnt to have died in an incident of wall collapse in Kendrapara district but there was no official confirmation. The pilgrim town of Puri also broke the 87-year-old record with 341 mm of rain in a single day. The coastal town had received 210.8 mm rain on September 2, 1934, offficials said. Vehicles were seen floating on water near ISKCON temple in Nayapalli area of the state capital where gushing water swamped homes and markets. An ambulance which had got stuck on way to a hospital was seen being pushed to a dry patch of road by locals. Some houses in Dumuduma locality built on farmland have developed cracks, locals said. Identical scenes were witnessed in Puri, Cuttack and Paradip. Officials said municipal authorities have deployed over 100 pumps in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack to drain out the water. Heavy rain, triggered by a deep depression, has been battering Odisha over the last few days. Waterlogging was reported from several areas of Bhubaneswar as the state capital recorded 195 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Monday. On September 9, 1958, the city had received 163 mm rainfall, they said. The depression over the northwest Bay of Bengal intensified into a deep depression and crossed the coast near Chandbali in Bhadrak district on Monday morning, following which the weather office issued alerts for 13 districts. The system is very likely to move west-northwestwards across north Odisha, north Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh over the next 48 hours, the weather office said. It issued a 'Red' warning, predicting heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy rains in Sambalpur, Deogarh, Angul, Sonepur and Bargarh. In the last 24 hours, Puri received 341 mm rainfall, followed by Paradip (219 mm), Gopalpur (64 mm), Chandbali (46 mm) and Balasore (24 mm), the weather office said. The Central Water Commission (CWC) issued an alert for several districts as major rivers and their tributaries swelled due to the incessant rain. "Water levels of the Brahmani river and its tributaries are expected to rise in districts such as Angul, Deogarh, Sundargarh, Kendrapara, Dhenkanal and Jajpur. Baitarani is expected to rise in districts of Keonjhar and Bhadrak," the CWC said. The Mahanadi and its tributaries are also likely to maintain an upward trend in Cuttack, Khordha, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Jharsuguda and Bolangir, it said. A flood situation is expected in Odisha since the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy rains, the CWC alert said. The Jalka river flowing above the danger mark in Balasore, it said. The Office of the Special Relief Commissioner in Bhubaneswar received reports of two people dying due to wall collapse following heavy rain in Kendrapara district. "However, the reports are yet to be officially verified," an officer said. The weather office has asked all ports to hoist cautionary signal -- III as the sea is rough||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rain-batters-odisha-as-bhubaneswar-puri-receive-record-rainfall-1029806.html
13-09-2021||National||Despite rape case, Mumbai 'safest city' for women: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said the brutal rape and murder of a woman here has shocked everyone, but Mumbai is the "safest city" in the world for women and there should be no doubt about it in anyone's mind. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the recent incidents of crime against women in Maharashtra were a "blot" on the state's culture and the feeling of anger among people was justified. A 34-year-old woman was raped and brutalised with a rod by a man inside a stationary tempo in suburban Sakinaka in the wee hours of Friday. She died at a hospital during treatment in the early hours of Saturday, police earlier said. The crime bore similarity to the 2012 'Nirbhaya' gang-rape case of Delhi. The 45-year-old suspect, arrested within a few hours of the incident, was later charged with murder. The Marathi publication said, "The rape and murder of the woman in Sakinaka has shocked one and all. But, Mumbai is the safest city in the world for women and there should be no doubt about it in anyone's mind." It said incidents like the rape and murder of a woman in Sakinaka area here were a result of a "horrible pervertedness", which can be seen in any part of the world, and the comparison of the Mumbai incident with the Hathras case (in Uttar Pradesh where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped and murdered last year) was completely wrong. The editorial claimed that the Hathras case culprits had the "support of the state's rulers" and there was a delay in their arrest. The victim's body was burnt in a hurry by the government to destroy evidence, it further claimed. "The Yogi government said there was no rape in Hathras, which proved to be wrong," the Marathi daily said, adding that the urgency with which a team of the National Commission for Women team reached Sakinaka was not shown in the Hathras case. It claimed that workers of a particular political party took to streets to "protect" the accused in the Kathua rape case (of a minor girl in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018), whereas in the Sakinaka incident, police arrested the accused in 10 minutes. The only solution to such cases is to curb the perverted mindset, the Sena opined. "The state government has decided to take care of the education and livelihood of the two daughters of the Sakinaka victim. Isn't this a sign of being sensitive?" it asked. It also justified Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale's comment that police cannot be present at all the scenes of crime. Police in all other states and cities will agree with this, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. It further said the Sakinaka rape victim and the accused were known to each other, and added that the woman succumbed to her injuries despite best efforts of doctors and police. "Now, let's leave the case to the judiciary. The culprit will definitely be hanged to death as no one has come out in support of the accused, unlike the Hathras and Kathua (cases). One has to know what to politicise," said the Sena, which shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. It said shedding tears over the Sakinaka incident showed "sensitivity of the mind", but when crocodile tears are shed, it creates fear and the seriousness of an incident is destroyed. "Let the police do their job. But, what can one do if someone wants to hand over the Sakinaka (case) file to the ED (Enforcement Directorate)," the editorial said sarcastically, alluding to multiple cases pertaining to state leaders being probed by central agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-rape-case-mumbai-safest-city-for-women-sena-1029818.html
13-09-2021||National||43,600 houses demolished, 2.57 lakh people forcibly evicted during Covid-19: Report||At least 43,600 houses were demolished and 2.57 lakh people were forcibly evicted by public authorities across the country between March 2020 and July 2021 during the Covid-19 pandemic, a report has claimed. The report titled 'Forced Evictions in 2020: A Grave Human Rights Crisis During the Pandemic', which covers the whole of 2020 and till July this year, suggests that authorities evicted at least 505 people per day or 21 people every hour across urban and rural India during the pandemic. "In the last four years — from 2017 to 2020 — state agencies forcibly evicted over 7,41,300 people in rural and urban India. On average, between 2017 and 2020, 1,85,300 people were evicted annually in India," it said. There were at least 245 incidents of forced evictions across India during the pandemic from March 2020 to July 2021. Of these incidents, the report by the NGO 'Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN)', 119 have occurred in 2021 between January 1 to July 31 this year while 126 took place between March and December last year. It said home demolitions by state authorities even continued during the pandemic-induced lockdowns in 2020 and 2021. Even as people were ordered to stay at home, it said, "authorities resorted to unlawful demolitions, probably taking advantage of the curfew-like conditions when the movement of people and access to remedy, including to courts, was limited." An analysis by HLRN showed that authorities demolished at least 24,445 homes during the first seven months of this year alone, affecting over 1,69,176 people. Of these, about 13,750 people were evicted during the peak of the second wave and resultant lockdowns in April and May 2021. Almost all incidents of eviction this year have rendered low-income communities homeless at the peak of the pandemic. "The widespread devastation caused by these demolitions during this public health emergency has resulted in the blatant violation of human rights of affected persons, including their right to life guaranteed by the Constitution of India," the report said.  These included the demolition of 200 houses in Mysuru by the Karnataka Slum Development Board for expansion of railway tracks in April this year. In 2020 January, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) razed 500 houses in Devarabeesanahalli and 200 houses in Bellandur and Kariyammana Agrahara to remove 'encroachments', the report said. "Affected residents, who were migrant workers, were wrongfully labelled 'illegal Bangladeshis' and this was used as a justification for demolishing their homes. Providing relief to the families, the High Court of Karnataka stayed further eviction by BBMP and asked the state government to provide rehabilitation to the affected families," it said. In 2020, there were demolitions of 36,812 houses, resulting in the forced eviction of a minimum of 1,73,333 people across the country. According to the report, 87% did not receive any rehabilitation from the government while resettlement or partial resettlement or some compensation was provided in only 13% of the documented cases of eviction in 2020 for which information is available. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43600-houses-demolished-257-lakh-people-forcibly-evicted-during-covid-19-report-1029822.html
13-09-2021||National||Gujarat CM-designate Bhupendra Patel meets Vijay Rupani ahead of swearing-in ceremony||Gujarat's Chief Minister-designate Bhupendra Patel on Monday called on Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the top post last week, 15 months ahead of the state Assembly polls. Patel, who is scheduled to take oath as the next CM later in the day, met Rupani at the latter's official residence in Gandhinagar in the morning and held discussions on various issues, a release issued by the state government said. After Rupani resigned on Saturday, Patel, who represents the Ghatlodia Assembly seat in Ahmedabad, was unanimously elected as the BJP legislative party leader on Sunday. Before meeting Rupani, Bhupendra Patel met Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel at the latter's residence in Ahmedabad. In the wake of incessant rains causing a flood-like situation in some parts of Jamnagar, Bhupendra Patel instructed the district authorities to make necessary arrangements to airlift about 35 people stranded in three villages, which have been inundated and cut off from other parts of the district, another government release said. According to Jamnagar district's disaster management wing, the Indian Air Force has been requested to airlift people stranded in some of the villages of Kalavad and Jamnagar talukas. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-cm-designate-bhupendra-patel-meets-vijay-rupani-ahead-of-swearing-in-ceremony-1029824.html
13-09-2021||National||R K Singh meets US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry in Delhi||Union Power and New & Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh on Monday met with the United States Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry and discussed various issues related to climate change and energy transition. India and the US on Monday launched the Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue (CAFMD) under the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership. Kerry called up Singh and had a discussion with him on various issues related to climate change and energy transition. Later the Kerry-led delegation deliberated on those issues with Singh and his top brass. The CAFMD is one of the two main tracks of the US-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that President Biden and Prime Minister Modi had announced at the Leaders Summit on Climate in April 2021.   Besides union ministers and other top brass, Kerry, during his visit, will also meet private sector leaders to discuss efforts to raise global climate ambition and speed up India's clean energy transition. As part of America’s efforts to engage with international counterparts on actions to address the climate crisis, the State Department had earlier said that Kerry will meet with government of India counterparts and private sector leaders to discuss efforts to raise global climate ambition and speed up India's clean energy transition. Kerry will bolster the United States' bilateral and multilateral climate efforts ahead of the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which will be held from October 31 to November 12, 2021, in Glasgow, United Kingdom, the States Department had said. Earlier, last month, in a telephonic conversation with Kerry, Singh had told him that India planned to emerge as a global leader in green hydrogen and the country is proposing to mandate using green hydrogen in fertiliser and in refining. Later, the minister had also said that a proposal would soon be placed before Cabinet for approval in this regard. Singh had also informed Kerry that India will invite bids for green hydrogen in the next three to four months to encourage viable usage of hydrogen as a fuel, according to a power ministry statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-k-singh-meets-us-special-presidential-envoy-for-climate-john-kerry-in-delhi-1029826.html
13-09-2021||National||Amitabh Bachchan, Sadhguru to participate in Global Citizen fest||International advocacy organisation Global Citizen, in partnership with Wizcraft, on Monday announced that Mumbai, India will be represented in the Global Citizen Live broadcast - a combination of festivals, events, and performances airing from locations on six continents on September 25. The event, billed as a day of "global unity", will call on world leaders, philanthropists and corporations to "defend the planet and defeat poverty, to take action on climate change, famine, and vaccine equity," a statement from the organisers read. Renowned personalities participating from Mumbai include megastar Amitabh Bachchan, spiritual leader Sadhguru, actors Anil Kapoor, Farhan Akhtar, Hrithik Roshan, Ayushmann Khurrana, Arjun Kapoor, Ananya Panday, Bhumi Pednekar, Janhvi Kapoor, Dia Mirza, Kiara Advani, Riteish Deshmukh, Sara Ali Khan, Sonakshi Sinha, and musicians Badshah, Amit Trivedi, Ajay- Atul and Tanishk Bagchi. The event will be held at the Gateway of India. Aaditya Thackeray, Minister of Tourism and Environment, Maharashtra said the Global Citizen Festival will boost awareness about climate change. "When it comes to climate change, we are running out of time to reverse the damage caused. I am confident that the Global Citizen Festival will steer a mass movement on the world stage to fight climate change now," Thackeray said in a statement. Global Citizen and Wizcraft first joined hands in 2016 for the Global Citizen Festival India, which took place in Mumbai. Recently, the organisations also came together for Vax Live: The Concert to Reunite the World, which urged global citizens to provide support to people when the Covid-19 cases were on the rise in India in April. "Five years ago, we held our first Global Citizen festival in Mumbai. We were amazed at the reaction and warm reception we received from the hundreds of thousands of global citizens, the city of Mumbai and the Maharashtra state. Global Citizens across India are an essential part of our movement, and we are proud to return to Mumbai for Global Citizen Live," Liza Henshaw, COO, Global Citizen said. Andre Timmins, Co-Founder Wizcraft said they are thrilled and honoured to work with the Global Citizen team again. "The historic moment that we created together in November 2016 with Global Citizen Festival India moved our country to a new level of advocacy and an understanding of how one voice, one action can make a difference. "We are so pleased to have the opportunity to be working with the team again to bring Mumbai and India to the world with this momentous special edition in September. There is an exciting show being planned at our beautiful and iconic Gateway of India, for Global Citizens everywhere," Timmins further said. Also joining hands to support the initiative for the third successive time is Venkateshwara Hatcheries' Venkys, as lead partners for the Global Citizen Live Campaign in India. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchan-sadhguru-to-participate-in-global-citizen-fest-1029834.html
13-09-2021||National||Stubble burning: Audit by central agency shows Pusa bio-decomposer highly effective, says Kejriwal||An audit by a central agency has found the use of Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution for stubble management, highly effective, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, and urged the Centre to ask neighbouring states to distribute it for free among farmers. The Delhi government had experimented with the solution, prepared by scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute here last year and, had also got a survey done by the Development Department to ascertain its effectiveness. Farmers in 39 villages had used the bio-decomposer on 1,935 acres of land to convert stubble into manure, he said. "The results were encouraging. We approached the Centre's Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) with the survey report so it can be implemented in other states as well. The commission asked us to get an audit conducted by a third party," Kejriwal said at an online press conference. The city government engaged WAPCOS, a consultancy firm of the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, to conduct the audit. The agency included 79 farmers of 15 villages in four districts in the survey. "The central agency has clearly stated in its report that the farmers in Delhi are happy with the use of the bio-decomposer. The results are very encouraging," Kejriwal said. Ninety per cent of the farmers claimed that the solution turned stubble into manure in 15-20 days. Also, the content of carbon in the soil increased by 40 per cent, nitrogen 24 per cent, bacteria seven times and fungi three times. Sprouting of wheat also increased by 17-20 per cent due to improved soil fertility, the chief minister said. "Around 50 percent of the farmers acknowledged that the use of the bio-decomposer reduced the consumption of Diammonium Phosphate, a fertilizer, from 46 kg per acre to around 40 kg per acre and the wheat production increased by 8 percent," he said.  The chief minister said stubble burning in neighbouring states in October is a major factor behind the high level of air pollution in Delhi, but "farmers are not at fault". "Governments are at fault because they had to offer a solution and they could not provide one," Kejriwal said, adding Delhi has the answer to the problem. "We appeal to the Centre to ask the states to distribute the bio-decomposer free of cost among farmers to stop them from burning stubble," he said. Kejriwal said he would call on the Union environment minister with the audit report and request his personal intervention in the matter. Former Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar had last year said Pusa bio-decomposer will be tried out in some areas of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and if the technique is found successful, it will be expanded to more areas. Farmers say there is a small window of 10-15 days between paddy harvesting and sowing of wheat and they burn stubble as it is a cheap and time-saving method to manage the straw and prepare their field for the next crop. Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution had risen to 40 per cent on November 1. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stubble-burning-audit-by-central-agency-shows-pusa-bio-decomposer-highly-effective-says-kejriwal-1029843.html
13-09-2021||National||Post-poll violence: SC to hear WB plea against CBI probe on September 20||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear on September 20 the West Bengal government's appeal challenging the Calcutta High Court order directing court-monitored CBI probe into the heinous cases of rape and murder during the post-poll violence in the state after accepting the an NHRC panel's recommendations. A bench comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose deferred the matter to go through a chart submitted by the state government. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the state government, pointed to the members of the committee that has been formed to investigate the incidents and said, "Can you imagine these people have been appointed to collect the data? Is this a BJP investigating committee my Lords?" He further said that for cases like rape and murder there is the CBI and for other events, there is a Special Investigative Team (SIT). The apex court then observed, "If somebody had a political past and if he lands up in an official position by that very fact will we treat him to be biased?" Sibal submitted that the members are still posting posts related to BJP and how can chairman of Human Rights Committee appoint such members? He sought some interim order in the meantime. The apex court then said that it would hear the case on September 20. "Nothing will happen. We'll have it on Monday," the bench said. The state government in its special leave petition alleged that it did not expect fair and just investigation by the central agency which is busy foisting cases against the functionaries of ruling Trinamool Congress Party. Earlier, lawyer Anindya Sundar Das, one of the PIL petitioners on whose plea the High Court August 19 verdict came, had filed a caveat in the apex court urging that no order be passed without hearing him if the state or other litigant move appeals. A five-judge bench of the High Court, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, had ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the assembly poll results this year in which the ruling TMC came back to power. As regards other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be investigated by a Special Investigation Team under the monitoring of the court. The high court bench, which also comprised justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered. Ordering setting up of an SIT to probe all other cases, it had said that it will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. "All the cases where, as per the report of the Committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation,” it had said. The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe. The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation". The bench had said the State failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction." "Under such circumstances investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned," it had noted. It had said allegations that the police had not registered a number of cases initially and that some were registered only after the court had intervened or the committee was constituted were found to be true. It had observed that the facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state. The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court. An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee, was obstructed from discharging his duty and he and his team members were attacked by some undesirable elements on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted. The PILs had alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought impartial probe into the incidents. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-poll-violence-sc-to-hear-wb-plea-against-cbi-probe-on-september-20-1029844.html
13-09-2021||National||Maharashtra: Fire in parking area of Thane housing complex, 8 vehicles gutted||A fire broke out in the parking area of a housing complex in Maharashtra's Thane city on Monday, gutting eight vehicles, a civic official said. No person was injured in the incident that took in the residential complex located on Pokhran Road No. 2, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell (RDMC) chief Santosh Kadam said. The fire broke out in one of the vehicles at around 4.30 am and spread to other vehicles parked there, he said. Four cars and as many two-wheelers were destroyed in the blaze, the official said. After getting the message, local firemen and a team of the RDMC rushed to the spot and doused the blaze in about one-and-a-half hours, he said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-fire-in-parking-area-of-thane-housing-complex-8-vehicles-gutted-1029846.html
13-09-2021||National||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of university named after noted Jat figure||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, on Tuesday, his office has said. This will be followed by an address, and he will also visit the exhibition models of the Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor and the university, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. It said the university is being established by the state government in the memory and honour of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, a freedom fighter, educationist and social reformer. The university is being set up in an area spread over ​​92 acres in Lodha and Musepur Kareem Jarouli villages of Aligarh's Kol tehsil. It will provide affiliation to 395 colleges of the Aligarh division, the PMO said. The government's decision to set up the university after the noted Jat figure is being politically seen as part of the ruling BJP's bid to win over the community ahead of the crucial assembly polls in the state early next year. A section of Jats, who live in sizeable numbers in western Uttar Pradesh, are seen to be aggrieved with the BJP over the issues of farmers. The establishment of a defense industrial corridor in Uttar Pradesh was announced by Modi while inaugurating the UP investors summit in Lucknow on February 21, 2018. A total of six nodes – Aligarh, Agra, Kanpur, Chitrakoot, Jhansi and Lucknow – have been planned in the corridor, the PMO said. In the Aligarh Node, land allocation process has been completed, and land has been allotted to 19 firms which will invest Rs 1,245 crore in the node, it added. The corridor will help make the country self-reliant in the field of defence production and promote 'Make in India', it said.  Check out latest videos by DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-university-named-after-noted-jat-figure-1029851.html
13-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Brace for more surges, warn experts||Experts say that almost everyone will be either infected or vaccinated before the pandemic ends. Maybe both. An unlucky few will contract the virus more than once. The race between the waves of transmission that lead to new variants and the battle to get the globe inoculated won’t be over until the coronavirus has touched all of us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-brace-for-more-surges-warn-experts-1029859.html
13-09-2021||National||India worried about complacency over second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||India is worried that growing complacency as Covid-19 infection rates and deaths decline could lead to people skipping their second vaccine shots, leaving communities vulnerable to the coronavirus, said two health experts briefed on the matter. India has administered more than 74.4 crore vaccine doses - with 60 per cent of its 94.4 crore adults getting a first shot and 19 per cent fully vaccinated with the required two shots. India has the most partly immunised people in the world, according to the Our World in Data website, mainly due to a long gap of between 12 and 16 weeks between doses, as prescribed by the government. "There's a concern among the highest quarters of an impending vaccine hesitancy, in view of most taking a single dose already and disease incidence at its lowest," said one of the sources, both of whom declined to be identified. Large numbers of people skipping their second dose would be particularly problematic in areas with low numbers of previously infected people, meaning more people with fewer antibodies so those communities would be more vulnerable, the first expert said. The second expert said the health ministry had told states to encourage people to get their second doses as soon as possible, so on the 12th week after their first dose, rather than waiting for the latest date, in a bid to ensure people don't miss the second shot. The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The government told a news conference last week that data gathered between April and August - when the Delta variant was spreading rapidly - showed one dose alone was 96.6 per cent effective in preventing deaths, while two gave a 97.5 per cent protection. But one of the experts said that message could inadvertently put people off getting their second shot, especially as for many poor workers time spent at the vaccination centre means a smaller pay packet. After being hit by the world's biggest surge in coronavirus cases and deaths in April and May, India's daily infections have settled at around 40,000 and deaths have come down sharply. India has reported 3.3 crore infections and 4,42,874 deaths. The government estimated in July that more than two-thirds of India's 135 crore had contracted the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-worried-about-complacency-over-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1029876.html
13-09-2021||National||EPFO defers Aadhaar seeding with UANs for Northeast, certain industries till December 31||Retirement fund body EPFO has deferred implementation of its order mandating filing of PF returns with Aadhaar-verified universal account numbers (UAN) till December 31, 2021, for all seven states in the northeast and for certain class of industries like building & construction and plantations. This will give more time to employers to link their employees Aadhaar number with PF accounts or UAN in the northeastern states and certain industries having less penetration of Aadhaar in UANs. Earlier, the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) had extended the deadline for Aadhaar seeding with UANs for all subscribers to September 1, 2021, from June 1, 2021. This is the second extension of the deadline, though for a region and certain industries. An EPFO office order circulated last week showed that the date of implementation for filing ECR (electronic challan cum receipt or PF return) with Aadhaar verified UANs has been extended to December 31, 2021, for administrative zone of Northeast region which comprises Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura. It also stated that considering the concentration of establishment in remote localities and in areas affected by insurgency, frequent change in work sites of the workers and other attendant constraints in the class of establishments - Beedi making, building & construction, plantations industries (tea, coffee, cardamom, pepper, jute, cinchona, cashewnuts etc.), time for mandatory seeding of Aadhaar in UAN for filing ECR is extended till December 31, 2021. It noted that overall about 94 per cent of the contributing EPF members' UANs have Aadhaar seeding but there is less percentage of that in EPFO's Northeastern region and certain class of industries. The EPFO had issued office order for the field staff on June 1 saying that the ECR shall be allowed to be filed only for those members, whose Aadhaar numbers are seeded and verified with the UAN, with effect from June 1, 2021. The EPFO had decided to make Aadhaar seeding compulsory after a labour ministry notification in this regard. A notification was issued by the labour ministry on May 3, which mandated the ministry and bodies working under it to seek Aadhaar number from the beneficiaries under the Social Security Code. The Code was passed last year by Parliament. "... the central government hereby appoints May 3, 2021, as the date on which the provisions of section 142 of the said Social Security Code shall come into force," the notification had said. Section 142 provides for establishing the identity of an employee or an unorganised worker or any other person through Aadhaar number for seeking benefits and availing services under the Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/epfo-defers-aadhaar-seeding-with-uans-for-northeast-certain-industries-till-december-31-1029877.html
13-09-2021||National||Trust between govt, industry critical to leverage opportunities created by COVID: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that the trust between government and industry is critical for leveraging the opportunities thrown up by the Covid-19 pandemic while assuring that the proposed DFI, the National Bank for Infrastructure Financing and Development (NaBFID), will become functional soon. This trust is also reflected in the government's actions, she said while addressing members of industry chamber CII. Elaborating on the government's strategy for handling the pandemic, the minister said that on one hand the focus is on ramping up vaccination as that was the biggest protection against the pandemic while on the other hand the government is working on ramping up health infrastructure, including in the tier 2 and tier 3 cities, by supporting the private sector. The Finance Minister expressed confidence that the announced disinvestment plan is on track. Sitharaman in her 2021-22 Budget speech, had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. The Centre budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies including strategic sale of IDBI Bank, BPCL, Shipping Corp, Container Corporation, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, among others. She also assured that the Development Finance Institution (DFI) announced in the budget would be operational soon. Liquidity is no longer a major concern, and that the Bank-NBFC-MFI channel has been de-clogged and from October 15 there would be a special drive to reach out credit to those who need it, she said. Parliament earlier this year passed a Bill to set up a Rs 20,000 crore DFI with a view to mobilise Rs 111 lakh crore required for funding of the ambitious national infrastructure pipeline (NIP), which has over 7,000 greenfield and brownfield projects. There were at least three or four attempts in the past to have alternative investment funds (AIFs), but gradually either they changed their nature of business or became reluctant to take long-term risk.  Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trust-between-govt-industry-critical-to-leverage-opportunities-created-by-covid-fm-1029880.html
13-09-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi condoles Oscar Fernandes' death, terms it 'personal loss'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled the demise of senior party leader Oscar Fernandes on Monday, remembering him as a guide and mentor. He described Fernandes' death as a "personal loss". He was hospitalised in July after he suffered a head injury due to a fall while practising yoga at his home. He had also undergone a surgery to remove a clot in his brain. "My heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. It is a personal loss for me. He was a guide and mentor to many of us in the Congress party," Gandhi said on Twitter. "He will be missed and fondly remembered for his contributions," he added. Fernandes was a sitting member of the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka. He had been a five-time Lok Sabha MP and a four-time Rajya Sabha member. He had entered politics as a member of the Udupi Municipal Council and was elected to Lok Sabha for the first time in 1980. Fernandes became the parliamentary secretary to the prime minister in December 1984 and then the AICC general secretary in 1985. Thereafter, he became the president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress in 1986 and AICC general secretary from 1996 onwards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-condoles-oscar-fernandes-death-terms-it-personal-loss-1029892.html
13-09-2021||National||VVIP choppers deal accused Rajiv Saxena arrested by ED in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested Rajiv Saxena, who is also accused in the Rs 3,600-crore VVIP choppers deal case, over money-laundering linked to alleged bank fraud, officials said Monday. They said Saxena will be produced before a court here to seek his custody. Saxena, an alleged middleman in the choppers deals case, was based in Dubai and was deported by India from the UAE on January 31, 2019, and arrested by the agency in the case. The deal was scrapped by India in 2014 after allegations of payment of kickbacks surfaced. The agency had earlier said, "Saxena is a hawala operator who runs accommodation entry business in Dubai through numerous companies, known as Matrix group companies, and has laundered proceeds of crime in the cases of AgustaWestland chopper scam (linked to purchase of VVIP choppers by India) and Moser Baer bank fraud case." “Saxena created structures for laundering proceeds of crime generated by accused of both cases either for the kickbacks in AgustaWestland case or defrauding banks by mis-utilising the loans given to Moser Baer India Ltd and its subsidiaries,” the ED had alleged. His role was under investigation in a number of other cases, it had said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vvip-choppers-deal-accused-rajiv-saxena-arrested-by-ed-in-money-laundering-case-1029910.html
13-09-2021||National||Venkaiah Naidu bats for promoting R&D in all national development programmes||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday stressed that research and development should be accorded importance in every sphere for national development. Inaugurating the Puducherry government-sponsored first Technological University (called Puducherry Technological University), he said research and findings of institutions should come out with new ideas and out of box findings "to make the country stable, strong and prosperous." Naidu also said it was cutting edge researches in science and technology that helped developed nations to go ahead of other nations. The vice president said that he had always emphasised the importance of R&D in all spheres for national development. "It is the innovative research in science, technology and other fields that puts developed countries ahead of the rest," he added. He further said, "if we must make India a developed nation, we will have to create an enabling ecosystem for researchers." The vice president said there should be promotion of ideas that would help country face the challenges arising out of climate change, pollution, poverty and other health issues. He called upon educational institutions "to have increased interface with the industry to promote result-oriented research that addresses contemporary challenges such as climate change, pollution, health, and poverty." Naidu said that a massive literacy programme was also necessary with 20 per cent of the country's population being illiterate. "We should prepare our youth to bring to an end various social and artificially created barriers including caste," Naidu said, adding all gender and social discriminations should be brought to an end. The education sector was one of the worst affected segments during the pandemic, he said, adding the massive free vaccination programme to keep the infection at bay was a big initiative going all over the country. The Vice President urged legislators in Puducherry to undertake door-to-door visits cutting across party lines and ensure that the people got vaccinated against the pandemic. He described as most commendable the upgradation of Puducherry government-sponsored engineering college started n 1986 into a technological university now. This would facilitate the introduction of autonomy to the university to start newer courses, he added. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan who is the Chancellor of the Pondicherry Technological University, Chief Minister N Rangasamy, Home and Education Minister A Namassivayam and Speaker of Puducherry Assembly R Selvam were among those present. Naidu was on a two-day visit to Puducherry.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-bats-for-promoting-rd-in-all-national-development-programmes-1029916.html
13-09-2021||National||Bombay HC says welfare schemes only on paper; quizzes Maharashtra govt on curbing malnutrition deaths||The Bombay High Court on Monday said welfare schemes for the tribal population were only on paper, and sought to know from the Maharashtra government what steps it was taking to prevent deaths of children due to malnutrition in tribal regions of the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the welfare schemes are of no use if children are still dying of malnutrition in the state's Melghat region. The petitioners, who are activists working in that area, informed the court that from August to September this year, 40 children died and there had been 24 cases of stillbirth due to malnutrition and lack of doctors in the area. “If there have been so many deaths, then what is the utility of all these schemes? These are just paper schemes. We want to know why these deaths are occurring and what steps are being taken by the state government,” the court said. The HC was hearing a public interest litigation filed in 2007, highlighting the high numbers of deaths of children, pregnant women and lactating mothers in the Melghat region due to malnutrition. The plea also raised concerns over the lack of gynaecologists, paediatricians and radiologists in public health centres of the region. Maharashtra's Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the court that medical officers have been appointed at these centres. However, while perusing the affidavits filed by the Maharashtra government, the court noted that regions like Gadchiroli and Gondia in the state still have vacancies of the posts of medical officers in public health centres. “In urban places like Pune and Nagpur, the public health centres have 100 per cent medical practitioners, but in regions like Gondia and Gadchiroli, more than 50 per cent of the posts are lying vacant,” the court said. To this, Kumbhakoni said doctors are appointed, but they do not report on duty as they do not wish to work in these regions. The court, however, said this cannot be accepted and strict action should be taken against such doctors. “We agree these are troublesome areas…maybe the state could offer some incentives. It is for the state government to ensure that the tribal belt of the state's population has medical officers,” the court said. The HC also suggested for dieticians to be appointed in such areas. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on September 20 and said the state ought to take some immediate steps to address the issue. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-says-welfare-schemes-only-on-paper-quizzes-maharashtra-govt-on-curbing-malnutrition-deaths-1029923.html
13-09-2021||National||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC issues notice to NIA on Teltumbde's bail plea||The Bombay High Court on Monday issued a notice to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and directed it to file a reply to the bail plea of activist Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad Maoist links case. Teltumbde has approached HC challenging the order of the special court denying him bail on merits in July this year. In his plea, filed through senior counsel Mihir Desai, he has denied charges against him and sought bail. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar directed the NIA to file its reply to Teltumbde's plea within three weeks. On July 12 this year, the special NIA court in the city had rejected Teltumbde's bail plea observing in its order that there existed a prima facie case against him under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). "Upon perusal of the documents, including the exchange of emails and the statements of the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution, and after cross-checking the truthfulness of the allegations made against the applicant, this court does not find that the accusations are inherently improbable or wholly unbelievable,” the special court had said at the time. Teltumbde, however, challenged the order and said the NIA had picked and chosen electronic evidence to suit its case. Teltumbde also said in his plea that he had cooperated with the probe and was not a flight risk, and, therefore, deserved to be granted bail. He was arrested by the NIA in April last year and has been in judicial custody in the Taloja prison since then.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-issues-notice-to-nia-on-teltumbdes-bail-plea-1029926.html
13-09-2021||National||India crosses 75 crore Covid-19 vaccination milestone, but unlikely to vaccinate all adults by Dec 31||India on Monday crossed the milestone of administering 75 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, but the target of inoculating the entire adult population with two doses by December 31 appears increasingly difficult. With 75 lakh plus vaccination till 10 pm, more than 57 crore Indians received the first dose while 18 crore adults got both. This translates to 60 per cent of Indians getting the first shot, while 19 per cent are fully vaccinated. “The world's largest vaccination campaign is continuously setting new landmarks. In the 75th year of independence, the country has crossed the figure of 75 crore Covid-19 vaccinations,” tweeted Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. Congratulations India! 🇮🇳 While experts had observed that India needed to vaccinate more than one crore individuals every day till December 31 in order to reach the ambitious target, such a high rate of vaccination was achieved only on three days so far. In between, there were also days where just 25 lakh vaccine doses were administered. Even assuming 75 lakh vaccinations for each of the remaining 109 days of 2021, at least another 81 crore doses can be administered by December 31. There will still be a shortfall of 33 crore doses and it’s impossible to find out how many of those 81 crore doses would go into the second shot. There are studies to show a single dose of the Covid-19 barely offers any protection against the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 and two doses offer a higher level of protection. However, the Indian Council of Medical Research last week claimed that a single dose offered nearly the same level of protection as two doses – a claim that baffled medical researchers. Meanwhile, the WHO's southeast Asia office lauded India for accelerating Covid-19 vaccination drive and achieving the 75-crore mark. "WHO congratulates India for scaling up Covid-19 vaccination at an unprecedented pace. While it took 85 days to administer the first 100 million doses, India reached 750 million doses from 650 million in just 13 days," Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, said. So far, all adult people in six states and union territories -- Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh and Lakshadweep -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Cumulatively, over 30 crore people in the age group 18-44 years across all states and UTs have received their first dose and more than 4.5 core their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive on May 1. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-75-crore-covid-19-vaccination-milestone-but-unlikely-to-vaccinate-all-adults-by-dec-31-1029936.html
13-09-2021||National||Kharif foodgrain output likely to touch record 150 million tonnes this year: Agri Secy||The country's foodgrain production is likely to touch a new record of over 150 million tonnes in the Kharif season of the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) due to good rains, Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal said on Monday. The sowing of Kharif (summer) crops like paddy, which begins with the onset of the Southwest monsoon from June, will get over by the end of this month. Harvesting in most of the parts will commence from October. "We have received good rains so far this year. Total Kharif foodgrain production was 149.56 million tonnes last year as per the fourth estimate. As there is likely to be an increase in area under pulses and paddy, foodgrain production will definitely be much higher than last year's Kharif season," Agarwal told reporters. The Agriculture Ministry is expecting foodgrain production to be more than 150 million tonnes in the Kharif season this year, higher than 149.56 million tonnes achieved in the same season of the 2020-21 crop year, he said. The first estimate of the country's overall foodgrain production for this Kharif season will be released around September 15, he added. Agarwal said Kharif foodgrain production has been pegged higher despite area sown to summer crops so far remaining lower by 10 lakh hectares compared to the year-ago period, as the ministry is expecting the gap in the coverage to get reduced by the end of September. The total area sown to Kharif crops reached 1,096.70 lakh hectares till September 10 this year as against 1,106.57 lakh hectares in the year-ago period, he said. The secretary said there has been a slight increase in the coverage of paddy and pulses, while a major drop in area under crops such as coarse cereals, cotton and groundnut. "However, the gap in coverage is getting reduced as sowing in some parts will get over by the end of this month. Looking at the current situation, we are definitely expecting better production this time," he asserted. Agarwal also said that the states have been asked to take necessary steps for procurement of Kharif crops as in some states arrival of crops has begun. For instance in Karnataka, arrival of pulses crop has begun and permission to the state government has been given for procurement of about 40,000 tonne, he said. The Secretary also mentioned that he will hold a meeting with Punjab and Haryana in preparation for addressing the stubble burning issue. The central government has released about Rs 235 crore to Punjab and Rs 141 crore to Haryana in 2021-22 fiscal for addressing air pollution arising from stubble burning of crop residue, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kharif-foodgrain-output-likely-to-touch-record-150-million-tonnes-this-year-agri-secy-1029942.html
13-09-2021||National||Aviation Ministry grants ICMR conditional permission to use drones for vaccine delivery||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) have granted conditional exemption from Drone Rules, 2021 to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B).  The permission has been granted to ICMR for conducting experimental Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) vaccine delivery in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Manipur, and Nagaland upto a height of 3000 meters using drones. Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) has received drone use permission for research, development and testing of drones in its own premises. “This exemption shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the said airspace clearance and shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of approval of the said airspace clearance or until further orders, whichever is earlier,” a press statement said on Monday. Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia on Saturday had launched the first of its kind ‘Medicines from the Sky’ project at Vikarabad in Telangana state under which drugs and vaccines will be delivered using drones. On 25 August 2021, the Ministry of Civil Aviation notified the liberalised Drone Rules, 2021 to usher in an era of supernormal growth while balancing safety and security considerations in drone operations. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-grants-icmr-conditional-permission-to-use-drones-for-vaccine-delivery-1029951.html
13-09-2021||National||Jal Shakti Ministry to install system to monitor tap water supply||The Ministry of Jal Shakti is working on installing a sensor-based system in 100 villages to monitor the tap water supply and understand patterns of water consumption in rural households. As per the proposal, the IoT (internet of things) based sensors and flow meters will be installed on overhead water tanks. The ministry has already installed such a system in 11 locations on a trial basis. The same will be deployed in 100 villages of nine states: Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Haryana, Gujarat, Manipur, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Ladakh on a pilot basis, said an official in the ministry. The systems aim at not only monitoring the supply but also understanding water consumption patterns and subsequently determining the price of water supplied to the individual household, said the official. Since the Centre is keen on capturing proper data to supply water at an affordable cost, the IoT based system will help both the Centre and the states to decide on pricing mechanisms of water supplied to individual households. The data will help to determine the consumption patterns in rural areas, said an official. The ministry is also asking the states to complete the installation of community water purification plants in areas with high fluoride and arsenic contamination of water by December 2021. To empower the local community on water quality surveillance, the states have been told to identity and train five women in each village to test water quality and upload online.  The test will be done in a simple kit supplied to gram panchayats. The number of water-borne diseases can be prevented with regular water quality testing and timely remedial actions. All drinking water sources are to be tested once a year for chemical contamination and twice a year for bacteriological parameters (pre and post-monsoon), the ministry said in its advisory to states. Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government launched Jal Jeevan Mission on August 15, 2019, to supply potable tap water connections to each household by 2024.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-shakti-ministry-to-install-system-to-monitor-tap-water-supply-1029952.html
13-09-2021||National||SC asks Centre to reconsider excluding suicide from Covid-19 death certificate||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to reconsider its guidelines that excluded suicides from Covid-19 death certificates, which are mandatory for granting ex-gratia compensation to the kin of the victims. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, "You have specifically stated that irrespective of the fact that the person who had Covid and (he or she) has committee suicide will not be entitled to such certificates. This needs to be revisited." Mehta agreed to look into the concerns raised by the court, saying, "The cause of death will be suicide but the reason will be Covid-19." Going through compliance affidavit filed by the Centre, the bench said there are some grey areas which have to be looked into. "We have gone through your counter-affidavit, it seems to be okay. However there are two-three things. What about the persons who committed suicide while they were suffering from Corona," the bench said. The court also asked how the states would implement the policy issued by the Union government. "What about the certificates that have already been issued and the family members have a dispute with regards to the cause of action and also what about the documents provided by the Hospitals. Also tell us about when will the committee at district level be constituted and what are the documents that are to be submitted by the family members before the committee," the bench asked.  "On reading the compliance report, it appears that there are some issues that are to be considered and re-considered and there are some creases that are to be ironed out," the bench added. The court also said 80 per cent of the problems have been solved in the matter. On Saturday, the government submitted its guidelines through an affidavit in compliance to the apex court's order issued on September 3 following a judgement passed on June 30 on petitions filed by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal. The guidelines issued jointly by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and the Indian Council of Medical Research stated that loss of life due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, or accident will not be considered as Covid-19 deaths even if the disease is an accompanying condition. On Monday, Bansal, who had moved the plea for compensation, said that guidelines excluding the death by suicide as Covid-19 death, was irrational, illogical and unreasonable, and discriminatory. Citing a Nimhans research paper, as well as the National Mental Health Policy issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, he submitted that even Nimhans terms suicide of person who is Covid positive as Covid-19 suicide, therefore non-inclusion is nothing but irrational and it needs reconsideration. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-reconsider-excluding-suicide-from-covid-19-death-certificate-1029958.html
13-09-2021||National||'Beating around the bush won't help', says SC on Centre's refusal to clarify use of Pegasus||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its displeasure over the Union government's refusal to file a detailed affidavit, disclosing use of Israel's software by its agencies or not, for alleged snooping of citizens, saying the beating around the bush would not help in the matter. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli reserved its order on interim directions to be issued on a batch of petitions for independent probe into use of spyware, while telling Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that he has two-three days time to re-think over the stand taken by the Centre. Mehta, at the outset, said the government, after having considered the issue, was of the view that use of a particular software can't be debated by filing an affidavit as it involved question of national security and might alert a potential terrorist or terror organisations to develop counter measures. Maintaining that the government has nothing to hide, he reiterated its previous stand that a committee of domain experts, unconnected to the government, may be asked to examine the matter. "Whether a particular software was used or not can't be a subject matter of affidavit, since it has its own pitfalls," he said. The court, however, said that it had already on August 17 clarified that it does not want government to disclose anything which compromises national security. "We were only expecting a limited affidavit since there are petitioners before us who say their rights (of privacy) have been infringed…….you had to say whether it was done lawfully or unlawfully," the bench said. The court cited a statement by the Minister concerned before Parliament. Had an affidavit been filed, we would have known where we stand on the subject and if any inquiry has been ordered, the bench pointed out, adding beating around the bush would not help. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for journalist N Ram submitted that it is unbelievable that the government said it would not tell the court about the use of spyware. "Government says filing an affidavit is detrimental to national security but it is in fact detrimental to the process of law. It has already accepted use of Spyware in Parliament," he said. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for another petitioner asked the court to direct Cabinet Secretary to file a disclosure affidavit as the government should be concerned if an external agency used the Spyware and if it was by government agency itself, then it was absolutely unconstitutional. Representing another petitioner, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi said the court should itself constitute a committee of experts to examine the matter. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora demanded setting up an SIT. Senior counsel Colin Gonsalves said a retired or sitting judge of the Supreme Court should head the probe, and the government, which is a wrongdoer, can't be relied upon with the task. He also claimed that the government has been using these malware in a widespread manner as a Parliamentary committee report. On July 18, an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. A batch of petitions including those by advocate M L Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India were filed for independent probe into matter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beating-around-the-bush-wont-help-says-sc-on-centres-refusal-to-clarify-use-of-pegasus-1029967.html
13-09-2021||National||No compassionate job to daughter who got divorced after death of employee: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that a deceased government employee's daughter who got divorced after the death of the staff would not be entitled to a compassionate appointment. A bench of Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose allowed an appeal filed by the Director of Treasuries in Karnataka against the High Court's direction to the state government to grant compassionate appointment to V Somyashree, whose mother P Bhagyamma, employed as second division assistant at Mandya District Treasury, died on March 25, 2012. While going through the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) Rules 1996, the top court noted that there is no provision for a compassionate appointment for a divorced daughter as per norms prevailing at that time. Only ‘unmarried daughter’ and ‘widowed daughter’, dependent upon the deceased female government servant at the time of her death and living with her can be said to be eligible for appointment on compassionate ground, it pointed out.  The word ‘divorced daughter’ was added subsequently to the rules by an amendment in 2021. In the instant case, the court noted when the employee died on March 25, 2012, Somyashree was her married daughter and her marriage was subsisting.  However, after her mother's death, she obtained divorce by mutual consent on September 12, 2012. A Mandya court granted the decree of divorce by its judgment on March 20, 2013. Immediately on the very next day, i.e. on March 21, 2013, she applied for an appointment on compassionate ground, which suggested that she got the divorce only to get an appointment on compassionate ground. Otherwise, as a married daughter, she was not entitled to the appointment, the court pointed out. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-compassionate-job-to-daughter-who-got-divorced-after-death-of-employee-sc-1029974.html
13-09-2021||National||SC asks NLCT, NCLAT to adhere to timelines under IBC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) to strictly adhere to the timelines (330 days outer limit) stipulated under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. It also asked the tribunals to clear pending resolution plans forthwith as delays can have grave economic implications and will impact the viability of the insolvency law. The top court maintained that a successful resolution applicant cannot withdraw or modify its resolution plan after its submission to the NCLT as permitting such open-ended process would have a deleterious impact on the corporate debtor, its creditors, and the economy at large as the liquidation value depletes with the passage of time, thus “frustrates the core aim of the IBC.” A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that “inordinate delays cause commercial uncertainty, degradation in the value of the corporate debtor and makes the insolvency process inefficient and expensive." "We urge the NCLT and NCLAT to be sensitive to the effect of such delays on the insolvency resolution process and be cognizant that adjournments hamper the efficacy of the judicial process. The NCLT and the NCLAT should endeavor, on a best effort basis, to strictly adhere to the timelines stipulated under the IBC and clear pending resolution plans forthwith," the bench added.  It also noted that “judicial delay was one of the major reasons for the failure of the insolvency regime that was in effect prior to the IBC." "We cannot let the present insolvency regime meet the same fate,” the bench added. The top court passed these directions in its 190-page judgement on a batch of appeals led by Ebix Singapore Pvt Ltd seeking setting aside of the NCLAT order that refused to allow Ebix to withdraw its takeover bid for Educomp Solutions Ltd, which owed lenders nearly Rs 3,000 crore.  It upheld the NCLAT judgment which had set aside the NCLT’s order that had allowed Ebix to withdraw its takeover bid of Educomp which was admitted into insolvency proceedings in 2017. The bench said that the existing insolvency framework in India provided no scope for effecting further modifications or withdrawals of Committee of Creditors-approved resolution plans once submitted to the NCLT.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-nlct-nclat-to-adhere-to-timelines-under-ibc-1029975.html
13-09-2021||National||WHO's approval for Covaxin likely this month||The World Health Organization’s approval for the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, is likely to come this month, official sources said Monday. The WHO has so far approved Covid vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech, US pharma majors Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, China's Sinopharm and Oxford-AstraZeneca for emergency use. Covaxin is one of the six vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from India's drug regulator and is being used in the nationwide inoculation programme, along with Covishield and Sputnik V. The Centre had told Rajya Sabha in July that all documents required for the WHO’s Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech as of July 9, and the global health body had commenced the review process. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whos-approval-for-covaxin-likely-this-month-1029978.html
13-09-2021||National||Covid-19: Tribal Narsinghrunda in Jhabua is MP's first fully vaccinated village||Narsinghrunda in Jhabua district became the first village in Madhya Pradesh to administer both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to all eligible beneficiaries, officials said on Monday. The village with 178 residents, predominantly comprising Bheel tribals, has 110 people above the age of 18, and all have got two doses of the vaccine, Jhabua District Immunisation Officer Dr Rahul Ganava said. "There was lots of resistance against vaccination among villagers initially, but with great effort we managed to convince them of its need. Narsinghrunda is the first village in MP where all have got two doses of the vaccine," State Immunisation Officer Santosh Shukla told PTI. Ganava said, among those who have been fully inoculated in the village since the drive began on January 16 and ended on Saturday, are a lactating mother, four health care workers and three frontline staff. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tribal-narsinghrunda-in-jhabua-is-mps-first-fully-vaccinated-village-1029979.html
13-09-2021||National||Railways tweaks model contract document for private players to redevelop stations||The railways have made a slew of changes in its model contract document for private players to redevelop railway stations, bringing down the concession period from the earlier 60 years to 35-40 years. In general, concession period is the span of time granted by the government to the private sector within which the private sector is responsible for the financing, construction and operation of a BOT (build, operate and transfer) project. The new draft Model Concession Agreement (MCA) prepared by the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has also made provision of single and well-defined payout which can be easily monitored with no upfront cashflow burden for the private entities. "Subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, applicable laws and the applicable permits, the authority hereby grants to the concessionaire the concession set forth herein including the exclusive right, licence and authority to construct, operate and maintain the railway station [and the exclusive rights, licence/lease rights for station estate development as per the station estate lease deed for a period of [30 (thirty)/45(forty five)] years commencing from the appointed date," the document states. It has a provision where the developers will also offer rebate in case the railway makes the payment within three days of the deadline. Similarly, private companies bidding for the redevelopment of railway stations will get compensated if the railways delays the payment of station development fee by more than a week. Recently, the Ministry of Railways, RLDA and IRSDC held consultation with various stakeholders in connection with finalisation of MCA for station development through PPP mode. The new draft has also made provision and based key performance indicators on outcome based rather a prescriptive approach. The draft has introduced the Station Quality Index to measure KPI by an independent agency. The new draft has also removed obligations related to employment of foreign nationals, trained personnel and others stating that these will be covered under applicable laws and permits along with standards and specifications. The draft also allows co-branding but states that the railway station shall always be known, promoted, displayed and advertised by its official name. "However, concessionaire may develop and implement a co-branding programme duly keeping in view various aspects like public good, information clarity, aesthetic looks, vibrant character, façade, safety, identity of authority and concessionaire subject to guidelines issued by Ministry of Railways on co-branding, if any, and get it approved from authority through independent engineer?" it said. The main source of income from such development would be through the station development fee, which will be shared between the developer and railway and the company quoting the highest share for railway, will get the bid. RLDA is a statutory authority under the Ministry of Railways with a mandate to develop and monetise surplus railway land, colony redevelopment and station redevelopment across the country. RLDA is presently working on 112 stations, 84 colonies and over 100 greenfield commercial sites for the development and monetisation.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-tweaks-model-contract-document-for-private-players-to-redevelop-stations-1029980.html
13-09-2021||National||SC asks GST council to reconsider formula on input tax credit||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council to take a policy decision and reconsider the formula in view of anomalies pointed out by assesses in computation of input tax credit (ITC) in inverted tax structure. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, however, upheld the Madras High Court judgement in favour of Central GST (CGST) rules that inverted duty refund is admissible only with respect to inputs for goods and not for input of services.  Acting on a batch of appeals filed by the Union government and others, the top court also set aside the Gujarat High Court judgement which declared that Rule 89(5) of CGST Rules as ultra vires Section 54(3) for restricting the refund only to input goods. Inverted duty structure arose in products such as footwear and ready made garments due to higher taxes on input and lower tax on final product. The top court said that, since the formula is not ambiguous in nature or unworkable and not opposed to the intent of the legislature in granting limited refund on accumulation of unutilised ITC, an anomaly per se cannot result in the invalidation of a fiscal rule which has been framed in exercise of the power of delegated legislation. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-gst-council-to-reconsider-formula-on-input-tax-credit-1029991.html
13-09-2021||National||India will stand by Afghans as it did in past: EAM Jaishankar||With Afghanistan facing a grave humanitarian crisis, India on Monday said it will stand by Afghans just as it did in the past. Noting that Afghanistan is passing through a "critical and challenging" phase, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also said the international community must come forward to help it. In a virtual address at the UN high-level meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the minister said that India has consistently supported a central role of the global body in the future of the war-torn country. "India's own approach to Afghanistan has always been guided by our historical friendship with its people and this will continue to be the case," he added. A multilateral platform is always "more effective" than small groups of countries in building global consensus, he said. There has been a sea change in its political, economic, social and security situation and consequently, its humanitarian needs, the minister said. Jaishankar further said that the issue of travel and safe passage that can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance be immediately sorted out. Those who want to travel into and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstructions, he added. "As an immediate neighbour, India is monitoring developments with understandable concerns," he said. He said the international community must come together to create the best possible enabling environment to assist the country. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-stand-by-afghans-as-it-did-in-past-eam-jaishankar-1029992.html
13-09-2021||National||Condolences pour in for Oscar Fernandes||Condolences poured in from various quarters after the demise of Rajya Sabha member and veteran Congress leader Oscar Fernandes on Monday. As the news of his demise spread, a large number of Congress leaders visited the hospital. "A Congress stalwart, his vision for an inclusive India had a huge influence on the politics of our times. The Congress family will deeply miss his mentorship and guidance," the INC tweeted. We are deeply saddened by the demise of Shri Oscar Fernandes ji, our heartfelt condolences to his family. A Congress stalwart, his vision for an inclusive India had a huge influence on the politics of our times. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death and expressed, "Saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. In this sad hour, my thoughts and prayers are with his family and well-wishers. May his soul rest in peace." Condoling the death, Rahul Gandhi in his Tweet said, “My heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. It is a personal loss for me. He was a guide and mentor to many of us in the Congress Party. He will be missed and fondly remembered for his contributions.” My heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji.It is a personal loss for me. He was a guide and mentor to many of us in the Congress Party. Priyanka Gandhi said, “Heartfelt condolences to Oscar Ji's family. You are in our hearts and prayers. He was one of the finest, most loyal soldiers of the Congress party, we will all miss him immensely.” Heartfelt condolences to Oscar ji’s family. You are in our hearts and prayers. Congress' general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala took to Twitter and said that Oscar Fernandes was a "guide, mentor, organizational builder who connected to the Congress workers and they loved him in return". "A “banyan tree” of the Congress Party has fallen. There will perhaps never be anyone like him. Our heartfelt homage to an eternal Congressman!," Surjewala said. Oscar Fernandes ji was a guide, mentor, organizational builder; who connected to the Congress workers & they loved him in return. A “banyan tree” of the Congress Party has fallen. There will perhaps never be anyone like him. Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in his tweet said that the demise of Oscar Fernandes has saddened him and he prays to God to help the family members bear the loss. Union Minister of State for Entrepreneurship, Skill Development, Electronics & Technology Rajeev Chandrashekar in a tweet said,  “My deepest condolences to friends n family of Shri Oscar Fernandes on his passing #RIP #Omshanthi.” KPCC President D K Shivakumar said that he was deeply saddened to hear about the demise of the senior Congress leader. In his tweet, he said, “Serving the country and the party in various roles, Sri Fernandes will always be warmly remembered for his untiring dedication and vision.”  Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said, “Shocked by the demise of senior leader & former minister #OscarFernandes. My condolences to his family members and may his soul rest in peace.” As a Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha member, Oscar Fernandes has contributed to the growth of his constituency. An ardent lover of yoga, Oscar Fernandes had raised the issue of gaumutra in the Parliament. He had a close affinity with Pejawar mutt and other Ashta Mutts in Udupi and was actively taking part in various programmes of the mutt, said Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Theertha Swamiji. Dakshina Kannada DCC has condoled the death of the veteran Congress leader who had served as Union minister and AICC general secretary.  BJP state president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, MLA Bharath Shetty and others, CPI Dakshina Kannada and Udupi committee have condoled the death of Oscar Fernandes. Condoling the death of Oscar Fernandes, Mangalore Diocese Bishop Most Rev Dr Peter Paul Saldanha said that he played a pivotal role in Mangaluru and he helped the coastal people during his political tenure irrespective of caste, creed, and colour. “We miss Oscar Fernandes, a good soul of our community who served for the country representing the Mangalorean community", said the Bishop.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/condolences-pour-in-for-oscar-fernandes-1029994.html
13-09-2021||National||Bhabanipur bypoll: Mamata pays sudden visit to mosque, interacts with locals||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the bypoll to the prestigious Bhabanipur Assembly seat in the state to retain her post, Monday paid a sudden visit to two municipal corporation wards in her constituency and a mosque and interacted with the locals. Banerjee paid a surprise visit to Sola Ana Masjid and interacted with the locals while returning from the state secretariat. BJP leader Amit Malviya mocked Banerjee for her visits and said in the days before the bypoll she will "hop from booth to booth". Banerjee was accompanied by state minister Firhad Hakim, who is also the election in-charge of ward 77 which she visited. The feisty TMC boss was seen sitting on a chair and interacting with locals to maintain social distance, a Covid protocol. On her way back to her home, Banerjee visited another ward and attended a small programme conducted by her party workers. “I follow rules laid down by the EC. I try to interact with people while travelling in the area. There is a Covid protocol which I have to follow. I saw that a small meeting was going on, so I just dropped in to convey my greetings and seek your blessings. I hope I will not be deprived of your blessings,” she said. Mocking her, Malviya, the national convenor of BJP's IT cell tweeted, “If you thought Bhabanipur is a "no contest" and Mamata Banerjee is confident of winning hands down, then forget it. She is sweating. This visit to Sola Ana Masjid is not “sudden” but a planned visit to seek votes from ward 77. In the next few days, she will hop from booth to booth”. Banerjee, a resident of Bhabanipur, had won the seat in 2011 and 2016. But this time she had shifted to Nandigram, the scene of the 2007 anti-farmland acquisition movement against the erstwhile Left Front government which had catapulted her to a major political force in the volatile state. This change of seat was done to dare her former protege and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on his home turf. As it turned out, Banerjee led TMC to a resounding victory for a third straight term in office but she lost in Nandigram. Banerjee is required to win a seat in the state assembly by November 5 in conformity with the constitutional provisions in order to continue as chief minister. The Constitution allows a non-member of a state legislature or Parliament to continue in a ministerial position without getting elected only for six months. After her defeat in Nandigram, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur, vacated the seat to facilitate her return to the Assembly from there. Banerjee is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and Left Front's Srijib Biswas in the September 30 bypoll. Congress has decided not to field a candidate against her. The votes will be counted on October 3. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhabanipur-bypoll-mamata-pays-sudden-visit-to-mosque-interacts-with-locals-1029993.html
13-09-2021||National||Atmanirbhar India only possible if cities become productive: Hardeep Singh Puri||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said that an 'Atmanirbhar India' will only be possible if cities become "productive", according to an official statement. Puri said that by 2030, almost 70 per cent of the national GDP will come from cities as rapid urbanisation facilitates efficiencies of agglomerations. "The best-performing cities globally contribute five times more to national GDP than comparable Indian cities. We need to generate a similar density of economic activity from our cities to answer the calls of our honourable Prime Minister in becoming a five-trillion-dollar economy," the statement quoted Puri as saying. Addressing the inaugural session of 'Connect Karo 2021 - Towards Equitable, Sustainable Indian Cities' event here, the minister also said there can be no doubt that India's cities will be key to achieving the nation's development objectives. The five-day event is being organised by the World Resources Institute (WRI) through video conferencing. Puri, who is also the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, said even as cities become the engines of the country's economy, it is equally important to address the infrastructure deficits that will arise from rapid urbanisation and complex migrant flows, the statement said. "By 2030, the urban population in India will almost double to 630 million. If we are to facilitate this level of growth, we will need to upgrade our urban infrastructure considerably and horrific impact of Covid-19 on our cities has made this even more significant," he said. There is an eight-fold increase the total expenditure on urban development as over the past six years (2015-2021), this figure is about Rs 11.83 lakh crore against the Rs 1.57 lakh crores from 2004 to 2014, he was quoted as saying. "We have not only successfully operationalised ambitious schemes, but also mainstreamed aspects such as climate change and heritage conservation," he said. Speaking on the adverse impact of growth of urbanisation, the minister said realising the potential of cities is not just an economic imperative, but also an environmental reality. "Our cities will be the battlegrounds for the fight against climate change. As the recent IPCC report suggests, cities are the major contributors as well as worst affected from climate change and this has led to the Indian government successfully executing the most comprehensive and planned urbanisation programme anywhere in the world," Puri added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmanirbhar-india-only-possible-if-cities-become-productive-hardeep-singh-puri-1029995.html
13-09-2021||National||R K Singh questions Mamata's intention in opposing Electricity Bill, 'protecting monopoly'||Power Minister R K Singh has written to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raising doubts over her intentions in opposing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and asked why she wants to protect private monopoly in electricity distribution, especially in Kolkata. Last month, Banerjee reportedly wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi protesting the government's plan to introduce the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Parliament in the monsoon session despite reservations raised by the states. She had called the new amendments "anti-people". The bill was listed for introduction in the recent monsoon session, but was not introduced in Parliament. In his letter to Banerjee this week, Singh stated, "..the private distribution company in Kolkata has one of the highest tariffs in the country and is a monopoly. If the proposed amendments happen that company will face competition. Why you want to protect this private company from competition is not clear." The bill provides for de-licensing the power distribution business in the country. Once the bill becomes a law, power distribution would be de-licensed and consumers will have an option to choose power supply service providers, just like they do in the telecom sector. The bill is intended to end private as well as government monopoly in the power distribution sector. The minister also explained in the letter that other provisions like cross-subsidies will be applicable after the implementation of the proposed bill. He further said more than one service provider for electricity supply in one area is not something which is new, as it is already the case in Mumbai. Singh also pointed out that the billing efficiency of West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company is only 81.43 per cent, compared to the national average of 85.36 per cent, and the aggregate technical and commercial losses stand at 20.40 per cent. The regulatory assets of West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company are Rs 15,519 crore, and if this burden is added, the tariff will be even higher. Speaking on the issue last month, Singh had said, "Licence raj has to go, so that investors can come in this sector. If no investment comes, then we are in darkness." He had also said the fixed cost for power distribution companies would be protected, and there would be a ceiling tariff to protect the interest of consumers. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-k-singh-questions-mamatas-intention-in-opposing-electricity-bill-protecting-monopoly-1030012.html
13-09-2021||National||JEE-Advanced registrations deferred again due to delay in JEE-Mains results||The registrations for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced for admission to IITs were on Monday deferred again due to a delay in the announcement of JEE-Main results. The registration process was to begin last week but was deferred till Monday due to the delay in the result. However, the registration did not begin on Monday as well. Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, which is conducting JEE-Advanced this year, has not announced a new date for registration and has asked candidates to wait for an update. JEE-Advanced is scheduled to be conducted on October 3. "The result for JEE-Mains will be announced either tomorrow or latest by Wednesday," a senior official said. The official did not comment on the reason behind the delay in the announcement of the result. Starting this year, JEE-Mains was conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May but those were postponed in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that raged through the country affecting lakhs. The third edition was held from July 20-25 while the fourth edition was conducted from August 26 to September 2. The ranks of the candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy already made. According to the officials, NTA scores are normalised across multi-session papers and are based on the relative performance of all those who appeared for the examination in one session. "The marks obtained are converted into a scale ranging from 100 to 0 for each session of examinees. NTA score is not the same as the percentage of marks obtained," a senior official said. While the JEE-Mains is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country, it is considered as a qualifying test for the JEE-Advanced.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-advanced-registrations-deferred-again-due-to-delay-in-jee-mains-results-1030038.html
13-09-2021||National||India seeks "enabling environment" in Afghanistan to provide humanitarian aid||India on Monday stressed on creating an “enabling environment” in Afghanistan for the international community to send humanitarian aid for the people of the war-torn country, even as it refrained from making a specific pledge in response to an appeal by the United Nations. The UN urged the world to raise $606 million to respond to the unfolding humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban returned to power through a military campaign across the country taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres announced a $20 million allocation from the UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund to provide humanitarian aid to the country. The US pledged $64 million to support the UN to respond to the crisis in Afghanistan. The UN warned that the food supplies could run out in Afghanistan by September 30 and, according to an estimate by the World Food Programme, nearly 14 million people in the country were already on the brink of starvation. “Among the challenges that the current situation poses is that of efficient logistics. It is therefore essential that humanitarian assistance providers are accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan,” Jaishankar said as he represented the Government of India in the meeting. “Once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society,” the External Affairs Minister said. “Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors. As the picture becomes clear in respect of the legitimate concerns I am confident that the world will step forward and assist the Afghan people in their hour of need.” He also referred to India’s $3 billion investment in the development projects in Afghanistan over the past 20 years. The United Nations Development Programme recently assessed that there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising from 72 to 97% in that country, Jaishankar noted. The UN Under-Secretary for Humanitarian Affairs, Martin Griffiths, told the conference that the Taliban had provided assurance that the workers of the aid agencies would be provided freedom of movements and safe passage in Afghanistan. But Linda Thomas Greenfield, the US envoy to the UN, said that the aid agencies could do their job only if the Taliban upheld its promises. She also said that all the aid operations needed to be independently monitored, reported upon and made secure. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-enabling-environment-in-afghanistan-to-provide-humanitarian-aid-1030045.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | 'Twin towers' of Modi, Shah gaining new heights by the day!||Vijay Rupani became the fourth BJP's chief minister to be replaced in the last six months. In March, the saffron party replaced Uttarkhand then chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat with Lok Sabha member Tirath Singh Rawat. In July, four months after being made chief minister, Tirath Singh Rawat was replaced by two-time MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami. After Uttarakhand, BJP replaced B S Yediyurappa with Basavaraj Bommai in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-twin-towers-of-modi-shah-gaining-new-heights-by-the-day-1029751.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||How Bhupendra Patel’s appointment as Gujarat CM will benefit BJP in 2022 polls||First-time MLA and new chief minister of Gujarat Bhupendra Patel comes to power in the state a year before Assembly polls, with his predecessor Vijay Rupani cheering him on, saying that the BJP will win under Patel’s leadership. First Kadva Patel to become Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel, an MLA from Ghatlodia in Ahmedabad, has a strong support base in the Patidar community, which BJP wants on its side before the polls. He is also the first Kadva Patel to become chief minister of Gujarat. BJP has won support from the community for years but a Patidar agitation led by Hardik Patel, who is now with Congress, just before the 2017 elections, upset BJP’s apple cart. The number of seats won by BJP fell from 115 seats in 2012 polls to 99 in 2017. Of the 182 seats in Gujarat Assembly, 16 seats have a majority Patidar population, of which nine are in Saurashtra, three in north Gujarat and four in Surat, the report added. With Bhupendra Patel, BJP hopes to get the community back in its corner. Patel has never held a ministerial post, just like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was never a minister when he became Gujarat CM 20 years ago. Modi was sworn in as CM on October 7, 2001, and became an MLA on February 24, 2002, by winning the Rajkot seat bypoll. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/how-bhupendra-patel-s-appointment-as-gujarat-cm-will-benefit-bjp-in-2022-polls-1029809.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||AAP gets ED notice, calls it a 'love letter' from BJP's 'favourite agency'||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned AAP National Secretary Pankaj Gupta in a money laundering case next week, prompting the Arvind Kejriwal-led party to describe it as a "love letter" from BJP's "frontal organisation" and accuse it of attempting at "character assassination" after failing to "electorally assassinate" them. The AAP sought to project the ED notice as an after-effect of BJP's uneasiness over the AAP's growing popularity in states like Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly elections will take place early next year. Sources said the agency has asked Gupta to appear "in person" before its investigators on September 22 in connection with cases filed against Punjab MLA and former AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who is facing allegations related to donations of around $1 lakh which was raised on AAP's behalf by Khaira in the United States as well as those drug trafficking and fake passport. Khaira was elected to Punjab Assembly on an AAP ticket in 2017 but left it to form Punjab Ekta Party (PEP). He re-joined Congress in June. The ED notice posted on Twitter by AAP leader Raghav Chadha did not mention in which case Gupta has been summoned. Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal led the AAP fightback with a tweet, "in Delhi they tried to defeat us with IT Department, CBI, Delhi Police - but we won 62 seats. As we grow in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Guj - we get an ED notice! The people of India want honest politics- these tactics of BJP will never succeed, they will make us stronger," Kejriwal tweeted. AAP described the ED notice to Gupta as an attempt to stifle its growth as the BJP has been scared of its electoral success and growing popularity of its leader Kejriwal. Chadha said the AAP has received a "love letter" from BJP's "favourite agency", which is acting as a "frontal organisation" of the saffron party. Addressing a press conference here, Chadha said, "when they cannot electorally assassinate AAP, they are trying to at character assassination. The BJP and Modi are scared of the rising graph of the AAP and popularity of Kejriwal. All agencies are now unleashed after us. The ED is acting like a frontal organisation. BJP will soon start appointing office bearers like President and General Secretary for ED." The ED should be given an office space just beside the BJP headquarters, he said mockingly as he alleged that the central investigating agencies have now become "political revenge seeking departments" of the BJP and it was happening whenever elections are near. "When the surveys showed that AAP will be doing good in the upcoming Assembly elections and the Congress is not doing good, the BJP has pressed into service all agencies seeking political revenge and character assassination...The BJP has realised that AAP is not like dead Opposition Congress," he said. He said the AAP is not scared of the BJP tactics and would courageously face the investigators as it has nothing to hide. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-gets-ed-notice-calls-it-a-love-letter-from-bjps-favourite-agency-1029832.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||UP BJP lawmaker Rakesh Rathore meets Akhilesh Yadav, sparking speculation||TheBJP was left red-faced after one of its legislators, Rakesh Rathore, an MLA from Sitapur Sadar Assembly seat, met Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav amid speculations that he could soon leave the saffron party and join the SP. The SP leaders later claimed that as many as eight BJP legislators were in touch with them and could soon quit the BJP. "It was a courtesy call...I am prepared to make every sacrifice for my community...I will do whatever they tell me," Rathore, who hailed from the 'Sahu' community, told reporters when queried about the meeting. SP sources claimed that eight BJP MLAs had contacted the party and had sought assembly nominations. "We have not given them any assurance...it is up to the party to decide who will be fielded from where," said a senior SP leader here on Monday. BJP, however, sought to make light of the meeting saying that they were not 'uncommon' in politics. "We have no information about the meeting...Rathore is very much in the BJP," said a senior UP BJP leader here. Several BJP lawmakers had earlier expressed resentment over chief minister Yogi Adityanath's style of working and there were demands that he be replaced. The BJP central leadership, however, made it clear that Adityanath would be the party's face in UP. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-bjp-lawmaker-rakesh-rathore-meets-akhilesh-yadav-sparking-speculation-1029884.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||Yogi Adityanath's 'Abba Jaan' remark triggers massive political war||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's use of the word 'Abba Jaan' (father in Urdu) during a public meeting in Kushinagar district has stoked a massive controversy, with opposition leaders decrying what they said an attempt to "communally polarise" the forthcoming Assembly polls. "2017 ke pahle kya sabhi ko ration milta tha?....Abba Jaan kehne wale sara ration hajam kar lete the," (did everyone get ration before 2017?...Those who say Abba Jaan used to digest all the ration), Adityanath said while speaking at the meeting on Sunday. The reference, apparently was to the alleged preference given to the Muslims by the previous regimes of the Samajwadi Party and BSP in the state. The remarks drew a sharp rebuke from the opposition party leaders, who termed it 'communal' and demanded action against the chief minister. "BJP has nothing to show to the people.....the state government has done precious little for the common people and as the polls get nearer, the saffron party leaders are trying to divide the people along communal lines,", said a senior SP leader. BJP leaders, however, defended the remarks saying that Adityanath was only trying to make it clear that the state government did not differentiate on the basis of religion.  Recently, Adityanath, in a sarcastic remark, called the SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav as the SP president Akhilesh Yadav's 'Abba Jaan'. Adityanath's jibe came when his attention was drawn to Akhilesh's remarks that he (Akhilesh) was a "more devout" Hindu than the BJP leaders. "If it is so then why did his (Akhilesh) Abba Jaan declare that even a bird would not be able to enter Ayodhya?," Adityanath had said while referring to the assertion of Mulayam, who was then the chief minister of UP when the karsevaks threatened to demolish the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya in 1990. A furious Akhilesh had warned Adityanath to be careful in his choice of words. "The CM should be careful in choosing his words....I will too start saying things about him (Adityanath) if he does not stop," he had said.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-adityanaths-abba-jaan-remark-triggers-massive-political-war-1029890.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||'Narcotic Jihad': BJP leaders meet Bishop, Congress accuses govt of being 'mute spectator'||With the controversy over "love and narcotic jihad" remark by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt refusing to die down, the Congress and the BJP on Monday engaged in a fresh round of verbal sparring, trading charges against each other over the issue. Addressing devotees during a church celebration at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district last week, the Bishop had said that as part of the "love jihad", non-Muslim girls, especially those belonging to the Christian community, were largely being converted "after trapping them in love, exploiting and misusing them for destructive activities like terrorism." While the Congress charged the BJP with trying to derive political mileage by dividing society along religious lines, using the Bishop's statement, the BJP leaders met the senior priest at his diocese in Pala expressing solidarity with him and alleged that the Congress and CPI(M) were taking positions favouring extremist elements creating troubles, instead of addressing the concerns raised by him. Alleging that that "deliberate attempts" were being made to destroy the communal harmony of the state through various social media platforms, Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly V D Satheesan shot off a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, urging him to launch a probe into the efforts by the forces trying to divide people sowing seeds of communalism through Facebook, WhatsApp and Telegram, using fake IDs. Talking to reporters in Malappuram, he accused the ruling Left of remaining a "mute spectator" over the issue. In an apparent reference to the Bishop's allegations, the senior Congress leader also said that if any community organisations or their leaders had complained or expressed concern about any particular incident, it should also be investigated. Strongly backing the Bishop over his remarks, BJP's national executive member P K Krishnadas and State Vice President A N Radhakrishnan met the senior priest at the Pala diocese on Monday and accused the CPI(M) and Congress of "whitewashing" the activities of "extremist forces" in the state. Instead of launching an investigation and taking appropriate legal action if any extremist forces engage in "Love and narcotic jihad" in the state, as alleged by the Bishop, the Chief Minister and the LoP took steps favouring such forces, Krishnadas alleged. Talking to various television channels, Goa Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai said he had discussed the matter with the Pala Bishop and the concerns raised by the priest has to be addressed. Pillai, who enjoys cordial relations with various church groups in the state, indicated that he would take up the matter with the Centre. In his letter to the Chief Minister, Satheesan, said it was a matter of grave concern that efforts are being made, both covertly and openly, to destroy the religious harmony and social cohesion of Kerala. He alleged that there was a conscious effort to create large-scale divisions, rivalries and mistrust among different religions in the state. "Social media platforms are used for this. Messaging apps such as WhatsApp and Telegram, as well as Facebook and YouTube, are being misused by some to carry out misinformation campaign", he said and urged the Chief Minister to seriously investigate and punish such "elements". "We support all good efforts to preserve the peaceful atmosphere, religious harmony and social cohesion of Kerala", he said. KPCC president K Sudhakaran urged the state government to convene an all-party meet and a meeting of community religious leaders to resolve the issues and end the BJP's "political exploitation" by creating tension between communities. Meanwhile, the Nair Service Society (NSS), an outfit of Kerala's forward Nair community, on Monday expressed concern over the incidents of forced religious conversion taking place in many parts of Kerala after luring girls into the trap of love. In a statement, NSS general secretary G Sukumaran Nair said both the state and the central governments should take steps to curb those engaging in such inhuman anti-national activities. He, however, said it is not correct to give any religious or communal colour for such activities. Nair also called for collective efforts by all sections to end the tendency of putting the country into danger by creating religious hatred and division in society. Meanwhile, Joseph Perumthottam, the Archbishop of the Changanasserry archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church, today supported the Pala Bishop, urging the government to end the menace of "narcotic terrorism" in Kerala. In an article in the Church organ 'Deepika' daily, he said many families have collapsed after their girls who fell into the trap of love were misused for drug trafficking, religious terrorism, smuggling and prostitution. He said with the Taliban taking control of Afghanistan, the possibility of Kerala becoming a hub of drug smuggling is very high and urged the government to take steps to end "narcotic terrorism" in the state. The controversial "love and narcotic jihad" remarks by Kallarangatt triggered ripples in Kerala's political circles as the BJP accused the CPI(M) and the Congress of supporting jihadis, while the latter warned against "Sangh Parivar agenda" to destroy Christian-Muslim harmony in the state. Amid mounting criticism, the Pala Diocese, under the the prominent Syro-Malabar Church, on Saturday had come out with an explanation, saying that the Bishop did not intend to hurt anyone and his remarks were not against any particular community. Urging all communities to view seriously the actions of fringe elements indulging in radical and anti-social activities using the names and symbols of religion, the diocese also shared the message of going forward unitedly ending all misleading propaganda. While the Congress had said the bishop crossed limits, the BJP supported him by urging the society to discuss the statement. Condemning Bishop Kallarangatt's statement, the CM on Friday said those who hold responsible positions should refrain from making statements causing divisions in society. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narcotic-jihad-bjp-leaders-meet-bishop-congress-accuses-govt-of-being-mute-spectator-1029922.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||BJP busy replacing non-performing CMs: Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram Monday said the BJP is busy replacing its "non-performing" chief ministers but the list is long. His reaction came two days after Vijay Rupani resigned as Gujarat chief minister. Bhupendra Patel succeeded him. "The BJP is busy replacing its non-performing Chief Ministers. When did the BJP leadership realize they were non-performing CMs," he asked on Twitter. Before Rupani in Gujarat, the BJP had replaced Lingayat stalwart B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka CM with Basavaraj S Bommai. Uttarakhand got three different chief ministers within four months when the BJP replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat with Tirath Singh Rawat, before bringing in Pushkar Singh Dhami. Chidambaram said the people of the states concerned knew for months that B S Yediyurappa, the two Rawats and Rupani were “non-performing”. "There are more who must be replaced. In Haryana, Goa, Tripura etc………The list is long," he said on Twitter.  The BJP is busy replacing its non-performing Chief Ministers. When did the BJP leadership realize they were non-performing CMs? Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-busy-replacing-non-performing-cms-chidambaram-1029938.html
13-09-2021||National Politics||Nitish-Chirag feud continues on Ram Vilas Paswan's death anniversary||On the first death anniversary of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder and former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, his son and LJP Chief Chirag Paswan tried to iron out differences by inviting leaders from all parties in Patna except Chief Minister Nitish Kumar who skipped the programme. Leaders from various parties gathered on this occasion except Nitish Kumar or any top Janata Dal (United) leader who chose to skip this event. This has fuelled speculation about the JD(U) leaders maintaining a distance from Chirag Paswan. It is speculated that Nitish Kumar wants to maintain a distance from LJP's Chirag Paswan under any circumstances. The big question is whether relations can turn so sour in the course of political enmity that old relations are sidelined. Chirag's uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Paras of the LJP (Paras) faction attended this programme and paid tributes to his brother Ram Vilas Paswan. He said that even if he had not been invited, he would still have come. Though Nitish Kumar paid tributes to Ram Vilas Paswan, he did not attend the event hosted by Chirag Paswan. Political experts are viewing this feud from different viewpoints. Political critic Ajay Kumar says, "Even if Nitish Kumar had attended this programme, he would not have suffered any political loss but instead he would have benefited. This is the beginning of a wrong tradition in politics." Manoj Chaurasia, who knows the politics of Bihar from close quarters, says, "Nitish Kumar's absence from this event gives a clear indication that he is not interested in mending ties between the JD(U) and the LJP but wants to further maintain a distance from LJP." He said the JD(U) became the third-largest party in the 2020 Bihar Assembly elections. JD(U) leaders hold the LJP responsible for their party's poor performance so Nitish Kumar does not seem to be in any mood to forgive LJP leader Chirag Paswan. "JD(U) believes that Chirag's strategy and politics are responsible for reducing the party's position in Bihar," says Manoj Chaurasia. On the other hand, by attending this event, BJP leaders have expressed that even though LJP (Paras) Chief Pashupati Kumar Paras has been made a Union minister, the saffron party will continue to support Chirag Paswan as well. Chirag has been continuously targeting Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and even alleged that the JD(U) was involved in breaking the LJP into two factions. Political experts consider this gesture as revenge by the LJP. The LJP has split into two factions, one led by Chirag Paswan and the other by Pashupati Paras. Both the factions claim to represent the real LJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote a two-page letter on the first death anniversary of Ram Vilas Paswan and BJP leaders participated in the programme organized in Patna. This indicates that the BJP will remain on friendly terms with Chirag Paswan. It will be interesting to see the strategy planned by the JD(U) and LJP against each other in the coming days.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-chirag-feud-continues-on-ram-vilas-paswans-death-anniversary-1029961.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal blames flooded streets on previous governments' 'idiosyncratic drainage system'||A day after the city faced extensive waterlogging following record rain, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal blamed the city's "idiosyncratic drainage system" for the flooded streets, which, he said, the AAP dispensation has inherited as a "gift" from the previous governments. He assured the public that they will not have to face waterlogging in the coming years in Delhi as his government is working on to overhaul the city's entire drainage system. Addressing a gathering on the occasion of inauguration of redeveloped Chandni Chowk, Kejriwal said that not only the market area but the drainage system of entire Delhi will be fixed.  "We have said it earlier as well, the drainage system throughout Delhi needs to be fixed. We got this idiosyncratic drainage system as a gift from the previous governments. It needs time (to improve such a vast drainage system), it was never worked upon by them (previous governments) earlier. But I can assure you after some years you won't see waterlogging anywhere in Delhi," Kejriwal said in a statement. Record heavy rains lashed the national capital on Saturday, making it the wettest monsoon season in 46 years and causing massive waterlogging that affected operations at the Delhi airport, disrupted traffic on key roads and left passengers trapped in vehicles in flooded underpasses. According to the Public Works Department, over 380 waterlogging related complaints were received on Saturday. Kejriwal had last month chaired a meeting on the city's drainage plan and said that the national capital's drainage system will be improved and made "world-class" and Delhi will "get rid of waterlogging”. He had said that necessary changes as suggested by Indian Institute of Technology Delhi will be made to "bolster" the city's drainage system and make it foolproof.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-blames-flooded-streets-on-previous-governments-idiosyncratic-drainage-system-1029740.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Massive turnout at police officer's funeral reminder of Kashmir’s complex reality||While huge crowds turning up for funerals of militants in the Valley had become a norm till Covid-19 pandemic began in 2020, on Sunday, thousands of people participated in the last rites of a police officer killed by ultras. Sub Inspector (SI) Arshid Ashraf Mir of remote Kalmoona, Vilgam in north Kashmir’s frontier Kupwara district, was shot dead by a pistol-borne militant when he had taken a person who had been detained for a medical check-up to a medical facility at Khanyar in old city Srinagar. Reports and eyewitnesses said as the body of Mir reached his native place people in hordes came out to mourn the killing. “People were shocked. Everyone mourned his death as women were wailing when the body reached the village,” an eyewitness told DH over phone. “He was the son of the soil and we are in shock and grief over his killing. Even if a militant is killed, we mourn. After all, it is a human being who loses his life and his family has to bear the brunt for whole life,” he added. A post-graduate in Botany, the slain officer, had been an outstanding student during his studies and got appointed just two years back in the police. At his funeral, his father Mohammad Ashraf Mir had one question to his killer: “I want to know the fault of my son. What wrong he could have done in his two years of service?” Senior Mir, who is devastated by the death of his elder son, yearns to see his killers brought to justice. Before the Covid-19 pandemic began last March, huge crowds had been turning up for funerals of militants in Kashmir. But most of the times, the funerals of policemen killed on duty were attended by family, friends and relatives only due to the fear of militants. An estimated 70,000 Kashmiris work in the police department and despite being a much-hated institution in the popular imagination, it finds acceptance in a deeply layered society. Strong family ties, personal relationships with members of the public, and a strong community sense ensures sympathy and support to Kashmiris serving in the police. A senior police officer said that the impact of killing policemen has been leading to resentment among the public against the militants. “No one is happy when an unarmed policeman is killed. Militants do not own attacks where they think their promoted narrative would suffer setback due to public sentiment,” he said. The officer said the public support, though not as desired, was still extended to the police. “There are also people who appreciate our work despite negative perceptions. Many militants’ cousins and fathers or brothers are in the police, which is a stark reality,” he added. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/massive-turnout-at-police-officers-funeral-reminder-of-kashmir-s-complex-reality-1029773.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Pegasus row: Won't file detailed affidavit, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on interim directions to be issued on a batch of petitions for independent probe into use of Pegasus Spyware as the Union government refused to file a detailed affidavit in the matter. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that he has two-three days time to re-think the stand by the Centre. Mehta, at the outset, said the government, after having considered the issue, was of the view that use of a particular software can't be debated by filing an affidavit as it involved question of national security and may alert a potential terrorist. Maintaining that the government has nothing to hide, he reiterated its previous stand that a committee of domain experts, unconnected to the government, may be asked to examine the matter. "Whether a particular software was used or not can't be a subject matter of affidavit, it has its own pitfalls," he said. The court, however, said that it had already clarified that it does not want government to disclose anything which compromises national security. "We were only expecting a limited affidavit since there are petitioners before us who say their rights have been infringe...you had to say whether it was done lawfully or unlawfully," the bench said. The court cited a statement by the Minister concerned before Parliament. "Had an affidavit been filed, we would have known where we stand on the subject," it pointed out. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for journalist N Ram, submitted that it is unbelievable that the government said it would not tell the court about the use of spyware. "Government says filing an affidavit is detrimental to national security but it is in fact detrimental to the process of law. It has already accepted use of Spyware in Parliament," he said. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for another petitioner asked the court to direct Cabinet Secretary to file a disclosure affidavit as the government should be concerned if an external agency used the Spyware and if it was by government agency itself, then it was absolutely unconstitutional. Representing another petitioner, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi says the court should itself constitute a committee of experts to examine the matter. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora demanded setting up an SIT. Senior counsel Colin Gonsalves said a retired or sitting judge of the Supreme Court should head the probe, and the government, which is a wrongdoer, can't be relied upon with it. He also claimed that the government has been using these malwares in a widespread manner. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pegasus-row-wont-file-detailed-affidavit-centre-tells-supreme-court-1029797.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Two children dead as building collapses in Delhi's Sabzi Mandi area||A four-storey building in north Delhi's congested Sabzi Mandi area collapsed on Monday, killing two brothers who were passing by with their mother and were trapped under the debris, officials said. Thirteen members of the Aneja family, who occupied three out of the four floors, narrowly escaped the mishap as all except one member were outside the house when the building collapsed. The two children who died in the incident were aged seven and 12, the police said, adding that a case has been registered against a man named Mohak Arora who had undertaken the renovation work on the ground floor of the building. The police said 72-year-old Ramji Das, who was also trapped under the debris and suffered a head injury, was rescued and rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. He is stated to be out of danger, they said, adding that the rescue operation lasted over nine hours. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has ordered an inquiry into the incident and directed the building department to submit its report within seven days. However, officials said the building had not been identified as dangerous by the civic body. The NDMC said the building is about 50-60 years old. The ground floor was being used for commercial purpose while the rest was residential. N S Bundela, Joint Commissioner of Police (Central), said the two children, both brothers, were rescued and taken to a hospital where they were declared brought dead. "They were passing by with their mother when the building collapsed and the two bothers got trapped under the debris," he said. The two children — Somya (12) and Prashant Gupta (7), were residents of Roshnara Road in old Delhi. Their father Nitin Gupta (38) works at a shop in north Delhi's Sadar Bazar while their mother is a housewife, according to the police. A senior police officer said, "A case has been registered under section 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 288 (Negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code." The police said the milk shop that was on the ground floor was recently sold to Mohak Arora who was getting the place renovated to start his own venture related to electrical appliances. The incident comes days after record heavy rains pounded Delhi, throwing life out gear. An old building in Delhi's Narela area, which was declared a dangerous structure by civic authorities, had collapsed recently. However, no one was injured in that incident. Das, a resident of Malka Ganj here had a 'paan' shop near the building. He was at his shop when the structure collapsed, police said. Assistant Commandant, NDRF, Shri Niwas said, "Two teams of the NDRF were at the spot conducting rescue operation. We used cameras to see whether people were trapped under the debris or not. We are not confirmed about the number of people trapped inside it." A car parked nearby was severely damaged as the debris from the building fell on it. The locals who gathered at the spot to help with rescue operations were later removed from the area. Three brothers lived in the other residential floors of the building along with their families. An 18-year-old member of one of the families, who was on second floor, had a narrow escape when the building collapsed. Hemantica Aneja (40), a resident of the building and a Supreme Court lawyer said, "Our family has been living here for the last 35 years and it is a well-maintained building. Fortunately none of us were at home when it collapsed and my 18-year-old nephew Aryan who was on the second floor of the building also managed to escape after when he heard a loud noise. Aneja said for the last 10 days, renovation work was going on at the shop on the ground floor of the building which also led to cracks in the walls of the floors. "Usage of electric drill further weakened the structure leading to its collapse," she alleged. D C Chauhan, who saw the building collapse said, "I was present near the spot when the building collapsed. One woman was passing by the area along with her two children. "They were in front of the building when it collapsed and the two boys unfortunately were buried under the debris. One 'paan' shop owner was also trapped." Ravi Kumar, another local, was terrified and rushed towards the building when he heard a loud noise. "I live on the other side of the street and heard a loud noise. We rushed to the spot and found debris on the road. We then started helping people. From what we heard, some construction work was going on the ground floor of the building which eventually led to the collapse," he claimed. Teams of MCD and the NDRF were also at the spot to undertake rescue operation. The Delhi Fire Service received a call about the incident at 11.50 am, following which which seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot for rescue operations, said Atul Garg, the director of DFS. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he is closely monitoring the situation. "The incident of building collapse in Sabzi Mandi area is very sad. The administration is engaged in relief and rescue work. Through the district administration, I am myself monitoring the situation," he tweeted in hindi. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-children-dead-as-building-collapses-in-delhis-sabzi-mandi-area-1029800.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Social security pension scheme of Punjab govt finds mention in Class 5 question paper, sparks row||An advertisement and questions related to the social security pension scheme of the Punjab government found mention in an examination paper of Class 5 students, drawing sharp reactions from a teachers’ body and the opposition SAD and AAP. The government advertisement on raising social security pension was inserted in the Punjabi subject paper of Class 5 students and then questions relevant to it were asked, said a teacher on Monday. The exam for Class 5, to prepare students for the National Achievement Survey (NAS), began on Monday. The NAS, aimed to assess learning achievement, is to be conducted in November. One of the questions asked to the students was “What is this advertisement about.” Another question was “When the distribution of the hiked social security pension began.” The state government had earlier announced raising the social security pension from Rs 750 per month to Rs 1,500 per month. Democratic Teachers’ Front (Punjab) president Vikram Dev Singh condemned the insertion of an advertisement in the question paper and accused the government of trying to publicise its schemes through student examinations. “It is totally wrong. We condemn it,” he said. Shiromani Akali Dal's senior leader and former education minister Daljit Singh Cheema dubbed the insertion of an advertisement pertaining to a welfare scheme in a question paper as “unethical practice.” “Let the education remain education. Tomorrow you will start giving government advertisements and putting photos of ministers in school textbooks and then there is no end to it,” Cheema said slamming the Congress-led government. The AAP, the main opposition party in Punjab, also lambasted the government over the issue. “This is height of shameless publicity. @capt_amarinder what are you trying to do? You are not even sparing children of the state from your false propaganda. These cheap tricks will not get you and your party anywhere,” party leader Harpal Singh Cheema said in a tweet.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/social-security-pension-scheme-of-punjab-govt-finds-mention-in-class-5-question-paper-sparks-row-1029827.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||10 things to know about ‘Narcotics Jihad’ row||A catholic bishop triggered a controversy on Thursday with his remarks saying that Christian girls were largely falling prey to "Love and Narcotic Jihad" in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth belonging to other religions.  Here are 10 things you need to know about it: 1. Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, belonging to the Syro Malabar Church, made these statements in an address to devotees during a church celebration at Kuruvilangad in Kerala.  2. He said that this was a part of the "Love Jihad," where especially Christian girls were being converted after being 'trapped' in love and were also being exploited and misused for terrorism-related activities.  3. The Bishop also said that Jihadis were using means such as 'Narcotics Jihad' and 'Love Jihad' to destroy other religions.  4. Congress criticised these remarks, stating that they had "crossed a line." 5. On the other hand, the BJP extended complete support urging society to discuss it.  6. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, V D Satheesan, in a Facebook post, requested the community and spiritual leaders to desist themselves from making any move or statement that would destroy the atmosphere of peace in the southern state and mutual trust between human beings. 7. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said those who hold responsible positions should refrain from making statements causing division in society. 8. Amid mounting criticism, the Pala Diocese, under the prominent Syro-Malabar Church, came out with an explanation saying that the bishop did not intend to hurt anyone and his remarks were not against any particular community. Also, the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC) the apex body of the Catholic hierarchy in the state, on Saturday came out in support. 9. Backing Kerala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt's claim of "Narcotics Jihad", the BJP on Sunday said what he has alleged is the voice of the community and appealed to the central government to bring a law to deal with “narco-terrorism and Love Jihad”. 10. The Kerala unit of BJP has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging the central government to protect Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt. Check out DH's latest video here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-things-to-know-about-narcotics-jihad-row-1029836.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Pakistan trying to revive militancy in twin border districts of Jammu||The recent spurt in militant activities in Rajouri and Poonch districts of Jammu region indicate that Pakistan was trying to revive militancy in the twin border districts. In the last three months, five major encounters have been reported in Rajouri district in which seven militants and three army soldiers were killed. In neighbouring Poonch district, five militants were killed along the Line of Control (LoC) while trying to infiltrate while sticky bombs were also recovered for the first time there last month. The August 13 attack on the house of a BJP leader in the heart of Rajouri town in which his two-year-old nephew was killed and seven family members injured, was another indication of return of the militancy in the region. Sources said sleeper cells of militants are also active and trying to reactivate their over-ground workers (OGWs) in the twin districts which share border with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) with Bhimber, Mirpur, Kotli and Rawlakote on the other side. “All this indicates that the militant handlers of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Hizbul Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and some smaller outfits which are mostly their offshoots are trying to revive militancy in Rajouri and Poonch districts,” they said and added militant commanders operating in Kashmir were desperately trying to re-establish their network in Rajouri and Poonch. A senior police officer said Muslim-majority districts of Jammu region -- Pir Panjal (Rajouri, Poonch) and Chenab region (Doda, Kishtwar) -- were on the radar of Pakistan to revive a lethal phase of militancy in the region. “In mid1990s, the region was one of the most disturbed places in J&K as Pakistan had succeeded in motivating youth there to pick up arms. There is still a sense of belongingness with the Kashmir cause among the people of the region and Pakistan wants to convert it into an armed struggle like the 1990s,” he revealed. The officer said the Mughal Road which connects Rajouri-Poonch with the valley had become a major concern for the security forces and intelligence agencies. “Militants infiltrating from Pakistan into Rajouri and Poonch find it easy to reach the Valley via Mughal Road. As a large number of trucks move on this road, it becomes easier for militant handlers to even transport weapons” he added. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-trying-to-revive-militancy-in-twin-border-districts-of-jammu-1029837.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi wraps up her five-day UP tour ahead of assembly polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday left for Delhi after wrapping up her five-day tour of Uttar Pradesh during which she exhorted party workers to work round the clock for the 2022 UP Assembly polls. Ending her five-day tour, Priyanka Gandhi told party workers in Rae Bareli that the Congress was planning to declare candidates well in time for the upcoming elections. Faced with a stiff challenge to halt Congress's slide in the state, she had begun her tour on Thursday, starting with state capital Lucknow. On Friday, the Congress had announced a 12,000 km-long yatra through villages and towns of the state ahead of the assembly polls. The decision to take out the yatra was taken at a meeting presided over by Priyanka Gandhi and attended by members of the party's advisory and strategy committee. The Congress general secretary the next day held marathon meetings with party office-bearers here and said their views would be crucial in the distribution of tickets for the upcoming polls. Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday toured Rae Bareli constituency, the bastion of the Gandhi family since the days of Indira Gandhi. Rae Bareli has five assembly seats out of which two are with the Congress and the BJP each, and one is with the Samajwadi Party. Congress president Sonia Gandhi represents the Rae Bareli constituency in the Lok Sabha. According to Rae Bareli district Congress committee spokesperson Vinay Dwivedi, office bearers of the district unit and city unit of the party met Priyanka Gandhi. Members of various frontal organisations, party candidates and zila panchayat members of the Congress also met her, he said. During her visit to UP, she exhorted party workers to work round the clock for the polls and had said that a strong Congress organisation was equally important for nation building. The party also told prospective candidates to submit applications by September 26, a party leader had said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-wraps-up-her-five-day-up-tour-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1029879.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 17 new Covid-19 cases, zero death; positivity rate 0.04%||The national capital reported 17 new Covid-19 cases and zero death on Monday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.04 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The capital has recorded only one fatality due to the infection in September so far. The low number of cases can also be attributed to fewer tests (40,399) conducted the previous day. With the new cases, the overall infection tally in the city climbed to 14,38,250. Of this, over 14.12 lakh patients have recovered from the infection. The death toll stands at 25,083, according to the bulletin. On Sunday, the city reported 22 new coronavirus cases and zero death due to the infection.  On Saturday, it reported 57 new Covid cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-17-new-covid-19-cases-zero-death-positivity-rate-004-1029886.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Power tussle between Delhi govt, LG: SC to list plea for hearing against GNCTD (Amendment) Act||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to list for hearing the Delhi government's plea challenging the new law which allegedly gives more power to the Lieutenant Governor of the national capital. "We will list it," a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said when senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, sought urgent hearing of the plea. "The Act (the Government of National Capital Territory (Amendment) Act 2021) is contrary to the constitution bench judgement of the Supreme Court and against Article 239AA (which deals with the status of Delhi) under the Constitution," the senior lawyer said. The extra power given to the LG has made governance difficult, he said, adding that the plea of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government be listed as it was cleared by the apex court registry on August 19. The Government of National Capital Territory (GNCTD) Amendment Act, 2021 has come into force after being passed by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on March 22 and March 24, respectively. The amended Act has changed four provisions of the National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991. According to the amended Act, the expression 'Delhi Government' referred to in any law to be made by the UT's Legislative Assembly shall mean the Lieutenant Governor. The plea has alleged that the amended law gives more power to the LG over the elected government.  Check out latest videos by DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-tussle-between-delhi-govt-lg-sc-to-list-plea-for-hearing-against-gnctd-amendment-act-1029888.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots investigation not a probe into conspiracy but a conspiracy to target innocents: Activists||Activists on Monday found fault with the handling of Delhi riots cases by the government and Delhi Police, saying it is not an investigation into a conspiracy but a conspiracy to incarcerate "innocents" who had raised in protest against the government on unconstitutional acts. At a public meeting to mark one year of activist Umar Khalid's continuing imprisonment after his arrest last year and demanding his release, Rajya Sabha MP Manoj K Jha, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan and senior journalist Sidharth Varadarajan among others said there was a "massive cover-up" to allow the actual guilty people in the Delhi riots cases to get away. The speakers at the meeting said the actual perpetrators of the Delhi riots were from the Hindutva brigade and police were complicit in not arresting them. They also referred to the inconsistencies in the material used to apprehend anti-CAA protesters, including the video clip of a speech used to charge him and said that the authorities were using the riots perpetrated by Hindutva brigade to silence the anti-CAA protesters. Speaking on the subject 'Secular Protests and Communal Chargesheets', RJD MP Jha said it was common people's protest after the passage of anti-Constitutional laws like the Citizenship Amendment Bill and farm laws that gave hope, as politicians failed to act and the government was not listening to anyone. "You cannot defeat the regime by becoming the photocopy of that regime. People want clarity. Only this clarity can now come through pressure from the civil society," he said. Referring to Khalid, a PhD scholar who was arrested on 13 September, 2020,  Jha said, "if Umar Khalid can conspire to organise riots, he would not have been in jail but would have been a Chief Minister." "In these difficult times you will not find heroes in films, but behind bars for speaking up against the government. The government could not deal with Shaheen Bagh, hence it resorted to demonising it," he said. Prashant Bhushan said "public spirited"youth like Khalid and others supported and helped the "peaceful and non-violent" anti-CAA protests. "Police have ignored the provocative speeches from BJP leaders like Kapil Mishra. It was visible that those speeches were meant to create riots. The police beat up peaceful protesters. They helped the actual rioters but targeted innocents." "This is not an investigation into the conspiracy but a conspiracy to incarcerate innocents. If there is a probe into the conspiracy by police to target innocents, the names of their political masters will come," Bhushan said as he joined the chorus of activists to repeal "draconian" laws like Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Varadarajan said the story of the past one year was not just the story of gross misuse of police power and persecution of innocent people involved in nonviolent protests but also of a "massive cover-up" to allow the guilty in the riots to go scot free. He said the anti-CAA protests drew a large number of people to the streets, who otherwise would have kept aloof from such political activity. "There was a wilful refusal to look at evidence. Even Khalid was arrested on bogus evidence," Varadarajan said referring to the police admitting to the court that the less than a minute video clip on which they have built the case against Khalid was obtained from TV channels, which sourced it from a tweet by BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya. He said one of the arguments being made in the chargesheets was that the purpose behind the riots on the eve of Donald Trump visit, was to highlight anti-CAA sentiments and defame the Prime Minister. "This is a brazen lie given that international media had been reporting the protests since last December even before the visit was announced," he said. "Khalid can be arrested under UAPA but the Hindutva leaders who called for genocide against Muslims were booked under flimsy sections so that they can get easy bail," he said. Hameed said there was an inversion of perpetrators with victims in the Delhi riots case. She said Khalid's only fault was to uphold the constitution and oppose CAA, NPR, NRC. "He saluted the women of Shaheen Bagh in Amaravati and called for upholding Gandhiji's ideals. The regime was scared of this courage. For them, an educated Muslim is an eye sore," she said. Bharat Bhushan said, "an authoritarian state needs enemies, Khalid has been made into one. The BJP is threatened by a young crop of leadership that has emerged from the people's movement. Devangana, Umar and the others are all part of the educated articulate non institutionalized organic leadership vouching for secularism and constitutionalism for religious pluralism, ecological justice, gender justice, justice for Dalits, - who scare this govt. That is why he is in jail." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-investigation-not-a-probe-into-conspiracy-but-a-conspiracy-to-target-innocents-activists-1029946.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||UP woman, raped repeatedly by her uncle for two years, attempts suicide||A 25-year-old woman, who was allegedly raped repeatedly by her uncle, a traffic police constable, over the past two years, tried to commit suicide by jumping into the Ganga, police said on Monday. She was saved by divers and police personnel on Sunday evening, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Pramod Kumar said. A case has been registered in the matter on the basis of the woman's complaint but no arrests have been made so far, the police said.  The woman, a resident of Mirzapur district, alleged that her uncle who is a traffic head constable, had called her family to Allahabad in January 2019 to attend Kumbh. During her stay in Allahabad, her uncle took her to a hotel where he gave her a cold drink laced with sedatives and when she became unconscious, he raped her and made a video to blackmail her, the woman said in her complaint. She claimed that her uncle raped her several times in Allahabad and Kanpur over the past two years. When he learnt that the woman is pregnant, he allegedly gave her a pill to abort the pregnancy, the DCP said. On Sunday, the accused and his son took her to a room in the Chakeri area in Kanpur where they made another video of her to further blackmail her. When she resisted, they started to beat her up and threatened her with dire consequences, Kumar said. After escaping from their clutches, the woman made a call to the police helpline number and jumped into the river, but was saved by PRV personnel, the DCP said. A case under relevant sections of the IPC has been registered against the traffic police constable and his son but the two have not been arrested yet, Kumar said. DCP (Traffic) BBGTS Murthy said the constable would be placed under suspension after recording her statement before the magistrate. A medical examination of the woman would also be conducted to confirm the charges, he added.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-woman-raped-repeatedly-by-her-uncle-for-two-years-attempts-suicide-1029966.html
13-09-2021||North and Central||Tantric arrested for raping woman on pretext of curing ailment||A tantric was arrested Monday for raping a woman on the pretext of curing her ailment in Khatoli town here, police said. Station House Officer (SHO) Satpal Singh said a case was registered under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused, Suhail. Suhail visited the victim’s house after her family called him to cure her disease, police said. The woman was left alone in a room with the tantric and he raped her, they said. She told her family about the incident so they caught hold of him and handed him over to the police. The victim was sent for medical examination.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tantric-arrested-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-curing-ailment-1030011.html
13-09-2021||Oasis||Education: Victimhood or responsibility?||It is our vision that decides whether we would become a medium for happiness or cause of miseries for others as well as for ourselves. We can see the best in everyone around us, only up to the extent to which we see the same in ourselves. If you see yourself as just a simple human being who looks at oneself with no colours, then ask yourself this simple question: Would the ones who value life choose to do any such activity which is 'detrimental' to the value of life? A simple human being’s answer will simply be: No, they won’t. The media is seen as a mirror of society. If you keep yourself abreast of current global affairs through media then it won’t be difficult for you to understand what diplomatic manoeuvrings day in and day out, at the level of nations depict. Precisely, we see powerful countries intentionally creating such situations wherein other countries are forced to buy war weapons from them or favourably open their markets for them. Though, enwrapped in a velvety kerchief of diplomacy, aren’t their intentions criminal in essence? Cut to another arena, don’t we see that by exploiting psychological weaknesses and biases which people have towards one or the other religion, subversive activities across the globe are rising?  Who is to be blamed for this? Business tycoons? Religious leaders? Political leaders? Media/ intellectuals? Criminals? Or we ourselves? Well, that I leave it to you to ponder over and answer for yourself individually as one’s answer may vary depending on one’s vision. But what decides one’s vision? Isn’t it education? And, isn’t our behaviour/conduct shaped by our education?  And incidents of crime are shaped by the failure of proper conduct/behaviour (read education) and vision. Crime means choosing to do that which is ‘detrimental to the value of life’.  Is our global education system not shaping up individuals with lopsided personalities? What should it be valuing: victimhood or responsibility? Separatist, compulsive, survival attitude or integral, united and ultimately liberal attitude? And what is really valued currently? Just meditate. Meditation enhances the vision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/education-victimhood-or-responsibility-1030026.html
13-09-2021||Opinion||Covid is on its way to becoming just another virus||By David Fickling In the days before Covid, I’d often get frustrated by the response that doctors would give when I turned up at their clinics with some infection or other: “It’s just a virus,” they’d say.As someone who’s long been fascinated by the detective work that goes into tracing the origins and history of infections,the answer always seemed too perfunctory. Which virus was it? Where and when did this strain emerge? How many other people were getting infected with this same variant this year? Those questions aren’t of much relevance to most general practitioners, because the majority of viruses simply burn themselves out as part of the teeming backdrop of endemic infections that roll around the globe each year. At some point, with rising immunity from vaccinations, infections and booster shots, Covid-19 will join that club.  Early last year, the world urgently needed to raise its sense of alarm around the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and see it as the imminent threat it was rather than a more routine infection on a par with influenza. Right now, though, the vaccinated parts of the planet need to mentally send themselves in the opposite direction. It's time to remind ourselves that, for those who’ve been inoculated, Covid-19 is no longer a horseman of the apocalypse but instead is gradually becoming “just a virus.” That’s broadly the place that some of the countries that have advanced furthest in their vaccination programs are reaching. In Singapore, where 81% are fully immunized, the Ministry of Health has started prioritizing data on hospitalizations rather than infections, since the vast majority of cases are now relatively benign. Israel is riding out a surge in new cases without returning to lockdowns for the vaccinated, since the vast majority of infections no longer result in serious illness. The calls from some quarters to stop publishing daily case totals may be premature for a disease that’s still killing thousands of people a day. At some point, though, when Covid has passed from its current pandemic status to the endemic situation where it fades into the background, we’re likely to be as vague on daily or even annual case numbers as we are in the case of influenza. It’s hard to believe that an infection that’s killed more than 4.5 million people could be thought of in such a routine way, but viruses through history have flipped between endemic and pandemic status with remarkable frequency. The “Russian Flu” pandemic which circled the world in the late 1970s appears to have been an unremarkable seasonal flu strain from the 1940s and 1950s, possibly released to the world anew via a laboratory accident. People over the age of 25, who’d been exposed to the variant in their childhood, were largely immune. Yellow fever, which shaped the history of the Americas for four centuries through its devastating effects on expeditionary military forces who lacked immunity, has now largely vanished from urban areas of the western hemisphere, while remaining a devastating infection in sub-Saharan Africa.  A July study in the journal Microbial Biotechnology even presented an argument that a coronavirus strain called HCoV-OC43 might have been responsible for an 1889 outbreak also known as the Russian Flu, arguably the first true modern global pandemic. That particular strain now crops up as one of the main causes of the common cold, a classic example of an endemic infection that doctors safely dismiss. We’re not at that stage yet. Fully vaccinated, I feel relatively sanguine about the likelihood that at some point in the years ahead I, too, will be exposed to Covid-19. Still, fully inoculated friends who recently moved from Sydney to New York and caught the virus within weeks of arrival have suffered a vicious infection that spread to their unvaccinated preteen son. That’s reason to keep treating this disease with respect, at least until everyone has had the chance to be vaccinated and we have a clearer sense of how long protection against severe infection persists. This terrible scourge will always be with us, but in a milder, less troubling form. After the trauma of the past two years, it’s hard to believe that we’ll ever look upon that prospect with a sense of equanimity — but that’s what must ultimately happen. The moment we’ve beaten Covid won’t be when we eradicate it from the human population, but when we’ve reached a level of vaccinated and natural immunity where we no longer have reason to fear it. That moment will come — and when it does, even this dreadful infection will be just another virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-is-on-its-way-to-becoming-just-another-virus-1029766.html
13-09-2021||Opinion||Cauvery crying: Large-scale tree planting not the panacea||It was late in the evening. I was standing on the banks of the River Cauvery in Biligundlu, near Hogenakkal Reserve Forest. Beautiful, majestic Arjuna or Terminalia arjuna trees (Holematthi in Kannada, Neer Matthi in Tamil) adorned the banks. Rocky outcrops lined with grasses formed a small island around which water flowed glistening in the evening sun. With gentle wing beats, a river tern approached, scanning the water, its brilliant yellow beak lit by the evening sun. I followed the tern with my binoculars. The tern plunged into the river, caught a fish, and flew away. I was walking along the riverine forest to document flora and fauna along the Cauvery. That was two decades ago. Earlier this year, our team began travelling along the Cauvery to study riverine birds, focusing on the globally threatened river tern and black-bellied tern. Our journey began near Mettur Dam and its massive Stanley reservoir. We recorded birds and habitat at every half a kilometre at the bank of Cauvery.  In contrast to my earlier experience, unpleasant scenery stretched along the river. Hardly any natural banks remained along this stretch. Natural vegetation remained in small pockets, while non-native eucalyptus, subabul, prosopis, water hyacinth, and Ipomea carnea proliferated the banks.  Sewage flowed into the river in many places, and many solid waste management units were situated along the river. Chicken wastes were generously dumped to feed the gaping hungry mouths of African catfishes in several aquaculture ponds. Numerous brick kilns, factories, burial grounds, and dumping yards thronged the banks, where electronic and plastic wastes were burned. They say, "civilisations are born at the river bank." Walking a few kilometres along the river, we can see how they were buried as well. We mapped features within one kilometre on either side of the river using Google Earth and field survey for about 400 km in the Tamil Nadu part of the Cauvery and 150 km along the northern distributary, Kollidam. Our findings were appalling and worrying. There were 21 barrages and dams, about 95 water pumping stations, some pumping units drilled right in the middle of the river, and water siphoned off day and night through pipes to faraway places. Nearly 50 large sewage drains, about 480 brick kiln factories, 74 sand mining locations (old and active, big and small), 20 eucalyptus plantations along the banks or even in river beds (especially from Karur to Tiruchirappalli). All this in only half the length of the Cauvery River. A riverine ecosystem consists of trees, scrubs, grasses, sedges, marshy areas and various other microhabitats and not just trees. Studies by scientists from the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), Bengaluru, have already shown that tree planting along rivers will not save the river, just as tree planting in some ecosystems can have negative impacts on hydrology.  It is important to focus on stopping sand mining and deforestation in the catchment areas and on ecological restoration of the riparian and floodplain ecosystem, which includes many different components such as sandbanks, riparian grasslands and swampy vegetation, shrubby and riverine natural vegetation. Blind, large-scale tree planting along the entire river will have disastrous impacts on all these natural attributes, destroying riverside habitats of species such as terns, waders, crocodiles, and otters. People engaged in large-scale tree planting do not understand ecological restoration. Restoration requires a clear understanding of what plant species should be planted, and where. For instance, we should not convert riverine grasslands, sandbanks, and riparian vegetation into tree plantations. Every habitat is unique. Nature education and outreach are important for nature conservation. Scientific concepts and research outputs should be communicated to everyone - from schoolkids to policymakers - preferably in the language they understand. What the recent Karnataka HC order indicates is that it is time scientists, subject experts, and educators also seriously reach out to the members of the judiciary. We need to create awareness about the difference between mere tree planting and ecological restoration and the basic biology of wildlife like peafowl and domestic animals, such as cows. The only hope for the common citizen in a democratic country is our judiciary. It is imperative that they are well informed about our precious natural world's key issues and concepts. Kaatrum Kadalum Punalume Nan (I am the wind, I am the sea, I am the river) sang the great Tamil poet Subramania Bharathi. To conserve and protect nature, it is important to feel oneness between us and nature. On ground nature conservation needs everyone's help, participation, and action.  Organisations such as Isha Outreach Foundation, with a spiritual bent, can sensitise the public to respect the water itself and create an emotional connection to rivers and other water bodies. The 1,900 temples and 60 major industries marked on Google Earth along the Kaveri and Kollidam rivers can be their target groups. Since Isha Foundation is a reputed organisation and people do dance to their tune, this could result in a cleaner river.  Community groups with relevant expertise can take up other aspects such as ecological restoration in catchment areas and floodplain ecosystems, integrated watershed management, sand-mining mafias, better sewage treatment, and solid waste management along the river by stronger regulations and implementation of laws in force. This may not be as easy as planting trees along the banks and returning to our homes, not bothering even to monitor whether the saplings survived or not.  Conscientious persons who care about the dying, crying Cauvery would follow sensible and scientific methods to revive it. Tree planting is easy; cleaning up the other mess is not. (The writer is an Ecologist with Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF), Mysore, working on threatened birds and their habitats) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/cauvery-crying-large-scale-tree-planting-not-the-panacea-1029798.html
13-09-2021||Opinion||Stalin's funeral and the seduction of dictators||Sergei Loznitsa's extraordinary reconstruction of Joseph Stalin's funeral in the documentary State Funeral (available on Mubi.com) is a study of many things. Filmed across the Soviet Union for over forty hours, the material offers a disturbing insight into the intimate relationship between dictators and the societies that produce them. It throws up clues about why large numbers of people remain indifferent to horrific crimes committed by dictatorships. History bears out that continued and shrill ideological propaganda—whether of the Left or the Right—creates interdependence between people and the very same dictators at whose hands the people suffer, directly or indirectly. State Funeral is an artefact of the past as much as it is an observation of the contemporary. Though confined to the last rites of Stalin, on a broader level, the film offers us troubling and prescient insights into the psychology of societies in the thrall of dictators. Unaccompanied by voiceover narration or talking heads, the footage captures faces of thousands of mourners lined up in an orderly procession, filing past Stalin's coffin. Many of them gazing into the camera and weeping, an array of apparatchiks delivering deadening speeches, deifying the dead leader and the party. Footage of scenes of ceremonial mourning in town after town, city after city, loudspeakers carrying emotional voices urging people to gather in town squares produces a surreal atmosphere. The people gathered seem, at times, not human but zombies or puppets strung on strings. In her review of the film, Sheila O' Malley writes, "for those who find it hard to comprehend why, for example, North Koreans erupted into a frenzy of public mourning in 2011 after the death of Kim Jong Il, who wonder whether or not all that weeping and wailing was really real, understanding how propaganda works is essential." The history of crimes committed by Stalin and the Soviet Communist Party has been publicly known for some time now. With the exception of party loyalists, few question the authenticity of these accounts. Such revelations have made airy dismissals of incarceration, fake trials, killings and starvation deaths—once labelled "bourgeois propaganda"—less easy. A note at the end of the documentary gives an idea of the extent of these crimes: "According to historical research, over 27 million Soviet citizens were murdered, executed, tortured to death, imprisoned, sent to Gulag labour camps, or deported during Stalin's rule. A further estimated 15 million starved to death." But State Funeral is not about Stalin's crimes. It is about the soulless cultures produced by totalitarian regimes and embodied in their leaders. The film nudges viewers to contemplate the deeper societal conditions that facilitate the emergence of dictators. Once such figures take hold of popular imagination, their legacies tend to endure long after the progenitors are gone. The film asks one to consider how the psychological effects of continuous exposure to propaganda can be undone. It asks one to think about the hypnotic spells demagogues cast on people, leaving a lasting imprint on the minds of people.  In an interview at the end of State Funeral, Loznitsa makes several significant observations. "The thought I wanted to express in this film is simple," he says: "Stalin is allegorical of all these people, who have a little Stalin in them, who share all these outlooks, and who compose little bricks of this apparatus of totalitarian human destruction." People, Loznitsa goes on to suggest, follow like "mice follow the piper, the one who plays the pipe, to their doom." A systematic erasure of individual conscience is an important way of producing a collective hypnosis-like state. Dictatorships, past and present, have dehumanised people. There are many ways to render a person non-human. The core of this debilitating agenda lies in intimidating and subjecting dissidents to the harshest penal strictures. This includes long years in prison following flimsy or trumped-up charges. In his book, Between Two Fires: Truth, Ambition, and Compromise in Putin's Russia, journalist Joshua Yaffa writes about Perm-36, a notorious Gulag prison launched in 1943 to jail those Stalin perceived as enemies of the state. The Gulag camps, Yaffa observes, "amounted to a death sentence." Nor is there anything special about Stalin's brand of authoritarianism. Dictatorships are global, and dictatorial tendencies can take hold even in democracies. "In that sense, this film is not about the past. It is about how seductive this form of power is in general, including for the masses, who are magnetised by this form and are, at the same time, sacrificial animals to this form," says Loznitsa in the interview. In India, there has been an alarming escalation in the number of people imprisoned for political reasons. Most of them, implicated in the Bhima Koregaon and northeast Delhi violence cases, face outlandish charges under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The seriously ill, elderly prisoners, are routinely denied bail sought on medical grounds and disallowed from visiting their families on losing loved ones. The most recent victim of such cruelty, Father Stan Swamy, a tribal rights activist, died in police custody this July. Despite urgent pleas, the Jesuit priest, suffering from Parkinson's disease and cancer, was repeatedly denied bail. Sometimes, by analysing the darkness surrounding dictatorships through the prism of the individual personalities of dictators, we overlook larger patterns. While individuals do play a critical role in moulding politics and society, peoples' (active or passive) willingness to endorse or look away from violations of other peoples' rights fosters the conditions for dictatorship. (Monobina Gupta is the author of 'Left Politics in Bengal' and 'Didi: A Political Biography') Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stalins-funeral-and-the-seduction-of-dictators-1029821.html
13-09-2021||Panorama||How can we help kids amid Covid-19 third wave threat?||Children are not miniature adults. The symptomatology, diagnosis, treatment, psychological implications in children are entirely different from adults. Half a tab of adult dose may not equal a child’s dosage! The second wave of Covid-19 has scared children. The third wave, if it comes, is said to be worse for children. The first wave of Corona had spared children, but the second wave has a mutant virus which is said to be more virulent and thus spreading like a wildfire. This time it has not even spared the newborn. Children below one year are more susceptible as the immune system is not that well developed. The only solace is that it has not shown to be as serious as that of adults and many of them can be treated at home.  We come across problems faced by children and parents and find them in many precarious situations.  Social problems A few difficulties faced are truly social problems than medical. Here are such queries posed to doctors, in particular, seeking solutions. We both are tested positive for Covid, and we have 3yr old child, what do we do? I have lost my wife due to Covid and we have a three-month-old baby and no one at home. I have also tested positive. Please advise me. Our friends have tested positive, father and mother both are hospitalised and father is in ICU. They have two kids. One has tested positive and the other is negative. How to manage them? A child is an orphan as both parents have succumbed to Covid19. We do not understand what to do. These are truly social problems. Even otherwise children have no schools and they watch TV to see deaths, scenes of crematoriums, ICU and crying people who have lost their relatives.  Children may not express themselves but land in headaches, anxiety, tension, stress syndrome, depression. Few of them particularly small ones throw temper tantrums as they are caged, not allowed to go out of the house or meet friends. This has led to a lot of psychological problems in children. It is unfortunate that this Corona has snatched away the enjoyable childhood from these children. This leads to frustration, anger, border, emotional stress, exhaustion. Finding right symptoms Parents should also be smart enough to pick up symptoms in children which could be due to coronavirus. Unlike adults, children do not suffer from severe symptoms. Some infected children may not have any symptoms also. Such children become super-spreaders of Coronavirus.  However, the common complaints by children are cough, body ache, sore throat, fatigue, loss of smell or taste, fever with chills, body ache, difficulty in breathing, nausea and vomiting. Parents need to be on their guard on children to find difficulty in breathing, inability to keep down any liquid, confusion, inability to wake up and bluish lips. Children below two years, born prematurely or obese children, children with chronic lung diseases are at higher risk. Multi-system inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) is a very important condition to be identified. If one finds persistent fever or fever more than 100.4°F which lasts for more than 24 hours, red rash, abdominal pain, red cracked lips, red eyes, swollen hands and feet should make one think of MIS-C and approach a paediatrician or a doctor immediately. These children may need to be investigated. Firstly, get an RT-PCR test which is the gold standard and confirmatory. Many parents are reluctant, which is not the right decision. Biomarkers like CRP, D-dimer, CPK, LDH, Serum Ferritin, X-ray Chest help in identifying the severity of the disease. In mild cases, CT Chest (Computerized Tomography or HRCT (High Resonance CT) are never done but certainly in moderate or severely ill children it is done, to guide the treatment. A negative RT-PCR test will not rule out Covid-19 disease, as false-negative reports due to various reasons. Children suffering from heart diseases, kidney, neurological, liver diseases or steroids need to be hospitalised for close observation. A small percentage of children only may need hospitalization. However, the majority need to be under home quarantine. (The author is a Dharwad-based paediatrician)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-can-we-help-kids-amid-covid-19-third-wave-threat-1030024.html
13-09-2021||Panorama||Karnataka is on course to vaccinate all adults against Covid-19 by end of November: Sudhakar||The Centre has set a target of vaccinating India’s adult population by December 31. Karnataka has advanced this by a month to November 30. How doable is this? We received more than 1.1 crore doses of vaccine in August and we have again received more than 33 lakh doses in the first 10 days of September. As a result, the supply has significantly increased. We have set a target to administer five lakh doses every day, which means about 1.5-2 crore doses per month. We have already crossed 4.71 crore doses cumulatively as on September 9. On Monday, I held a detailed review with Deputy Commissioners and Zilla Panchayat CEOs. As many as 23 districts are lagging behind in targets. All of them have been instructed to achieve 100% first dose coverage by the end of this month. I am confident that by November, the entire adult population in the state will be jabbed. What is the status of Covaxin production at the Malur plant in the Kolar district? There were some hiccups initially in the Bengaluru plant of Bharat Biotech, which delayed the production of Covaxin. The test batches of that plant weren’t satisfactory and got rejected, which led to a delay in ramping up production. But now, the batches have been approved by the competent authority and will be available for public consumption. The company will be able to ramp up almost 7-10 crore doses of its Covid vaccine in the coming weeks. In June, the Health Commissioner directed all private hospitals in the state to install oxygen plants in their premises within four months. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) calls this unviable. Will there be action against private hospitals that do not comply with the directive? As per the Centre’s mandate, hospitals with more than 100 beds should have the capacity to produce at least two times their oxygen requirement. Hospitals with 50 to 99 beds should meet at least their normal requirement. However, PHANA has raised concerns that the huge investment in the oxygen plant may be left underutilised as the demand is expected to be one-fifth during non-Covid times. They have demanded that the state government withdraw the circular. Since it is the Centre’s mandate, they may pursue it with the Centre through the Indian Medical Association or any other platform. Paid vaccination for construction workers came under heavy criticism by labour unions. Will the state now recall its Rs 15.6 crore order for two lakh doses from private hospitals? Since we have a sufficient supply of vaccines and we have already included construction workers in the priority group, the state will provide vaccines to all construction workers free of cost. In BBMP limits, we have already identified and prepared a list of construction workers through the CREDAI database. We are also conducting special camps at construction sites. How will the state use private quota vaccines without attracting criticism? For example, in September, PHANA said the state’s private sector has a quota of 15 lakh doses but demand for paid vaccination from the public is negligible. About two weeks ago, I met the representatives of pharma, medical devices manufacturing and other healthcare-related industries and urged them to explore the possibility of leveraging CSR funds for vaccination drives. If that is feasible, the private sector can purchase and donate vaccines to the state government for free distribution. Geetanjali Kirloskar was appointed as the head of the state CSR panel. How much CSR funds are now flowing into public healthcare? The main objective behind her appointment was to mobilise CSR funds of corporates to build primary health centres (PHCs) in Karnataka, with the government. The team has been getting the required support from the corporates. To begin with, they focused on Covid relief measures, procurement and distribution of oxygen and ventilators. The team coordinated with the government to get the support of JSW at Ballari to renovate the PHCs in that region and oversaw the completion of a 1,000-bed Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the district. Is there any effort by the state to procure Sputnik V from Dr Reddy’s? The gap between doses is 21 days and its uptake was seen to be faster among the public... There is no such proposal with the state government as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/karnataka-is-on-course-to-vaccinate-all-adults-against-covid-19-by-end-of-november-sudhakar-1030055.html
13-09-2021||Right in the Middle||The art of ‘uninviting’||‘Unfriending’ is an ‘asocial tool’ well-known on Facebook. And its lesser-known cousin, ‘uninviting’, is gaining notoriety in social circles. The term may be new, but believe me, the concept is old. Twenty-five years ago I learnt with a shock that after inviting, you could ‘uninvite’! ‘Modus Operandi’? Subtlety will suffice! Help the invitee get a second thought somehow to realise that the intent to invite was hardly there! I was then in a marriage hall in Basavanagudi when my cousin invited me to visit his Hulimavu bungalow. Arriving from Pune, I hardly knew the labyrinthine Bangalore. Therefore he offered a ride, planning to leave after lunch. But he changed plans after meeting his uncle — a bank manager, vis-à-vis a non-descript corporate executive like me! He met me after lunch and hinted that I should take an auto for his home since uncle and aunt were accompanying him. Leaving in haste, he suggested that I get directions from his brother who must be somewhere down the hall. Oh, he did not know that I had already heard the two of them conversing, and his brother had left for good! Well, it is another thing that we have not met after I settled in Bengaluru seven years ago. Sometimes you get a call about a function saying that the invitation and Google Map for directions are being sent in WhatsApp. Alas! The invitation arrives solo. You cannot find a new location in Bengaluru without a map. Not willing to miss the feast and/or offend your host, you condescend, call, and request him to send the map. Does nothing happen? Presume that you were ‘uninvited’! The wedding of a relative’s daughter is fixed. His teenage son brings the invite explaining that dad was busy, and would definitely phone later. You forgive this close-enough relative for skipping a personal visit. But you will know you were ‘uninvited’ when the promised call doesn’t come. A friend phones you about his son’s wedding, profusely expressing regrets for not visiting personally, and asking you to send your mailing address by WhatsApp for despatching the invite. You send your address promptly. Somehow the invite never arrives. The two blue ticks against your ‘sent’ message may hint that you were after all ‘uninvited’. A friend told me this. After working closely with the head honcho of a corporate for 15 years, he quit for personal reasons much against the latter’s wishes. Their relationship continued to look cordial. However, six months later, he received the boss’s only daughter’s wedding card, soon followed by an invite signed by and in the name of the boss’s PA! Not even a phone call from the boss! The list may go on, what with the ingenuity of humans!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-art-of-uninviting-1030023.html
13-09-2021||Second Edit||Monsoon plays truant||The proverbial vagaries of the monsoon may impact the country’s agriculture this year, causing more damage than in a normal year. Though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted an above-normal monsoon this year, the quantum of rainfall has not been true to the prediction. The rainfall was deficient by as much as 24 per cent in August. The entire monsoon season from June to September has seen a shortfall of 7.9 per cent, compared to the historical average. There was a three-week break from June 20 and this was the period when the kharif crop had to be sown. The monsoon revived later but the delay in sowing is bound to affect crops like rice, cotton and soyabean. The rainfall in September may help rabi crops but the kharif output will be negatively impacted. The impact on agriculture may not only be because of the shortfall but also because of the erratic distribution of the monsoon.  The impact will be particularly severe because agriculture had softened the Covid blow on the economy in 2019-20 and 2020-21. The farm sector grew 4.3 per cent in 2019-20 when the overall economy grew just 4 per cent, and it grew 4.6 per cent in 2020-21 when the economy shrunk by 7.3 per cent. This is unlikely to happen this year. The likely decline in farm output can have many consequences. It will mean lower income for farmers and farmhands and a fall in rural demand when there is a need to increase overall demand in the economy. When farm operations are affected employment levels fall in the sector. According to the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy (CMIE), agricultural employment has fallen from 124 million in June-July to 116 million in August. This may have been because of the employment shortfall in the monsoon sowing weeks.  A fall in crop output can lead to higher food prices, which will trigger inflation. There is already a high risk of inflation which has been in the danger zone in the past few months. The RBI has consciously chosen not to address it because growth had to be given higher priority. It also expects agriculture to perform well this year as it did in the last two years. All these calculations may go wrong if the farm sector suffers a setback. The share of agriculture in the economy has been declining over the years but it is still a sizeable 18%, and large numbers of people depend on it. The damage suffered will be particularly magnified when other sectors of the economy too struggle. Governments will have to give special attention to rural distress if agriculture takes a beating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/monsoon-plays-truant-1030018.html
13-09-2021||South||Countering Covid-19: Telangana to inoculate 3 lakh people daily||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed Health department officials to take up a special drive of vaccination against Covid-19 and inoculate three lakh people daily as there is a possibility of the state getting required quantities of the vaccine following augmented production. An official release issued on Sunday night, quoting KCR said, though the Covid-19 spread is in control in the State, the special drive of the vaccination should be taken up so that people should not suffer in future due to the pandemic. "Chief Minister Sri K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed the senior officials of the Medical and Health department to take up a special drive to vaccinate 3 lakh people daily to save people in the Telangana State from coronavirus," it said. The Medical and Health department officials brought to the notice of the CM that despite government and private educational institutions having opened, there is not much impact of the virus and there is no chance of increase of Covid-19 cases. The officials informed Rao that there are 2.80 crore people above the age of 18 and are eligible for vaccination in the state. So far 1.42 crore people were administered the first dose of the vaccine while 53 lakh completed their second dose also and 1.38 crore people are yet to be inoculated. The Chief Minister also instructed the officials concerned to utilise buildings of schools, colleges and other government and private infrastructure as vaccination centres. Rao urged the people to go to the nearest PHC and get them examined if they have any symptoms and take precautions such as wearing masks. According to the release, Rao has instructed the medical and health officials to be on high alert to help people in any eventuality due to Covid-19 or any other seasonal diseases besides setting up Oxygen plants and beds. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/countering-covid-19-telangana-to-inoculate-3-lakh-people-daily-1029787.html
13-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu passes Bill to exempt students from NEET||Tamil Nadu Assembly on Monday passed a bill to exempt students of the state from appearing in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into medical and dental courses, four years after a similar bill passed in the Assembly was rejected by the Union Government. The Bill says admission to undergraduate medical courses will be held based on the marks scored by students in their plus-two exams as was the case before NEET came into existence in 2017. The Bill will now be sent to the President for his assent, even as the BJP government at the Centre strongly supports the conduct of NEET. Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Act, 2021 was supported by all political parties, including principal Opposition AIADMK, barring the BJP, whose legislators staged a walkout.  Tabling the Bill, Chief Minister M K Stalin declared that the DMK government’s “legal battle” against NEET has begun. “The notion that NEET will improve the standard of medical education is wrong. Competitive exams alone cannot judge students,” Stalin said, adding that NEET has taken the lives of in Tamil Nadu, the “land of social justice". As Stalin tabled the Bill, MLAs from the principal Opposition party, AIADMK, staged a walkout led by their leader Edappadi K Palaniswami who accused the DMK of “failing students” by giving a “false promise” that NEET will be done away. However, AIADMK members returned to the House for the passage of the bill.  “It is evident from the Commission's report that NEET is not an equitable method of admission. The experience of the past four years of NEET has shown that the exam has shattered the hopes and dreams of Tamil Nadu students aspiring for admissions to medical and dental courses, particularly, students from the socially and economically backward classes,” the Bill said.  Stalin added that the Justice Rajan committee concluded that NEET places students from economically weaker sections at a “disadvantageous position.”  Rejecting allegations by Palaniswami on NEET, Stalin told the Assembly that NEET was never held in Tamil Nadu as long as J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi were alive. “The first exam was held in 2017. The then AIADMK government never took any step to stop the conduct of the exam,” Stalin charged.  The Commission was appointed by the DMK government to study the impact of NEET on students from economically backward sections of the society. The Bill was passed a day after a 19-year-old died by suicide hours before he was to attend the exam.  The Bill said the experience of the past four years of NEET has shown that the exam has “shattered the hopes and dreams of Tamil Nadu students aspiring for admissions to medical and dental courses, particularly, students from the socially and economically backward classes.”  “The extra examination which students are compelled to face, other than the qualifying examination has caused a huge financial burden to the students from socially and economically backward classes. It festers inequality, as it favours the rich and more privileged class of society who are able to afford special coaching, apart from pursuing Class XII. It virtually barricades the underprivileged social groups from medical and dental education,” the Bill said.  The Bill said admissions to medical courses based on plus-two marks will “ensure social justice, uphold equality and equal opportunity, and protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated against.”  The Commission also concluded that if NEET continues for a few more years, the health care system of Tamil Nadu will be very badly affected and there may not be enough doctors for being posted at Primary Health Centres or Government Hospitals and that the rural and urban poor may not be able to join the medical courses. NEET is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with 14 young students ending their lives either due to fear of appearing for the exam or due to not landing in a medical college despite scoring “high marks.”  While the DMK blames the AIADMK for allowing the exam in Tamil Nadu, the tables have turned now. AIADMK, the principal Opposition party, pinned the blame for the 19-year-old’s death squarely on the ruling party which promised to abolish NEET once it came to power. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-passes-bill-to-exempt-students-from-neet-1029813.html
13-09-2021||South||Tamil is the 'language of Gods', says Madras HC||Hailing Tamil as the "language of Gods," the Madras High Court has said temple consecrations across the country should be done reciting Tamil hymns composed by saints like Azhwars and Nayanmars, besides others like Arunagirinathar. A bench of Justice N Kirubakaran, since retired, and Justice B Pugalendhi, in a recent order also said that in our country "it is made to believe that Sanskrit alone is Gods' language." In various countries and religions, different types of beliefs were in existence and the places of worship also change according to the culture and religion. "In those places, only the local language was stated to be used for doing heavenly service. However, in our country, it is made to believe that Sanskrit alone is God's language and not any other language is equivalent. No doubt, Sanskrit is an ancient language with enormous ancient literature. The belief is spread in such a way that only if the Sanskrit Vedas are recited, the Gods will listen to the prayers of the devotees," the bench said. The court was hearing a petition seeking consecration of a temple in Karur district in the state seeking direction to government authorities, including the Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment to conduct consecration/ Kudamuzhukku/ Nanneerattu function of Arulmigu Pasupatheshwara Swamy Tirukovil by chanting Thirumuraikal, Tamil Saiva Manthiram (hymns) and also songs of Saint Amaravathi Aatrangarai Karurar. "Tamil is not only one of the earliest ancient languages of the world but also a 'language of Gods'. It is believed that Tamil language is born out of pellet drum which fell from Lord Shiva while he was dancing. Another School of thought is that Lord Muruga created Tamil language." "As per mythology, Lord Shiva presided over the first academy (First Tamil Sangam). It is believed that Lord Shiva played 'Thiruvilayadal' to test the knowledge of Tamil poets. The above would only mean that Tamil language is connected with Gods. When it is connected with Gods, it is a Godly language. Such a Godly language has to be used while performing Kudamuzhuku," the court said. The judges noted every language spoken by the people is God's language. "Man cannot create language. The languages are in existence for centuries together and passed on from one generation to the other generation. There can only be an improvement in the existing language and there cannot be any creation of language," they added. "The petitioner seeks for performing Kudamuzhuku in a particular temple by reciting Tamil verses. However, it is not only for that temple but throughout the country, all the temples should be consecrated by reciting Tamil Thirumurai and other hymns composed by Saints like Alwargal and Nayanmargal, apart from Pattinathar, Arunagirinathar etc," the bench noted. In an apparent reference to the two Dravidian parties-- the DMK and the AIADMK, the court said "even the policy makers who have been ruling the state from the year 1967 onwards are also interested in making use of Tamil in all the fields." If Tamil hymns cannot be used in the temples located in Tamil Nadu, they can be used nowhere else. The court pointed out at the saying that Tamil has been developed by Alwars (Vaishnavite saints) and noted that even as on today, at the holy Tirumala Hills in Tirupathi, during the Tamil month of Margazhi (December-January), only "Thirupavai", rendered by Vaishnavite saint Andal is recited in praise of the presiding deity. "Even according to Bhagavat Geetha, Lord Krishna stated that he manifests himself in the month of Margazhi. Thus, God Thirumal would like to hear Tamil Thirupavai during the month of Margazhi which he is fond of. When Vaishnavism gave importance and prominence to Tamil hymns, Saivism equally gave importance to Tamil, due to the availability of many kinds of literature, especially Bakthi literature." "If God could not understand Tamil, how was it possible for die-hard devotees who were committed to worshiping of Lord Shiva, Lord Thirumal, Lord Muruga etc., to have composed so many hymns in praise of them. Therefore, the theory that God understands only one language cannot be believed," the court said. The court further said that as far as the scientific evidence available Sanskrit language is concerned, the age is first Century BC. Though it is stated the language is in existence for more than 3000 years and passed on orally, it is only hypothetical as proof is not available. However, it is also one of the ancient languages which is required to be preserved. "However, Tamil has got scientific evidence to prove its antiquity. Therefore, it cannot be said that only one language alone is God's language and other languages are not," it said. Sadly the estampages of Tamil inscriptions taken by the British are not properly preserved and many of them are lost or damaged. It is also stated that many precious palm leaf manuscripts containing Tamil literature were burnt or thrown into river, the court said. It credited Tamil scholar U Ve Swaminatha Iyer for being responsible for retrieving and preserving the palm leaf manuscripts and Tamil materials. "But for him, many of the precious valuable literature could not have been saved," the bench said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-is-the-language-of-gods-says-madras-hc-1029841.html
13-09-2021||South||Malayalam actor Rizabawa no more||Malayalam film actor Rizabawa died due to heart-related ailments on Monday, family sources said. He was 54. The actor became popular for his role John Honai in the movie In Harihar Nagar. He was admitted to a private hospital here three days ago. His end came this afternoon. Rizabawa, appeared on the silver screen in 1990 through Doctor Pashupathi  Later, he appeared in Chambakkulam Thachan, Kaaboolivala,  Aniyan bava Chettan bava, Niram, and Nasrani, among others. He had acted in around 150 movies and over 20 television serials||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-actor-rizabawa-no-more-1029896.html
13-09-2021||South||AIE flight mishap report sheds light on serious safety concerns||The rescue operations after the Air India Express flight crash at Kozhikode International Airport in Kerala last year received much appreciation owing to the involvement of local people. But now there are reasons to raise eyebrows over the rescue operations, as the investigation report into the crash pointed out that the airport fire and rescue crew engaged in the rescue operation lacked skills even to open the cockpit emergency exit door. Several such serious safety lapses and non-compliance of recommendations of a similar mishap at Mangaluru in 2012 have been highlighted in the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau's investigation report on the Boeing 737-800 aircraft crash at Kozhikode on August 7. There were even attempts to suppress the lapses. The crash of the flight from Dubai under the Vande Bharat Mission claimed 21 lives and injured 165, many of whom are yet to recover completely.  Aviation sector sources said that while non-adherence of SOP by the pilot have been highlighted as the probable cause for the flight crash, the investigation team headed by Captain S S Chahar, a formerly designated examiner, also highlights several other lapses like the lack of adequate training of the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) personnel. According to the investigation report, it was found that the ARFF personnel at the airport had not undergone aircraft familiarisation training on B737 aircraft and were not aware of how to open the cockpit emergency exit door. It is evident from the statement of witnesses and personnel involved in the fire and rescue activity that considerable effort and time were spent to gain access to the cockpit for rescuing the pilots, the report says. The report also points fingers at an attempt to mislead the investigation. The head of the fire department, as well as the ARFF crew, told the investigation team that no familiarisation training for ARFF personnel was given. However, records of Aircraft Familiarisation Training were later provided to the investigation team stating that training was being regularly conducted over the years. This is contrary to the written statements and depositions by the head of the fire department and fire crew earlier, the report says. The investigation team also pointed out that the Kozhikode and Mangalore airports that share similar weather phenomena, topography and operational constraints were still not having Runway Centreline Lights despite many earlier accidents and incidents, including the 2012 mishap at Mangalore. Kozhikode International Airport director R Mahalingam told DH that the recommendations of the investigation report were being implemented. Operation of wide-bodied aircraft to Kozhikode, which was suspended following the mishap, might be restored only after fulfiling the requirements. However, land acquisition for the expansion of the airport is still unresolved due to differences between the AAI and the local people. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aie-flight-mishap-report-sheds-light-on-serious-safety-concerns-1029915.html
13-09-2021||South||Explained | Why is Tamil Nadu seeking exemption from NEET?||Tamil Nadu Assembly on Monday passed a bill to exempt students of the state from appearing in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into medical and dental courses, four years after a similar bill passed in the Assembly was rejected by the Union Government. The Bill introduced in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on September 13 sought exemption for the state from this exam. With the Bill, the government wants entrance to happen on the basis of marks obtained in Class 12. This is to "ensure social justice." What sparked an uproar and led to the Bill was the death of a 19-year old boy named Dhanush, who died by suicide, hours before he was supposed to take the exam for the third time.   His death triggered a political furore in the state, with the Opposition AIADMK holding the Stalin government responsible. However, the state's ruling party DMK blames the Center over the issue.  In Tamil Nadu, NEET has been a sensitive subject where several students have allegedly died by suicide over the years after failing to qualify for the exam. This is not Tamil Nadu's first attempt to get exemption from the exam; an effort was made in 2017 through ordinance but didn't get President's nod.  In 2020, ahead of the Assembly polls, DMK promised to do away with the exam. When the assembly convened, Opposition leader K Palaniswami raised the issue of Dhanush's death and attacked DMK for not living up to its promises. Opposition MLAs came to the House wearing black badges in protest and also staged a walkout.  However, Stalin responded by saying that NEET was conducted for the first time in Tamil Nadu when Palaniswami was the CM.  In the assembly, while introducing the Bill, Stalin sought everyone’s support for social justice. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/explained-why-is-tamil-nadu-seeking-exemption-from-neet-1029924.html
13-09-2021||South||Kerala nuns protest against priest for 'hate speech'||While the row over 'narcotic jihad' remark of a bishop in Kerala was aggravating with political parties allegedly trying to take advantage of the communally sensitive issue, four nuns have staged protest against a Christian priest for allegedly making anti-Muslim remarks. Nuns of a convent at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district, who earlier staged demonstration seeking action against rape accused Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal, had raised their voice against the alleged hate speech of a priest. The nuns lead by Anupama K told reporters that the priest said during a service in the chapel at the Sr Francs Mission convent that the community members should boycott commercial enterprises run by Muslim community members. The nuns said that they raised objection against the speech and walked out of service. Meanwhile, the row over 'narcotic jihad' remark of bishop of Pala in Kottayam district, Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, witnessed further political developments on Monday with a delegation of BJP leaders calling on the bishop offering support and BJP leader turned Goa governor P S Sreedharan Pillai and BJP Kerala state president K Surendran too backing the bishop. Congress leaders alleged that the BJP was trying to take political advantage by creating a communal divide and accused the left-front government of not initiating any steps to curb it. Opposition leader V D Satheesan alleged that the left front could be having dubious political motives in remaining as spectators of the ongoing communally-toned debates over the 'narcotic jihad' remark. Congress leaders also flayed the Goa governor as well as Union Minster of State for External Affairs V Muraleedhran for backing the bishop for the communally sensitive remark. Though police petitions were filed against the Pala bishop for the communally sensitive remark that jihadis were trying to destroy non-Muslims through 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad', the police was yet to register any case. A police official in Kottayam said that preliminary probe into the petitions were progressing and only on the basis of that a decision would be taken on whether to register a case or not. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-nuns-protest-against-priest-for-hate-speech-1029954.html
13-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu passes bill on ‘Right to Sit’ for those working in establishments||Employees working in shops and establishments in Tamil Nadu, especially those in textile and jewellery showrooms, can now claim their ‘Right to Sit’ while at work. The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Monday passed a bill that makes it mandatory for establishments to provide seating facilities to all employees.  With the passage of the Bill, Tamil Nadu will be the second state in India to legalise ‘Right to Sit’ after Kerala. The Bill which was tabled last week was passed by voice vote in the Assembly on Monday.  The bill to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947, was moved by Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C V Ganesan.  The Bill noted that persons employed in shops and establishments in the State are made to stand throughout their duty time resulting in varied health issues. “Considering the plight of the employees who are on their toes throughout their duty time, it is felt necessary to provide seating facility to all the employees of the shops and establishments,” the Bill said, adding that the issue was placed before the State Labour Advisory Board meeting on September 4, 2019, which was approved. The Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments (Amendment) Act, 2021 envisages providing “suitable seating arrangements” for all employees so that they make take advantage of any opportunity to sit in the course of their work and thereby avoid ‘on their toes’ situation throughout the working hours.  Thousands of employees in textile and jewellery showrooms stand for long hours as they cater to customers. The lack of seating arrangements for them has been a major issue that has been highlighted every now and then.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-passes-bill-on-right-to-sit-for-those-working-in-establishments-1029965.html
13-09-2021||South||Rural local body polls in nine districts of Tamil Nadu next month||Rural local bodies in nine districts will go to the polls in two phases on October 6 and October 9, the first elections after the DMK government took charge in May this year. Elections in these nine districts were not held in 2019 due to the bifurcation of old districts and the creation of new ones. Elections for 27,003 posts will be held in two phases, the State Election Commission announced on Monday, adding that the nomination papers for contesting the elections will begin on September 15. The districts where the elections will be held are Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruppattur, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Villupuram, and Kallakurichi. V Palanikumar, State Election Commissioner, said bureaucrats will be appointed for overseeing the poll process. He said while the polling will take place on October 6 and 9, the counting of votes will be taken up on October 12. Polling will be held from 7 am to 6 pm. Indirect elections to over 3,000 posts like district panchayat and panchayat union chairpersons and vice-chairpersons will be held on October 22. Over 76.59 lakh persons, including 38.81 lakh women, are eligible to vote in the elections.  Sources said the elections for town panchayats, municipalities, and corporations will be held by the end of the year. The then AIADMK government had held polls for rural local bodies in 29 districts in 2019 after a gap of three years, following a nudge from the Supreme Court.  Since this is the first election after it came to power, the ruling DMK has been consulting its district secretaries regularly asking them to prepare for the polls. Opposition AIADMK has also appointed in-charges to oversee the election process.  Local bodies in these districts remain unrepresented since October 2016. The polls then were cancelled by the Madras High Court on a petition filed by the DMK demanding completion of reservation of wards and delimitation. Taking the litigation as an opportunity to delay the polls as it was in shambles following the death of its leader J Jayalalithaa, the ruling AIADMK gave one excuse or the other to postpone the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rural-local-body-polls-in-nine-districts-of-tamil-nadu-next-month-1029982.html
13-09-2021||South||SDPI backs left front in Kerala local body||In a political embarrassment to the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, the LDF got power of a local body in the state with the support of SDPI, a political outfit of the Popular Front of India. Left front leaders of Kerala, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, used to constantly accuse the Congress-led United Democratic Front of nexus with communal outfits for electoral gains. Hence, the SDPI supporting the left front in a no-confidence motion against the UDF at Erattupetta municipality in Kottayam district on Monday could be a major embarrassment to the LDF. Congress leaders have started attacking the left front over the issue alleging of CPM-SDPI nexus, with the left front leaders maintaining silence. In the 28-member council of the municipality, nine LDF members, five SDPI members and one Congress dissident member backed the no-confidence motion moved by LDF. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sdpi-backs-left-front-in-kerala-local-body-1029986.html
13-09-2021||South||Telangana high court declines to lift its orders prohibiting PoP Ganesh idols immersion in Hussain Sagar||The TRS government and the Hyderabad civic body officials are in a fix as the Telangana high court on Monday refused to alter its orders prohibiting immersion of Plaster of Paris Ganesh idols in the Hussain Sagar lake and other such water bodies in the city. Hussain Sagar is a large water body in the heart of the city where thousands of Ganesh idols are immersed every year, including the 40 feet tall Khairatabad Ganesh, as a mark of culmination of the 10 day festivities. Ganesh puja this year commenced on 10 September. Though concerns were being raised and court cases filed about the environmental impact, water pollution caused by the PoP, chemical-laced colours and other materials etc., used in the idol making, the successive state governments and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation have apparently failed to offer a feasible alternative. Reviewing one such petition against the idol immersion, the high court had on 9 September put a ban on PoP idols submersion in the lake. The court stated that PoP idols could be taken to the small ponds created for the purpose by the GHMC. Officials have now reportedly submitted that these ponds would be inadequate. The court on Monday took up a review petition filed by the GHMC seeking its approval for PoP idol immersions in the lake this year. The court has declined to modify its orders, and asked the officials to plan alternative arrangements. The GHMC review petition also came after the Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi, the umbrella body of the pandal organisers in the city, appealed to the K Chandrasekhar Rao government to do so. Some of the TRS ministers had also hoped that the court would offer relief. “Ganesh idols are already put up everywhere. We assure that the lake would be cleaned within 48 hours of immersion,” said Srinivas Yadav, animal husbandry minister, on Sunday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-high-court-declines-to-lift-its-orders-prohibiting-pop-ganesh-idols-immersion-in-hussain-sagar-1029989.html
13-09-2021||South||Telugu actor Sai Dharam Tej's collar bone fracture surgery successful, to remain in ICU for supportive care||The condition of Telugu actor and “Megastar” Chiranjeevi's nephew Sai Dharam Tej, who was seriously injured in a bike accident on Friday, continues to be stable. A statement from the Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad, where he is undergoing treatment, said that the “weaning from respiratory support has been initiated.” Tej would continue to remain in the ICU for further observation and supportive care, doctors said on Monday. The hospital has on Sunday stated that a procedure for collar bone fracture was successfully completed by a multidisciplinary expert team. Tej, 34, is a nephew of popular actors Chiranjeevi and Pawan Kalyan, and has acted in several Telugu films like Supreme, Chitralahari, Subramanyam for Sale. Tej was grievously injured in the accident on Friday night, while riding a Triumph motorbike on the city roads.  Cyberabad police said that the actor was riding in “a rash and negligent manner” and fell off the motorcycle on the road from Durgam cheruvu cable bridge towards IKEA, at Madhapur, the IT hub of the city. A case was booked under IPC 336, 279 & Section 184 of the Motor Vehicle Act. While some eye-witness accounts stated that a patch of sand accumulated on the road, added to the bike speed, as having caused the accident, the police claimed that the road is being maintained well as per the standards with appropriate markings and sign boards installed. “While we wish for the speedy recovery and well-being of Tej, the unfortunate incident would not have happened had he exercised caution and drove the vehicle within the permissible speed limits and had strapped his helmet properly,” the Cyberabad Police stated. Tej is known to have helped road accident victims in the past. In September 2019, Tej shifted a person injured in a bike accident, in his car, reportedly to the same Apollo Hospitals where he is under medical care now. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telugu-actor-sai-dharam-tejs-collar-bone-fracture-surgery-successful-to-remain-in-icu-for-supportive-care-1030040.html
13-09-2021||State||Former Union Minister Oscar Fernandes passes away||Former Union Minister and Rajya Sabha member Oscar Fernandes passed away on Monday. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mangaluru. He had suffered head injury after a fall while practicing yoga at his residence on July 18. He was shifted to the ICU and remained critical, unconscious since then. Oscar had the credit of winning Udupi Lok Sabha constituency for five consecutive terms from 1980 to 1996. Fernandes, born on March 27, 1941, to Rockey Fernandes and Leonis Fernandes, started his political career as Councillor of Udupi Municipal Council in 1972. He is survived by his wife Blossom Fernandes, son and a daughter. He had served as the Minister for Highway during the UPA regime. Fernandes is known to enjoy a good rapport with leaders across the hierarchy in the Congress. Being a close confidant of former Congress President Sonia Gandhi, he had served as the AICC General Secretary. He used to play the role of a trouble-shooter in resolving various issues. He contested from Congress (I) from Udupi Lok Sabha constituency in 1980 and won the election against Dr V S Acharya. In the 1984 election, Oscar had won against BJP’s K S Hegde by winning 62 per cent of the votes. In 1989 election, he had won against M Sanjeeva of Janata Dal while in the 1991 election, he won against BJP’s Rukmayya Pooary and in 1996, he had won against I M Jayaram Shetty of the BJP.  After losing the election 1998 against BJP’s Jayaram Shetty, he did not contest for the Lok Sabha election and later served as Rajya Sabha member. Mangalore University had conferred honorary doctorate to him in the year 2010. Check out the latest DH Videos here: Oscar Fernandes||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-union-minister-oscar-fernandes-passes-away-1029835.html
13-09-2021||State||PM Modi condoles death of Oscar Fernandes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed anguish at the death of veteran Congress leader and former Union minister Oscar Fernandes.  Fernandes died at a private hospital in Karnataka. He was 80. "Saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. In this sad hour, my thoughts and prayers are with his family and well-wishers. May his soul rest in peace," the prime minister said.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-oscar-fernandes-1029908.html
13-09-2021||State||Will try to install rooftop solar power units in all govt buildings: V Sunil Kumar||The state government will make efforts to install rooftop solar power units in all public buildings, Karnataka Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar told the Legislative Council on Monday. The minister was responding to a question raised by Congress MLC M Narayanaswamy. The state government has set a target of generating 372 MW of solar electricity for 2021-22, Kumar added. The government is keen on ensuring that all gram panchayat office buildings implement rooftop solar energy generation. The government has already installed rooftop solar atop the Vikas Soudha building. A survey has also been completed to install the required infrastructure in Vidhana Soudha and MS Building, the minister added.  However, raising objection to Kumar's reply, Narayanaswamy pointed out that the government lagged behind in its target, having generated only about 48 MW until July this year. "Half of the financial year is already gone. How will the government achieve its target within this year," he asked, adding that there were several local hurdles for installing rooftop solar units in gram panchayats, too, coming in the way of the government's ambition. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-try-to-install-rooftop-solar-power-units-in-all-govt-buildings-v-sunil-kumar-1029969.html
13-09-2021||State||Tusker dies of electrocution in Mysuru||A  30-year-old tusker died of electrocution at Doddaharave Cauvery Wildlife limits, in Periyapatna taluk, Mysuru district, on Monday. The tusker had come in contact with the solar fence that was supplied power illegally and died. Range Forest Officer Hanumantharaju lodged a complaint with the Bylakuppe police against Jaisus Joseph of Arekadu village, near Siddapura, Kodagu district, owner of the farm and Seshappa of Betamangala village, who was looking after the farm. Veterinarian Dr Wasim Mirza conducted the post mortem. ACF A V Satish, Cesc Assistant Executive Engineer Anil Kumar also visited the spot. Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tusker-dies-of-electrocution-in-mysuru-1030009.html
13-09-2021||State||Nominations open for DH Changemakers 22 to Watch in 2022||At the turn of every year, DH honours remarkable individuals from across Karnataka who make a difference to lives around them or sparkle in their area of specialisation, often overcoming difficult odds to do so. Since the Changemaker awards were instituted in 2019, we have recognised an array of bright lights including social workers, sportspeople, scientists, artistes, conservationists and entrepreneurs. We are now initiating the process of identifying DH Changemakers 22 to Watch in 2022, with a view to publishing the list, as usual, in our New Year Day edition. Like last year, while we continue to search for people who excel in all fields of endeavour, we will make a special effort to find those who have unflinchingly taken on the challenges posed by Covid-19. We are relaxing the age criterion, which is normally 35 and below, for this purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nominations-open-for-dh-changemakers-22-to-watch-in-2022-1030070.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar arrive at Vidhana Soudha on bullock carts||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah, State Congress president D K Shivakumar along with other party leaders arrived at Legislative Assembly on bullock carts, in protest against inflation, to participate in the Monsoon Session of the state legislature. The 10-day-long session will be held from September 13 to 24 at Vidhana Soudha.  The Congress, which recently held its legislature party meeting, chaired by its leader Siddaramaiah, to discuss the party's strategy during the session, has said it will raise the issues of price rise, deteriorating law and order situation and distressing financial position of the state, among others. This is the first session of the Karnataka legislature after Basavaraj Bommai took charge as the Chief Minister and his new cabinet assumed office, following the exit of state BJP strong man B S Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-d-k-shivakumar-arrive-at-vidhana-soudha-on-bullock-carts-1029808.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC notice to ex-Karnataka speaker Ramesh Kumar on former MLA's plea against defamation proceedings||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to former Karnataka Assembly Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar on a plea filed by former MLA, G K Venkata Siva Reddy against defamation proceedings initiated against him. The former legislator was alleged to have made defamatory statements on December 20, 2019 in his address to media in Vidhan Sabha against Ramesh. He accused Ramesh of encroachment of 120 acres of forest and government land and other irregularities during his stint as Health Minister, causing loss of Rs 533.22 Crores as per the Comptroller and Auditor General report. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J K Maheshwari sought a response from Ramesh within four weeks on Reddy's petition against the Karnataka High Court's February 6 judgement. Reddy, led by advocate Sanjay M Nuli, questioned the validity of the High Court's judgement which had quashed taking cognisance on charges of extortion and criminal intimidation by a Srinivaspura court but allowed the defamation proceedings to continue on the complaint by Ramesh. The petitioner, who has been political rival of Ramesh, current MLA from Srinivaspura constituency, contended that there was absolutely no material on record other than the baseless allegations of the complainant that he had committed slander. He also submitted that his statement was expressly covered under first exception to Section 499 (defamation) of the IPC, that is, it would not be defamation if the assertion was true and made with public good. "As a matter of fact, the order dated 15.07.2006 passed by the Deputy Conservator of Forests, Kolar Forest Division in Srinivaspur Range Forest Offence Case No.59/2006-07 clearly states that the respondent (Ramesh) had in fact encroached upon the forest land and there was no falsehood in the statements of the petitioner," his plea alleged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-notice-to-ex-karnataka-speaker-ramesh-kumar-on-former-mlas-plea-against-defamation-proceedings-1029914.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly condoles long list of leaders, personalities||The Karnataka Legislative Assembly condoled the demise of a long list of former ministers and eminent personalities on Monday, several of whom perished during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Victims of the pandemic in the months of April and May this year, and those who lost their lives during the floods, were also condoled. As many as 31 prominent personalities were remembered on the first day of the Assembly session. Assembly Speaker Visweshwar Hegde Kageri said this was perhaps the longest list of people ever condoled in the House. Those remembered during the session include Hangal MLA C M Udasi, former Speaker Krishna, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, former Union Minister Babagouda Patil, former ministers G Madegowda, K B Shanappa and Prof Mumtaz Ali Khan, freedom fighter H S Doreswamy, Dalit poet Siddalingaiah, environmental activist Sundarlal Bahuguna, renowned athlete Milkha Singh, actor Jayanthi among others. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai recalled his association with Udasi, a polyglot. "He was my guide and mentor after my father passed away," Bommai said. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy rued that MLAs should have condoled the death of all the 31 personalities individually. "But, the numbers are too large for that," he said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, in his address, said that it was unfortunate that many people died during the second wave of the pandemic for want of oxygen, ventilator, ICU beds, medicine and other medical facilities. "The number of victims is 10 times the number claimed by the government," he said. Recalling his interactions with actor Jayanthi, Siddaramaiah said she had contested from the Chikkaballapur Lok Sabha constituency. "She used to fondly call me, 'What hero?' when we met. In response I used to always call her 'evergreen heroine'," he said. Talking about his association with Udasi, Madhuswamy said that the former had a cheerful outlook about life. "As he grew past 80, he joked about his age by reading the digits of his age in reverse. When he was 82, he said he was 28 years old and when he was 83, he said he was 38," Madhuswamy said. Udasi had an interesting outlook on life, the minister said, recalling a quote Udasi once said on how he managed to look smart even in old age. "Joothe jab purane hothe hai, polish ki zaroorat zyada padthi hai," Madhuswamy quoted Udasi, meaning an old shoe required more polish. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-condoles-long-list-of-leaders-personalities-1029932.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 673 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 673 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total to 29,62,408. This is the lowest number of daily cases since March. Bengaluru Urban reported 214 and three deaths. The state recorded 13 new Covid fatalities as the toll reached 37,517. The day also saw 1,074 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,08,622. As on Sept 13, the state has 16,241 active carriers of the virus. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.56 per cent, case fatality rate  was 1.93 per cent.   Dakshina Kannada recorded five deaths in the last 24 hours. Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Kodagu, Shivamogga and Tumakuru reported one death each. Dakshina Kannada logged highest cases after Bengaluru with 115 new infections followed by Udupi 75 and Hassan 51. A total of 4,54,13,942 samples have been tested. Of which 1,19,014 were tested on Monday alone. The state failed to meet its daily vaccination target of five lakh yet again. A total of 3,53,759 doses were administered on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-673-new-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-1029972.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister CN Ashwath Narayan says govt's focus is skilling, not job creation||Karnataka Higher Education and Skill Development Minister CN Ashwath Narayan told the Legisalative Council on Monday that the state government's main focus is not the creation of jobs, but training candidates.  Narayan was responding to a question by Congress MLC BK Hariprasad, who asked about increasing unemployment rate in Bengaluru.  Surveys by private portals have shown that cities like Pune and Hyderabad are way ahead in terms of employment generation compared to Bengaluru, Hariprasad said. "Only 4 per cent of people in Bengaluru get employment opportunity. The city is falling behind in job creation," he said, questioning the government on the efficacy of its skill training programmes.  To this, Narayan said his department's focus was on skilling and not job creation, inviting criticism. "If the government is not interested in job creation, what is the point of skill training," Hariprasad asked in retort.  Meanwhile, even with the government's several skill training programmes, there have not been adequate number of placements, Narayan admitted.  To bridge the gap between training and placements, the government will make use of its "Skill Connect" portal and ensure more placements, he assured. The Covid-19 situation also affected training with several centres unable to function properly, Narayan pointed out.  As for Bengaluru's unemployment rate, the city has had a faster recovery compared to other cities from the pandemic-induced financial slowdown, he asserted.  According to government data, till date a total of 492 jobs fairs have been conducted in the state through which 65,583 candidates have secured jobs. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-cn-ashwath-narayan-says-govts-focus-is-skilling-not-job-creation-1029983.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KCET candidates may get eight grace marks||The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) may award eight grace marks to the candidates, who wrote Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) 2021, over the alleged lapses in questions and options. The KEA sources said that an expert committee had been constituted to look into the objections received over wrong questions/out of syllabus questions and wrong answers as options in the question papers. The authorities are waiting for the expert committee report to officially announce the grace marks. It can be recalled that, several candidates and experts had raised objections to wrong questions and options provided in question papers, post KCET. This is not the first time the KEA is awarding grace marks. Even during KCET 2020, the candidates were awarded 8 marks as grace. The KEA had received around 250 objections after releasing the key answers. Results on September 20 Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday said that the KCET 2021 results will be announced on September 20. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kcet-candidates-may-get-eight-grace-marks-1030019.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Enforce 'no construction zone' rule on highways, Karnataka HC tells state||The High Court has directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and other authorities concerned to ensure that constructions are not allowed in ‘no construction zone’ along the national highways. As per the provisions of the Karnataka Highways Act and a circular issued in 2005, there shall be no construction within 40 metres of the centre of national highway. In a recent order, a division bench headed by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma directed demolition of constructions put up in Kaup town, Udupi district, on National Highway - 66. The bench cited a December 1999 order of the Karnataka High Court. In this order the court had directed the authorities to strictly abide by the restrictions on such constructions. The rules mandate that there shall be no construction within 40 meters of national highways, state highways and 25 meters from the centre of road in case of district main road. “In the light of the aforesaid judgment and also keeping in view of the statutory provisions and also as per the circular dated 22 December, 2005, issued by the Government of Karnataka, the buildings constructed crossing the building line have to be demolished to the extent they are crossing the building line. The other important aspect of the matter is that the authorities who have granted permission for such unauthorised constructions also deserve to be proceeded in accordance with law,” the bench said. The court directed the government advocate to communicate the order to all the authorities concerned. The bench said that in the case on hand, the Chief Secretary or an officer nominated by the Chief Secretary should hold a fact-finding enquiry for fixing the responsibility on the persons who have granted permission in respect of various buildings. The bench granted two months to initiate departmental enquiry/criminal prosecution, if law permits in accordance with law. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/enforce-no-construction-zone-rule-on-highways-karnataka-hc-tells-state-1030020.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 19% aspirants clear teacher's eligibility test in Karnataka||As many as 45,074 (19.51 per cent) candidates have cleared the teacher’s eligibility test (TET) to be eligible for recruitment. Last year, only 3.93 per cent of candidates were eligible for recruitment. This year as many as 2.31 lakh candidates had appeared for the TET. Of which, 45,074 candidates cleared the eligibility test. This includes 18,960 candidates in paper 1 and 26,114 in paper 2. The paper 1 is for recruitment to grade 1 to 5 and paper 2 is for grade 6 to 8. The department of public instruction attributed the huge jump in TET results from last year to the candidates reappearing for the test. “All these years the TET certificate was valid for seven years, but from this year it will be valid for lifetime. This forced many candidates who have already cleared the exam to take the exam again,” said a senior official from the department. The TET was conducted on August 22, 2021, in seven languages. As per the details provided by the department there were around 4,201 objections received from both the papers. “The results of 21 candidates have been kept under hold as they have not signed on the OMR sheet provided, despite clear instructions. The results of these candidates will be released after verification according to the norms,” added the official. The candidates can download eligibility certificates from the department website from next week. Kalaburagi, Vijayapura top the list This year highest number of candidates appeared for TET were from Kalaburagi and Vijayapura for both the papers. For paper 1 as many as 8,563 candidates from Kalaburagi and 7,364 candidates from Vijayapura appeared. In paper 2, it is 3,143 from Kalaburagi and 2,736 from Vijayapura. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-19-aspirants-clear-teachers-eligibility-test-in-karnataka-1030044.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's wildlife population increasing: Forest Minister Katti||The wildlife population in Karnataka is increasing, Forest Minister Umesh Katti told the Legislative Council on Monday.  Katti's claim came in response to a question raised by MLC H M Ramesh Gowda on the measures taken by the government to protect endangered species. "There has been a gradual decrease in the wildlife population in the state. Has this come to the government's notice? What are the measures that the government is taking to protect endangered species?" Gowda sought to know. To this, Katti responded that there was no decrease in wildlife. "In fact the wildlife population is increasing," he said. As per the 2017 census, there are 6,049 elephants in Karnataka. The state has 25 per cent of India's elephant population. Even when it comes to tigers, Karnataka stands second in the country with 524 of them, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-wildlife-population-increasing-forest-minister-katti-1030049.html
13-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Bring archaeology under Kannada & Culture department'||The state government should bring the archaeology department under the Kannada & Culture department in order to protect heritage sites, BJP MLC Thejaswini Gowda demanded on Monday. There are several historical palaces in the state including that of the Keladi and Rani Abbakka, which have been neglected and are in ruins. The only way these sites can be restored is for them to be brought under the direct purview of the Kannada and Culture department, she said in the Legislative Council. Kannada & Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar said it was a long-pending demand and he would look into it.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bring-archaeology-under-kannada-culture-department-1030050.html
13-09-2021||West||I live in people's hearts, no one can throw me out: Gujarat deputy CM Nitin Patel||Hours after the ruling BJP selected a new chief minister for Gujarat, Deputy CM Nitin Patel, who has once again missed the bus, said he has seen many ups and downs, and asserted that nobody can "throw him out" as he lives in people's heart. Patel, while addressing people during a function in Mehsana town on Sunday evening, also said in a lighter vein that he was not the only one who had missed the bus as there were "many others" like him. There was speculation that he was unhappy after Bhupendra Patel was chosen as the next chief minister in a meeting of BJP MLAs at the party headquarters 'Kamalam' in Gandhinagar on Sunday, a day after Vijay Rupani tendered his resignation from the top post. Before that, Nitin Patel, who represents Mehsana Assembly constituency, was being seen as one of the top contenders for the post. However, Patel said there was no substance in such claims. He said that on Sunday, he left the party office only after taking permission from the BJP's Gujarat in-charge Bhupender Yadav. Patel was not there when outgoing CM Vijay Rupani accompanied Bhupendra Patel when the latter went to meet Governor Acharya Devvrat for staking claim to form the government. "There were many others who also missed the bus. I was not the only one. So do not look at this development in that way. It's the party which makes decisions. People make wrong speculations. I told Yadavji (after the MLA meeting) that I have to attend this programme. I would have myself given it a pass if it was not of that much importance. But since it was very important, even Yadavji gave his consent," Patel said. He was addressing a gathering in Mehsana after inaugurating a road on the periphery of the town and an oxygen plant set up at the Mehsana civil hospital. "There were many things running on TV when I was coming here. I want to tell you that till I am in the hearts of my people, voters and party workers, no one can throw me out. I was in opposition (during Congress rule) for a considerable time in the past," he said. "I am not bothered about speculations. Bhupendrabhai is our own. He invited me to inaugurate his office as an MLA. He is my friend. I don't care what people say or think. But, I am not in danger. Why? Because of you. I owe my existence to you" Patel told the audience. Patel said he received "numerous threats" for his recent comment that the Constitution and secularism will last as long as Hindus are in majority. He, however, also claimed that many "big leaders" supported him for those comments. "I never say anything which can be discarded easily. I have always worked as a shield to protect the government, officers, CM and state BJP chief. I endured all the attacks but never hit back. I say what is right, even if many people do not like it" he said. There is still suspense over whether Patel would continue to remain as the deputy CM in the next government led by Bhupendra Patel or not. Both these leaders belong to the powerful and politically influential Patidar community in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-live-in-peoples-hearts-no-one-can-throw-me-out-gujarat-deputy-cm-nitin-patel-1029739.html
13-09-2021||West||Bhupendra Patel: Dark horse set to become CM in first term as MLA||Set to take oath as Gujarat chief minister in less than 24 hours, Bhupendra Patel has become the proverbial dark horse taking centre stage in state politics. After CM Vijay Rupani’s sudden resignation Saturday, the names of some leaders from the Patidar community were doing the rounds as his replacement but the name of first-term MLA Bhupendra Patel (59) was nowhere in the reckoning. Some political observers mentioned that BJP has lately been choosing a low-profile leader as the CM. They said the party wants to develop a new set of leadership in the states and cited the choice of Pushkar Singh Dhami as Uttarakhand CM as a case in point. Unanimously elected the state BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, Patel is known as a soft-spoken person who made his way up in the state politics from the municipality level. Expected to lead the BJP into the 2022 Assembly polls, Patel contested his maiden Assembly election from Ghatlodia constituency in Ahmedabad in 2017 and won it by a margin of over 1.17 lakh votes, a record during that election. Fondly called 'Dada' by many (Rupani is called ‘Bhai’), Patel is considered close to former Gujarat chief minister and current Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. His Assembly constituency is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Union minister Amit Shah. Patel was the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority between 2015 and 2017. He was also the standing committee chairman of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, the largest urban local body in Gujarat, between 2010 and 2015. Before contesting the Assembly election, he was active in local politics and was a member of the Memnagar Municipality in Ahmedabad district, serving as its president twice. The elevation as CM-designate came as a surprise for him, Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar when asked if the party had informed him that he would be the next chief minister. Patel is also a trustee of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra, an organisation dedicated to the socio-economic development of the Patidar community. Married to Hetalben, a homemaker, Patel was born in Ahmedabad and has lived and worked in the city, and also travelled to many parts of the world. Patel, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, is fond of spiritual activities and likes cricket and badminton, an aide says. Ahead of the meeting of BJP MLAs at the party headquarters Kamalam in Gandhinagar, where he was elected as the legislature party leader, Patel was on Sunday morning seen planting trees in his Assembly constituency.  Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhupendra-patel-dark-horse-set-to-become-cm-in-first-term-as-mla-1029764.html
13-09-2021||West||Bhupendra Patel takes oath as Gujarat Chief Minister||First-time MLA from Ahmedabad, 59-years-old Bhupendra Patel on Monday was sworn in as 17th Chief Minister of Gujarat, two days after Vijay Rupani's abrupt ouster from the post. Governor Acharya Devvrat administered the oath of office at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar. The oath-taking ceremony was attended by Union home minister Amit Shah along with scores of BJP leaders and chief ministers of neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka and Haryana. Before taking the oath, the new chief minister visited the house of his predecessor Vijay Rupani, outgoing deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and party's state president C R Patil. He did "gau pooja" at Swaminarayan temple in Ahmedabad and also visited Lord Jagannath temple before heading to Ahmedabad airport as CM-designate to receive Shah and other leaders for the oath-taking event. The council of ministers will take oath in a coming couple of days. The low-profile Patel, who is a builder by profession, took oath at exactly 2:20 pm in presence of Shah, Pramod Sawant, Basavraj Bommai, Manohar Lal Khattar and Shivraj Singh Chouhan, his counterparts of Goa, Karnataka, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. Rupani, Nitin Patel and other outgoing ministers were also present at Raj Bhawan. Soon after the oath ceremony, Patel reached Swarnim Sankul, the building housing the Chief Minister Office and took over the charge. Patel emerged as a "dark horse" in the race for the CM's post as his name hadn't been featured in the list of probables. Party claims that he was unanimously elected by the legislature party but it is no secret that he was handpicked from the party high command from Delhi. He is an MLA from the Ghatlodia Assembly constituency in Ahmedabad, which used to be represented by ex-chief minister Anandiben Patel.  Patel holds a diploma in civil engineering and has served Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority and Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation as chairman. Patel's ascent to power is said to be BJP's attempt to woo Patidar votes ahead of 2022 Assembly polls. He is also the first Kadva Patel, a sub-caste of Patidar, to be the chief minister. Patel took over the charge from Rupani who completed five years in office in August. He was handpicked by the party in August 2016 and led the 2017 Assembly polls which BJP barely managed to pull off.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhupendra-patel-takes-oath-as-gujarat-chief-minister-1029812.html
13-09-2021||West||Crocodile park coming up in Ratnagiri's Khed to boost tourism||A world-class crocodile park is coming up in the Khed tehsil of Ratnagiri district of the nature-rich and picturesque coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra. The Jagbudi river that merges into the Vashishti river passes through Khed, and has mugger crocodiles. A mugger crocodile (Crocodylus palustris), is a medium-sized broad-snouted crocodile, also known as mugger and marsh crocodile. The original plan to have a crocodile park was floated by veteran Shiv Sena leader Ramdas Kadam, who had served as minister as well as the leader of Opposition in the Assembly. His son and Shiv Sena MLA from Dapoli, Yogesh Kadam, is now pursuing the project. “We are creating a host of tourism facilities that would put Khed in the national tourism map,” the junior Kadam said after a review meeting held on Sunday. According to him, the Maharashtra government has sanctioned Rs 9 crore for the creation of tourism facilities in Khed. “We are making a crocodile park, guest house, boating facilities and gardens,” he said, adding that it would be the biggest crocodile park in the entire Konkan region. Kadam along with officials of Maharashtra Maritime Board, Water Resources Department and Public Works Department visited the sites and undertook a detailed inspection. Khed is located off NH-66, popularly known as the Mumbai-Goa Highway, and is also a major station on the Konkan Railway route. The Bhagwan Parshuram Temple is located in the city on NH-66. The temple is in the hilly area of Khed city and in mid-location from Khed as well as Chiplun. The Rasalgad Fort, a popular destination for trekkers, is also in Khed. Check out latest videos by DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/crocodile-park-coming-up-in-ratnagiris-khed-to-boost-tourism-1029816.html
13-09-2021||West||Solapur youth scales Russia's Mount Elbrus twice, says 'Stay Strong Afghanistan'||With a topical message of 'Stay Strong Afghanistan', Solapur-based youth Anand Bansode has scaled Mount Elbrus. Mount Elbrus is the highest and most prominent peak in Russia and in Europe. Bansode now has the rare distinction of being the only one from Maharashtra to have scaled this majestic peak twice. “Mount Elbrus is a very challenging mountain,” Bansode told DH over the phone from Solapur, on his return. The first time he scaled Mount Elbrus was on July 17, 2014, while now he has done it again on August 17, 2021 - thanks to his team - 360 Explorer.  Mount Elbrus is situated in the western part of the Caucasus and is the highest peak of the Caucasus Mountains. Mount Elbrus stands 18,510 feet tall - and the mountains of Elbrus comprise two summits, both of which are dormant volcanic domes. Anand, now 35, had a tough journey during his mountaineering career, but he made it possible through sheer determination and hard work. "While we were climbing, we came across what was happening in Afghanistan. I just wrote the message - 'Stay Strong Afghanistan'....perhaps it was apt...It is a unique country and I have some friends there," said Anand, who works on sustainable development goals (SDGs). Despite having an inferiority complex about his physique and not being able to communicate properly, he had the dream of climbing the highest peak in the world, Mount Everest. Anand achieved his dream with his immense willpower while living in poverty and gazing into the eyes of his poor parents and emerged into the list of the people who climbed Mount Everest. In 2015. he was on his fifth phase of the 'World Peace Seven Summit Expedition' in Alaska (USA) for climbing the highest mountain in North America when he got a message from India that his father had passed away. His father was the one who made him climb all the mountains. His father used to work as a mechanic and repaired punctured tyres his whole life. On his return to India, Anand had a cervical injury that confined him to bed for several months. Several of his vertebrae were damaged and doctors told him that he would not walk again. Anand was broken physically, mentally and financially. It was the darkest time in his life but his girlfriend Akshaya stood by him and they decided to get married while he was in the same condition. In January 2016, without any ceremony, both got married by reading the Indian Constitution preamble at one of the orphanages in Solapur. But the fear of his physical disability stopped his mountaineering activities. He somehow lost his weight and overcame his fear in 2020. Today, this Solapur lad has become an inspirational speaker, trainer and even gave a speech at the United Nations headquarters in 2017. He has played the Indian national anthem on guitar on top of four mountains. He has also entered the Limca Book of Records, India Book of Records and High Range Book of World Records. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/solapur-youth-scales-russias-mount-elbrus-twice-says-stay-strong-afghanistan-1029829.html
13-09-2021||West||Sakinaka rape-murder accused confesses to crime; Rs 20 lakh compensation to victim's kin||Days after a woman was brutally raped and murdered in the Sakinaka area of Mumbai, the city police have established the chain of events that led to the crime and is building up a case backed by extensive digital evidence.  Amid back-to-back visits by teams of the National Commission for Women (NCW) and National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to Mumbai, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra has announced a compensation/ex-gratia of Rs 20 lakh for the three daughters of the victim woman.  The woman, aged between 32-36, was raped in a tempo parked off the Rashid Compound near Chandivali Studio in the wee hours of September 10. The accused brutalised her with an iron rod and left her bleeding before he fled the scene.  A police team rushed the woman to the Rajawadi Hospital, where she passed away because of a ruptured intestine among other injuries.  Meanwhile, the accused, Mohit Chauhan (45), who hails from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, has confessed to the crime. “The accused has made a confession... the object with which he brutalised the victim has been found,” Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale told reporters on Monday.  According to Nagrale, eminent lawyer Raja Thakre has been appointed the special public prosecutor in the case.  Giving an update on the investigations, the police chief said with the confession of the accused, statement of witnesses and digital evidence like CCTV footage, the sequence of events have been established.  Assistant commissioner of police Jyotsna Rasam, an experienced lady officer, is leading the probe team.  “We will complete the rest of the investigations within a fortnight’s time and the chargesheet would be filed in a month’s time,” Nagrale assured.  He also said that besides sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) 323 (intentional hurt), 504 (intentional assault) and of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the accused has also been booked Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.  On Sunday, a team of NCW led by member Chandramukhi Devi and NCSC led by vice-chairman Arun Haldar met members of the family of the victim, visited the Sakinaka police station and Rajawadi Hospital besides the scene of the crime. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sakinaka-rape-murder-accused-confesses-to-crime-rs-20-lakh-compensation-to-victims-kin-1029863.html
13-09-2021||West||Mumbaikars come up with unique themes for Ganesha festival muted by Covid-19||The 10-day-long 'Ganeshotsav' may be a low-key affair because of Covid-19 restrictions and the incessant rainfall in the Mumbai metropolitan region but it has not dampened people's spirits. Mumbaikars have come out with unique themes to celebrate the festival in which the blessings of the pot-bellied elephant-headed lord are invoked. Franklin Paul of Pratiksha Nagar has created a theme out of Mumbai's infamous water-logging issue and has recreated the scene of the Hindmata area, one of the spots that get affected every year during the monsoon. Paul has displayed a Ganesh idol appearing to cross the road where heavy vehicles like BEST buses and private cars are stranded. “We wanted to show the reality, we chose a contemporary subject. We should show realism, the problems faced by people, and what we can do to prevent environmental disasters,” said Paul. Prominent abstract artist and philanthropist Krupa Shah has created a first-of-its-kind 'Navagraha Ganpati' using Indian pulses and masalas including wheat, turmeric, ghee and others, signifying the planets. “In Hindu astrology, Navagraha means a person’s happiness, success and all-round prosperity,” Shah said. Mumbai University’s former Vice Chancellor Dr Sanjay Deshmukh has installed a Ganesha idol that resembles Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra. The Thanawala family, known for its innovative ideas, are promoting EVs, and the Ganpati is seen here as a pillion rider behind a rat, his whimsical ride. The electric charging station is also displayed as part of the Pandal decoration. Another Ganpati idol showed the famous Bharat Mata cinema of Lalbaug and United Mills, capturing what was once Bombay. Check out latest videos by DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbaikars-come-up-with-unique-themes-for-ganesha-festival-muted-by-covid-19-1029864.html
13-09-2021||West||BJP fires salvo at NCP leader Hasan Mushrif||In another attempt to corner the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the opposition BJP on Monday fired a salvo at rural development minister and senior NCP leader Hasan Mushrif accusing him and his family of a scam involving the laundering of Rs 127 crore.  Senior BJP leader and former Mumbai MP Kirit Somaiya launched a barrage of allegations against Mushrif.  “Mushrif has indulged in corrupt practices including money laundering, holding benami entities through his family members and family companies,” Somaiya told a  news conference.  Meanwhile, NCP chief spokesperson and state’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik refuted the allegations saying that the allegations are with a political motive and there is no truth in it.  Mushrif, a senior leader from Kolhapur, threatened a Rs 100-crore defamation suit against Somaiya.  “Mushrif and family have indulged into creating dozens of webs of companies having transactions with Kolkata-based shell companies also. Financial transactions shown in their bank accounts receiving income from those companies which did not exist,” he said, naming several companies and entities linked to them.  “They have several shell companies, benami properties,” he said.  Somaiya has already filed a complaint and submitted documents with Income Tax authorities in Mumbai and is in the process of giving documents to the Enforcement Directorate. “I will also be visiting New Delhi and meeting officials of the Finance Ministry,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-fires-salvo-at-ncp-leader-hasan-mushrif-1029874.html
13-09-2021||West||Nitin Patel not upset with party's CM choice in Gujarat||Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel on Monday said he was not unhappy with the BJP's decision to select Bhupendra Patel as the state's next chief minister, soon after the CM-designate met him at his residence here in the morning. First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel (59) was sworn in as the state’s 17th chief minister at 2.20 pm on Monday. Amid speculation that he was unhappy with Bhupendra Patel being chosen as the next CM, Nitin Patel, while addressing a gathering in his home turf Mehsana on Sunday, said he has seen many ups and downs, and asserted that nobody can "throw him out" as he lives in people's heart. He missed the bus once again after 2016, when he was seen as the first choice for the top post before he was offered the post of deputy CM. Nitin Patel was seen as a top contender for the post before the party gave the opportunity to Bhupendra Patel. When reporters asked him on Monday if he was upset with the party's decision to select Bhupendra Patel as the next CM, Patel said, "Not at all. All this is your (media's) speculation....You (media) keep (saying this) because this is your profession." The BJP leader said he has been associated with the party from the Jana Sangh days since he was 18 years old, and asserted that he will continue to remain with the party. "Whether I get any position or not is not a big deal for me. What matters is people's love and respect. We are all brothers and sisters. Whoever has been selected as the next CM is one of our own, and we will continue to work together," Nitin Patel said, adding that he continues to remain a BJP worker, as the position is not important for him. Bhupendra Patel called on the deputy chief minister at his residence on Monday morning. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Nitin Patel said the CM-designate and he are friends and they share family relations. He said he has known Bhupendra Patel since long and had even inaugurated his MLA office in Ghatlodia (Ahmedabad) after he won from that Assembly constituency. "The party has given me big positions. I am ready to do whatever is required from me for the party, my community, party workers, or anybody in Gujarat," said Nitin Patel. On Sunday, hours after the ruling BJP selected Bhupendra Patel as the new chief minister of Gujarat, Nitin Patel, while addressing a gathering during a function in Mehsana town, said in a lighter vein that he was not the only one who had missed the bus as there were "many others" like him. Asked whether his statement made on Sunday meant he was unhappy over not being made the chief minister, the DyCM on Monday said politicians are required to first find a place in the hearts of people. "Even if a man is a sarpanch of a small village or a big personality, he gets the support only when he finds a place in the hearts of the people. We give 182 tickets for (election as) MLAs and thousands of tickets in municipality elections, but not all win the election. For a man to achieve greatness, what is required is his connection with the party, party workers and people of his area. What I said is that a man remains big as long as he finds a place in the hearts of people," the BJP leader said. The MLA from Mehsana further said he served a legislator for six terms because of the blessings of people and party workers. "It is our culture to pay the debt of all those who support us. This is what I said," he added. Lauding the BJP, Nitin Patel said he cannot describe in words what the party has done for him and "there is no such pain in my heart" as speculated by the media. "We have denied tickets to many MPs, MLAs, we have taken such decisions, because not everybody can get the position. As the party's senior worker, I accept what the party has decided for the future. My actions will teach thousands (about dedication to the party)," he said. On a philosophical note, the deputy chief minister said "the party, leadership, God and fate all work as per their time". "The party has given me positions in cabinet several times, made me the deputy chief minister, given me the important responsibilities of finance and Narmada (departments). I am happy that I have worked as a cabinet minister in the governments led by senior leaders like Keshubhai Patel, Narendra Modi, Anandiben Patel, and am a part of the party's parliamentary board. I have received a lot from the party, and there is nothing I need to comment," he said. On his meeting with Bhupendra Patel at his residence, he said the CM-designate is his old friend, even since he was the chairman of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation's standing committee. He said their families are invited to each other's places during social events. The DyCM also said he offered his best wishes to Bhupendra Patel on Sunday, soon after his name was announced for the top post. He said he had to then leave for Mehsana for an event, where around 2,000 people in the gathering greeted Bhupendra Patel with a standing ovation when he asked them to do so and offered their best wishes to the CM-designate. "He visited my house to meet me. I greeted him...I am there to offer any help that he requires from me," Nitin Patel added. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nitin-patel-not-upset-with-partys-cm-choice-in-gujarat-1029887.html
13-09-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 case tally crosses 65 lakh mark||The coronavirus positive case tally crossed the 65 lakh mark in Maharashtra on Monday. With 2,740 new Covid-19 cases being reported on Monday, the tally went up from 6,49,78,77 to 65,00,617. With 27 fresh deaths, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in the state increased from 1,38,142 to 1,38,169.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-case-tally-crosses-65-lakh-mark-1030032.html
