14-09-2021||First Edit||Stop coercive actions against media||A raid by any other name is still a raid, and so no one is deceived by the use of the word “survey’’ by the Income Tax (I-T) department to describe what it did at the offices of news websites NewsClick and Newslaundry last Friday. The so-called surveys lasted over 12 hours and had all the highhandedness of a raid. Newslaundry co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri has said that he was not allowed to call his lawyer or accountant during the “survey”. The phones of the company’s staff were taken by the surveyors’’. Sekhri said his personal computer and phone were also taken and data was copied from them, overruling his objection. That is a violation of privacy because phones and computers also contain a lot of personal data, as pointed out by Sekhri. Professional information like the sources of stories, reporting plans and other details could also be compromised when devices fall into wrong hands — such as the government’s. Such actions and conduct cannot be called a “survey”, they can only be considered as part of the harassment and intimidation of independent media, as stated by the Editors’ Guild of India. Both the websites have been critical of the government and its policies and have received adverse government attention in the past. Newslaundry offices had been raided by the I-T department in June; the Enforcement Directorate had raided NewsClick offices in February. Subsequently, the Delhi High Court had given its editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha protection from coercive action. The Editors’ Guild has said that the raids were an attack on the journalists’ rights and freedom of the press and has demanded that care and sensitivity should be shown in such investigations so that their constitutional rights and freedom are not undermined. Intimidatory and coercive actions have increasingly been used against journalists and media organisations. In July, the offices of a major Hindi daily, Dainik Bhaskar, and a TV channel, Bharat Samachar, were raided. The fact that such actions have targeted only the critics of the government makes the motive behind them clear. Criticism of the policies and functioning of the government has become a dangerous task. The right to criticise the government is a basic democratic right, guaranteed by the Constitution. Yet, many journalists have been attacked and threatened and even sedition charges have been raised against them. Their organisations have been pressured and coerced in many ways. These are attacks on the freedom of speech. India’s position in the World Press Freedom Index is very low, and the continuing attacks on the media by the government, its agencies and others will only make it worse. Coercive actions against media houses, designed to produce a chilling effect on the press, must stop at once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/stop-coercive-actions-against-media-1030445.html
14-09-2021||In Perspective||WTO negotiations need transparency||Transparency is one of the important requirements for democratic governance and equitable distribution of resources. It allows the public to form opinions on the basis of facts in place of false claims. Access to diverse opinions sensitises us to various needs and concerns. Public opinion formed on the basis of information fed from the top is bound to be fragile, endangering the longevity of the institutions. This is true not only for national but also for international institutions. With its steadily widening scope and ambit, the World Trade Organisation (WTO) is influencing the lives of common people around the world and requires broad-based acceptability. Legally, its membership extends only to states and customs territories. Negotiators are only select representatives of members, be it for amendments in the existing agreements or new agreements within the WTO framework. The negotiating proposals and developments in the negotiations have traditionally been uploaded on the WTO website. This enabled any interested person to study them and comment upon them through academic writings or newspaper articles. The process, however, has undergone a change. Nowadays, many of the important documents relating to the ongoing negotiations have restricted access. These are accessible only to a limited set of persons, such as those working in government offices and important international organisations. It makes one wonder about the reasons and advisability of such secrecy and closed-door negotiations. While international negotiations may take place only with government representatives, a government is responsible to its people. Concessions made at international trade negotiations have important economic, social and political implications at home. Sovereignty is no longer unlimited. It is subject to obligations a State has undertaken at the international level. Democracy at home is not going to make much difference for people if important deals are finalised in association with super-national organisations that curtail the power of a government vis-à-vis unaccountable non-state actors. These include not only international organisations but also powerful corporate houses and non-government organisations. Large corporate houses are important players in international trade negotiations. Agreements like TRIPs and the Agreement on Investment Facilitation (currently under negotiation) are largely formulated to promote their interests. Most of the documents related to the ongoing negotiations for Agreement on Investment Facilitation have restricted access. This is also true for some of the important documents in other negotiations as well. The public needs to know not only the outcome of negotiations but also the issues debated during the negotiations. Corporate actors get rights against the State as a result of negotiations between governments. These rights, at times, confer upon them the power to deeply impact the lives of common people. They not only curtail the regulatory powers of the State but may also contradict the obligations and rights of a State under other international treaties and norms. General discussion in the media and academic circles helps to finalise a deal that has wider acceptance. The public has suspicion against persons and countries in power and influence. It is easy to mobilise this suspicion to destabilise the established practices and norms. A general right-wing reaction in national and international politics we are witnessing is one of the repercussions of this resentment. In international negotiations, there is always a suspicion that powerful and influential countries have their way and others are forced to comply. It is not always true, but confidentiality fuels misinformation and resentment. Power and knowledge, as Foucault says, are interrelated. Knowledge is not only availed but also created by the exercise of power. Persons and organisations with knowledge are the ones who have actual power in the globalising world. By restricting access to information, we restrict access to power, and democracy becomes a sham. An agreement once finalised and handed out to the ill-informed public as fait accompli, and accompanied by logic and reasons that were never questioned by those who could question it because they did not have access to the negotiating process, lacks what H LA Hart calls ‘general acceptance’. Continuation of this process may breed resentment and confusion. The GATT/WTO legal framework, through its slow and steady process, has been developing this ‘general acceptance’. This is evident by the fact that most of the regional and free trade agreements either follow the WTO legal framework or just refer to it. The latest important example is the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), which just refers to the WTO Agreements as far as legal issues apart from market access are concerned. Resorting to an undemocratic and non-transparent method by shutting out the general public from the negotiating process may pose a challenge to this growth of ‘general acceptance’. (The author is a professor at National Law University, Odisha)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/wto-negotiations-need-transparency-1030442.html
14-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Drive to administer 1.50 lakh Covid-19 vaccines in Dakshina Kannada on September 17||A mega vaccination drive with a target to administer 1.50 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be held in Dakshina Kannada on September 17. Though the positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district has declined, the state government is still considering the district as a high priority district and more targets have been given to accelerate the vaccination drive, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. More than 70% of the targeted population have received the first dose of vaccines in Dakshina Kannada. All PDOs have been directed to ask Asha and Anganwadi workers to prepare a list of those who have not received the jab so far and also those who are waiting for the second dose of vaccines. Stating that nearly 500 vaccination sites will be set up for the vaccination drive, the DC said that in case of shortage of Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery, the staff of the private hospitals will also be used for administering the jab. The district administration will also designate a few private hospitals for the free vaccination drive. “We will give vaccines and syringes for the private hospitals to administer vaccines for free on the day of the mega drive. About 50% of the doses of vaccines in all the Urban Primary Health Centres will be administered to those who have booked online," the DC explained.  About 50,000 people in the district are eligible for the second dose of vaccines now. Steps will be taken to administer vaccines to them. In case if the vulnerable people in the villages in and around the border area are unable to reach the vaccination site, then steps will be taken to administer vaccines at their doorstep. More vehicles will be deployed for the same. Of the total vaccines, 40,000 vaccines will be administered in Mangaluru City Corporation jurisdiction. The service of NSS volunteers will be used in managing the gathering and for data entry on the vaccination drive. Decline in positivity Dr Rajendra K V said that the Covid-19 positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada was 4.8% in the first week of August and now it has come down to 1.57%. Of the 1,604 active cases, only 500 are undergoing treatment in hospitals and Covid care centres.  The case fatality rate in the district is 1.13%. Of the positive cases, 24% are in Mangaluru rural, 31% in Mangaluru city limits, 11% in Bantwal, 10% in Puttur, 12.78 % in Belthangady, 5.92% in Sullia and around 5% from outside the district. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/drive-to-administer-150-lakh-covid-19-vaccines-in-dakshina-kannada-on-september-17-1030198.html
14-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 women held for theft of gold ornaments in Puttur||The Puttur Police arrested three women on charges of theft of gold earrings from a jewellery showroom in Puttur. According to DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane, the arrested are Beebijan, Hussainbi and Jaithumbi. All three hail from Davangere and were arrested at Biramalegudde in Puttur. The jewellery showroom manager Rathish, in his complaint on September 5, had alleged three women clad in burqa had visited the showroom on September 1 at 3.20 pm. They purchased earrings weighing 1.72 gram worth Rs 8,800 and allegedly robbed jewellery weighing 50.242 grams worth Rs 2.60,400. They had also replaced a jewellery weighing 3.065 gram worth Rs 13,400. Their act was captured in the CCTV of the jewellery showroom, said the SP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-women-held-for-theft-of-gold-ornaments-in-puttur-1030201.html
14-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mandya SP accused of axing Ashoka trees||Mandya Superintendent of Police Ashwini has drawn flak for allegedly axing 11 Ashoka trees in the SP’s official residence with the help of the department personnel. Acting on complaints from the environmentalists and the public, Range Forest Officer visited the spot and seized the felled trees. According to the environmentalists, the trees in the historical complex were several years old. It is alleged that the SP on Monday had felled the trees blocking roads connecting the residence. The IPS officer, who should give importance to protecting trees, axed them, environmentalists said. However, SP Ashwini clarified that as the snapped branches of the trees were falling on the electric cables and the compound during rains, a written application was submitted to the CESC and the Forest department in this regard. Only the branches have been felled, she said. Deputy Conservator of Forest P Ravishankar said the SP has informed that an application has been submitted and it will be verified. However, there is no need for permission to axe the Ashoka trees. A report would be sought from the RFO, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-sp-accused-of-axing-ashoka-trees-1030207.html
14-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||25-yr-old 'suspects' Nipah virus infection, Mangaluru authorities send samples for test||A 25-year-old man who suspects he might have contracted Nipah virus has been isolated at a hospital in Mangaluru after his samples were collected and sent for testing to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said the reports are expected in the next 24-48 hours, urging people to not panic but exercise caution as neighbouring Kerala district has reported a Nipah case. The Karwar native works at a unit manufacturing RT-PCR and Nipah kits in Goa. He fell sick after he rode back from Goa  to his native place to take part in the Ganesh festival celebrations at home. He got drenched in rain during the ride and developed light fever and headache. "The man had been to KMC Manipal for treatment and later was referred to District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. He has no symptoms and is only anxious. As a precautionary measure, the man has been isolated in the hospital. Even his father who had accompanied him to the hospital has been isolated. The Karwar district administration has been asked to isolate his family members as well," Dr Rajendra said. He searched on Nipah virus's symptoms online and was anxious that he might have contracted the virus, explained District Health Officer Dr Kishore Kumar. “He is absolutely fine without any symptoms,” added the DHO. Health officials had even contacted the unit where he was working and they have clearly stated that no human samples were tested at the firm. The unit follows all the precautionary measures while at work and no standard operating procedure has been breached. The said man did not even have any contact with the Nipah suspected or infected, said the DHO. Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/25-yr-old-suspects-nipah-virus-infection-mangaluru-authorities-send-samples-for-test-1030210.html
14-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 negative report not mandatory to visit tourist spots in Shivamogga||Following the decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, the Shivamogga district administration has lifted the rule on mandatory possession of Covid negative reports while visiting tourist spots, including Jog Falls in Sagar taluk. Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner KB Shivakumar said as of now, the tourists need not possess Covid negative reports during their visit to the tourist spots. He also made it clear that it would be re-implemented if the cases rise.  Tourism department joint secretary H S Ramakrishna said the tourists must have taken at least a single dose of vaccine against Covid-19 if not both without fail. The staff of the department would examine it at the entrance of Jog Falls. They would educate those who are not vaccinated yet and ask them to take it at the earliest, he added.  Tourists are thronging Jog Falls in large numbers every day. The world-famous Jog Falls is likely to regain the lost glory as water would be released from Linganamakki dam as the water level is close to the brim. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-negative-report-not-mandatory-to-visit-tourist-spots-in-shivamogga-1030291.html
14-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Over 100 fall sick after drinking contaminated water in Yadgir||About 100 people fell sick as they developed gastroenteritis after consuming contaminated water at Machagundala village of the taluk on Tuesday. While over 60 people were admitted to the government hospital in the town, others were admitted to a primary health centre. Taluk health officer Dr R V Naik visited the village for inspection and made arrangements to treat the patients in the village. While some patients were shifted to the Surapur taluk hospital in an ambulance, others were sent to the Devaragonala primary health centre. He directed the panchayat development officer to get the water tank and the well in the village cleaned as contaminated water could be the reason for the gastroenteritis. Despite having a RO plant in the village, the residents are dependent on a well for drinking water. The health staff are camping in the village. All the patients are out of danger, the health officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-100-fall-sick-after-drinking-contaminated-water-in-yadgir-1030418.html
14-09-2021||Main Article||Bengaluru: What ails urban governance||On September 10, Deccan Herald carried two editorials pertaining to Bengaluru, rather unusual, though they dealt with different aspects of the city. One related to Bengaluru being the ‘linguistic capital’ of the country, apart from being the IT capital, and the other to the sorry state of roads in the city, some of them having turned into death traps -- causing the death of an elderly person in a pothole-related accident. These two scenarios represent the two faces of Karnataka’s capital -- the beautiful and the ugly, the global and the local. This duality has always puzzled both the city’s natives and its immigrants. When the city’s name was changed from Bangalore to Bengaluru, the late U R Ananthamurthy, at whose suggestion the change occurred, recalls that one of the many callers who questioned him, asked: “Don’t you think Bangalore will lose out on all the economic gains that come with it by changing the ‘brand name’?” To which Ananthamurthy replied: “Why don’t we look at it in a slightly different way? Bangalore became a ‘brand’ because of its great weather. But because it is a ‘brand’, the weather went bad. Now, we have so many people, so many cars, and so much dust and smoke that we can hardly breathe.” This, in a subtle way, sums up the underlying cause of the transformation of Bengaluru from a ‘garden city’ with salubrious climate to a ‘software city’ whose hardware of infrastructure has gone awry. An analysis of 2011 Census data revealed that 107 scheduled and non-scheduled languages are spoken in Bengaluru, the most number for any Indian city. The city is verily a babble of tongues. Visit any marketplace or café or higher education institution and you can find tongues wagging in a variety of languages, Indian and foreign, with people from all parts of India and several Afro-Asian countries. Over the years, the social structure of Bengaluru has exhibited a unique cosmopolitanism with a range of linguistic, religious and geographic segments making their presence felt. A majority of the city’s population – 55% -- speak languages other than Kannada. Perhaps Bengaluru is the only metropolis in India where you can listen to both Carnatic and Hindustani style performances at a music concert or witness different forms of dance performances -- from Bharata Natyam and Mohiniattam to Kuchipudi and Kathakali, among others. To the cultural diversity, add the tag of global technology hub, start-up capital, pleasant weather and a people-friendly place, and you get a picture of an ideal city. That’s where the physicality of the city intrudes, and you wake up to the hard reality of what moving around in this city means -- be it on foot or on wheels. Some basic amenities for a minimal good quality of living -- walkable pavements, motorable roads, accessible and equitable public transport, regular supply of water and power, good sanitation, and the luxury of pure air have continued to elude us. And, of course, the herculean task of dealing with the civic authorities and the government can leave you frustrated, robbing you of all the other pleasures the city has to offer. And that gives rise to the billion-dollar question, what exactly ails the ‘governance’ of our city? Is it lack of resources or lack of capacity on the part of the institutions that govern the metropolis or lack of planning and coordination among the multiple agencies? It may be a sum of all these. A number of expert committees have given their well-considered recommendations on all these matters, task forces have tried mending the fault lines, chief ministers, along with ministers and a retinue of officials, have undertaken ‘inspections’ of the city and set deadlines for completion of tasks, people’s associations have filed PILs and gone on protest marches. Yet, potholes continue to jolt you, power interruptions damage your gadgets, water shortages make you miserable, traffic snarls keep irritating you and, worst of all, the agencies responsible for delivering the services keep passing the buck when things go wrong. So, there is hardly any accountability. What then is the remedy for this poor governance? In my view, there are three fundamental challenges to be tackled. Political economy: Urban political economy in general, and of Bengaluru in particular, is the root cause of many of the ills that plague our cities. Urban resources, especially urban land, have become the prime source of political exploitation. Chief Minister Bommai, addressing senior police officers, advised them to keep away from real estate and other lobbies. It would be in the fitness of things if he could extend this exhortation to the political class -- his ministers, legislators and municipal councilors, who need to set examples. He must also find ways to stop political interference in civic administration, which is different from intervention for the right cause. Leadership: This is closely related to political economy, which tends to concentrate the city’s power at the state level. Lack of city leadership has been a major lacuna in urban governance in India. The absence of a clear vision and formulation of well-thought-out policies has led to ad hoc decision-making that suits the interests of the powers that be. If the Mayor has to perform the function of a leader, he must be vested with necessary authority and made accountable to the people. Decisive leadership can facilitate enforcement of accountability, both political and administrative, so vital for achieving desired results. Systemic reforms: Bengaluru has been growing and changing rapidly, but the city governance system has been, by and large, stagnant, and in a moribund state, as it were. Some piecemeal reforms, like a new BBMP Act, will not make much of a difference. What is needed is big-ticket reform encompassing the political, administrative, planning, financial and technology systems, with due regard to the spirit of decentralisation envisaged in the 74th Amendment to the Constitution. Perhaps the most difficult task is dealing with the elephant in the room which refuses to budge -- corruption eating into the vitals of city agencies, costing the city and citizens dear. These reforms are imperative and cannot wait. Should we allow the beautiful face of Bengaluru to be marred by forces of unbridled power, selfishness and greed or find ways to transform governance in a manner that will enhance its beauty? Let’s hope the chief minister, who has shown signs of being well-intentioned and eager for change, will make a wise choice. (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/bengaluru-what-ails-urban-governance-1030443.html
14-09-2021||National||UN human rights chief criticises India for temporary communication blackouts, use of UAPA in J&K||UN high commissioner for human rights Michelle Bachelet on Monday described as "worrying" India's use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act as well as "frequent" temporary communication blackouts in Jammu and Kashmir. In her opening statement at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Bachelet acknowledged the Indian government's efforts to counter terrorism and promote development in Jammu and Kashmir but said such "restrictive measures can result in human rights violations and foster further tensions and discontent". "Indian authorities' restrictions on public assembly and frequent temporary communication blackouts continue in Jammu and Kashmir, while hundreds of people remain in detention for exercising their right to the freedom of expression, and journalists face ever-growing pressure," she said. "Ongoing use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act throughout India is worrying, with Jammu and Kashmir having among the highest number of cases in the country," Bachelet said. There was no official reaction to Bachelet's comments. India, on multiple occasions, in the past strongly rejected the UN human rights chief's criticisms relating to Jammu and Kashmir. Referring to China, she talked about its new 'National Action Plan on Human Rights 2021-2025' which was released this month. "I look forward to exploring it for possible areas of engagement and cooperation. I regret that I am not able to report progress on my efforts to seek meaningful access to the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region," she said.   "In the meantime, my office is finalising its assessment of the available information on allegations of serious human rights violations in that region, with a view to making it public by the end of the year," Bachelet said. Talking about Nepal, she hoped the new government will take early steps to restore the independence of the National Human Rights Commission through a transparent process. "The authorities' commitment to prioritise amendment of the transitional justice law is an opportunity for fresh approaches to revitalise the process, in consultation with victims and in line with international standards," the UN human rights chief said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-human-rights-chief-criticises-india-for-temporary-communication-blackouts-use-of-uapa-in-jk-1030100.html
14-09-2021||National||Politics is to serve last man in queue, says Gadkari||The real objective of politics is to bring about a change in the life of the common man standing last in the queue but unfortunately, it is considered nowadays a means to grab power, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Monday. Gadkari made the remark reflecting Mahatma Gandhi's philosophy on making decisions and how they would benefit the last man in the queue at a seminar in the Rajasthan assembly on Parliamentary System and People's Expectations. "Politics is an instrument to bring about a social and economic change. The real purpose of democracy is to make the people standing at the last rung of the society prosperous and improve their lives through this," Gadkari said. "This should be the purpose of politics as well. But, unfortunately nowadays the meaning of politics is understood only to get into power," he added. Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Gadkari said it is the behaviour and character of a person that decides the future of democracy. "The better we are, the stronger and better our democracy will be. That is why we remain loyal to our ideology. Only on this basis, a strong nation can be built by effecting social and economic changes," he said. Gadkari said problems are plenty but it is the responsibility of the legislature to bring about a qualitative change leading to the social and economic upliftment of the society. "Problems are there everywhere — within the party, outside the party, in the constituency — but overcoming the problem and bringing about a qualitative change is the quality of a successful leader," he said. Gadkari subtly asked political leaders to be content with whatever position they have achieved and use it to serve the people. “The MLAs are unhappy because they could not become ministers, ministers are unhappy as they did not get the desired portfolio and those who got the desired portfolio are unhappy as they could not become the chief minister,” the Union minister said. “And those who became the chief ministers are unhappy because they are not sure till when they will be on the post,” he added. Gadkari made the remark two days after Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani resigned and amid the Rajasthan chief minister facing pressure for a Cabinet reshuffle and political appointments. Observing that many states, including Rajasthan, Karnataka, Gujarat, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Orissa and Jharkhand face the problem of scarcity of drinking water, Gadkari suggested improving the country's irrigation infrastructure as a way out of the problem. Advocating for improving the irrigation facility, Gadkari said the country cannot be completely self-sufficient unless farmers become prosperous. He also urged legislators to improve the road infrastructure and water conservation, which, he said, would increase the country's GDP and boost its holistic growth. The seminar was organised by the Rajasthan chapter of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA). Assembly Speaker and CPA's Rajasthan chapter president CP Joshi, Leader of Opposition and CPA vice president Gulab Chand Kataria and independent MLA and CPA secretary Sanyam Lodha also addressed the session. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/politics-is-to-serve-last-man-in-queue-says-gadkari-1030108.html
14-09-2021||National||Ensuring husband loses his job amounts to mental cruelty, is ground for divorce: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday brought down the curtains on a nearly two-decade-long bitter legal battle between a Tamil Nadu couple, who never lived together for a single day. Granting a decree of divorce on the husband's plea, the top court noted the wife resorted to mental cruelty - insulting the husband at his work place, filing complaints to ensure he loses his job, and continuing legal proceedings against him. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy noted the conduct of the wife shows disintegration of marital unity and thus, disintegration of the marriage. "In fact, there was no initial integration itself which would allow disintegration afterward. The fact that there have been continued allegations and litigative proceedings and that can amount to cruelty is an aspect taken note of by this court," it said. Justice Kaul, authoring the judgment on behalf of the bench, said: "This is one case where both the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage and the ground of cruelty on account of subsequent facts would favour the grant of decree of divorce in favour of the appellant (husband)". The bench noted there were several episodes of harassment, where the wife insulted the husband, who is an assistant professor, in front of students and other professors. She was stated to have threatened the husband of physical harm in front of his colleagues and also threatened his employer of a criminal complaint. The couple got married in 2002 and the marriage was never consummated. In March 2008, the trial court granted decree of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. Within six days of the order, the husband re-married. At this, the first wife filed an appeal, where the court set aside the decree of divorce while allowing the petition for restitution of conjugal right. In 2018, the high court restored the decree of divorce granted by the trial court. The woman filed a review petition on the ground that it was not within the jurisdiction of the high court or the trial court to grant a decree of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage, and this was allowed in February 2019. The husband moved the top court assailing this order. The top court noted that the wife sought disciplinary proceedings against husband on account of the second marriage despite the fact that the second marriage took place soon after the decree of divorce. "Thus, she sought to somehow ensure that the appellant loses his job. Filing of such complaints seeking removal of one's spouse from job has been opined as amounting to mental cruelty," it said. The bench noted in view of the legal position, the continuing acts of the wife would amount to cruelty even if the same had not arisen as a cause prior to the institution of the petition, as was found by the trial court. "We are, thus, of the view that a decree of divorce dissolving the marriage between the parties be passed not only in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India on account of irretrievable breakdown of marriage, but also on account of cruelty under Section 13(1)(i-a) of the (Hindu Marriage) Act in light of the subsequent conduct of the respondent during the pendency of judicial proceedings at various stages," it said. "The decree of divorce is, accordingly, passed. Marriage stands dissolved," it ruled. Check out latest DH videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensuring-husband-loses-his-job-amounts-to-mental-cruelty-is-ground-for-divorce-sc-1030121.html
14-09-2021||National||As India’s lethal Covid wave neared, politics overrode science||The forecast was mathematically based, government-approved and deeply, tragically wrong. In September 2020, eight months before a deadly Covid-19 second wave struck India, government-appointed scientists downplayed the possibility of a new outbreak. Previous infections and early lockdown efforts had tamed the spread, the scientists wrote in a study that was widely covered by the Indian news media after it was released last year. The results dovetailed neatly with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two main goals: Restart India’s stricken economy and kick off campaigning for his party in state elections that spring. But Anup Agarwal, a physician then working for India’s top science agency, which reviewed and published the study, worried that its conclusions would lull the country into a false sense of security. Agarwal took his concerns to the agency’s top official in October. The response: He and another concerned scientist were reprimanded, he said. In the wake of the devastating second wave, which killed hundreds of thousands of people, many in India are asking how Modi’s government missed the warning signs. Part of the answer, according to current and former government researchers and documents reviewed by The New York Times, is that senior officials forced scientists at elite institutions to downplay the threat to prioritise Modi’s political goals. “Science is being used as a political weapon to forward the government narrative rather than help people,” said Agarwal, 32. Senior officials at Agarwal’s agency — called the Indian Council of Medical Research, or ICMR — suppressed data showing the risks, according to the researchers and documents. They pressured scientists to withdraw another study that called the government’s efforts into question, the researchers said, and distanced the agency from a third study that foresaw a second wave. Agency scientists interviewed by The Times described a culture of silence. Midlevel researchers worried that they would be passed over for promotions and other opportunities if they questioned superiors, they said. “Science thrives in an environment where you can openly question evidence and discuss it dispassionately and objectively,” said Shahid Jameel, one of India’s top virus experts and a former government adviser who has been critical of the agency. “That, sadly, at so many levels, has been missing,” he said. The science agency declined to answer detailed questions. In a statement, it said it was a “premier research organisation” that had helped to expand India’s testing capacity. India’s Health Ministry, which oversees the agency, did not respond to requests for comment. India is hardly the first country where virus science has become politicised. The United States remains far short of taming the disease as politicians and anti-vaccine activists, fuelled by disinformation and credulous media, challenge the scientific consensus on vaccines and wearing masks. The Chinese government has tried to obscure the outbreak’s origin, and vaccine skeptics have won audiences from Russia to Spain to Tanzania. India, a vast country with an underfunded health care system, would have struggled to contain the second wave no matter what. A more contagious new variant fuelled the spread. People had stopped wearing masks and socially distancing. “Prime Minister Modi has never, ever said to lower the guard,” said Vijay Chauthaiwale, a member of Modi’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party. Still, the government contributed to complacency. Modi boasted in January, just months before the devastating second wave hit, that India had “saved humanity from a big disaster.” Harsh Vardhan, then the health minister, said in March that the country was “in the endgame of Covid-19.” (Amid criticism over the government’s response, Vardhan stepped down in July.) The ICMR, which conducts and reviews research for the government, played a major role in shaping perceptions. India has not released granular data on the virus’s spread, hampering the ability of scientists to study it. In that vacuum, the agency offered projections that often steered debate. Politics began to influence the agency’s approach early last year, according to scientists familiar with its deliberations. In April 2020, in the midst of a nationwide lockdown ordered by Modi, the government blamed an early outbreak on an Islamic gathering, spurring attacks against Muslims by some Hindu nationalists, who provide the core of the prime minister’s support. Amid that anger, some officials within the science agency said the gathering had undermined containment efforts. The gathering “has undone the benefits of lockdown,” said one news outlet, citing an agency source. Raman Gangakhedkar, then its chief scientist, in an interview singled out the gathering as an “unexpected surprise.” In an interview with The Times, Gangakhedkar said that he had expressed “anguish” over the government’s statements targeting Muslims but said the science agency’s director general, Balram Bhargava, told him that the matter should not concern him. Bhargava did not respond to requests for comment. The lockdown did severe economic damage. Once it ebbed, Modi moved to rekindle the economy and start election campaigning — and government scientists, researchers within the agency said, helped pave the way. In June 2020, a study commissioned by the agency concluded that Modi’s lockdown had slowed but would not stop the virus’s spread. Within days, the authors withdrew it. The agency, saying the study’s modeling had not been peer-reviewed, wrote in a tweet that it “does not reflect the official position of ICMR.” One of the study’s authors, along with a scientist familiar with it, said the authors had withdrawn it amid pressure from the agency’s leaders, who questioned its findings and complained that it had been published before they had reviewed it. The move was unusual, the scientists said, adding that the agency’s leadership would typically adjust problematic language rather than demand a paper be withdrawn. In July 2020, Bhargava issued two directives to agency scientists that his internal critics saw as politically motivated.  The first called on scientists at a number of institutions to help approve, in just six weeks, a coronavirus vaccine developed by Indian scientists. In a memo dated July 2 and reviewed by The Times, Bhargava said the agency aimed to approve the vaccine by Aug. 15, India’s Independence Day, an event at which Modi frequently urges the country toward greater self-reliance. “Kindly note that noncompliance will be viewed very seriously,” the directive read. The request alarmed agency scientists. Regulators in other countries were still months away from approving their own vaccines. The agency’s top leaders backed off once the timetable became public. (The vaccine was approved by Indian authorities months later, in January.) Bhargava’s second directive, issued in late July 2020, forced scientists to withhold data that suggested the virus was still spreading in 10 cities, according to emails and scientists familiar with the work. The data came from the agency’s serological studies, which tracked the disease based on antibodies in blood samples. The data showed high infection rates in some neighborhoods, including in Delhi and Mumbai, despite containment efforts. In a July 25 email reviewed by The Times, Bhargava told the scientists that “I have not got approval” to publish the data. “You are sitting in an ivory tower and not understanding the sensitivity,” Bhargava wrote. “I am sincerely disappointed.” Naman Shah, a physician who worked on the studies, said withholding the data worked against science and democracy. “This is a government which clearly has a philosophy and history of trying to assert power by capturing every institution and making it an arena for political struggle,” he said. The data that ICMR did release helped officials argue incorrectly, to the country and the world, that the coronavirus wasn’t spreading in India as virulently as in the United States, Brazil, Britain and France. Then, last autumn, an agency-approved study wrongly suggested that the worst was over. Known as the Supermodel in India, the study projected that the pandemic would ebb in India by mid-February. It cited Modi’s lockdown earlier in 2020. It said that the country may have reached herd immunity because more than 350 million people had already been infected or developed antibodies. The science agency fast-tracked the study’s approval, said Agarwal and other people familiar with its progress. Scientists inside and outside the agency picked the study apart. Other countries were nowhere close to herd immunity. Plenty of people in India still had not been infected. None of the study’s authors were epidemiologists. Its model appeared to have been designed to fit the conclusion, some scientists said. “They had parameters which can’t be measured, and whenever the curve was not matching, they changed that parameter,” said Somdatta Sinha, a retired scientist who studies infectious disease models and who wrote a rebuttal. “I mean, we don’t do modeling like that. This is misguiding people.” Agarwal, the agency physician, said he took his concerns in October to Bhargava, who told him it was “none of his business.” Bhargava, he said, then summoned another scientist who had raised concerns about the study with Agarwal and reprimanded them both.  M. Vidyasagar, chairman of the committee that produced the Supermodel, declined to comment. Indian science officials said in May, as the second wave tore through the country, that the panel’s mathematical model “can only predict future with some certainty so long as virus dynamics and its transmissibility don’t change substantially over time.” One study, published in January 2021, did predict a second wave. Published in the journal Nature, it said that such an outbreak could strike if restrictions were “lifted without any other mitigations in place” and called for more testing. One of its authors worked for the ICMR, but its leadership pressured him to remove his affiliation with the agency from the paper, said people familiar with the matter. The second wave struck in April. With hospitals overwhelmed, Indian health officials recommended treatments that the government’s own scientists had found to be ineffective. One was blood plasma. Agarwal and his colleagues had concluded months before that blood plasma did not help Covid-19 patients, a finding that echoed others. The agency dropped the recommendation in May. The government still recommends a second treatment, the Indian-made malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, despite overwhelming scientific evidence that it is ineffective. Desperate families scrambled to find both during the second wave, creating black markets in which prices soared. Current and former agency scientists said they didn’t speak out because they considered the treatments politically protected. Modi’s party had organized plasma donation camps last year to mark his 70th birthday. The Indian government also used hydroxychloroquine as a diplomatic tool, winning points with Donald Trump, then the American president, and Jair Bolsonaro, the Brazilian leader, who both pressured New Delhi last year to lift its export limits on the drug. “If you want to work somewhere for the rest of your life, you want a good relationship with people,” Agarwal said. “You just be nonconfrontational about everything.” Agarwal resigned in October and later worked in Gallup, New Mexico. Now a physician in Baltimore, he said his experience with the agency had driven him to leave India. “You start questioning your work, you know,” he said. “And then, you get disillusioned by it.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-india-s-lethal-covid-wave-neared-politics-overrode-science-1030127.html
14-09-2021||National||India reports 25,404 new coronavirus cases, 339 fatalities||India saw a single-day rise of 25,404 new Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally in the country to 3,32,89,579, while the count of active cases declined to 3,62,207, according to Union Health Ministry data on Tuesday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,213, with 339 daily fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The tally of active cases has declined to 3,62,207, which comprises 1.09 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.58 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 12,062 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  Also, 14,30,891 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Monday, taking the total of such examinations to 54,44,44,967. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.78 per cent. This has been below three per cent for the last 15 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.07 per cent. The figure has been below three per cent for the last 81 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,24,84,159, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 75.22 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one crore-mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-25404-new-coronavirus-cases-339-fatalities-1030136.html
14-09-2021||National||US, India in talks over timeline for restarting Covid-19 vaccine exports||The United States is communicating regularly with India in bilateral and multilateral channels to discuss the supply of Covid-19 vaccines and inquire about its timeline for restarting vaccine exports, a senior Biden administration official said. The global pandemic will be a key topic on Sept. 24, when U.S. President Joe Biden will host the first in-person summit of leaders of the "Quad" countries Australia, India, Japan and the United States. The visit by Prime Ministers Scott Morrison, Narendra Modi and Yoshihide Suga to the United States will coincide with the United Nations General Assembly in New York, which Biden will address on Sept. 21. The Quad leaders met virtually in March and agreed to work closely on Covid-19 vaccines, but the initiative stalled after India, the world's largest vaccine producer, was hit by a catastrophic wave of infections, and halted vaccine exports. The administration official said Washington was staying in close touch with India and other Quad partners about the vaccine partnership, and "any factors that may affect this project or global vaccine supply," but those discussions were not tied to a specific summit or engagement. The official noted that Washington had diverted its own supply of raw materials for vaccine production to India in April, given its urgent needs, and global vaccine supply remained a key bottleneck to ending the pandemic. "We commend India for being one of the largest manufacturers for safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines globally, and we note that COVAX and the world rely heavily on India's contributions," the official said. "It's important for the United States to engage all our allies and partners on these matters so we can take the necessary actions to end this pandemic together."  Check out latest videos from DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-india-in-talks-over-timeline-for-restarting-covid-19-vaccine-exports-1030139.html
14-09-2021||National||'Stern facial expression the only sign of leader?': Vijay Rupani's daughter on his 'soft image'||Former chief minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani's daughter Radhika Rupani hit out at those who who had opined that her father's "soft image" had led to his unseating. In an emotional post on Facebook, Rupani, who lives in London, questioned if sensitivity and decency are not the qualities that a politician should have. “Should there not be sensitivity and grace in politicians? Isn’t it a necessary quality we need in a leader? He (Rupani) has taken stern steps and decisions like anti-land grabbing law, anti-love jihad, Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act (GujCTOC), CM Dashboard are evidence of this. Is wearing a stern facial expression the only sign of a leader?” Radhika Rupani asked.  Vijay Rupani stepped down as the CM on Saturday, passing the baton to Bhupendra Patel, a first-time MLA from Ahmedabad. In her post, Radhika emphasised how her father was always kind and considerate towards others and tried to instil the same values in the family. She added that her father was always the first to rush to help others. “My father was the first person to visit even before Modiji visited the premises,” she wrote citing the terror attack on the Akshardham temple in Gandhinagar in September 2002.   Sharing old family pictures, Radhika said that the Rupani family doubted if a simple person like her father could survive in Indian politics. “We would always discuss if a simple person (like my father) would survive in Indian politics where corruption and negativity is prevalent. My father would always say that the image of politics and politicians was influenced by Indian movies and age-old perception and that we had to change that. He never supported groupism and that was his specialty” her post read.   Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stern-facial-expression-the-only-sign-of-leader-vijay-rupanis-daughter-on-his-soft-image-1030143.html
14-09-2021||National||North India fares much better than south in weekly Covid cases; Kerala cases dip over 16% in week ending Sept 12||The southern states of India led India’s Covid-19 surge in the week that ended on September 12, a trend seen since the first wave of the pandemic, however, the gap is far wider in this wave. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, along with Puducherry registered 2.2 lakh new cases in the last week. Of this, over 1.7 lakh new cases came from Kerala alone, which continues to be the worst-impacted in the second wave. On the other hand, 14 states and union territories of north and central India accounted for 3,687 cases in the same period, which is just 1.67 per cent of the cases from the southern states and Maharashtra. These states include Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Rajasthan had the lowest new cases among these states at 61. The Northeastern states along with West Bengal and Odisha accounted for around 21,000 new cases. Even as Kerala forms a major chunk of India’s Covid-19 cases, its fresh cases declined around 16.4 per cent during this week. The state had witnessed an alarming level of cases at the end of August following the Onam festival. The state withdrew night curfew and Sunday lockdown on September 7 and paced up vaccinations of adults. Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Jammu and Kashmir were among a handful of states that witnessed a spike in new cases in the week ending September 12. India on Tuesday reported 25,404 new coronavirus cases and 339 deaths. The country’s death toll after Tuesday's number has risen to 4,43,213. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-india-fares-much-better-than-south-in-weekly-covid-cases-kerala-cases-dip-over-16-in-week-ending-sept-12-1030144.html
14-09-2021||National||PM Modi, President Biden and over 100 world leaders to address UNGA in person next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden will address the UN General Debate in-person next week, as over 100 heads of state and government arrive in New York to attend the annual high-level General Assembly session, which had gone virtual in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi will address world leaders from the iconic UN General Assembly hall on the morning of September 25, a day after he participates in the Quad Leaders’ Summit in Washington DC hosted by Biden on September 24. Modi, Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga will participate in the Leaders’ Summit of the Quadrilateral Framework in Washington and “review progress made since their first virtual Summit on 12 March 2021 and discuss regional issues of shared interest,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. Modi will address the General Debate of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on September 25. “The theme for this year’s General Debate is ‘Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations’,” the MEA statement said. As per the second provisional list of speakers for the General Assembly, about 109 heads of state and government will address the General Debate in person and nearly 60 will deliver speeches through pre-recorded video statements. Biden will travel to New York to deliver his first address to the 193-member General Assembly as American President. The US is traditionally the second speaker after Brazil at the General Debate, which this year will run from September 21 to 27. Afghanistan’s diplomat is listed as the last speaker on the last day of the General Debate. Currently the Afghan envoy at the UN is Ambassador Ghulam Isaczai, who was appointed by former President Ashraf Ghani as Kabul’s envoy to the UN in June 2021. The interim Taliban government in power has not yet made any submission challenging Isaczai’s credentials. The diplomats of Myanmar and Guinea are also listed to speak on behalf of their countries on the last day of the debate. However, following the coup in Myanmar, its military rulers have said the country’s Ambassador at UN Kyaw Moe Tun has been dismissed and they want Aung Thurein to replace him. In response to a question on who should represent Myanmar at the UNGA, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres had said that “it is a matter that is strictly in the hands of the Credentials Committee and, of course, we will abide by what member states decide in the Credentials Committee or eventually, if necessary in the General Assembly. This is an area where the Secretariat has no power whatsoever.” Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Israel's new Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas are among the world leaders who will address the session in person. The 76th session of the UN General Assembly will begin on Tuesday. Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid will be President of the year-long session. Modi had last addressed the UN General Assembly session in 2019. Last year, world leaders had submitted pre-recorded video statements for the United Nations General Assembly session in September, as heads of state and government could not physically attend the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. It was the first time in the UN's 75-year history that the high-level session had gone virtual. This year too, the option has been kept open for the world leaders to send in pre-recorded statements since the pandemic continues to rage across several nations around the world. The other events during the 76th session of the General Assembly are the meeting to commemorate the 20th Anniversary of the adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action on September 22, Dialogue on Energy convened by UN Secretary-General Guterres on September 24 and the plenary meeting to commemorate and promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons on September 28. Guterres and UK Prime Minister Johnson will hold an informal, closed-door roundtable with a small but representative group of heads of state and government on the sidelines of the General Assembly on September 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-president-biden-and-over-100-world-leaders-to-address-unga-in-person-next-week-1030157.html
14-09-2021||National||PM Modi greets people on Hindi Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the occasion of 'Hindi Diwas' on Tuesday, and said that people from different regions have played a significant role in making the language capable.  It is due to your efforts that Hindi is strongly establishing its identity at the global level, he tweeted.  It was on this day in 1949 that Hindi, the most spoken language in the country, was adopted as an official language. आप सभी को हिन्दी दिवस की ढेरों बधाई। हिन्दी को एक सक्षम और समर्थ भाषा बनाने में अलग-अलग क्षेत्रों के लोगों ने उल्लेखनीय भूमिका निभाई है। यह आप सबके प्रयासों का ही परिणाम है कि वैश्विक मंच पर हिन्दी लगातार अपनी मजबूत पहचान बना रही है।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-hindi-diwas-1030158.html
14-09-2021||National||Can't make exception for lawyers; their lives not more precious than others: Suprme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected a plea for directions to the Centre and others to pay Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to kin of advocates who died before 60 years due to Covid-19 or other reasons, saying it can't make exception for lawyers and their lives are not more precious than of others. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud dismissed a PIL by advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav with Rs 10,000 cost, while noting the plea is a "publicity interest litigation" and not a single relevant ground has been raised in it. The bench, also comprising Justices Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna, said several people have died due to Covid-19 in the country and there was already a judgement passed by the apex court dealing with framing of guidelines for disbursement of compensation to kin of those who have died as a result of coronavirus. "Are other people of the society not important," the bench asked Yadav. Maintaining that the court must not encourage filing of bogus PILs, the bench further told the petitioner, "This is a publicity interest litigation and just because you are in black coat does not mean your life is more precious than others." Referring to "cut-copy-paste" in the PIL, the court said it would not happen that lawyers will file plea like this to demand compensation and the court will allow it. The court asked Yadav to deposit the cost with the Supreme Court Bar Association within a week, while also rejecting his request to withdraw the petition to enable him to file it afresh with better grounds. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-make-exception-for-lawyers-their-lives-not-more-precious-than-others-suprme-court-1030163.html
14-09-2021||National||IS modules identified Gujarat, West Bengal, Maharashtra for caliphate: NIA||The group identified Jambusar in Gujarat, Burdwan in West Bengal and Ratnagiri in Maharashtra to spread their ideology. The group wanted its members to shift to the deep jungles in these states and operate in a manner similar to Naxals, an official told the publication.  The NIA has reportedly identified 25 suspects from ISIS who are believed to be in Afghanistan and are trying to recruit Indians online to carry out jihad. “The identity of the foreign handler in the Bengaluru ISIS module is yet to be established. His chat name was said to be ‘Bhai’,” said a senior NIA official told the publication.  The investgation body on September 3 had filed a supplementary charge sheet against a suspected ISIS terrorist, Shihabudeen.  Shihabudeen was part of a larger conspiracy, in collecting and supplying arms and ammunition in Mumbai, according to NIA. The charge sheet against Shihabudeen alias Sirajudeen alias Khalid alias Rajesh was submitted to a special NIA court under IPC section 120B, section 25 (1)(a) of the Arms Act and sections 18, 20, 38 and 39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.  In a statement, the central agency said that Shihabudeen was part of the al-Hind terrorist module first busted by police in Suddaguntepalya, South Bengaluru. On January 10, 2020, city police registered a case under IPS sections 153A, 121A, 120B, 122, 123, 124A and 125 and sections 13, 18 and 20 of the terror law. The NIA later took over the case and re-registered it on January 23, 2020.  Bengaluru Police had named 17 people in the case, including Gurappanapalya resident and alleged mastermind Mehboob Pasha alias Abdullah along with Shihabudeen.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-modules-identified-gujarat-west-bengal-maharashtra-for-caliphate-nia-1030165.html
14-09-2021||National||LJP MP Prince Paswan booked for rape||LJP MP Prince Raj, estranged cousin of Chirag Paswan, has been booked on rape charges in New Delhi following a direction by a court on a complaint filed three months ago. The complainant is a party worker, who said that the sexual assault took place in 2020. The name of Chirag Paswan, son of late Ram Vilas Paswan who leads a faction of the LJP, is also mentioned in the FIR with the victim claiming that he Chirag pressurised her not to file the complaint. Police said the case has been registered at the Connaught Place Police Station in the national capital following a court's direction on September 9. Meanwhile, Prince Raj moved a Delhi court seeking protection from arrest in the rape case. The anticipatory bail application is likely to come up for hearing before Special Judge M K Nagpal on Thursday. Prince Raj in his application alleged that the victim and her male friend were extorting money and blackmailing him and a case had already been filed in that regard earlier, in which the woman and her associate were granted anticipatory bail. Defending Prince Raj, LJP spokesperson Shravan Kumar said the allegations were a "political conspiracy" to malign the MP. He said the MP had lodged a complaint of "extortion and blackmailing" with Delhi Police on February 10 against the woman. Kumar said the police should swiftly probe the case lodged by the Samartipur MP and said cases of "honey trapping" also frequently happen. Earlier, Chirag had said that he asked both Prince Raj and the woman to pursue the matter with police when the issue was brought before him. Prince Raj has aligned with their uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras as the LJP split. Police said the woman has claimed in her complaint that she met Prince Raj first at the party office. They met on many occasions later and at one such meeting, the accused allegedly gave her something to drink following which she became unconscious and he made physical relations with her, police said quoting the complaint. When confronted, the woman claimed Prince Raj showed her a video recorded by him. Check out latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ljp-mp-prince-paswan-booked-for-rape-1030170.html
14-09-2021||National||Maruti Suzuki Swift crosses 25 lakh cumulative sales milestone||The country's largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Tuesday said its premium hatchback Swift has crossed 25 lakh cumulative sales milestone in over 16 years of its launch in the country. The model, which was the country's leading model in terms of sales in the last fiscal, has transcended its records by clocking cumulative sales of 2.5 million units, MSI said in a statement. Swift had created the premium hatchback segment in the country with its launch in 2005. "With its launch in 2005, Swift heralded the start of the premium hatchback segment in India... million Swift lovers. The No. 1 selling car of FY20-21, the sporty Swift has created a glorious legacy with its scintillating looks and power-packed performance," MSI Senior Executive Director (Marketing & Sales) Shashank Srivastava noted. Swift is not a car, it is a feeling, an emotion and a refreshing new thought process that challenged many notions around hatchbacks, he added. "This success is a testament to the love of customers and critics for Brand Swift. With more than 52 per cent of customers below the age of 35 years, Swift has been constantly refreshed to match the changing aspirations of its evolving young customers," Srivastava stated. Swift comes powered by a 1.2-litre petrol engine mated to both manual and Auto Gear Shift transmissions delivering fuel efficiency of 23.20 km/litre and 23.76 km/litre, respectively. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maruti-suzuki-swift-crosses-25-lakh-cumulative-sales-milestone-1030175.html
14-09-2021||National||Two Kerala Congress leaders join CPI(M)||The unrest in the Congress in Kerala over the ongoing revamp continues as three leaders left the party over the last few weeks and two of them joined the CPI(M). Kerala PCC former general secretary K P Anil Kumar announced his resignation on Tuesday, while P S Prasanth, a former secretary of Kerala PCC and a prominent local leader from Thiruvananthapuram, and A V Gopinath, a prominent leader from Palakkad district, resigned from the party over the last couple of weeks. Anil Kumar and Prasanth also joined the CPI(M). CPM former state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan who formally welcomed Anil Kumar said that he would be given adequate consideration. In a dramatic development, close on the heels of Anil Kumar convening a press conference to announce his decision, Kerala PCC president and Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran announced that Anil Kumar, who was placed under suspension from the party for openly flaying the leadership, was expelled from the primary membership of the party as the explanation he gave to the show cause notice was not satisfactory. Both Anil Kumar and Prasanth had strongly flayed the party new state leadership comprising of Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan as well as AICC general secretary K C Venugopal alleging that many in the party were being sidelines and new groups were being formed in the party. Anil Kumar alleged that Sudhakaran had planned on joining Sangh Parivar organisations and even mocked that Sudhakaran became the party's state president in the manner in which the Taliban captured Afghanistan. Even as Gopinath also strongly flayed the party leadership, it is still trying to bring him back to the party considering his local support. The CPM has given welcome signs to him. Congress in Kerala was witnessing serious internal issues following the selection of new district Congress committee presidents recently. Even senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala had expressed their resentment for not consulting them before finalising the state leadership's proposal. But the party national leadership was firmly backing the new state leadership. The party-state leadership was revamped following the setback faced by the party in the Assembly election. Groupism and selection of party office-bearers and candidates on the basis of loyalty to the party leaders rather than merit was the major allegation that the party had been facing in Kerala over the years. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-kerala-congress-leaders-join-cpim-1030176.html
14-09-2021||National||CPI(M), BJP workers clash in Kerala CM's constituency, 2 injured||Two activists of the ruling CPI(M) and the opposition BJP suffered hack injuries during a political clash at Melur village in Dharadmom, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's home constituency in this politically volatile district, police said here on Tuesday. The clash between the rival parties broke out on Monday night and the situation is under control now, they said. The BJP activist, identified as Dhanraj, suffered serious hack injuries on his hand and chest and he was now admitted to a private hospital in neighbouring Kozhikode after being given first aid at the co-operative hospital in Thalassery. Maneesh, the injured Marxist party activist, was also rushed to the co-operative hospital. A police team is camping in the area to check any further violence in the area. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-bjp-workers-clash-in-kerala-cms-constituency-2-injured-1030179.html
14-09-2021||National||NHRC seeks reports from govts over 'adverse' impact of farmers' protest||As the farmers continue their protest at Delhi borders demanding repeal of three contentious farm laws, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought reports from the Centre, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments as well as other authorities on the impact the agitation has on commercial activities and inconvenience caused to travellers. It has also asked the Institute of Economic Growth (IEG), National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Delhi School of Social Work (University of Delhi) to study various aspects of the farmers' protest and submit reports to the NHRC. In a statement, the NHRC said it has received several complaints regarding the ongoing farmer's protest, related to its "adverse impact" on the industrial units, "seriously affecting" more than 9,000 micro, medium, and large companies. Transportation is also "adversely impacted, causing the commuters, patients, physically challenged people and senior citizens to suffer" due to the heavy congestion on roads. The NHRC said there are also reports that people have to travel long distances to reach their destinations due to the ongoing farmers' agitation and barricades have been put on the borders. Following this, it has issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of UP, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi, Director Generals of Police of UP, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi Police Commissioner asking them to submit their respective Action Taken Reports. It also mentioned an allegation of breach of the Covid-19 protocols by the farmers at the protest site. It is also alleged that inhabitants are not being allowed to move out of their houses due to the blockade of the passage. "Since the agitation involves the issue of human rights, the right to agitate in a peaceful manner is also to be respected. The Commission needs to take care of various human rights issues," it said. The commission has asked the IEG to examine the "adverse impact" of the farmers' agitation on industrial and commercial activities and production and disruption of transport services on commercial and normal consumers, including inconvenience and additional expenditure. It has been given time till October 10 to submit its report. The NDMA and the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare have to submit reports about Covid protocols during the agitation. The Delhi School of Social Work has been asked to conduct a survey and submit the report assessing the disruption of livelihood, lives of people, impact on the aged and infirm persons due to "protracted agitation" by farmers. In the case of alleged gang rape of human rights activist at the protest site, the statement said, it has not received any report from the District Magistrate of Haryana's Jhajjar regarding the payment of compensation to the next of kin of the deceased. A fresh reminder was issued asking the District Magistrate to file the report by October 10.  Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-seeks-reports-from-govts-over-adverse-impact-of-farmers-protest-1030192.html
14-09-2021||National||All regional languages must be promoted: Home Minister Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said Hindi is a friend of India's regional languages and all of them should be promoted and encouraged. Addressing a function on the occasion of Hindi Diwas, Shah also appealed to parents to communicate with their children at home in their mother tongue even if they study in English medium schools. Otherwise, the children will be cut-off from their roots, he said. “Hindi has no difference with any regional language. Hindi is the 'Sakhi' (friend) of all Indian regional languages,” he said. Shah said all Indian regional languages complement and complete Hindi and all regional languages must be promoted and encouraged. Since 2014, more MPs are speaking in their own regional language in Parliament and they are being translated verbatim to English and Hindi, he said and added that this has helped people's representatives to highlight the problems of their respective areas in the highest forum. The home minister said people should not only be 'Atma Nirbhar' (self-reliant) in producing goods but also for languages. He cited Prime Minister Narendra Modi's example of speaking only in Hindi at all international forums to convey his thoughts. “Hesitation over Hindi is a passe,” he said. Referring to the New Education Policy (NEP) envisaged by Modi, Shah said it has provisions for promotion of regional and Hindi languages. On dealing with the pandemic situation, he said India has been successful in handling Covid-19 with minimum damage due to joint efforts of the central and state governments and with the active cooperation of 130 crore population. The prime minister, whenever he addressed the nation, talked with all stakeholders — doctors, experts and others — in Hindi which resulted in the message reaching the grassroots level, he said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-regional-languages-must-be-promoted-home-minister-amit-shah-1030194.html
14-09-2021||National||FinMin gives nod to 11 states to borrow additional Rs 15,721 crore||The Finance Ministry has permitted 11 states to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore after these states achieved the capital expenditure target set for the June quarter. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. "11 states.... have achieved the target set by the Ministry of Finance for the capital expenditure in the 1st Quarter of 2021-22. As an incentive, these States have been granted permission by the Department of Expenditure to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore," the Ministry said in a statement. The additional open market borrowing permission granted is equivalent to 0.25 per cent of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Additional financial resources thus made available will help the States in pushing their capital expenditure further. The Ministry said capital expenditure has a high multiplier effect, enhances the future productive capacity of the economy, and results in a higher rate of economic growth. Accordingly, out of the net borrowing ceiling (NBC) of 4 per cent of GSDP for the states for 2021-22, 0.50 per cent of GSDP was earmarked for incremental capital expenditure to be incurred by the States during 2021-22. The target for incremental capital expenditure for each state to qualify for this incremental borrowing was fixed by the Department of Expenditure. To become eligible for incremental borrowing, States were required to achieve at least 15 per cent of the target set for 2021-22 by the end of April-June quarter of 2021-22, 45 per cent by the end of second quarter, 70 per cent by the end of third quarter and 100 per cent by March 31, 2022. The next review of Capital expenditure of States will be undertaken by the Department of Expenditure in December, 2021. In this round, capital expenditure achieved by the States till September 30, 2021 will be assessed. Third review will be done in March, 2022 on the basis of capital expenditure incurred by the State during the first three quarters of the year 2021-22. The capital expenditure-linked borrowing ceiling of 0.50 per cent of GSDP will be allowed to those States who will achieve actual capital expenditure of at least 45 per cent of the target by September 30, 2021 or 70 per cent of the target by December 31, 2021. There would be a final review of actual capital expenditure by the States in the month of June, 2022. Any shortfall/deficiency in actual capital expenditure for the year 2021-22 by the State in comparison with the targeted capital expenditure for the year 2021-22, will be adjusted from the borrowing ceiling of the State for the year 2022-23. New Delhi, Sep 14 (PTI) The Finance Ministry has permitted 11 states to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore after these states achieved the capital expenditure target set for the June quarter. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. "11 states.... have achieved the target set by the Ministry of Finance for the capital expenditure in the 1st Quarter of 2021-22. As an incentive, these States have been granted permission by the Department of Expenditure to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore," the Ministry said in a statement. The additional open market borrowing permission granted is equivalent to 0.25 per cent of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Additional financial resources thus made available will help the States in pushing their capital expenditure further. The Ministry said capital expenditure has a high multiplier effect, enhances the future productive capacity of the economy, and results in a higher rate of economic growth. Accordingly, out of the net borrowing ceiling (NBC) of 4 per cent of GSDP for the states for 2021-22, 0.50 per cent of GSDP was earmarked for incremental capital expenditure to be incurred by the States during 2021-22. The target for incremental capital expenditure for each state to qualify for this incremental borrowing was fixed by the Department of Expenditure. To become eligible for incremental borrowing, States were required to achieve at least 15 per cent of the target set for 2021-22 by the end of April-June quarter of 2021-22, 45 per cent by the end of second quarter, 70 per cent by the end of third quarter and 100 per cent by March 31, 2022. The next review of Capital expenditure of States will be undertaken by the Department of Expenditure in December, 2021. In this round, capital expenditure achieved by the States till September 30, 2021 will be assessed. Third review will be done in March, 2022 on the basis of capital expenditure incurred by the State during the first three quarters of the year 2021-22. The capital expenditure-linked borrowing ceiling of 0.50 per cent of GSDP will be allowed to those States who will achieve actual capital expenditure of at least 45 per cent of the target by September 30, 2021 or 70 per cent of the target by December 31, 2021. There would be a final review of actual capital expenditure by the States in the month of June, 2022. Any shortfall/deficiency in actual capital expenditure for the year 2021-22 by the State in comparison with the targeted capital expenditure for the year 2021-22, will be adjusted from the borrowing ceiling of the State for the year 2022-23. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finmin-gives-nod-to-11-states-to-borrow-additional-rs-15721-crore-1030196.html
14-09-2021||National||Face masks are 'not going anywhere' through 2022, says NITI Aayog's V K Paul||NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul said that face masks to protect against Covid-19 are not going away any time soon, warning of a risky period ahead as the festive season approaches. Paul said that a third wave is possible and the next three-four months are key. "It (third wave) cannot be ruled out. There is a period of the next three-four months when the vaccine is rolling up to build the Great Wall of herd immunity. We need to protect ourselves and avoid the outbreak. To me, that is possible if we are all together in this show," Paul said. Paul warned that upcoming festivals of Dussehra and Diwali, if not managed well, may lead to massive outbreaks. "We have a risky period coming forward. There are ways to ward off the virus, in theory, in such a situation. And there are guidelines that are available to invoke restrictions in a graded manner. And they should be invoked when the time comes," he said. Timely intervention on the part of the administration and the people above which can and should and will avoid any significant outbreak, he said. Paul expects the WHO's approval for Covaxin to come by the end of this month. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/face-masks-are-not-going-anywhere-through-2022-says-niti-aayogs-v-k-paul-1030197.html
14-09-2021||National||I&B Ministry now on Telegram to counter fake news||The Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Tuesday launched its account on social media platform Telegram to counter fake news. It was launched as 'PIB Fact Check', which is one of the few government entities to have a Telegram channel, aims to verify information related to the Centre and disseminate to its subscribers. “Earlier, fake channels were being run on Telegram in the name of fact check. PIB, along with Telegram, got these fraudulent channels removed,” said ministry sources. PIB Fact Check is the only central government fact-checking arm, which was established in November 2019. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-ministry-now-on-telegram-to-counter-fake-news-1030202.html
14-09-2021||National||Javed Akhtar defamation case: Court to issue warrant against Kangana if she fails to appear on September 20||A Mumbai court on Tuesday allowed actor Kangana Ranaut's plea seeking exemption from personal appearance for the day in a criminal defamation complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar, and said it will issue a warrant against her if she fails to appear on the next date of hearing on September 20. As the matter came up for hearing, Ranaut's lawyer sought that she be exempted from appearance for the day as she was not keeping well. The lawyer submitted a medical certificate before the court and said the actor has been traveling for the promotion of her film and has "developed Covid-19 symptoms". However, Akhtar's lawyer said this is an orchestrated tactic to delay the case proceedings. The lyricist's lawyer further said Ranaut has refused to appear before the court for one reason or the other since summons were issued to her in February this year. After hearing the submissions, metropolitan magistrate R R Khan allowed Ranaut to be exempted from appearance for the day. He then posted the matter for hearing on September 20. The magistrate said if the actor fails to appear on the next hearing, a warrant will be issued against her. Last Thursday, the Bombay High Court dismissed a plea filed by Ranaut seeking the quashing of proceedings initiated against her by the local court on the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akhtar. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere had said in the order that there was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's order initiating the proceedings. Akhtar (76) filed a complaint in the magistrate's court in November last year, claiming that Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javed-akhtar-defamation-case-court-to-issue-warrant-against-kangana-if-she-fails-to-appear-on-september-20-1030203.html
14-09-2021||National||Misbehaviour with tourists now cognizable offence in Rajasthan||Misbehaviour with tourists will now be a cognizable offence in Rajasthan and a non-bailable one if repeated. An amendment bill was passed in the state assembly on Monday night to insert a new section 27-A in the Rajasthan Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Act, 2010. The house passed the Rajasthan Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021 with a voice vote. Tourism is one of the key industries in Rajasthan which is visited by lakhs of domestic and foreign tourists every year. However, the visitors often face problems due to touts, illegal vendors and undesirable elements. According to the new section, the offence will be cognizable and bailable. At the same time, if the offence in sub-section 3 of section 13 is repeated, it will be non-bailable in sub-section 4 of section 13. Participating in a debate on the bill, Minister of State for Tourism Govind Singh Dotasra said the legislation was brought in 2010 to boost tourism and prevent misbehaviour with tourists. However, as it was not mentioned whether the offence was bailable or non-bailable and therefore, it had to be amended, he said. Dotasra said police stations in Jaipur and Udaipur were set up by the state government to check touting and cases were filed in 2016 and challans submitted. But the accused went to the High Court which in January 2017 quashed an FIR on the grounds that the offences were not specifically provided in the Act as cognizable. Therefore, the amendments have been made, he said. Welcoming the development, Sanjay Kaushik, secretary of Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators, said strict action against touts, called lapkas in local parlance, is necessary to make the tourists feel safe. “Touting activities not only disturb tourists but also tarnish the image of the whole industry. The problem of lapkas is mainly in big cities like Jaipur and Udaipur,” Kaushik told PTI. The lapkas pose as guides, mislead and force tourists to shop in order to get a commission and extort money from them. They also harass the tourists, Kaushik claimed. Sunita Sharma, a national-level tourist guide and executive member of Tourist Federation of India, said touts are not regulated by the government and hence catching them is difficult. “Such elements mislead tourists; extort money from them and it creates a very bad impression. Since they are not regulated by the government, catching them becomes difficult if they commit fraud. Hence, strict action against them is necessary,” she said. Check out latest videos from DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/misbehaviour-with-tourists-now-cognizable-offence-in-rajasthan-1030214.html
14-09-2021||National||Bengal Advocate General Kishore Datta resigns citing 'personal reasons'||West Bengal Advocate General Kishore Datta on Tuesday resigned from his post citing "personal reasons", and it was accepted by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar with immediate effect, according to the Raj Bhavan. "In terms of Article 165 of the Constitution have accepted with immediate effect resignation submitted by Shri Kishore Datta, Senior Advocate, as Advocate General of State of West Bengal @MamataOfficial with immediate effect," Dhankhar tweeted. Datta, who took charge in February 2017, is the fourth advocate general of West Bengal in a row to have resigned from the post during the Mamata Banerjee regime. Anindya Mitra, the first advocate general to have taken charge after the TMC government came to power in 2011, and his successors Bimal Chatterjee and Jayanta Mitra had also resigned from the post.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-advocate-general-kishore-datta-resigns-citing-personal-reasons-1030220.html
14-09-2021||National||Odisha to use bees to prevent elephants from entering human habitations||In a bid to reduce man-elephant conflict, the Odisha government has decided to use honey bees to prevent the pachyderms from straying into human habitations, a senior forest official said on Tuesday. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Sashi Paul said that the RE-HAB (Reducing Human-Elephant Attacks Using Bees) project will be launched in Athmallik Forest Division of Angul district in the first phase. "Beehive boxes will be strategically placed on the periphery of forests and routes usually taken by elephants to enter human habitations. A wire will be tied to the boxes. When the pachyderms pass through the routes and stamp on the wire, the honey bees will attack and drive them back into the forests," he said. The joint project of the Forest and Environment Department and the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) was conceived keeping in view the high number of fatalities in man-elephant conflict. While over 900 people have been killed in elephant attacks in the last one decade, 282 pachyderms have died in only the last three years due to several factors including poaching, the official said. Similar projects have succeeded in South Africa and other countries, and in states like Uttarakhand and Karnataka, he said. A meeting was organised with residents of three villages lying on the periphery of Athmallik forest and they are ready to cooperate with the government for the successful implementation of the project, the official said. Paul said that human-elephant conflicts mostly happen during the harvest season from September-March and the project will be launched in this period. "The government will closely monitor and study the impact of the project on the elephants," he said. The administration also plans to fit radio collars on specific marauding elephants that create nuisance in human habitations on the periphery of Chandaka Sanctuary, Badampahar Forest Range and Similipal National Park. The Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru has been assigned the job of putting radio collars on three elephants this week, he said. Paul said that the Forest Department has also decided to commence 'Gaja Sathi Yojana' (Friend of Elephants) programme by involving volunteers of Van Suraksha Samiti to provide early inputs on the movement of the pachyderms. Five members of each Van Suraksha Samiti will be engaged as Gaja Sathi and will be provided with firecrackers, lights and other equipment to track and drive elephant herds away from the human habitations. Each Samiti will be provided with an annual financial assistance of Rs 25,000, he said. Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-to-use-bees-to-prevent-elephants-from-entering-human-habitations-1030222.html
14-09-2021||National||Minorities '100% secure' under Modi govt; narrative of hate incidents going up 'wrong': NCM chief||Minorities are "100 per cent secure" under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government and the narrative that hate incidents have gone up during the present dispensation is "wrong", National Commission for Minorities chairperson Iqbal Singh Lalpura said on Tuesday. Lalpura, who took over as the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) chairperson last week, asserted that his priority would be to dispel "false narratives" fuelling insecurity among minorities. His remarks come amid vociferous criticism of the government by Opposition parties, including the Congress, and several civil society members who have argued that the hate incidents targeting minorities have gone up under the BJP-led rule at the Centre. There have also been reports of incidents of mob violence recently in various parts of the country with the victims belonging to a minority community, including a Muslim scrap dealer who was allegedly threatened and forced to chant ''Jai Shri Ram'' by two men at a village in Madhya Pradesh''s Ujjain district. Lalpura claimed that looking at statistics, the figures have come down now with respect to incidents like rioting, murder and lynching. "Look at the past, we used to hear of riots in Aligarh when the BJP government was not there. We have heard of riots elsewhere also when the BJP government was not there. I am here as a constitutional person...and when we look at the statistics, the figures have come down -- (be it) rioting, murder, lynching," Lalpura told PTI in an interview. "But cases have happened and cases are happening and that is why we need the National Commission for Minorities," the former IPS officer said. On the narrative that hate incidents have gone up, Lalpura said this is a "wrong narrative". Asked about the situation of minorities in India under Prime Minister Modi's government, he said they are "100 per cent secure". Lalpura said that as NCM chairperson his priority would be to look after the interests of the minorities and ensure that no injustice is done. "At the same time, I have to see that false narratives are not created. We all are Indians and we have to work to ensure the development of the country, security of all people, and that everyone gets justice," he said. "We will try to solve all the problems that come to us," the NCM chief added. He said he will meet as many people as possible, try to solve their problems and find out why some of them are insecure. "If there is a feeling of insecurity that has to be set right. First of all we are Indians, we are here by choice and we should work for the development of the country. No person, whichever religion he or she may belong to, is to be harassed for their religion," Lalpura asserted. Acknowledging that there was a section of the society which was insecure, Lalpura stressed on justice to all and said if need be, he would visit the spot where any injustice takes place. "Nobody is allowed to take law into their own hands," the NCM chief said, and added that "we have to investigate all cases and see who is at fault". Lalpura said matters escalate when action is not taken even after the issue comes to light and asserted that immediate action should be taken on all complaints. Asked about the farmers' issue and Sikh community being targeted by some sections over the farm laws protests, the NCM chief, virtually backing the laws, said the Centre had to intervene because the states did not develop industry and avenues to sell produce. "States should have created the infrastructure so that the Centre would not have to do this. Why states have not done it during all these years, why the Centre needs to intervene, why farmers are committing suicides, these are the questions states need to answer," he said. Asked who is spreading false narratives, Lapura said, "I have come as a common man and with my experience I understand what is happening all around but since I am now heading a commission, I should refrain from making such comments. It is all before the public, they know it." The NCM chief also said there should be no forced conversions or by inducements. Lalpura is the second Sikh to head the statutory commission after S Tarlochan Singh, who headed the commission between 2003 and 2006. Lalpura, who has been a BJP spokesperson and hails from Punjab, has authored several books on Sikh philosophy and history. He has also won several awards such as the president's police medal, police medal for meritorious services, Shiromani Sikh Sahitkar Award and Sikh scholar award.  Check out latest videos by DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minorities-100-secure-under-modi-govt-narrative-of-hate-incidents-going-up-wrong-ncm-chief-1030223.html
14-09-2021||National||India, UK moving towards early harvest trade deal: Piyush Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has confirmed that India and the UK are moving towards an early harvest trade agreement, with a comprehensive free trade agreement (FTA) the next step. Taking to Twitter soon after a virtual meeting with his UK counterpart, Liz Truss, on Monday, the minister described his discussions as “productive” and reflecting further strengthening of India-UK trade ties. “Held a productive discussion with Secretary of State for International Trade, UK Right Honourable Liz Truss, on enhancing the India-UK trade partnership,” said Goyal. “India and UK are strengthening trade ties by moving towards an early harvest deal, followed by a comprehensive FTA,” he said. UK Secretary of State for International Trade Liz Truss, in her Twitter statement, announced the launch of trade working groups to lay the groundwork for a forthcoming UK-India trade agreement. “Today Piyush Goyal and I launched trade working groups to lay the groundwork for our forthcoming UK-India trade deal, which will: boost access to more than a billion consumers; bolster our science & tech industries; and support jobs in both countries,” she said. The UK's Department for International Trade (DIT) said the talks between the two ministers focussed on the “scope and ambition” for a UK-India free trade agreement (FTA), following the close of the UK’s formal consultation process ahead of the negotiations on August 31. “They discussed the findings from the consultation and agreed the steps to get ready to launch negotiations later this year – including the start of a series of trade working groups from September,” notes a DIT readout of Monday's meeting. “They also discussed the newly established Enhanced Trade Partnership, and confirmed their commitment to timely implementation of the market access package,” the DIT said. The UK government said these regular ministerial dialogues help both sides better understand each other’s position on potential “chapter areas” in any trade deal, including tariffs, standards, IP and data regulation. “The International Trade Secretary reaffirmed her ambition to negotiate a trade agreement that delivers results for the British people and businesses including those in digital and data, tech and food and drink. Both ministers agreed that continuing to engage with the business community was vital throughout the forthcoming negotiations,” DIT said. According to officials, findings from the DIT’s public consultation will be published before the start of formal trade negotiations as part of a wider package outlining a strategic rationale for the FTA, including the UK’s negotiating objectives and economic analysis of a potential deal. Earlier, the UK trade ministry had said that preparations towards an FTA with India are progressing. A deal would represent a major boost for UK exporters, lowering tariffs, easing regulation, and driving up bilateral trade which totalled GBP 23 billion in 2019, it noted. Increasing UK-India trade has been dubbed a “huge opportunity” by the UK, given India’s position as one of the world’s biggest and fastest-growing economies and home to more than a billion consumers. “I see the UK and India in a sweet spot of the trade dynamics that are building up,” Truss said at a City of London Corporation event celebrating the UK-India economic partnership last week. “We are looking at a comprehensive trade agreement that covers everything, from financial services to legal services to digital and data, as well as goods and agriculture. We think there is a strong possibility for us to get an early agreement, where we lower tariffs on both sides and start to see more goods flowing between our two countries,” she said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-moving-towards-early-harvest-trade-deal-piyush-goyal-1030240.html
14-09-2021||National||More than 72.77 crore Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: Govt||More than 72.77 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through the Government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. Further, more than 1.6 crore doses (1,60,75,000) are in the pipeline. More than 4.49 crore (4,49,03,025) balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the ministry said. The Union Government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country.  The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states/UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states/UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost, it stated. In the new phase of universalisation of the Covid19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states/UTs. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-7277-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-govt-1030243.html
14-09-2021||National||Cabinet may approve revised PLI scheme for auto sector on Wednesday||The Union Cabinet is likely to approve on Wednesday the revised production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the automobile sector, which aims at promoting domestic manufacturing and create jobs, according to sources. The government is believed to have slashed the outlay for this PLI scheme to about Rs 26,000 crore, they said. Last year, the government had announced the scheme for the automobile and auto components sector with an outlay of Rs 57,043 crore, earmarked for five years. "The Cabinet may take up the proposal in the meeting tomorrow (on Wednesday)," one of the sources said. The sources did not disclose the reason for revising the scheme to Rs 25,938 crore, but stated that the focus is now more on battery electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. Component segments that are expected to be covered under the scheme include automatic transmission assembly, electronic power steering system, sensors, supercapacitors, sunroofs, adaptive front lighting, automatic braking, tyre pressure monitoring system, and collision warning system. Earlier, auto industry body SIAM said the scheme announced by the government will increase competitiveness and take the growth of the sector to the next level. The scheme for the sector is part of the overall production-linked incentives announced for 13 sectors in the Union Budget 2021-22 with an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore. The PLI scheme will help bring scale in key sectors and create and nurture global champions. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-may-approve-revised-pli-scheme-for-auto-sector-on-wednesday-1030259.html
14-09-2021||National||Not going to prescribe again policy for reservation in promotion: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it is not going to prescribe again policy for determining backwardness as orders have already been passed and issues have been settled in judgements of M Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018) on reservation in promotion in public employment. "We have already passed orders on how to consider backwardness, we cannot prescribe policy further. It is for the States to implement policy and not for us to prescribe. We are not going to decide on issue of Article 16(4) and 16(4a) of the Constitution," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said. The oral observations came as the Union and several state governments led by Attorney General K K Venugopal asked the top court to issue further clarifications as promotion on 2,500 posts remained stalled due to orders having passed by several High Courts. In the Constitution bench decisions of Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018), the top court had laid down conditionalities like collection of data on inadequacy of representation, overall effect on efficiency on administration and removing creamy layers in considering reservation in promotion for SC and STs employees. Taking up over 130 petitions, the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai, asked counsel for states to identify the issues peculiar to them and submit a note within two weeks for detailed hearing in the matter from October 5. Venugopal, for his part, said that the ruling in Nagaraj required interpretation as the judgment had left a lot of ambiguities when it comes to reservations in promotions. He said the Centre was constrained to make nearly 1,400 promotions on an ad-hoc basis based on seniority without taking into consideration the principle of reservations, to ensure that the functioning of the departments are not affected.  He also asked the court to recall a contempt notice issued against the Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs over ad-hoc promotions of 149 officers, for allegedly violating the order of April 15, 2019 on the maintenance of status quo. The bench, however, refused to recall the contempt notice and said it would hear the matter along with the main case. During the hearing, senior advocates Indira Jaising and P S Patwalia, referred to several ambiguities in Nagaraj judgement, leading to different High Courts interfering with the guidelines framed by the state governments on reservation in promotion. "What is adequacy when it comes to reservations in promotions under Article 16(4) of the Constitution? States are doing whatever they think fit. Some High Courts are upholding and some High Courts are striking it down," she said. Senior Advocate Rajeev Dhavan and advocate Kumar Parimal and others, appearing for private parties, asked the court to ensure strict compliance of the conditionalities laid down in Nagaraj judgement. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-going-to-prescribe-again-policy-for-reservation-in-promotion-sc-1030264.html
14-09-2021||National||Fresh influx of Myanmar nationals recorded in Mizoram villages, locals provide aid to refugees||In a fresh influx from trouble-torn Myanmar, more than 1,800 people have reportedly crossed over to Mizoram in the past few days, Home Minister Lalchamliana said on Tuesday. The minister also clarified that he was yet to access documents pertaining to the matter. Myanmar nationals have been fleeing the country since February following a military coup that left its democratically elected government in exile, and sparked protests and subsequent crackdowns. Lalchamliana stated that the Myanmarese who have entered Mizoram are mostly from the neighbouring country's Chin state. "I have learned that around 1,850 people from Myanmar entered the border districts of Champhai, Hnahthial and Lawngtlai in Mizoram in the past few days. I am yet to receive any official record as I am undergoing quarantine after having come in contact with my Covid-affected grandchildren," he told PTI. He further said that the Centre has not responded to the state government's letters seeking asylum for the Myanmar nationals in the country. "The central government did not make any arrangement yet to provide asylum and relief to the Myanmar nationals, who fled their country fearing for their lives. It is also no longer asking Mizoram to send the refugees back as it did earlier," the home minister pointed out. Lalchamliana had informed the state assembly last week that the state government has already released Rs 30 lakh to assist the refugees on humanitarian grounds. Earlier in March, Chief Minister Zoramthanga had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to provide asylum and assistance to the Myanmar nationals. A delegation from the state, led by lone Lok Sabha member C Lalrosanga, had also visited Delhi in mid-March and discussed the matter with Union ministers. Six Mizoram districts -- Champhai, Siaha, Lawngtlai, Serchhip, Hnahthial and Saitual -- share a 510-km-long border with Myanmar's Chin state. The Chin community and Mizos share the same ancestry. Official sources said villagers residing along the India-Myanmar border have raised funds and set up relief camps for the refugees who have made their way to the state. The residents have also provided them food and other aid, they said. PC Lalremkunga, village council president of Thingsai in Hnahthila district, said locals have erected temporary camps for over 400 than Myanmar nationals who entered the state. "Altogether 417 people, including children and elderly, entered the village in the past four days after Chinland Defence Force (CDF) apparently attacked and seized a military camp at Myanmar's Lungler village on September 10 and 12," he stated. According to Lalremkunga, Thingsai currently houses over 700 Myanmar nationals, 200 of them camping near Tiau river along the India-Myanmar border. Members of a women's organisation in the village have collected utensils, clothes and mattresses to aid the refugees, he added. Similar reports arrived from villages in Champhai district. Members of the Young Mizo Association (YMA) said at least 449 more people from Myanmar have taken shelter in Tuipuiral area of Champhai district in the past one week. Tuipuiral area, comprising 21 hamlets, currently accommodates 1,437 Myanmar nationals, MC Lalramenga, the president of YMA's local chapter, told PTI. Police records show that as many as 11,035 Myanmar nationals are currently residing in the state. A senior police officer, however, said that the number keeps changing amid fresh influx and outflow along the porous international border.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-influx-of-myanmar-nationals-recorded-in-mizoram-villages-locals-provide-aid-to-refugees-1030276.html
14-09-2021||National||Misbehaviour with tourists now cognisable offence in Rajasthan||Misbehaviour with tourists will now be a cognisable offence in Rajasthan and a non-bailable one if repeated. An amendment bill was passed in the state assembly on Monday night to insert a new section 27-A in the Rajasthan Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Act, 2010. The house passed the Rajasthan Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021 with a voice vote. Tourism is one of the key industries in Rajasthan which is visited by lakhs of domestic and foreign tourists every year. However, the visitors often face problems due to touts, illegal vendors and undesirable elements. According to the section 27-A, “All the offences punishable under the Act shall be cognisable and bailable: provided that the offences punishable under subsection (3) and sub-section (4) of section 13 of the Act shall be cognisable and non-bailable." Section 13 (3) says whoever commits subsequent offence of touting shall be arrested without warrant by police and, on conviction, be punished with rigorous imprisonment of up to three years or fine of up to Rs 30,000 or both. While 13 (4) says whoever, habitually engages in the practice of touting even after having been punished more than once, shall be arrested without warrant by police and punished on conviction with rigorous imprisonment of up to seven years or a fine up to Rs 1 lakh or both. Participating in a debate on the bill, Minister of State for Tourism Govind Singh Dotasra said the legislation was brought in 2010 to boost tourism and prevent misbehaviour with tourists. However, as it was not mentioned whether the offence was bailable or non-bailable, it had to be amended, he said. Dotasra said police stations in Jaipur and Udaipur were set up by the state government to check touting and cases were filed in 2016 and challans submitted. But the accused went to the High Court which in January 2017 quashed an FIR on the grounds that the offences were not specifically provided in the Act as cognisable. The minister said an FIR cannot be registered unless the offence is cognisable and when that does not happen, a record cannot be maintained. “This was a legal and technical problem, therefore, the amendments have been made,” he said. Welcoming the development, Sanjay Kaushik, secretary of Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators, said strict action against touts, called “lapkas” in local parlance, is necessary to make the tourists feel safe. “Touting activities not only disturb tourists but also tarnish the image of the whole industry. The problem of lapkas is mainly in big cities like Jaipur and Udaipur,” Kaushik told PTI. The lapkas pose as guides, mislead and force tourists to shop in order to get a commission and extort money from them. They also harass the tourists, Kaushik claimed. Sunita Sharma, a national-level tourist guide and executive member of Tourist Federation of India, said touts are not regulated by the government and hence catching them is difficult. “Such elements mislead tourists; extort money from them and it creates a very bad impression. Since they are not regulated by the government, catching them becomes difficult if they commit fraud. Hence, strict action against them is necessary,” she said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/misbehaviour-with-tourists-now-cognisable-offence-in-rajasthan-1030277.html
14-09-2021||National||Majority of Indian professionals believe hybrid work is essential for work-life balance: Survey||Majority of Indian professionals believe that hybrid work is essential for work-life balance, as this model would allow them to strike the right balance between their personal and professional lives, according to a LinkedIn survey. According to LinkedIn's "Future of Work" Study 2021, nearly 9 in 10 (86 per cent) respondents think that hybrid work will positively impact their work-life balance. Moreover, professionals are prioritising their well-being so much so that half of India’s workforce believes that work-life balance is just as important as their salary, the survey that covered 1,108 respondents in the age group of 16 to 68, noted. The survey further said with a majority of professionals continuing to work remotely, 1 in 3 professionals in India is burnt out due to increased workload (35 per cent) and stress (34 per cent) while working remotely in India, the study said. "To shelter from such distressing times, professionals are prioritising their well-being and finding ways to strike the right balance. In fact, half of India's workforce believes that work-life balance (52 per cent) is just as important as their salary (52 per cent) today," it noted. The Future of Work perception study was conducted by research firm Censuswide, and surveyed 1,108 respondents in India, who worked in an office before the pandemic and who had to work from home at some point during the pandemic due to Covid-19 restrictions/guidelines. The respondents were surveyed between July 27 and July 29, 2021. "Long-term remote work has left professionals fatigued in India. This has caused a shift in the idea of what is important in our lives and has led to what we call 'The Great Talent Reshuffle'. Organisations are rethinking their entire work models, culture, and values, while employees are rethinking not just how they work, but why they work. "At this time, we encourage companies to explore stronger flexible offerings and more mental health time off, as professionals are now seeking a greater balance and more fulfillment in their lives," says Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn. As per the survey, professionals in India are keen to go back to the office. The study noted that 72 per cent of respondents think working from home would negatively impact their career growth, while 55 per cent said their professional learnings had already taken a severe hit. The study further reveals that nearly half (46 per cent) of India's workforce wants to go back to the office, full time because it makes them feel more productive and successful in a workplace setting. In fact, 71 per cent of respondents agree that those who choose to work more from the office are more likely to be favoured by bosses or leaders. Around 89 per cent of professionals also think going back to the workplace will help their finances because it will allow them to work more hours and make more money. As per the study, 93 per cent of professionals agree that working from home during the pandemic has positively impacted their physical health. They feel healthier and get extra time to exercise more frequently when working remotely. In fact, two in five professionals say they want to work remotely going forward because it allows them to ‘choose work hours and location’, and ‘spend more time with their loved ones’, the survey said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-of-indian-professionals-believe-hybrid-work-is-essential-for-work-life-balance-survey-1030293.html
14-09-2021||National||Ensure no official, faculty indulges in caste-based discrimination against students: UGC to varsities||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked varsities and colleges to ensure that no official and faculty indulges in any kind of discrimination against any community or category of students. The commission has also sought information from varsities about complaints received against caste-based discrimination during 2020-21 and the action taken. "The officials and faculty members should desist from any act of discrimination against SC and ST students on grounds of their social origin. The university and colleges should ensure that no official and faculty members indulge in any kind of discrimination against any community or category of students," UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said in a letter to all Vice Chancellors. "The university, institute or college may develop a page on their website for lodging such complaints of caste discrimination by SC and ST students and also place a complaint register in the registrar and principal office for the purpose. If any such incident comes to the notice of the authorities, action should be taken against the erring official and faculty members," Jain added. The commission noted that the university may constitute a committee to look into the discrimination complaints received from the SC, ST, OBC students, teachers and non-teaching staff. "You are requested to advise the officials and faculty members of your university to be more sensitive while dealing with incidents of caste discrimination. You are also requested to provide information for the year 2020-21 in the prescribed format on the University Activity Monitoring Portal (UAMP) of UGC urgently," Jain said. The UGC directed the universities that instructions should also be circulated to all the constituent and affiliated colleges for follow-up action please.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-no-official-faculty-indulges-in-caste-based-discrimination-against-students-ugc-to-varsities-1030294.html
14-09-2021||National||SC dissolves 2-decades-old marriage, says alliance 'emotionally dead'||Brushing aside a woman's contention that unworkable marriage should not be put to an end, the Supreme Court on Tuesday dissolved her two-decade-old matrimonial alliance on her husband's plea saying it is emotionally dead, and there was no point in persuading them to live together. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai, however, directed the husband to pay Rs 25 lakh as "full and final settlement" to the wife within eight weeks. The court took note of man's contention that he and his wife have been living separately for more than 16 years and for all practical purposes the marriage was dead. The woman, for her part, did not engage any counsel, prompting the court to appoint an amicus curiae, who spoke with her several times and informed the court that she was not willing for dissolution of marriage and intended to live with her husband. Noting that no meaningful effort has been made by her for reconciliation, the court said, “The marriage between the parties is emotionally dead and there is no point in persuading them to live together any more. Therefore, this is a fit case for exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution. The marriage between the parties is dissolved”. The wife had alleged adultery against her husband and excessive consumption of alcohol, forcing her to move out of the matrimonial home.  The husband, who is a police officer in West Bengal, alleged cruelty and desertion against the wife. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dissolves-2-decades-old-marriage-says-alliance-emotionally-dead-1030296.html
14-09-2021||National||DRDO to manufacture oxygen generators with Godrej, 9 other cos||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has contracted 10 private sector players, including city-based Godrej & Boyce (G&B), to manufacture oxygen generators. Godrej Precision Engineering (GPE), a unit of G&B, has received the order from the Defence Bio-engineering and Electromechanical Laboratory, a DRDO laboratory in Bengaluru, to manufacture oxygen generators, G&B said in a statement. The second wave of the pandemic exposed the severe shortfall of oxygen across the country, which forced the state agencies to source it from all the available resources across the country to save lives. Oxygen, which is generally used in industrial plants, was ferried through tankers on the road, through railway and also by air. The first batch of medical oxygen generators has been deployed in hospitals across Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh, it added. "With the pandemic still rampant with newer variants emerging, the need for medical oxygen has increased exponentially," it said. Each generator can produce 250 litres of oxygen per minute which can cater to 50 patients, it added. G&B said this is not its first partnership with DRDO. It pointed to the past collaborations like Godrej Aerospace developing and delivering 5,000 proportional solenoid valves, a critical component for making ventilators, and GPE's work on the Brahmos missile system and naval diving gear, among others. In a separate regulatory filing, Isgec Heavy Engineering Ltd said it has bagged an order from DRDO for supply of 25 medical oxygen plants. "Isgec is proud to have received an order for 25 medical oxygen plants from DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Govt. of India," the company said. "These plants have a capacity of 250 LPM (litre per minute) each....The design for these oxygen plants has been developed by DRDO on the Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) principle," it said. This is the first order Isgec has received for medical oxygen plants from DRDO, it said. "The scope of work includes manufacturing, supplying, installing, and commissioning," it said. Isgec is a diversified heavy engineering company engaged in manufacturing and project businesses with an extensive global presence.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-to-manufacture-oxygen-generators-with-godrej-9-other-cos-1030310.html
14-09-2021||National||Hindi is 'Sakhi' of regional languages; all must be promoted, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday strongly pitched for promotion and encouragement of all Indian languages and said Hindi is the 'Sakhi' (friend) of regional languages. Addressing a function organised on the occasion of 'Hindi Divas', Shah also appealed to the parents to communicate with their children at home in mother tongue even if they study in English medium schools. Otherwise, the children will be cut-off from their roots, he said. "Hindi has no conflict or contradiction with any local language. official language. Hindi is the 'Sakhi' of all local languages of India and its development can be done only by mutual cooperation of each other," he said. Shah said Hindi and all regional languages must be promoted and encouraged. The home minister said gone are the days when there was hesitation in speaking Hindi as Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaks only in Hindi in international forums. He said the basis of evaluation of any person should be his thoughts, actions, intelligence, diligence and loyalty while language is only a medium of expression. "Those who say that our mother tongue and official language are a hindrance in the development of personality, I want to tell them that there can be no better medium of expression of knowledge than mother tongue," he said. Shah said India has been successful in handling the Covid-19 pandemic with minimum damage due to joint efforts of the central and state governments with the active cooperation of 130 crore population. The prime minister, whenever he addressed the nation, talked with all stakeholders -- chief ministers, doctors, experts and others -- he always spoke in Hindi, which resulted in the message reaching the grassroots level, he said. Shah said since 2014, more MPs are speaking in their own regional language in Parliament and they are being translated verbatim to English and Hindi. This helped people's representatives to highlight the problems of their respective areas in the highest forum, he said. The home minister said people should not only be 'Atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) in producing goods or doing trade but also in the field of language as well. He said translation of the history of every state should be done in the official language so that not just one state but the entire country can read this great history. Shah suggested that just like September 14 is an occasion to reassess and review efforts to promote Hindi every year, a similar and simultaneous exercise should be undertaken to promote all local languages too. Referring to the New Education Policy (NEP) envisaged by Modi, Shah said it has provisions for promotion of regional and Hindi languages. He said the technical education syllabus is translated into five Indian languages -- Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi and Bangla -- and it would be rolled out in 14 colleges across eight states. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindi-is-sakhi-of-regional-languages-all-must-be-promoted-says-amit-shah-1030316.html
14-09-2021||National||Trains between North and South India to run faster soon||Movement of trains between North India and South India will be faster and smoother from mid-2022, as the Indian Railways is fast-tacking the works of long pending construction of five tunnels for the broad gauge third line between Barkhera - Budni section of Bhopal – Itarsi line project. Indian Railways’ PSU, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited, is constructing five tunnels with NATM (New Austrian Tunnelling Method) having ballast-less track in connection with third electrified broad-gauge railway line between Barkhera - Budni on Bhopal - Itarsi route on Bhopal Division of West Central Railway in Sehore and Raisen Districts of Madhya Pradesh. “Once the project is completed, this will ease congestion on the Golden Diagonal, Delhi-Chennai route. With the commissioning of the third line, trains shall run at a speed of 130 Kmph between Bina-Bhopal-Itarsi sections," the railways said in a statement. RVNL is constructing these tunnels in the horseshoe section; this form consists of a semi-circular roof together with arched sides and a curved invert. The method followed to construct this tunnel is NATM (New Austrian Tunnelling Method). NATM is a support method to stabilise the tunnel perimeter by means of sprayed concrete, anchors and other supports and uses monitoring to control stability, the statement said. "Indian Railways has focussed on execution of maintenance works pending for several years with severe bottlenecks. In this series, Indian Railway has taken up major tunnelling work in a big way for the broad gauge 3rd line between Barkhera - Budni (26.50 kms) section of Bhopal – Itarsi third line project of West Central Railway zone," the statement said. Barkhera (BKA) - Budni (BNI) section has two tracks at present and a proposed third track falls in Ratapani Wildlife Sanctuary (Tiger Habitat), which is an eco-sensitive zone. Sanctioned in 2011, the works of all the tunnels progressed well and entire project works are expected to complete by June next year, said the railways. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trains-between-north-and-south-india-to-run-faster-soon-1030322.html
14-09-2021||National||US-India revamping strategic partnership to focus on clean, green energy: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said India and the US are revamping their strategic partnership to focus on clean energy sectors such as biofuels and hydrogen. During a meeting with a high-level US delegation led by Deputy Secretary of Energy David M Turk, he also said that India's commitment to promote its atomic and nuclear programme is not only for providing a major source of clean energy but also a major tool of application in areas like healthcare and agriculture. "In the next 10 years, India will produce more than three times nuclear power and it is expected to reach 22,480 MW by the year 2031, from the current 6,780 MW, as more nuclear power plants are planned in the future," Singh, who is the minister for science and technology, and atomic energy, said. Calling for greater Indo-US cooperation in the field of clean and green energy, Singh said, "India and the United States are revamping their strategic partnership to focus on clean energy sectors such as biofuels and hydrogen." Deputy Secretary of Energy Turk, who called on the Union minister here, promised deeper engagement with India in the green hydrogen sector as recently announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech. He said that it is also imperative for climate change and mitigation related issues. The two countries have also signed up for the transformation of the US-India gas task force. This will entail emphasis on the intersectionality between bio-energy, hydrogen and renewable fuels with natural gas. Noting that gamma irradiation technology for food preservation has already been shared with private players, Singh highlighted that at present, 26 gamma radiation processing plants are operational in the country in private, semi-government and government sectors for irradiation of various products. Singh also underlined the proposal for establishing a research reactor on the public-private partnership mode for production of medical isotopes to provide affordable treatment for cancer and other diseases. Deputy Secretary Turk assured Singh that the US will deepen its collaboration with India in nuclear energy as there is a lot of complementarity there. On clean and green energy, Singh said with the rapid introduction of biofuels, renewable energy and green hydrogen, India is well poised to play an important role towards carbon neutrality. He informed that the government is already encouraging adaptation of hydrogen fuels and technology for the mobility sector and many industries like steel, cement, and glass manufacturing have already started using hydrogen for heating requirements. Referring to all-encompassing cooperation in science and technology and academia exchange programmes, Singh said India has proposed to launch a Mission Integrated Bio Refineries where the US is actively supporting the initiative. Few areas of potential research and development for collaboration in advanced biofuels and renewable chemicals and materials have been identified. On the coronavirus pandemic front, the US-India science and technology endowment fund awarded 11 bilateral teams under the category of Covid-19 Ignition Grants. They are working on solutions that include novel early diagnostic tests, anti-viral therapy, drug re-purposing, ventilator research, disinfection machines, and sensor-based symptom tracking. Dwelling on the bilateral artificial intelligence initiative, Singh said a curtain raiser of IUSSTF's US India Artificial Intelligence Initiative (USI-AI) was held on March 17. The objective of this initiative is to provide a unique opportunity to both the countries to strengthen their strategic partnership by focusing on AI cooperation in critical areas at the interface of science, technology and society, he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-india-revamping-strategic-partnership-to-focus-on-clean-green-energy-jitendra-singh-1030332.html
14-09-2021||National||Govt planning to increase monthly stipend of children who lost parents due to Covid-19 to Rs 4,000||The central government is planning to increase the monthly financial support given to children who lost their parents to Covid-19 from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000, a senior official said on Tuesday. The official said a proposal may go to the Cabinet for approval in the next few weeks. The Women and Child Development Ministry has proposed that the monthly stipend given to children who lost their parents to the pandemic be increased from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000, the official said. The government in May had announced that children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian/adoptive parents due to Covid-19 will be supported under the 'PM-CARES for Children' scheme. Till now, out of 3,250 applications received under the scheme, a total of 667 have been approved by district magistrates concerned, according to ministry data. The data also showed that applications have been received from 467 districts till now. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-planning-to-increase-monthly-stipend-of-children-who-lost-parents-due-to-covid-19-to-rs-4000-1030342.html
14-09-2021||National||SC rejects plea to re-examine if life term meant 'rigorous imprisonment for life'||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected a plea to re-examine a legal question on propriety of specifying rigorous imprisonment while imposing life sentence, citing a pre-independence judgement, which has been reiterated several times by it. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai said in view of the authoritative pronouncements of this court on the issue, there is no need to re-examine the limited point. The bench noted the issue was no more res integra (points of law, which have yet not been decided) as it is covered by a judgment of this court in Naib Singh Vs State of Punjab and Others (1983). In Naib Singh case, the petitioner was originally sentenced to death for committing an offence of murder under IPC Section 302. Subsequently, the death sentence was commuted to imprisonment for life by the Punjab government. After having undergone sentence of 22 years, Naib Singh filed a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution challenging his continued detention. One of the points argued by him related to sentence of imprisonment for life not to be equated to rigorous imprisonment for life. "By taking into account the earlier judgements of this court in Pandit Kishori Lal Vs King Emperor (1945) and Gopal Vinayak Godse Vs State of Maharashtra (1961), this court in Naib Singh’s case held that the sentence of imprisonment for life has to be equated to rigorous imprisonment for life," the bench pointed out. The court also said the law laid down in Naib Singh’s was followed in three judgements Dilpesh Balchandra Panchal Vs State of Gujarat (1992) and Sat Pal alias Sadhu Vs State of Haryana (1992) and Mohd Munna Vs Union of India (2005). The legal point for consideration before the top court arose in a special leave petition filed by Md Alfaz Ali against life term imposed upon him for killing his wife in 2006 in district Bongaigaon in Assam on suspicion of her fidelity. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-to-re-examine-if-life-term-meant-rigorous-imprisonment-for-life-1030348.html
14-09-2021||National||After withdrawal from Afghanistan, US eyes bases in India to launch drone strikes on terror infrastructure in region||The United States has subtly hinted that it has been in talks with New Delhi for using airfields in India as “staging areas” for carrying out aerial surveillance and launching attacks on terrorists in and around Afghanistan. President Joe Biden’s administration is “deeply engaged” with New Delhi, the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, said, testifying before the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives – the lower house of the American Congress. He was responding to Republican Party’s Representative Mark E Green, who asked if the Biden Administration had reached out to New Delhi for using “over-the-horizon” capabilities from “staging areas” in north-west India for neutralising potential threats to the United States in and around Afghanistan, in view of the collusion between the Taliban and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan. “We are deeply engaged with India across the board,” Blinken replied to Green. He, however, did not share the details of the discussion between the two governments on the US launching drones from India for keeping watch on terrorist infrastructures in Afghanistan. “With regard to any specifics about over-the-horizon capabilities and the plans we put in place or continue to put in place, I would rather take that up in a different setting,” Blinken replied to Green. The Taliban of late returned to power in Afghanistan through a swift military campaign across the country taking advantage of the withdrawal of the US troops. Biden and other senior officials of his administration in Washington DC repeatedly stated over the past few weeks that the US had sent troops to Afghanistan in 2001 in response to the 9/11 terrorist attacks and to neutralise the threat posed by Osama Bin Laden and his Al Qaeda – the objectives, which had been achieved over the past two decades. Though terrorism continued to remain a threat and spread around the world, the US no longer required to deploy a large number of soldiers overseas to combat the menace as it had now developed the “over-the-horizon” capabilities of carrying out aerial surveillance and launch drones to eliminate such threats, they argued, justifying the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. But what may limit the US' capabilities of launching drone attacks on the terrorists and terror infrastructures in the region is the fact that some of the airbases it had earlier used for the purpose are no longer available to it after its withdrawal from Afghanistan. The nearest airbases the US can use are in Qatar, Kuwait and other countries in the Gulf and far away from the Afghanistan-Pakistan region where the targets may be located – a fact Green pointed out while asking Blinken about the Biden Administration’s discussion with New Delhi. New Delhi did not officially make any comment on Green’s query or the reply given by Blinken. The Commander of the US Special Operations Command, General Richard D Clarke, had visited New Delhi in July and held a meeting with the Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane. Admiral John C Aquilino, Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, also visited New Delhi and held a meeting with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, just about 10 days after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan. India is a “major defence partner” of the US and the two nations had inked a Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016, creating a framework to support each other's aircraft, ships and personnel with logistics, fuel and spares. They also signed the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018 and the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) in 2020 to enable the exchange of geospatial information between the two countries. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-us-eyes-bases-in-india-to-launch-drone-strikes-on-terror-infrastructure-in-region-1030369.html
14-09-2021||National||Govt modernising mandis, increasing covered storage capacities to reduce wastage||Union Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey on Tuesday highlighted that storage losses of foodgrains have declined by half to marginal 0.003 per cent and said the government is modernising mandis to further reduce the wastage of crops after procurement from farmers. Addressing a CII conference, he said the Centre has decided to stop storage of foodgrains in Cover & Plinth (CAP) structures, which will further help in reducing the storage losses. "We are trying to modernise mandis to reduce wastage," he said, while asserting that storage losses should be minimum. He highlighted that the storage losses have come down to 0.003 per cent from 0.006 per cent few years back. The secretary noted that the Centre through Food Corporation of India and other state procurement agencies handle 100 million tonnes of foodgrains. Pandey also informed that as a policy, storage of foodgrains in CAP has been stopped and done away with. "This is a major policy decision," he said. Emphasising on diversification of food basket, he said the government is focusing on increasing the production and procurement of coarse cereals. However, Pandey said the procurement level of millets is currently less. The secretary highlighted that the Centre is providing highly subsidised foodgrains to over 80 crore people through National Food Security Act (NFSA). Under the food law, which was passed by Parliament in 2013, the Centre provides 5 kg of foodgrains per person per month at Rs 1-3 per kg. Pandey said the Centre distributes more than 100 million tonnes of foodgrains during the Covid pandemic. The secretary stressed the need for a policy shift towards diversion of food basket to ensure nutritional security. Pandey pointed out that the country imports edible oils and pulses worth thousand of crores every year, while producing huge surplus of wheat and rice. Speaking at the event, Food Processing Secretary Pushpa Subrahmanyam said the processing level of fruits and vegetables as well as other products. She highlighted that the government is running various programmes and schemes to boost food processing sector in the country.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-modernising-mandis-increasing-covered-storage-capacities-to-reduce-wastage-1030378.html
14-09-2021||National||SC favours framing of guidelines for bail after filing of charge sheet, seeks CBI's suggestions||The Supreme Court on Tuesday favoured framing of some guidelines for regular bail after filing of charge sheet in criminal cases and asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to give some suggestions. The top court was hearing a plea of an accused who was not arrested during investigation of the case and was charge sheeted by CBI in a corruption case.   A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said, “in view of the submission in Court, it is deemed appropriate that some guidelines may be laid down so that the Courts are better guided and not troubled with the aspect of bail on charge sheet being filed”. Additional Solicitor General SV Raju, appearing for CBI, said that he will submit certain suggested guidelines after deliberations with senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for one of the accused Satender Kumar Antil in the case. The top court also made an interim direction passed on July 28 granting anticipatory bail as absolute after CBI counsel did not oppose it.   It listed the matter for further hearing on October 5 and refused a third party intervention in the present proceedings saying that the court is setting some legal principles and it would be appreciated if the intervenors give suggestions to the Additional Solicitor General on the issue. On July 28, while granting interim protection from arrest to Antil, the top court had said, “Prima facie, we cannot appreciate why in such a scenario is there a requirement for the petitioner being sent to custody. Be that as it may, it will be appropriate to lay down some principles in this behalf”. It had said that a person's custody may not be necessary after filing of charge sheet if he has remained out on bail during the investigation. Antil’s counsel had earlier contended that his client was not in office when the incident took place but he had joined the investigation and a charge sheet has been. He had said that Antil was not arrested and then there was no need to arrest him now. The counsel had said that after the Court took cognizance of the charge sheet on January 20, 2021, he did not appear before the court and sought anticipatory bail.   “On his non-appearance, non-bailable warrants were issued on February 17, and the anticipatory bail application was dismissed,” he said. The top court had asked the counsel as to why the petitioner did not appear after summons were sent in pursuance to cognizance being taken as logically, Antil ought to have appeared and applied for regular bail and there should have been no case for anticipatory bail at that stage.   The counsel replied that the system which is sought to be followed especially in the Uttar Pradesh is that even if a person is not arrested during investigation, on charge sheet being filed, more so, in such cases of CBI a person is sent to custody and thus, his appearance and applying for bail would have resulted in his being sent to custody. The top court had then directed that the accused be not arrested and stayed execution of non-bailable warrants but had directed him to appear before the Court on the next date. Antil was working as an assistant provident fund commissioner when he was accused last year of being a beneficiary of Rs 9 lakh bribe paid to an officer working under him. The CBI filed the charge sheet in the case in October last year, which was taken cognizance this year in January.   Antil did not appear before the court and instead filed an anticipatory bail plea, which was rejected by the trial court. A non-bailable arrest warrant was issued against him. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-favours-framing-of-guidelines-for-bail-after-filing-of-charge-sheet-seeks-cbis-suggestions-1030380.html
14-09-2021||National||India voices disappointment over ‘unwarranted remarks’ by UN human rights chief on Kashmir||India on Tuesday expressed disappointment over "unwarranted remarks" made by the UN human rights chief on Jammu and Kashmir, saying her comments do not reflect the ground reality and any shortcomings in upholding human rights must be addressed in an impartial manner and anchored in non-interference in a country’s internal affairs. "We take note of references to India in the oral update by the High Commissioner and express our disappointment over her unwarranted remarks on the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which do not reflect the ground reality," Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs Reenat Sandhu said on Tuesday while delivering India's statement under the General Debate on Oral Update of the High Commissioner at the 48th Session of the Human Rights Council. Sandhu said India’s approach to global promotion and protection of human rights is based on "our own experience as a pluralistic and inclusive society and vibrant democracy." She said India believes that promotion and protection of human rights are best pursued through dialogue, consultation and cooperation among States and through the provision of technical assistance and capacity building. "Any shortcomings in upholding human rights must be addressed in a transparent and impartial manner, anchored in respect for national sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of States," she said. UN high commissioner for human rights Michelle Bachelet on Monday described as "worrying" India's use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act as well as "frequent" temporary communication blackouts in Jammu and Kashmir. In her opening statement at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Bachelet acknowledged the Indian government's efforts to counter terrorism and promote development in Jammu and Kashmir but said such "restrictive measures can result in human rights violations and foster further tensions and discontent". Sandhu said that India’s Constitution enshrines basic human rights as fundamental rights. “Our Parliament, independent judiciary, vibrant media and civil society ensure full enjoyment of human rights by our people,” she added. On Afghanistan, Sandhu said the situation in the country continues to be of “grave concern” and added that the UN Security resolution 2593 should guide the international community’s approach to Afghanistan. The resolution, adopted under India’s presidency of the Security Council in August, “reaffirms the importance of upholding human rights incising those of women, children and minorities, allowing safe passage for those wanting to leave Afghanistan and ensuring unhindered access for humanitarian assistance,” she said, adding that the international community must stand with the people of Afghanistan in their desire to live in peace and dignity. The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, talked about the need for upholding human rights in Afghanistan, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used for terrorism and that a negotiated political settlement should be found out to the crisis. "India has been at the forefront of global action and discourse on promotion and protection of human rights and will continue to do so. We are seeking re-election to the Human Rights Council for the term 2022-24. We look forward to the continued support of the UN member states to India's candidature," Sandhu said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-voices-disappointment-over-unwarranted-remarks-by-un-human-rights-chief-on-kashmir-1030388.html
14-09-2021||National||Attorney General consents to initiation of criminal contempt against YouTuber for comments against SC, judges||Attorney General K K Venugopal on Tuesday accorded his consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against YouTuber Ajeet Bharti for his alleged "scurrilous" remarks in one of his videos against the Supreme Court and its judges. "I find that the contents of the video which has been watched by about 1.7 lakh viewers are vituperative, gross and highly derogatory to the Supreme Court of India and the judiciary as a whole being clearly intended to denigrate the courts. “The allegations made by Mr Ajeet Bharti against the Supreme Court are, among other things, of bribery, favouritism and abuse of power," the top law officer said in his letter of consent. Kritika Singh, a lawyer, had written to Venugopal seeking grant of consent under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, a condition precedent for initiating the criminal contempt by a person, other than the court. She had referred to some alleged objectionable comments of Bharti against the top court and its judges in his video of June 24 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attorney-general-consents-to-initiation-of-criminal-contempt-against-youtuber-for-comments-against-sc-judges-1030390.html
14-09-2021||National||Over 75.81 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 75.81 crore on Tuesday, the Union Health Ministry said.  More than 54 lakh (54,72,356) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm, it said.   The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said.  According to ministry data,  57,41,31,961 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 18,40,67,370 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine, as per the 7 pm provisional report. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7581-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-1030391.html
14-09-2021||National||Number of people who got at least one Covid-19 vaccine dose in India highest in world: Health Ministry||The number of people who have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in India and the number who have completed the vaccination schedule in the country are the highest in the world, the Union Health Ministry said. According to an e-book on Covid-19 vaccination uploaded on the ministry's website on Tuesday, 62.54 per cent doses of the vaccines have been administered in vaccination centres in rural areas, while 36.30 per cent were given in urban areas. A total of 73.44 lakh doses (approximately 1.16 per cent) have been administered at CVCs not tagged as rural/urban. Also, till September, 52.5 per cent of the total doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered to men, 47.5 per cent to women and approximately 0.02 per cent to 'Other' gender.  Presently, about 60.7 per cent of the adult population in the country has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said. "The number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine in India and the number of people who have completed the vaccination schedule is the highest in the world," the ministry claimed in the Ebook. The average rate of vaccinations in India is amongst the highest in the world, it said.  Over 181 million beneficiaries have been administered both the doses of vaccines compared to 178 million in the US.   One hundred per cent of the frontline workers have received the first dose, while 81.1 per cent of eligible frontline workers have taken the second dose. Also, 98.8 per cent of healthcare workers have been administered the first dose of the vaccines, while 84.7 per cent of eligible healthcare workers have taken the second dose All efforts are underway and regular monitoring of the National Covid-19 Vaccination Programme is being done to ensure that there is no disparity in access to vaccination for beneficiaries based on any socio-economic parameter, the ministry said. India started Covid-19 vaccination from January 16. Day 1 witnessed vaccination of the highest number of beneficiaries covered anywhere in the world. India's vaccination drive has also been the fastest in the world to achieve 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 million vaccinations. More than 751 Covid-19 vaccination doses have been administered in India which is amongst the highest in the world, as on September 13.  Around 244,310 Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) are functional in the country providing equitable access to vaccination in a citizen-friendly manner. All citizens, irrespective of their income status, are entitled to free vaccination. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use private hospital's vaccination centres.    In the spirit of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (World as one family), Government of India facilitated supply of 66.37 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 95 countries as grants and supplies to COVAX facility etc, the ministry stated.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-people-who-got-at-least-one-covid-19-vaccine-dose-in-india-highest-in-world-health-ministry-1030393.html
14-09-2021||National||PSU banks get award from Home Minister for promoting 'Rajbhasha'||Public sector banks, including Punjab National Bank (PNB) and Union Bank of India, on Tuesday received awards from Home Minister Amit Shah for promoting official language Hindi. PNB and Union Bank of India received 'Rajbhasha Kirti Puraskar' for 2020-21 in different categories. This is the fourth time in a row that the bank received the first prize, PNB said in a statement. Besides, Bank of Maharashtra and Punjab & Sind Bank got awards for promoting official language on the occasion of Hindi Diwas. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/psu-banks-get-award-from-home-minister-for-promoting-rajbhasha-1030413.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Is BJP's skin 'thicker than 56 inches'?||Shrimant Patil, a former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cabinet Minister in Karnataka and the party's Kagwad MLA, on Saturday said he was offered money at the time of quitting Congress by the BJP government. "But I declined the offer of money and demanded that I should be given a good position in the BJP-led government so that I can do social service," he added. "It was true that I was given an offer of money. I did not take the money and asked for a good portfolio. Accordingly, I was given a cabinet berth. Now, they (BJP) have dropped me from the new cabinet. However, I have the confidence of getting a cabinet berth in the coming days," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-is-bjps-skin-thicker-than-56-inches-1030110.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||In PM's UP appearance, praises galore for Yogi, eye on Jat votes||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday sought to douse the perceived anger among the electorally influential Jat community, which was at the forefront in the ongoing farmers' agitation against the new farm laws, by hailing the contribution of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, a popular Jat king, who, he said, remained 'obscure' owing to the 'mistakes' committed in the past. Addressing a public meeting in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh town, after laying the foundation stone of a university after Singh, Modi, in a subtle way, also referred to the alleged migration of several Hindu families from Kairana in the state's Shamli district, which was not far from Aligarh. The prime minister also heaped praise on the Yogi Adityanath government for cracking down on the mafia elements and establishing the rule of law in the state. "There were many people, who had contributed greatly in the freedom struggle but they remained obscure and many generations could not know about them owing to the mistakes committed in the past...the mistakes of 20th century are being corrected in the 21st century," Modi said.  He hailed Mahendra Pratap Singh's contribution in the freedom struggle and said that the youths of today should draw inspiration from him. Modi said that UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had cracked down on the mafia and goonda elements and established the rule of law in the state. "Earlier the sisters and daughters were scared of going out...many people had to migrate to other places but the situation has changed now," he added. The prime minister's visit to lay the foundation of the university after Mahendra Pratap Singh and hailing him as a freedom fighter assume electoral significance as the BJP is wary of the impact of the ongoing farmers' agitation in which Jats are in the forefront. Almost all the important farmer leaders and office bearers of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) hailed from the Jat community. The BKU leaders have declared that they will campaign against the BJP in the Assembly polls in UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab due early next year. Mahendra Pratap Singh was widely respected in the Jat belt in the western UP region and the decision to set up the university was being viewed as an attempt to douse the anger in the community. It is claimed that the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) was built on the land donated by Singh. Saffron outfits as well as the BJP leaders have been demanding that the AMU be rechristened after Singh. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-pms-up-appearance-praises-galore-for-yogi-eye-on-jat-votes-1030186.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||No one should use such language: JD(U) on UP CM's 'Abba Jaan' remark||Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) on Tuesday found fault with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's 'Abba Jaan' remark, saying no one should use such language at a time the NDA ally is getting ready to fight the Assembly polls alone if it cannot enter into a seat sharing arrangement with the BJP-led coalition in the state. JD(U) National president Rajiv Ranjan Singh, popularly known as Lallan Singh, said leaders and political parties should be careful in their language. "We should be careful in the use of language. India is everybody's country. It is the country of Hindus as well as that of Christians, Muslims and others. That is why we say there is unity in diversity in this country. Nobody should use such language," he told a press conference. Singh, also a Lok Sabha MP, was responding to a question on Adityanath's repeated statements in public gatherings that those who say 'Abba Jaan' used to get ration meant for the poor but now everyone benefited equally from development under his administration. Adityanath's choice of words is aimed at portraying Muslims as beneficiaries of "appeasement politics" and an attempt at polarisation, as the state is heading to Assembly polls early next year. The Munger MP also found fault with Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren's remark on the "Biharisation of Jharkhand", saying any citizen is free to go anywhere in the country and do jobs. Singh's remarks came even as the JD(U) is getting ready to fight the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh either alone or in alliance with the BJP-led NDA in the state. In 2017, JD(U) did not contest the polls in the state while it polled 0.01% votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In Manipur too, he added, JD(U) will contest alone if the seat sharing talks go nowhere. Indicating its resolve to make its presence felt in Uttar Pradesh, the party is planning to hold its National Executive in Lucknow in November in which Kumar will be present. Later, the JD(U) will hold a meeting of its national office bearers in Manipur, where it has a good presence. The JD(U) has taken divergent stands with the BJP on caste census and Pegasus in recent times. JD(U) is also apparently upset with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not giving a second slot for the party in his Cabinet. Bihar Water Resources Minister Sanjay Jha had also recently countered the claim that 14.6 million water connections were provided in the state by the Centre saying it was actually given by the JD(U)-led administration. Check out the latest DH videos here: Amid demands from the patry cadre to go alone in upcoming Assembly elections, Singh said the party would hold talks for seat sharing in both UP and Manipur, where it has a "robust" organisation and if not does not happen, then the party will fight it alone. Singh made it clear that JD(U) will not enter into any negotiations with any other party, if its talks with BJP fail. On the possibility of Kumar attending the birth anniversary of late Devi Lal organised by his son and INLD patriarch On Prakash Chautala, Singh said the Chief Minister would not be able to travel to Haryana, as he has to be based in Patna to lead the Covid-19 preparations. Instead, he said, JD(U) National General Secretary K C Tyagi will attend. Asked whether the decision was taken because the meeting was pitched as one intended to check the possibility of a Third Front, he said the JD(U) has been invited to a function related to the late former Deputy Prime Minister and they are not part of  efforts for "any second, third or fourth front".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-one-should-use-such-language-jdu-on-up-cms-abba-jaan-remark-1030241.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||Gujarat: Ministers to take oath in two days, says BJP||A day after Bhupendra Patel took over as Gujarat chief minister, BJP sources indicated that the swearing-in of more ministers is likely in the next two days. Only Patel (59) had taken oath on Monday after the sudden resignation of Vijay Rupani on Saturday. “Discussions are going on and the swearing-in will take place either Wednesday or Thursday,” Gujarat BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas told PTI on Tuesday. As per the procedure, the names of ministers will be declared when they take the oath, he said. There is speculation in BJP circles on whether Nitin Patel, deputy CM in the Rupani-led ministry, is retained in the new cabinet. There is also talk on the chances of Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, R C Faldu and Kaushik Patel, senior ministers in the Rupani cabinet, being retained. Party sources said efforts will be made to accommodate senior leaders in the cabinet as far as possible. Union Home Minister Amit Shah met Patel and state BJP president C R Paatil Monday night before leaving for New Delhi, party sources said. Cabinet formation was likely discussed, they added. Patel was unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday and was sworn in as the state's 17th chief minister by Governor Acharya Devvrat in Gandhinagar on Monday. Shah was present in the oath-taking ceremony. Patel's elevation to the coveted post is being attributed to his closeness to former Gujarat chief minister and current Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, completed five years in office on August 7 this year. With state Assembly polls scheduled in December 2022, the BJP is banking on Patel, a Patidar, for poll victory. In the 2017 Assembly elections, BJP won 99 of the 182 seats and Congress got 77. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-ministers-to-take-oath-in-two-days-says-bjp-1030260.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||BJYM to undertake 20-day campaign to mark PM Modi's birthday, his two decades in public service||The youth wing of the BJP will undertake various welfare and awareness programmes and host 'Nava Bharat Mela' across the country to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday and his two decades in public service. The 20-day 'Seva aur Samarpan Abhiyaan' will start on Modi's birthday on September 17 and conclude on October 7, according to a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) statement. As part of the campaign, every district unit of the BJYM will organize a unique 'Nava Bharat Mela', publicising the work of the Narendra Modi government over the last seven years. It will also comprise cleanliness drives, organising blood donation camps and quiz contests. "The BJYM has been marking the birthday of PM Modi as Seva Diwas, hosting extensive service programmes across the country. It has also been organizing manifold welfare activities across the country for a week in the form of Seva Saptah," said BJYM president Tejasvi Surya. This time around, the celebrations will be extended to 20 days to mark Narendra Modi completing two decades as the head of public office -- 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat and 7 years as the prime minister of India, he said. "The PM's birthday, which falls on September 17, is a day we spend in rendering service. October 7, the day he assumed office as chief minister, reminds us of his complete dedication to the service of our nation and its people, a quality that has been a feature of these 20-years of Narendra Modi's life," he said. The 'Seva aur Samarpan Abhiyaan' will be carried out in all districts of the country. The highlight will be district-wise 'Nava Bharat Mela', showcasing the emergence of a 'New India' under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, the BJYM statement said. Its state units have been directed to set up stalls to facilitate registration for all citizens who wish to enroll for various central government welfare schemes. Special stalls will be set up to encourage people to download the NaMo app, which will help them communicate with the prime minister directly and also enable them to know about the various schemes and welfare measures being undertaken by the BJP government, the BJYM statement said. The youth will be encouraged to visit sites related to the Independence movement in their districts, join celebrations of the country's 75th year of Independence. The BJYM will observe the birth anniversary of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay through the initiatives undertaken by the Modi government to serve the poor and underprivileged, it said. Gandhi Jayanti, on October 2, will be observed by organising "Swachhta Se Samman Abhiyaan" focussing on cleanliness and tree plantation drives at, the BJYM added.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjym-to-undertake-20-day-campaign-to-mark-pm-modis-birthday-his-two-decades-in-public-service-1030278.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||Indian Constitution has 'stopped working' in BJP-ruled Tripura: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Tuesday said the Indian Constitution has "stopped working" in Tripura, where it claimed the ruling BJP was unleashing violence against party cadre who are galvanising people's anger against the state government that is facing "growing discontent". Demanding the arrest of BJP workers who indulged in violence against CPI(M) workers and damaged party's properties, the party also attacked the BJP government at the Centre, saying there could be "political reasons" for not even acknowledging general secretary Sitaram Yechury's letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking action and not acting on a request to Rashtrapati Bhavan seeking an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind. The CPI(M) said 42 of its party offices, including the state committee office in Agartala, and 67 shops and houses of party workers were attacked. One cadre was killed and at least 24 others were injured in "violence unleashed by the BJP" on September 7 and 8. One office each of RSP and CPI(ML) were also targeted, it said.  Addressing a press conference, Yechury and former Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar alleged that police stood like bystanders when BJP workers went on a rampage and targeted CPI(M) buildings and cadres. They also alleged that the CRPF guards at the state committee office were "mysteriously withdrawn" just an hour before the attack. "The Indian Constitution is not working in Tripura. There is no protection of human rights. It appears that Tripura is out of India. This type of attack is not meted out to the Opposition anywhere else in India," Sarkar, also a senior Polit Bureau member said. Yechury said the attacks on party cadres were "largescale, deliberate, unprovoked and pre-planned" and it showed the "naked violation of democratic values promised by the Constitution". He said there is "growing discontent" against the BJP government in Tripura and that is why it is not allowing the process of galvanisation of anti-BJP sentiments. "That is why there is this sort of violence unleashed on the Opposition. Yechury said they had requested an audience with the President to brief him about the violence in Tripura and seek his intervention to arrest the culprits. "I had also written to the Prime Minister. There is not even an acknowledgement. There is no response from the Rashtrapati Bhavan too. Given that the Prime Minister has not even acknowledged the letter, there may be political reasons," he said when asked about the appointment with the President. From 2018 when the BJP assumed power to the present, Yechury said, 21 supporters and members of the CPI(M) including a woman have been killed. "In many of the attacks on September 7 and 8 by BJP people shouting Jai Sri Ram and armed with iron rods and petrol bombs, police were either bystander or refused to respond to calls regarding the attacks on homes and party offices. Some BJP leaders and ministers have also made provocative statements encouraging the attacks," he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indian-constitution-has-stopped-working-in-bjp-ruled-tripura-cpim-1030323.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||Ahead of Assembly polls, BJP plans big bash on PM Narendra Modi's birthday||With the BJP banking on PM Narendra Modi's face in most states in the upcoming Assembly polls next year, the party has planned a big bash spanning for three weeks from his birthday on September 17. BJP has changed its CM face in two party-ruled states going to polls - Uttarakhand, and the home state of Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, Gujarat. Both the new Chief Ministers Pushkar Singh Dhami of Uttarakhand (a second-term MLA) and Bhupendra Singh Patel (a first-time MLA), though have long RSS backgrounds, are not well-known faces in the state politics, and hence it is apparent that BJP will go to polls in these two states, solely backing on Modi's charishma. While Gujarat will go to polls towards the end of next year, Uttarakhand along with UP will go to polls in next six months. Last year, the party could not celebrate Modi's birthday in a big way due to Covid-19 restrictions. It had organised Seva Saptah (week of service) to mark Modi's 70th birth anniversary. The party had then organised 70 virtual rallies, besides organising cleanliness drives at 70 spots in every district. However, people-to-people contact was very restricted due to Covid protocol amid rising cases. This year, BJP has planned the celebration on a much larger scale, which includes events like setting up NaMo garden in each block (1,070 NaMo gardens) in party-ruled Madhya Pradesh to a massive OBC reachout in West Bengal, where it lost elections to Trinamool Congress early this year despite substantially increasing its vote percentage. At the national level, the BJP has planned a 20-day long nationwide "Seva aur Samarpan Abhiyan" during which blood donation camps, exhibitions on Modi's life, and donation of artificial limbs to Divyangs will be held. BJYM will host 'Nava Bharat Mela' across the country to mark Modi's birthday and his two decades in public service. It will start September 17 and conclude on October 7, when Modi had first taken oath as Gujarat Chief Minister in 2001, 20 years ago. "The PM's birthday, which falls on September 17, is a day we spend in rendering service. October 7, the day he assumed office as chief minister, reminds us of his complete dedication to the service of our nation and its people, a quality that has been a feature of these 20-years of Narendra Modi's life," BJYM national President Tejasvi Surya said on Tuesday. BJYM state units will be setting up stalls to facilitate registration for all citizens who wish to enroll for various central government welfare schemes and special stalls will be set up to encourage people to download the NaMo app. Modi has a 13 year-tenure as chief minister of Gujarat, which the party will highlight. The 'Nava Bharat Mela' organised by BJYM's district units will highlight the work of the Modi government in last seven years since the BJP under his leadership formed government in 2014, the first single party majority government after a gap of 30 years after Congress had done so in 1984, riding on the sympathy wave of Indira Gandhi's assassination. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-assembly-polls-bjp-plans-big-bash-on-pm-narendra-modis-birthday-1030329.html
14-09-2021||National Politics||Congress accuses BJP of 'casteist' politics to break protesting farmers' unity||The BJP government is trying to break the unity of farmers protesting the centre's farm laws by using the name of freedom fighter Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, said the Congress accusing the ruling party of playing "casteist" politics. Congress spokesperson Hilal Ahmed also said the freedom fighter had called the RSS fascist and stressed that he not only defeated Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the 1957 parliamentary polls but also ensured that his deposits were forfeited. He struggled throughout his life against the RSS, Ahmed added. The party's statement came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Aligarh laid the foundation stone of a university, which will be named after the freedom fighter. "Troubled by the siege of farmers, the Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi government in UP, instead of withdrawing the anti-farmer agricultural laws, want to break their unity by playing a casteist card by calling great revolutionary Raja Mahendra Pratap a Jat king," Ahmed said. The Congress spokesman said after laying the foundation stone of the university in Aligarh, PM Modi said the revolutionaries who were not honoured earlier are being given proper respect now. But the BJP has remembered Raja Mahendra Pratap only now, just months before the Assembly polls, he said. Had this foundation stone been laid a few years ago, the university would have been inaugurated today, he said. In the eyes of the BJP, Ahmed said, every great personality is just a "pawn" in its arithmetic of votes. "The BJP's politics is contrary to the ideals of Raja Mahendra Pratap. The BJP has consistently harvested votes by making the Hindus and Muslims fight while Raja Mahendra Pratap wanted an India in which Hindus and Muslims live like brothers," he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-accuses-bjp-of-casteist-politics-to-break-protesting-farmers-unity-1030377.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Lucky escape for family as building collapses in Delhi’s Sabzi Mandi area||It was a stroke of luck for the 13 members of the Aneja family, who occupied three of the four floors of the ill-fated building that collapsed in Delhi's Sabzi Mandi area, as all of them, barring one, were not home when the structure came down on Monday. The incident, however, claimed the lives of two brothers aged seven and 12. The duo was passing by with their mother when they got crushed under the falling bricks of the building in the north Delhi colony where houses have been built cheek-by-jowl. Eighteen-year-old Aryan Aneja, the only family member who was inside the house, had a lucky escape as he managed to get out in the nick of time. "I was on the second floor when a huge portion of the building collapsed. I don't know how but I escaped unhurt. It's only due to my fate the I escaped," Aryan Aneja said. The Anejas were living in the building for the last 35 years and the families of each of the three brothers occupied the first, second and third floors. Ongoing renovation work in a milk shop on the ground floor of the around 75-year-old building is believed to have triggered the collapse. “The building collapse has brought us on the road. Only my nephew Aryan was inside the building when the incident took place. But he managed to escape,” said Hemantica Aneja (40) said. “I was with my husband in a school nearby. Somebody informed us about the incident and we rushed to the site,” she added. Hemantica Aneja claimed an electronic drilling machine was being used for the renovation work which she held responsible for the incident. "They used an electronic drilling machine during the ongoing renovation work which led to the collapse...It was a well-maintained building. We were already living here for years. We never got any order claiming the building was dangerous… everything was fine,” she said. "For the last 10 days, we had been constantly telling the concerned people that the renovation work was causing cracks in the walls. So, we requested them to take professional help,” she added. With no roof over their head, the Anejas have taken shelter in a neighbour’s house. Meanwhile, police said they have registered a case against a man named Mohak Arora who had undertaken the renovation work on the ground floor of the building. Also trapped under the debris was 72-year-old Ramji Das, who suffered a head injury, but was eventually rescued and rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. He is stated to be out of danger. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lucky-escape-for-family-as-building-collapses-in-delhi-s-sabzi-mandi-area-1030071.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab polls: SAD releases list of candidates for 64 seats||The SAD on Monday announced its candidates for 64 assembly seats for the upcoming polls in Punjab. While Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal will fight from Jalalabad, former ministers Tota Singh, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Daljit Singh Cheema and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon will contest from Dharamkot, Zira, Rupnagar, and Sahnewal, respectively. Though the party had earlier announced names of 24 candidates, it released a complete list of 64 candidates on Monday for the 2022 state assembly polls. In June, the SAD had formed an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the 2022 elections. According to the seat sharing arrangement, the Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD. The SAD had last year quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance over the farm laws issue. When the SAD had an alliance with the BJP, it contested on 94 seats, while the saffron party fought on 23 seats. Among the candidates, Adaish Partap Singh Kairon, the son-in-law of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal has been fielded from Patti seat. From Ludhiana East, Ludhiana Central and Ludhiana West, the party fielded Ranjit Singh Gill, Pritpal Singh Pali and Maheshinder Singh Grewal, respectively. From Fazilka, Rajpura, Amritsar North, Amritsar West, Sujanpur, Jalandhar Central, Mukerian, the party named Hans Raj Josan, Charanjit Singh Brar, Anil Joshi, Dalbir Singh Verka, Raj Kumar Gupta, Chandan Grewal and Sarabjit Singh Saabi, respectively. The BJP used to field its candidates from these ten seats when it had an alliance with the Akali Dal. From Khem Karan seat, Virsa Singh Valtoha will fight, from Phillaur Baldev Singh Khaira, from Gurdaspur Gurbachan Singh Babehali, from Ajnala Amarpal Singh Bonny and from Nakodar Gurpartap Singh Wadala, the party said in a statement. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-polls-sad-releases-list-of-candidates-for-64-seats-1030073.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||'Ramcharitmanas' added as optional subject in Madhya Pradesh colleges||First-year students of graduation courses in Madhya Pradesh colleges and universities will be offered epic 'Ramcharitmanas' as an elective subject under philosophy discipline in art stream, Higher Education Minister Mohan Yadav said on Monday. On recommendation of the syllabus committee, the “applied philosophy of Shri Ramcharitmanas” has been introduced as an elective (optional) course under the philosophy subject for first-year students of graduation (BA) from the academic session of 2021-22, he said. “The Ramcharitmanas has science, culture, literature and 'shringar' (concept of love and beauty in Indian classical art form). This is not about a particular religion. We have also introduced Urdu Gazal as a subject,” Yadav said. The minister said this 60-hour long elective course will help develop humanitarian perspective and ability of balanced leadership quality among students. Ramcharitmanas is an epic poem composed by the 16th-century bhakti poet Tulsidas. “When new syllabus is being implemented in context of the new education policy, we are also trying to bring our glorious past to the fore. Whether it is related to our scriptures or to our great men,” he said. Yadav claimed it has been proved in a NASA study that Ram Setu was a man-made bridge built millions of years ago and Beyt Dwaraka existed 5,000 years back. “This syllabus is being implemented on recommendation of scholars,” the minister said. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Arif Masood said the BJP government is taking such steps to hide its "failures". “The slogan of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas (everyone's support, everyone's development) is false. This slogan could be true if they would have included the Quran and the Bible along with the Ramayana,” he said. Masood said the BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and at the Centre have failed and such steps are being taken to hide their "failures" on issues like education, infrastructure and employment. Earlier this month, Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang had announced that MBBS students in Madhya Pradesh will study about RSS founder KB Hedgewar, Bhartiya Jana Sangh leader Deendayal Upadhyaya, Swami Vivekananda and BR Ambedkar as part of the first-year foundation course. He said the move is aimed at instilling social and medical ethics among students. Similarly, Yadav had earlier announced that the Madhya Pradesh government is considering changing the Hindi nomenclature of the vice-chancellor's post in state universities from 'Kulpati' to 'Kulguru'. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ramcharitmanas-added-as-optional-subject-in-madhya-pradesh-colleges-1030078.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Central Vista: CPWD revises cost to construct, maintain three buildings of Common Central Secretariat||The Central Public Works Department has revised the estimated cost of construction and maintenance of three buildings of the Common Central Secretariat being built under the Central Vista redevelopment project, according to tender documents. The estimated cost of construction and maintenance of these three buildings has been revised to around Rs 3,254 crore from Rs 3,408 crore. Bids were to be opened this week but have been postponed till September 28. These new buildings will come on the plot where the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts is currently located. The redevelopment of the Central Vista, the nation's power corridor, envisages a new parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3 km Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new office and residence of the prime minister, and a new vice president enclave. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-cpwd-revises-cost-to-construct-maintain-three-buildings-of-common-central-secretariat-1030080.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Protest in Delhi, not Punjab, CM Amarinder Singh tells farmers||Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday urged farmers to spare Punjab from their protests against the three central farm laws and advised them to shift their sit-in venues to Delhi's borders or in Haryana. The Punjab chief minister’s appeal to farmers invited a quick reaction from Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij who dubbed his statement as “irresponsible”. Singh pleaded with the farmers to shift their protest sites outside Punjab arguing that their ongoing agitation at 113 places in the state was hampering its economic development. He urged farmers to mount pressure at the Centre from the Delhi borders or Haryana instead. “I want to tell farmer brothers that it is your Punjab, your villages, your people. We should not disturb our Punjab. You do whatever you want to do at Delhi (borders), put pressure on them (the Centre) and make them agree,” said Singh. “Do you know that farmers are sitting at 113 places in Punjab? What will be the gain out of it? Punjab will suffer economically. Let them do what they (farmers) are doing at Delhi (borders) and in Haryana. You (farmers) do it there,” said Singh while referring to farmers' agitation. There is no use sitting at 113 places in Punjab and weakening its financial position,” he said, hoping that farmers would accede to his request. Ruing that farmers are still sitting at toll plazas and not allowing retail stores of some big corporates, Singh expressed hope that his request would be acceded to by the farmers. The Punjab chief minister made this pleading to farmers while addressing a gathering in Hoshiarpur after laying the foundation stone of a government college costing Rs 13.44 crore at Mukhliana village and asserting that Punjab needed development. Reacting to Singh’s statement, Haryana Home Minister Vij accused him of instigating farmers. “It is a very irresponsible statement of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to tell farmers that do whatever you want in Haryana or at Delhi borders but do not do it in Punjab,” Vij said in a tweet. “This proves that Amarinder Singh has done the work of instigating farmers,” Vij added. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar too had last month accused the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers' unrest in his state. While addressing the gathering, Punjab CM Singh also urged the Centre to repeal the three agriculture laws. The chief minister also took on the Badals for initially backing the farm ordinances and later taking a U-turn on the issue after facing farmers’ ire. Singh said it was the Congress party government which had rejected the Centre's farm laws. They were replaced by the state government's farm laws which were sent to the governor but these have not yet been forwarded to the President. Asking the Central government to shed its “stubbornness” over the issue of “black laws”, Singh said the Constitution has been amended 127 times since 1950 and asked why it could not be done a 128th time. "So why not one more time to repeal the farm laws for providing succour to the farmers who have been sitting at Singhu and Tikri borders,” he said. Earlier, addressing the gathering at SBS Nagar, Singh hit out at the Badals for “double-crossing” the farmers over the farm laws. He accused Harsimrat Kaur Badal and former CM Parkash Singh Badal of supporting the farm ordinances. But they changed their tune completely when their move backfired, he said. Calling the Congress "only party which protested against these laws from the very first day", Singh said his government had called an all-party meeting and then held consultations with the farm unions. The Punjab government later also convened a special session of the Vidhan Sabha and passed the Bills aimed at countering these farm laws. In the SSB Nagar district, the chief minister was addressing a gathering on the occasion of laying the foundation stone of PAU - College of Agriculture at Ballowal Saunkhri and kickstarting the academic session for 60 students who have already been admitted to the college and their classes to begin from October 1. It would be for the first time that a college of agriculture outside the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana would come up with the BSc (Agriculture) course, the CM said. In Hoshiarpur, the CM also announced to name this upcoming government college after Dr BR Ambedkar.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protest-in-delhi-not-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-tells-farmers-1030084.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Two more in UP die due to dengue, toll climbs to 60||With two more fatalities due to dengue in Uttar Pradesh, the death toll due to the viral fever in the district rose to 60 on Monday, officials here said. Additional Director, Health, Agar Divison, A K Singh said that a 14-year-old girl died in a medical college, while one child was brought there dead. After the death of the girl, her sister squatted in front of a vehicle of Divisional Commissioner Amit Gupta but later somehow administration officials managed the situation. Meanwhile, District Magistrate, Chandra Vijay Singh said that keeping in view cognisance of newspaper reports regarding overcharging by pathologies, he has issued guidelines regarding rates to be taken. Firozabad, around 50 km from Agra and 320 km from Lucknow, has been battling an outbreak of dengue and deadly viral fever for the past three weeks now, with most of the victims being children. Some cases have also been found in neighbouring Mathura, Agra and Mainpuri, according to the officials. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-in-up-die-due-to-dengue-toll-climbs-to-60-1030103.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Terrorists hurl grenade at security forces in Pulwama, four civilians injured||Four civilians were injured when suspected militants hurled a grenade towards security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Tuesday. Reports said the militants lobbed the grenade towards a vehicle of security forces at Pulwama chowk, 32 km from Srinagar. But the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the roadside causing splinter injuries to four civilians. The injured civilians were rushed to a nearby hospital, where their condition is stated to be stable, reports said. The area was cordoned off by police and security forces immediately to nab the attackers. There has been a spurt in grenade attacks by militants in Kashmir in recent months in which dozens of civilians and security forces personnel have been injured. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations said militants are targeting security forces just to create an impression that they were present and militancy is alive in the Valley. “After facing heat across Kashmir due to relentless operations by the security forces, militants are trying to revive the strategy of lobbing grenades at security forces and on busy roads. Throwing grenades at busy places is either aimed to provoke the security forces to fire indiscriminately or create a fear among them that they are vulnerable to such attacks,” he said. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-hurl-grenade-at-security-forces-in-pulwama-four-civilians-injured-1030181.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Will seek transfer of Mehbooba Mufti's plea in PMLA case to SC, Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that it will seek the transfer of Mehbooba Mufti's challenge to the Constitutional validity of a provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to the Supreme Court. In view of the Centre's stand, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh adjourned the hearing on the former J&K Chief Minsiter's petition till September 30. “Several petitions concerning various provisions and scheme of PMLA...are pending. Matter has been assigned to a special bench and parties have exchanged questions, one of which is directly in question here,” said Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing on behalf of the Centre. “Can we say you would prefer a transfer petition?,” the court questioned the Solicitor General who responded, “Yes, you can.” “I intend to move a transfer petition. If they agree, we can do it together,” Solicitor General added. Additional Solicitor General SV Raju added that the questions before the Supreme Court included issues concerning the commencement of investigation under PMLA. Senior counsel Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing Mufti, said that the matter was “ripe for hearing” before the high court. “I'm happy if we can move (Supreme Court) together”, she added. On September 9, the court had listed Mufti's plea for final disposal on September 14. Mufti, in her plea filed in March, has sought to declare section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act as void and inoperative, being unfairly discriminatory, bereft of safeguards, and violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. Section 50 of the Act empowers the authority, that is, officers of ED, to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. All persons summoned are bound to answer the questions put to them and to produce the documents as required by the ED officers, failing which they can be penalized under the Act. She has also challenged issuance of summons to her by the ED in a money laundering case and sought a stay which was refused by the court earlier. The 61-year-old leader, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was served notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. Initially, the ED had summoned Mufti for March 15 but it did not insist for her personal appearance at that time. Thereafter, she was summoned for March 22. Mufti, in her petition, said she has received summons from the ED under the provisions of the PMLA, purporting to call for 'evidence' on pain of punishment, whereas she is, to all intents and purposes, a subject of investigation. "She has not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness. She has also not been informed of what she is being summoned in connection with and the scheduled offence under the PMLA which gave rise to the proceedings in respect of which impugned summons has been issued to her. The petitioner is not the subject of investigation, nor is she an accused, in any of the scheduled offences to the best of her knowledge,” the plea said. The plea claimed that ever since Mufti was released from the preventive detention following the formal abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, there have been a series of hostile acts by the State, against her, acquaintances and old family friends, who have all been summoned by the ED and a roving inquiry about her personal, political and financial affairs was made, in the course of which their personal devices have been seized. Earlier, Solicitor General and advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the ED, had said there was no need to issue a formal notice to them as they are already appearing before the court and said they will file a short note on the issue of question of law.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-seek-transfer-of-mehbooba-muftis-plea-in-pmla-case-to-sc-centre-tells-delhi-hc-1030200.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 4 labourers find 8.22 carat diamond worth around Rs 40 lakh in Panna mine||After a wait of 15 years, a labourer and his three partners had a shower of good luck when they found an 8.22 carat diamond in a mine in Madhya Pradesh's Panna district, an official said. Local experts say the diamond may fetch up to Rs 40 lakh and as per officials, the proceeds from the auction of such raw diamonds would be given to the respective miners after the deduction of government royalty and taxes. Ratanlal Prajapati and his partners unearthed the 8.22 carat diamond from a leased land in Hirapur Tapariyan area of the district and deposited it at the diamond office on Monday, Panna Collector Sanjay Kumar Mishra told reporters. The diamond will be put up for auction on September 21 along with other gems, he said. After depositing the precious stone at the government office, Raghuvir Prajapati, one of the partners of Ratanlal Prajapati, told reporters that they had spent the last 15 years quarrying in various mines in their quest to find diamonds, but fortune smiled on them for the first time on Monday. “We leased small mines in different areas for the past 15 years, but did not find any diamond. This year, we have been mining on a leased land at Hirapur Tapariyan for the past six months and were pleasantly surprised to find a diamond weighing 8.22 carat,” he said. The miner said he and his partners will use the money received from the auction of the diamond for providing a better life and education to their children. According to officials, the proceeds from the auction of the raw diamonds would be given to the respective miners after deduction of government royalty and taxes. Panna district, located over 380 km from the state capital Bhopal, has reserves estimated to be containing diamonds totalling 12 lakh carats, officials said. The auction of the latest precious stone found by the labourers and 139 other diamonds will start from September 21, they added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-4-labourers-find-822-carat-diamond-worth-around-rs-40-lakh-in-panna-mine-1030205.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Air pollution: Delhi Environment Minister Rai asks depts to prepare action plan by September 21||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said the city government has asked departments concerned to prepare their action plan by September 21 based on which the national capital’s “Winter Action Plan” will be made to tackle air pollution. The Development Department will prepare an action plan for stubble management in Delhi. Three MCDs, Cantonment Board, NDMC, DDA and all other government construction agencies have to prepare an action plan to control dust emissions, Rai said. These departments have also been asked to sensitise their officers on the ground. MCDs have been asked to come up with an action plan to control waste burning and monitor pollution hotspots, he said. The Transport Department has been asked to popularise electric vehicle policy. The traffic police will prepare a plan to deal with congestions, the minister said. The environment department will establish a communication channel with the neighbouring states and the Centre for coordination on pollution-related matters. Officials from municipal corporations, Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Department of Environment, Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Traffic Police, Public Works Department, Transport Department, National Highways Authority of India, and Central Public Works Department participated in a review meeting. “These departments have been asked to prepare their action plan based on which the capital’s ‘Winter Action Plan’ will be made,” Rai said. As part of the plan, the city government will upgrade the “Green War Room” launched last year to monitor and coordinate anti-pollution efforts and update the “Green Delhi” application to effectively address complaints related to pollution-causing activities. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-pollution-delhi-environment-minister-rai-asks-depts-to-prepare-action-plan-by-september-21-1030248.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Historians, experts welcome Chandni Chowk's heritage-sensitive revamp||Pedestrianisation and rejuvenation of a historic stretch in old Delhi's Chandni Chowk has been welcomed by historians and other experts, who concurred that this architecturally sensitive redevelopment project is a good start for built heritage in the city. A nearly 1.4-km stretch of Chandni Chowk, from the Red Fort area to Fatehpuri Masjid, has been made a non-motorised vehicle zone from 9 AM to 9 PM as part of a holistic initiative by the Shahjehanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC). Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday dedicated the revamped stretch to the people, and announced that the entire area will be transformed into a tourist hub by allowing street food joints to operate till midnight. Red sandstones, complementing the aesthetic look of the 17th-century Mughal-era fort, have been used to carve out benches and other decorative material, while period-styled street furniture add to the cultural ethos of the area, steeped in history. The project has received thumbs up from heritage experts and aficionados alike, who flock to the Walled City to admire iconic landmarks, old buildings and enjoy lip-smacking street food. Historian and author Rana Safvi, who has written extensively on Shahjehanabad, termed the project a "very good start" when it comes to matters of heritage, more so in a rapidly urbanising city like Delhi. "It is very welcoming to see, government authorities and various agencies, keeping heritage at the centre while devising a redevelopment project. Heritage often suffers in the name of development, and the Chandni Chowk project certainly raises the level of optimism one feels for heritage buildings," she said. The author of 'Shahjehanabad: The Living City of Old Delhi' expressed delight over the pedestrianisation of the old street, which will allow visitors to now admire the "old architectural fabric" of the area, whose view was earlier marred by overhead electric cables and burgeoning traffic. "You cannot admire such old streetscape when there are vehicles plying around you. Now, people will have the vantage point to see, admire and click pictures and take back memories home. Earlier, it was congested traffic and pollution and these were all one would face in this stretch of Chandni Chowk," Safvi said. Historian and author Swapna Liddle also welcomed the project as a "very good move" and hoped the entire Shahjehanabad will get the kind of attention, the historic core of the city deserves. "It is a good start but it will have to seen in totality, eventually. As in rejuvenation of whole Shahjehanabad should be taken into account rather than just in a piecemeal way. But this heritage-sensitive redevelopment project certainly means good news for heritage," she said. The next stage of the project will involve facade rejuvenation and making the area more vibrant, officials said. Delhi PWD Minister and SRDC chairman Satyendar Jain on Sunday had told reporters that the plan was to run a 'heritage-look' green vehicle on the stretch. Suggestions are also coming that uniform shop boards, as in many other pedestrianisation projects abroad, could be used. However, there is no official confirmation on it. Liddle, author of 'Chandni Chowk: The Mughal City of Old Delhi', who also conducts heritage walks, suggested that each signage should be in sync with the building it is mounted on. "One signage or font used on it may look good on one building but not suit another building with a different architectural style on its facade. Also, multiple languages and calligraphic and other designs should be allowed to be explored by shop owners instead of hemming them in," she said. Safvi said e-rickshaws and old-style horse carriages are very good options for plying on the pedestrianised stretch. "A small write-up with a photo or artwork of a monument of Delhi can be embossed on the back side of an e-rickshaw, which would also enhance the knowledge of people about heritage of Delhi," she added. Also, a signage with basic information about the old buildings should be installed in front of them to engage the visitors, the historian said. Various other heritage experts and conservation architects also welcomed the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk that was built by Jehan Ara, daughter of Mughal Empire Shah Jahan. "Earlier there were three markets, Urdu Bazaar, Johri Bazaar and Fatehpuri Bazaar. And, a square existed in the middle of it, so the name Chandni Chowk. The area has changed a lot, it has seen the glory of the Mughals, their fall, the 1857 First War of Independence and eventually rise of a free, democratic India in 1947. So, it deserves this special attention," Safvi said.   Kejriwal, after inaugurating the redeveloped stretch, had said that earlier broken roads, dangling wires, traffic congestion were synonymous with Chandni Chowk, but now it has become beautiful and aesthetically appealing.   "We have beautified almost 1.4 km stretch of the Chandni Chowk and made it extremely beautiful. Traffic on the stretch was improved, dangling wires were made underground, and CCTVs were installed under the redevelopment project,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/historians-experts-welcome-chandni-chowks-heritage-sensitive-revamp-1030286.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Champion of anti-women mindset: Priyanka Gandhi slams UP CM Adityanath||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday attacked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the issue of crimes against women in the state and alleged that he was the champion of "anti-women mindset". Her attack on Adityanath came as on this day, last year, the horrific Hathras incident took place in which a young Dalit woman was raped by four men. The woman died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. "A year ago from today, a horrific incident of rape had happened in Hathras and instead of providing justice and security to the family, the Uttar Pradesh government had threatened the family and also snatched away their right to give their daughter an honourable funeral," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. आज से एक साल पहले हाथरस में बलात्कार की भयावह घटना घटी थी और उप्र सरकार ने परिवार को न्याय व सुरक्षा देने की बजाय धमकियां दीं थीं और उनसे बेटी के ससम्मान अंतिम संस्कार का हक भी छीन लिया था। 1/3 महिलाओं के खिलाफ अपराधों पर इतना खराब रुख रखने वाली सरकार के मुखिया से आप संवेदनशीलता की आस रख भी कैसे सकते हैं? वैसे भी यूपी के मुख्यमंत्री महिला विरोधी सोच के अगुआ हैं। वो कह चुके हैं कि "महिलाओं को स्वतंत्र नहीं होना चाहिए।" 3/3 Government officials and BJP leaders had made statements to the effect that there was "no rape" and the energy of the entire government machinery was spent on character assassination of the victim, the Congress general secretary alleged. How can you even expect sensitivity from the head of a government that has such a horrible stance on crimes against women, Priyanka Gandhi asked. "Anyway, the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh is the champion of anti-women mindset. He has said that 'women should not be independent'," she claimed. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family said they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/champion-of-anti-women-mindset-priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-cm-adityanath-1030289.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Sabzi Mandi building collapse: Police say renovation work weakened structure, one arrested||A man, who owned a shop on the ground floor of a building, which collapsed in the Sabzi Mandi area here killing two children, was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly conducting repair work that weakened the structure, police said. Mohak Arora (26), a resident of the area, had recently bought the shop in the four-storey building and was renovating it, they said. "Preliminary investigation has revealed that Arora had got a platform removed from the ground floor of the building on Sunday during the ongoing renovation work at his shop which led to weakening of the building's structure and eventually, it collapsed on Monday," a senior police officer said. The building in the congested north Delhi market place led to the death of Somya (12) and Prashant Gupta (7), who were walking past it along with their mother. The shop, which was bought by Arora, earlier sold milk, and he was renovating it as he wanted to start some work related to electrical appliances, police said, adding that he already had a shop that sold electrical items in Sabzi Mandi. "Mohak Arora has been arrested under a case registered against him under Indian Penal Code sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention)," the officer said. The children, residents of Roshnara Road in Old Delhi, were trapped under the debris of the building, according to police. Seventy-two-year-old Ramji Das, a resident of Malka Ganj, who owned a "paan" shop near the building, was also trapped. He was rescued and had suffered injuries to his head, they said. Thirteen members of the Aneja family narrowly escaped what could have a fatal mishap. The Anejas who occupied three out of the four floors were all, except one member, outside the house when the incident happened. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) has ordered an inquiry into the incident and directed the building department to submit its report within seven days. However, the building that collapsed had not been identified as dangerous by the civic body. The NDMC has said that the building is an about 50-60 years old structure. The ground floor was being used for commercial purpose while the rest was residential.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sabzi-mandi-building-collapse-police-say-renovation-work-weakened-structure-one-arrested-1030300.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav contests PM Modi's claim over crime in UP, asks him to check data||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi's claim about the crime situation in Uttar Pradesh, asking him to check data of the Home Department and other central agencies. At a function after laying the stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University in Aligarh, PM Modi earlier in the day said UP was run by gangsters and mafias before 2017. The Samajwadi Party (SP) was ruling the state then. In a scathing attack at the BJP, Yadav told reporters at a press conference here that it is good to set up a university but the party "runs the best training centre of telling lies". He asked the BJP to pick "bulldozer" as its election symbol, referring to the alleged demolition of houses of some Ayodhya residents. Yadav also asked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to get his eyesight tested, replying to the CM’s assertion that the Opposition leader lacked vision. Yadav told reporters that the UP government is not working according to the law and warned officials that his party is preparing a list of those who violated the law, stressing that they won’t be spared once his party’s government comes to power. When his attention was drawn to the PM’s comment over the law and order, Yadav said, "He should ask for the data of the Home Department or Dial 100 to see who is increasing the crime." He asked the PM to go through the NCRB report and also see which state has been served maximum notices by the National Human Rights Commission. Yadav said the PM should also ask the Uttar Pradesh CM who are the top 10 mafia in the state. All are aware how the CM withdrew cases against himself, he said. He also accused the ruling party of failing to honour its own leaders, referring to the foundation laying of a university after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Lucknow in 2019 and asked about its status. He alleged that the government uses the work of other governments to honour its own leaders and assured that if his party came to power, they will set up a university or college at Vajpayee's native Bateshwar village in Agra . "Even after over four years, this government is changing names and colours, claiming the work done by the SP government as its own. As they know that their government is on its way out, the language of its head has changed," the SP chief said, apparently referring to CM Yogi's "Abba Jaan" jibe in Kushinagar recently. He said a few years ago when the CM had gone to Kushinagar, children and the poor were given soaps and shampoos to first take a bath and then meet him. Such a person cannot develop the state, he said. To Yogi's assertion that Akhilesh Yadav lacked vision, the SP leader asked the CM to get his eyesight tested. He also suggested that the BJP should pick "bulldozer" as its election symbol after two Ayodhya residents from the Ramkot area told him that their houses were razed by the administration. Maniram Yadav told the former CM that they have been living in the area for the past three generations and believed that their "achchey din" will come once the Ram temple is constructed but now "feel like committing suicide". Countering claims of the state government that unauthorised buildings have been demolished, the former CM said there are many houses, specially very old ones that do not have layouts passed by the authorities, citing the example of the official residence of the CM in Lucknow. He assured that once his party comes to power, it will restore the dignity of those whose houses have been demolished by building new ones for them.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-contests-pm-modis-claim-over-crime-in-up-asks-him-to-check-data-1030302.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police arrest 6 people including 2 Pakistan-trained terrorists||Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed to have unearthed a Pakistani ISI-backed terror module planning explosions and targeted killings during Navratri celebrations and Ramlila with the arrest of six suspected terrorists, including two who went to Pakistan for training earlier this year. The Special Cell, the elite anti-terror unit of Delhi Police that cracked the module, also claimed that underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's brother Anees Ibrahim was funding the module through hawala operations and helping in logistics, including "safely" transporting the explosives from across the border and delivering it in various locations of the country. Special Commissioner (Special Cell) Neeraj Thakur told a press conference that the simultaneous arrests in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on Tuesday morning came following investigations into inputs provided by central intelligence agencies about a conspiracy from across the border about the possible plans to unleash terror across various cities. The arrested have been identified as Jaan Mohammad Shaikh alias Sameer Kaliya (47), Osama (22), Moolchand alias Lala (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohd Abu Bakar (23) and Mohd Amir Javed (31). According to Thakur, two of the six arrested -- Osama and Zeeshan -- were trained in Pakistan for 15 days in handling explosives and firearms, including AK-47. They had left India in April -- Osama left on April 22 and met Zeeshan in Oman -- for Muscat from where they reached Pakistan via ship and boat. "The duo have told us that there were 14-15 Bangla speaking people who were travelling to Pakistan with them for similar training. This is closely coordinated from across the border," he said. While Thakur did not mention their nationality, a police statement said they were probably from Bangladesh. They were taken to Jioni near Gwadar port in Pakistan from where they were taken to a farmhouse in Thatta. Thakur also said the 'underworld' was also involved in the operations with Anees Ibrahim closely coordinating with the terror module. He has organised funds for the module through hawala operations besides getting the firearms across the border to India. While one team focused on the transportation of the firearms, Thakur claimed, another team was tasked with finding locations for terror strikes and their plan was to target locations with heavy footfall during Navratri celebrations and Ramlila functions. The recovery of sophisticated Italian pistols also showed that they were for targeted killings, Thakur said. A senior police official did not rule out the significance of the module ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in five states, especially Uttar Pradesh. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Kushwaha said Sameer, who was arrested from Rajasthan's Kota, is a close contact of Anees Ibrahim and was tasked to ensure the smooth delivery of IEDs, sophisticated weapons and grenades to different entities in India. Osama, who was arrested from Jamia Nagar in Delhi and Zeeshan, who was apprehended from Allahabad in UP, were allegedly assigned to conduct the reconnaissance of different suitable locations in Delhi and UP for placing the IEDs. Javed was apprehended from Lucknow and Moolchand from Rae Bareilly. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-arrest-6-people-including-2-pakistan-trained-terrorists-1030306.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Sajad Lone visits family of Srinagar cop killed by militants||People's Conference (PC) chairman Sajad Gani Lone on Tuesday visited the family of Jammu and Kashmir Police sub-inspector Arshid Ahmad Mir, who was killed by militants two days back in Srinagar. He expressed his sympathies to Mir's family in north Kupwara's Kalmuna village and termed the killing merciless and inhuman. He said the unending cycle of violence has devastated thousands of families and put a sudden end to countless dreams. Kashmir has been in a perpetual state of grief and misery ever since the eruption of violence, Lone added. He underscored the need for collective efforts to reject violence in its entirety so that Kashmir could prosper. "It is imperative that we explicitly condemn and denounce violence. Such dastardly acts should be collectively rejected and must have no societal acceptance if we want to pull Kashmir out of this vortex of violence," Lone said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sajad-lone-visits-family-of-srinagar-cop-killed-by-militants-1030315.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Unfortunate that generations not told about national heroes: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it is the country’s misfortune that generations were not made aware of sacrifices of national heroes, citing example Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, in whose name a university will come up in Aligarh. The PM said this after laying the foundation stone of the university. Modi also paid tributes to former UP CM Kalyan Singh, saying he would have felt happy after seeing the progress of Aligarh. "Today, I am feeling the absence of the great son of soil, Kalyan Singh. Had he been alive, he would have felt happy seeing the new identity of Aligarh in terms of a node of the UP Defence Industrial Corridor and Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University. Wherever his soul is, it would be blessing us," Modi said. Remembering Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, Modi said today’s India is correcting "mistakes" of the past. It was the country’s misfortune that generations were not told about the sacrifices of freedom fighters like Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh. Many generations of the country were deprived of their stories and tales, the PM said, adding that 21st century India is correcting these mistakes of the 20th century. Today, an honest effort is being made to make the new generation aware of the contributions of Maharaj Suheldevji, Deenbandhu Chaudhary Chhotu Ramji or Raja Mahendra Pratap Singhji, Modi said. "Today, when the youth sees big dreams, they should remember and study about Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh as it imparts lessons of tremendous willpower,” the PM said. "He went to different parts of the world, including Afghanistan, Poland, Japan and South Africa for India's independence," Modi said. "Around World War-1, he went to Europe to meet Lala Hardayal and especially Shyamji Krishna Verma and it was the result of that meeting that the first government-in-exile of India was established in Afghanistan," the PM said. "This government was headed by Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh. Today, as PM, I feel honoured to lay the foundation of a university named after a visionary and great freedom fighter. He not only fought for India's independence but also actively contributed to laying the foundation of India's future," Modi stressed. He used the experience gathered from touring various parts of the country and the world to modernise the education system, Modi said, adding that the freedom fighter established a modern technical college in Vrindavan, using his own resources and donating his ancestral property. "He donated big land for the AMU," Modi said. The PM said as India is making strides towards a new era of education and skill, the construction of a university named after the son of the soil is a true tribute. This university will become a centre of modern education, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unfortunate-that-generations-not-told-about-national-heroes-pm-modi-1030324.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court takes cue from judicial precedent of Godhra case, orders separation of trial||Taking a cue from the judicial precedent of Gujarat's Godhra riots cases, a Delhi court on Tuesday ordered the separation of trial of accused on the ground of their faith in a murder of a 24-year-old man during the north-east Delhi communal riots, saying there was an “assortment” of undertrials and one trial would prejudice their defence as they belong to Hindu and Muslim religions. Three Hindus and two Muslims were to face joint trial in case emanating from one FIR and they were charged with the offences of rioting, arson and murder of one Salman who had succumbed to gunshot injury allegedly inflicted upon him by a riotous mob in Delhi's Shiv Vihar area on February 24, 2020.  A peculiar situation has arisen whether the trial can be permitted to proceed with assortment of accused persons from different religions purportedly acting under “two different conspiracies and unlawful assemblies,” Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said, adding that joint trial will definitely prejudice the defence of accused persons as they belong to different religions.  The trial judge directed Joy N. Tirkey, DCP (Crime Branch), to furnish a complete set of charge sheets in physical form to the court within two weeks.  Taking the precedent from the trial in the Godhra communal riots case, the judge said that he deems it appropriate to separate the trial of the accused persons “so that their defence does not get prejudiced”.  “Similar situation had arisen before a Gujarat Court conducting the trial of Godhra Communal Riots...wherein the High Court was pleased to authorize separation of the trial of the accused persons from two different communities,” he said. He added, “Thereafter, Ahlmad (court official) of the court is directed to put up a separate Sessions Case number in the FIR and the existing charge sheet shall be treated as charge sheet for three accused persons namely, Kuldeep, Deepak Thakur and Deepak Yadav.” Meanwhile, the other charge sheet shall be treated as charge sheet for accused persons Mohd. Furkan and Mohd. Irshad, the judge added.  The decision on separation of the trial came after the court framed charges in the case. The judge stated that there is enough material on record to frame charges against the five accused under the requisite sections.  They have been charged under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 153-A (vilification or attacks upon the religion), 302 (murder), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance), 505 (intent to incite), 120-B (conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the IPC.  All the accused have pleaded not guilty and claimed trial in the case. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-takes-cue-from-judicial-precedent-of-godhra-case-orders-separation-of-trial-1030341.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||What kind of a Yogi propagates hate? asks Rahul Gandhi||In an apparent reference to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's 'abba jaan' remarks, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said what kind of a Yogi propagates hate. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister's office hit back at Gandhi, saying in a tweet, "If bulldozing the empire of criminals and miscreants is hate, then this hatred will continue unabated." जिन्ह कें रही भावना जैसी। प्रभु मूरति तिन्ह देखी तैसी।। और हां श्रीमान राहुल जी! Earlier, taking to Twitter, Gandhi posted, "Jo nafrat kare, woh yogi kaisa! (What kind of a Yogi propagates hate)." जो नफ़रत करे,वह योगी कैसा! Addressing a programme in Kushinagar on Sunday, Adityanath had alleged that people did not get rations before 2017 like they do now. "Because then, people who say 'abba jaan' used to digest the rations. The rations of Kushinagar used to go to Nepal and Bangladesh. Today, if anybody tries to swallow the rations meant for poor people, he will land in jail," the chief minister had said. 'Abba jaan' is the Urdu term for father. In a Facebook post, Gandhi also recalled the horrific Hathras incident which took place a year ago. "The wait for justice continues. Daughter of Hathras, daughter of the country," Gandhi said. The horrific Hathras incident took place a year ago in which a young Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four men. The woman died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/what-kind-of-a-yogi-propagates-hate-asks-rahul-gandhi-1030379.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Amended GNCTD Act ‘disenfranchised’ Delhiites, violated principle of federalism: Delhi govt to SC||The amended GNCTD Act and the Transaction of Business Rules have “disenfranchised” Delhiites, and violated the principle of federalism by diminishing the constitutionally guaranteed powers and functions of the elected legislative assembly and the council of ministers, the Delhi government has told the Supreme Court in its petition. The Delhi government, in its plea through Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, has sought quashing of the four amended sections of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act and 13 Rules of the Transaction of Business of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993 on various grounds such as they violated the doctrine of basic structure, separation of power as the Lt Governor has been bestowed with more authority. A bench headed by Chief justice N V Ramana on Monday assured the Delhi government that it will soon order listing of the writ petition of the Aam Aadmi Party-led government for hearing. The Delhi government, instead of going to the High Court, straightaway knocked the doors of the top court this time alleging that the amended provisions violated the five-judge bench judgement on the Delhi-Centre power row. In the 2018 judgement, the Constitution bench had unanimously held that the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi is bound by the “aid and advice” of the elected government and both needed to work harmoniously with each other. The petition, which has made the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Law Ministry as parties, said, “the Amendment Act has in effect disenfranchised the people of Delhi, and violated their political rights under the Constitution. For these reasons, it is respectfully submitted that the impugned Provisions contravene both Article 239AA of the Constitution, and the judgment of this Court in Govt of NCT of Delhi versus Union of India”. “The provisions inserted by the Amendment Act which are impugned herein violate the principles of federalism, separation of powers, representative democracy, and the rule of law, which are essential features of the Constitution. Therefore, the Amendment Act violates the “Basic Structure” of the Constitution,” it said. The provisions diminish the constitutionally guaranteed powers and functions of the elected legislative assembly and council of ministers of the NCT of Delhi, overturn the constitutionally stipulated balance between the Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi and the Union Government, and “impermissibly overrule the judgment of the Constitution Bench of this Court”, the plea said. Referring the changes made in the law and Rules, the plea said they “impermissibly encroach on the scope of the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s core legislative functions” by interfering with the power of the Assembly to frame its own rules of business or to hold the executive to account, a core function of any legislature. It referred to Article 239AA and said it is a unique provision in the Constitution which guarantees Union Territory Delhi, a parliamentary form of democracy in the Westminster model. “Essential features of this model include an elected legislature and a responsible executive, each one competent to act within their demarcated spheres of authority. Additionally, by virtue of Delhi’s status as the national capital, a nominee of the Union Government - the Lieutenant-Governor - plays a limited role in the constitutional scheme under Article 239AA,” it said. The apex court’s judgement had clarified that the provisions of Article 239AA - including those concerning the powers and functions of the LG - must be interpreted in light of the constitutional commitment to federalism, and to representative democracy, the plea said. “This court interpreted Article 239AA so as to place limitations upon the power of the LG, in order to ensure that the default situation would remain that of a parliamentary democracy with an elected legislature and a responsible executive, while a certain space was retained for exceptional circumstances, where the LG would be required to play a limited role,” it said. The amended provisions impermissibly reverse this delicate constitutional balance, as set out and interpreted by court in the 2018 judgement, it said. The amendment of the provisions is an attempt to treat the LG as the default administering authority over Delhi, by equating the position of the LG with that of the “government”, it said. The new provisions authorises “the LG to withhold consent from Bills that, in his judgment, may be ‘incidentally’ outside the scope of legislative assembly’s legislative powers (even though such a bill, if passed into law, would be constitutionally valid under the doctrine of pith and substance), and by empowering the LG to interfere in the day-to-day administration of the NCT by introducing the requirement of obtaining the LGs views before executing a decision of the Council of Ministers under any bunch of laws that are to be specified by LG, through general orders,“ it said. The amended Transaction of Business Rules dilute and divest the executive powers of the elected government of NCT of Delhi by transferring these powers to the LG and the Secretaries in the Govt. of NCT of Delhi in derogation of representative form of Government as envisaged under Article 239- AA of the Constitution, it said. The Government of National Capital Territory (GNCTD) Amendment Act, 2021 has come into force after being passed by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on March 22 and March 24, respectively. “The Amendment Bill provides that the term ‘government’ referred to in any law made by the Legislative Assembly shall mean LG. This is done by introducing a new clause (3) to Section 21 of the GNCTD Act, 1991,” the plea said. Section 33 of the GNCTD Act allows the Legislative Assembly to make Rules to regulate the procedure and conduct of business in the Assembly and the Amendment Bill provides that such Rules must be consistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha and that any rule inconsistent will be void, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amended-gnctd-act-disenfranchised-delhiites-violated-principle-of-federalism-delhi-govt-to-sc-1030387.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Haryana ministers, BJP leaders slam Punjab CM over remarks on farmers’ stir||Leaders of the ruling BJP in Haryana, including minister Anil Vij and party state chief O P Dhankar, on Tuesday hit out at Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over his remarks on the farmers' stir, saying there is a "conspiracy" to disturb Haryana's economy. Singh had urged farmers to spare Punjab from their protests against three central farm laws and advised them to shift their sit-in from his state to venues on Delhi's borders or in Haryana, which is a neighbour of the national capital. However, Singh on Tuesday, a day after he made the remarks, claimed that the farmers agitating against the farm laws are giving a "political twist" to his appeal for stopping their protests in Punjab against the Centre's legislations. He said that their ongoing stir in Punjab has caused pain and misery to the people and was "uncalled for". Hitting out at Singh, Haryana Home Minister Vij said that "the mere fact of Singh urging farmers to hold protests in Haryana or Delhi proves that his hand is behind this agitation". "To serve his political ends, he has kept this agitation alive," the minister said. Haryana BJP president Dhankar, while interacting with reporters, said, "It is clear now that there is a deep conspiracy on part of the Congress to disturb Haryana's economy." "Singh is talking about saving the economy of his state, but urging them to hold protests in Haryana to disturb our economy,” he said. Dubbing Punjab a “Bimaru” state on the economic front, Dhankar said, “Everyone knows that Haryana is far ahead than Punjab on many fronts, including on the economic and industrial fronts, but now under a conspiracy they want to disturb our economy”. Vij also took a dig at the farmers' agitation against the central farm laws, saying, “It is not an agitation anymore. People do not come armed with swords, they don't use lathis, they don't block roads… in agitation dharnas are given in a peaceful manner, people sit on hunger strike.” Dhankar said that due to the ongoing farmers' agitation, industries in Haryana's Bahadurgarh, Rai, Kundli and Jhajjar have suffered heavily. He claimed that a “by-product of this agitation” is increase in drug addiction in areas including Jhajjar, Rohtak and Sonipat, where the farmers' agitation is concentrated. “I come from Jhajjar district, in my area drug addiction has increased. Ever since this agitation started there, village panchayats are meeting me and telling me that addiction has increased and they urge to get it stopped. This increase in addiction cases is by-product of this agitation. In Rohtak, Sonipat too it has increased,” said Dhankar, while terming the development as “worrisome”. Haryana Minister Kanwar Pal slammed the Punjab chief minister, saying “He has made an irresponsible statement. Earlier, one used to hear about Congress' hand behind this agitation, but now such statements by their own leaders are proving it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-ministers-bjp-leaders-slam-punjab-cm-over-remarks-on-farmers-stir-1030389.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||AAP seeks to make foothold in poll-bound UP with Ram Rajya call||In a bid to make a foothold in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, the AAP on Tuesday took out a massive “Tiranga Yatra” here, giving a call to establish a Ram Rajya in the state and equating it with true nationalism and communal harmony. The rally was led by AAP MP Sanjay Singh and Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia with nearly 10,000 people -- almost all carrying Tricolours and raising slogans of “Inquilab Zindabad” and “Vande Mataram” -- participating in it. Also ranting the air with the slogan of Ram Rajya Lana Hai, Hindu Muslim ko ek banana hai” (we have to establish Ram Rajya and unite Hindus and Muslims), the participants covered a distance of barely two kilometres from the 18th-century mausoleum of Nawab Shuja Ud Daulah to Gandhi Park in the city in five hours. All along the route of the city besides its many areas also had the Tricolours hoisted and fluttering atop its building. Singh and Sisodia, who had reached Ayodhya on Monday, began the rally after paying their obeisance and offering prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi temple and the Hanuman Garhi Temple and meeting several seers there. "Fake nationalists are stunned by the chants of Vande Mataram by the energetic youths of Uttar Pradesh. The youths have come to know that real nationalism means good education, good health system, employment opportunities and safe society where there is no fear of criminals," said Sisodia, talking to PTI. "The whole life of Lord Rama gives the message of brotherhood, forgetting the distinction of caste and creed, he teaches to embrace everyone," said Sisodia, seeking to express his party resolve to establish a Ram Rajya in Uttar Pradesh.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-seeks-to-make-foothold-in-poll-bound-up-with-ram-rajya-call-1030392.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||1,200 voters per polling booth to be allowed in Punjab polls||Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju on Tuesday said a maximum of 1,200 voters per polling booth will be allowed in the upcoming state assembly polls due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, 1,400 voters per polling booth were allowed. With the reduction in the limit of voters, the polling booths will increase from 23,211 to 24,689, according to an official statement. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has given its concurrence to arrange additional electronic voting machines required for the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, the CEO said. He said, 10,500 controlling units (CU) and 21,100 VVPATs are being transported from different districts of Madhya Pradesh to various districts of Punjab. Raju said with the addition of these machines, Punjab will have 45,316 ballot units (BU), 34,942 CU, and 37,576 VVPAT (Voter verifiable paper audit trail) machines. The CEO asserted the EVMs are being transported while duly adopting the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) set by the ECI. Raju said district-wise nodal officers are picking up the machines from Madhya Pradesh under tight security arrangements. The EVMs and VVPAT have reached Punjab's 10 districts including Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Jalandhar and Ludhiana and these machines will reach the rest of the districts within two days, the CEO said. He said the first level checking of these machines will be undertaken in the presence of representatives of recognised national and state political parties. He also said a meeting with the state government officials was held to procure sanitisers and masks for the upcoming elections. Punjab assembly polls are due early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1200-voters-per-polling-booth-to-be-allowed-in-punjab-polls-1030403.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC denies bail to 2 in murder case in view of egregious crime scene footage||The Delhi High Court Tuesday refused bail to two persons in a case concerning the alleged murder of Delhi Police head constable Ratan Lal during the north-east Delhi riots in 2020, saying that the footage of the crime scene was “quite egregious” and sufficient to keep them in further custody. However, Justice Subramonium Prasad, in two other orders, granted bail to two persons in the same case, saying their presence at the crime scene and participation in the unlawful assembly would be tested during the trial. The court said the bail is subject to them furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs 35,000 with one surety of the like amount and other conditions including the accused not leaving the city and periodically reporting to the concerned police station. While rejecting bail of other two, the court stated that there was “clinching evidence” to show the presence of the accused persons, Sadiq and Irshad, who were in custody since April 2020 and December 2020, respectively, at the scene of crime. “The clinching evidence that tilts this Court to prolong the incarceration of the Petitioner is his presence in the video wherein he is clearly identified at the Scene of Crime, holding a danda in one hand and pelting stones with his other hand at uniformed officials who at present around him, and are heavily and hopelessly outnumbered..The accused is not merely a curious onlooker,” the court stated in one of the order while denying bail. “The fact that he actively participated and pelted stones at the Police Officials at the Scene of Crime justifies the invocation of Section 149 IPC read with Section 302 IPC in the instant case,” it added. On the other hand, for the accused, Mohd Ayub and Shahnawaz, both in custody since March 2020, who were granted bail in the FIR, the court observed that there was no electronic evidence to place them at the scene of crime as a part of the unlawful mob and there “cannot be an umbrella assumption of guilt”. “When there is a crowd involved, at the juncture of grant or denial of bail, the Court must hesitate before arriving at the conclusion that every member of the unlawful assembly inhabits a common intention to accomplish the unlawful common object,” it said. Stating that “bail is the rule and jail is the exception”, the court asserted that it was its “constitutional duty” to “ensure that there is no arbitrary deprivation of personal liberty in the face of excess of state power”. “The Supreme Court has time and again held that Courts need to be alive to both ends of the spectrum, i.e. the duty of the Courts to ensure proper enforcement of criminal law, and the duty of the Courts to ensure that the law does not become a tool for targeted harassment,” it added. The court also clarified that “merely being one of the organisers of the protest as well as being in touch with others who participated in the protest is also not sufficient enough to justify” the prosecution's stand that one of the accused who was granted bail was involved in the pre-planning of the alleged incident. “This Court has already opined that the right to protest and express dissent is a right which occupies a fundamental stature in a polity, and therefore, the fact that the Petitioner was part of the protest is not a sufficient ground to refuse bail to him,” it said while giving relief to one of the accused. Prosecution opposed grant of bail in the cases, contending that the death of head constable Ratan Lal was the first death in the North-East Delhi riots and the absence of an accused from a video footage does not translate into absence of the accused from the scene of crime.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-denies-bail-to-2-in-murder-case-in-view-of-egregious-crime-scene-footage-1030406.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt raises monthly allowance of gallantry, distinguished service awardees||The Punjab government on Tuesday announced to raise the monthly allowance of gallantry, distinguished service awardees, their widows and widows of posthumous awardees by 80 per cent. A spokesperson of the Defence Services Welfare Department said out of the total 2,044 winners of gallantry and distinguished awards, the allowance for the winners of the Param Vir Chakra has been increased from the existing Rs 23,100 to Rs 41,580. Similarly, the six Ashok Chakra awardees would now get an enhanced allowance of Rs 33,264 in place of earlier Rs 18,480, while the 11 Maha Vir Chakra awardees would be now entitled to receive Rs 31,601 instead of Rs 17,556, the spokesperson said. Likewise, the monthly allowance of the 24 Kirti Chakra winners has also been increased from Rs 13,860 to Rs 24,948. The allowance was also raised for other 127 Vir Chakra awardees, 165 Shaurya Chakra winners and others. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-raises-monthly-allowance-of-gallantry-distinguished-service-awardees-1030428.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Exercise restraint: Uttarakhand BJP's advice to Harak Singh Rawat for recent comments||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has advised Uttarakhand Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat to exercise restraint, saying he should avoid making "reckless" remarks. "If anyone makes unrestrained statements, the party will definitely take cognizance of it," said BJP spokesperson Shadab Shams, referring to the minister's in a recent interview to a TV channel, in which he talked about saving former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat from going to jail. Harak Singh Rawat also said that when Harish Rawat was the chief minister, he wanted to get Trivendra Singh Rawat booked in the alleged Dhaincha seeds scam, but he saved him from being jailed by writing a two-page note. The minister also said that when he showed this note to BJP leaders Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Ajay Bhatt, they were surprised by it and told him that "you have great courage". Harak Singh also claimed that had he not written the note at that time, Trivendra Singh Rawat could never have become the chief minister. Harish Rawat has also junked the claim, saying there was nothing in the alleged scam that would have sent Trivendra Singh Rawat to jail. Check out te latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/exercise-restraint-uttarakhand-bjps-advice-to-harak-singh-rawat-for-recent-comments-1030430.html
14-09-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya: Seers seek ban on shows of star-studded Ram Leela||Seers of Ayodhya on Tuesday demanded from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to immediately ban shows of Ram Leela to be performed by Bollywood actors here next month. The seers alleged that Bollywood artistes consume alcohol, eat meat and involve in 'immoral activities' due to which they can never represent pious characters of the Ramayana. The seers said the artistes who perform traditional Ram Leela follow a strict moral and religious discipline in their life. The demand was made at a meeting of about 100 saints of Ayodhya at 'Bada Bhakt Maal', a temple and seat of Hindu religious studies in Ayodhya. There is a special tradition of Ram Leela in Ayodhya and they seek blessings from people performing characters of Lord Rama, Sita and others, said Mahant Dharam Das, a priest at the local Hanumangarhi temple. We cannot take blessings from Bollywood actors who don't follow religious discipline, he said. Mahant Awadhesh Das Shastri, chief priest of the "Bada Bhakt Maal" temple, said ,"We cannot tolerate unscrupulous performance in the name of Ram Leela. Bollywood actress Bhagyashree will be performing the role of Sita in multi-starer Ram Leela. Actors Shakti Kapoor, Arbaaz Khan, Raza Muraad, Asrani, Avatar Gill, Bindu Dara Singh and others will also be part of it. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-seers-seek-ban-on-shows-of-star-studded-ram-leela-1030435.html
14-09-2021||Opinion||The next best electric car battery is here, cheaper than ever||By Anjani Trivedi There’s no shortage of excitement for electric vehicle battery startups or multibillion dollar investments in the industry, as companies, backers and scientists look for the winning play. China, though, is already moving on to the next leg in the race — one that isn’t dependent on a big, bold breakthrough — with sodium-ion batteries. Done right, this technology could lead to widespread adoption in a market largely dependent on subsidies and where EV sales are still a fraction of all cars. China’s Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., or CATL, the world’s largest battery manufacturer, unveiled its latest product in July — a sodium-ion battery. The following month, China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said it would drive the development, standardization and commercialization of this type of power-pack, providing a cheaper, faster-charging and safe alternative to the current crop on offer, which continue to be plagued by a host of problems, not least, faulty units catching fire. Sodium-ion batteries aren’t a new development. They were being researched in the 1970s, but interest was quickly overtaken by a newer, fancier, more promising variety — the lithium-ion battery. Their widespread use meant the sodium-based ones didn’t have many takers and any ongoing development took a back seat. Now, decades on, the challenges with lithium-ion batteries are becoming apparent. Carmakers and battery manufacturers are focused on bringing down costs — a perennial obstacle. And while lithium-ion batteries have been one of the greatest inventions in power storage, they are increasingly coming up against issues including the cost and availability of materials, and safety. There’s a constant tug-of-war between stable chemistry. so the battery doesn’t combust. and greater energy density. Clear solutions have largely confounded scientists, and what is available isn’t good enough to make lithium-ion scalable and commercially viable for electric vehicles. The sodium-based batteries aren’t going to take electric cars any further than lithium can. Not anytime soon, at least. However, the materials needed to make them are widely available. The content of sodium in earth reserves is around 2.5 per cent to 3 per cent, or 300 times more than lithium and is more evenly distributed, according to Jefferies Group LLC analysts. That means it has a major cost advantage: These power packs could cost almost 30 per cent to 50 per cent less than the cheapest electric car battery options currently available. In addition, the price of sodium is less sensitive to market gyrations compared with lithium, increasingly a sentiment gauge for the world’s green ambitions. And although sodium-ion batteries currently have a relatively lower energy density, they run better at cooler temperatures and have a greater life span, making them a better long-term investment, in theory. CATL’s latest product is expected to have an energy density of 160 Watt-hour per kilogram and will take 15 minutes to reach 80 per cent of its charge. That’s on par with batteries currently on the market, ranging from 140 Wh/kg to 180 and 240 in the highest end type (that have proven to be combustible at times).  Sodium-ion batteries will effectively need a new supply chain — they can’t rely on the well-established lithium-ion ones. Low material costs, though, means manufacturing expenses will be reduced and honing the existing production processes to upgrade these older batteries will be faster. CATL has said it will have a supply chain in place by 2023. Other companies like HiNa Battery Technology Co. already have projects in progress. Ultimately, the ability to put cheaper and safer options on the market also means widespread accessibility for price-conscious consumers or resource-constrained nations. Countries like India and South Africa are vying to get on the electric car bandwagon with big, ambitious plans to hit global green targets. However, they just don’t have the resources or access to them — neither financial nor raw materials. Options like the sodium-ion battery offer a clear path to go electric and make headway with their climate change goals. Whoever can master the next best battery wins. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-next-best-electric-car-battery-is-here-cheaper-than-ever-1030155.html
14-09-2021||Opinion||Rupani's exit: Modi's predictable unpredictability and AAP surge in Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is predictable in his unpredictability. And so is the din, drama and drop-dead timing of his decisions to draw maximum mileage for himself. Take the change of guard in Gujarat. On September 11, Prime Minister Modi e-inaugurated the Sardardham Bhavan built by the politically powerful and numerically abundant Patidar community. Hours later, Vijay Rupani puts in his papers, becoming the third Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief minister to do so in as many months countrywide. A day later, he is replaced by an obscure Bhupendra Patel, a first-time legislator. It is a poll-time message for 15 per cent of the Patidar voting population with tilting influence in 69 of the 182 Gujarat Vidhan Sabha seats. The timing makes it evident that it will be a Patidar (Patel). All key BJP Patidar leaders are called in attendance, flying in from Delhi, even the Andamans. The media goes berserk, bandying all manner of Patidar names, from Deputy CM Nitin Patel to Daman administrator Praful Patel and union ministers Mansukh Mandaviya and Parshottam Rupala to Gordhan Zadafia and former state party chief RC Faldu. On Sunday, September 12, the state party goes through all the motions of democratic procedures that mark a chief minister's selection by elected legislators, albeit mechanically. The eventual surprise choice leaves the frontrunners fuming within and the party rank and file fumbling without, quite unable to understand the process. Nevertheless, everyone forces a smile, fully aware that the decision comes from Modi. He is the party; he is the government; the rest all is frills. Nothing grows under a banyan tree. Gujarat has two of them, Modi and Amit Shah. Anandiben Patel, who succeeded Modi as chief minister in 2014, was a strong leader who took independent decisions but paid the price.  See the irony. A strong Patidar woman chief minister was ousted through a Patidar agitation for enhanced rights and placements and replaced by a non-Patidar lightweight, Vijay Rupani, in August 2016. Now, five years later, that same person is being replaced to bring in another lightweight Patidar, ostensibly to placate the Patel vote bank. Anandiben Patel was the last of the Mohicans. No chief minister in Gujarat can function independently. A hawk's eye guards the prime minister's home state since any setback here would blight his image everywhere. There is Modi's imprint all over governance in Gujarat. Shah remains the quintessential eye-in-the-sky, guarding his boss' flock as well as his own.  On the ground, there is K Kailashnathan, an IAS officer of the 1979 batch who did duty in the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) during Modi's tenure and continues thereon even after his retirement and Modi's move to Delhi, outlasting two chief ministers and going onto the third. Modi's 12 years plus term as chief minister in Gujarat was marked by two loyal deputies in the cabinet who owed allegiance to him. Anandiben Patel looked after the brain and money (revenue, education, road and buildings) and Amit Shah, who took care of the brawn and muscle (police, jails and the like) - both sworn political opponents. Anandiben Patel took over from Modi in Gujarat, and Shah went to Delhi as national party chief. But back home, their wires continued to cross. In August 2015, the Hardik Patel-led Patidar rally in Ahmedabad had passed off peacefully. But under prompting from someone other than the then chief minister, police went berserk late at night, attacking Patel majority residential societies and violence flared up, consuming the Anandiben Patel government. Rupani, a greenhorn Shah supporter, replaced her. Bhupendra Patel, who now takes charge, was her choice replacement for the Vidhan Sabha seat vacated by her and is her protégé. The clock has now come full circle. Rupani has been scalped for compulsions of electoral politics. He had no say beyond providing the infrastructure and organisation for the Namaste Trump rally in Ahmedabad on February 23, 2020, which led to the proliferation of coronavirus in the state. It was the prime minister's show for the then US President Donald Trump.  Vijay Nehra, the then Ahmedabad municipal commissioner who sought to identify Covid-19 cases to contain the contagion, was transferred out - not because Rupani wanted it - but because Delhi was perturbed at the rising cases which brought it infamy. Brushing under the carpet does not help, but the chief minister was held to account for it then and cashiered now. Rupani would have gone earlier in June when Delhi Chief Minister, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief, Arvind Kejriwal, visited the state to induct famous journalist Isudan Gadhvi into the party. However, the move to replace Rupani was stalled because of fears that it would have sent a wrong message. Kamalam, the state BJP headquarter was a hive of frenetic activity with the national party leadership on call, all key Gujarat leaders being bunched together and the intelligence wing on alert in the districts to check out for any likely desertions. In April, the AAP's minuscule achievement - bagging 27-seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation elections to the BJP's 93 - in a 120 member house (the Congress drew a blank) has become a thorn in the BJP's side. More so because it is the home ground of state BJP chief CR Patil, Modi's go-to man, be it Gujarat, Bihar or Benaras.  The excellent work done in the AAP's Surat wards during the second corona wave and its widespread recognition has added discomfort. A top-notch Surat diamond merchant, a Patidar known for his philanthropy, joining AAP rang alarm bells in the saffron edifice, hastening the process of Rupani's departure. The cause for consternation lies in the umbilical cord that binds a swathe of Saurashtra to Surat as the labour and fuel that energises this financial capital of Gujarat comes from the former region, including the Patidars. Saurashtra is the Achilles heel of the BJP, and echoes from Surat resound rapidly there, which underscores the additional need to appease the Patels. Past lapses and lacunae, pasted on the chief minister who is now the past, may give the ruling BJP a new, clean slate for the ensuing 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections, or so it believes. Still, the new chief minister Bhupendra Patel will have to deal with the same problems - remote control and fighting an electoral bout with one hand tied behind his back and his eyes looking Delhi-wards. It does not matter whose camp follower you are. Ultimately, you are the fall guy in an election fought under the name of Narendra Modi. Heads, I win, tails, you lose. Old-time television sets had a feature called picture-in-picture. Thus there is also a bigger picture beyond Gujarat in the sequence of national events. The BJP's brinkmanship in Bihar elections 2020 aimed at outsmarting its coalition partner, Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United), saw it almost teetering on edge before retaining power. West Bengal polls where the BJP went hammer and tongs saw the might of Modi-Shah bruised by a leg bandaged Mamta Banerjee's Trinamool Congress. The hat-trick of setbacks was complete when Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath resisted all attempts to impose Modi confidante, AK Sharma, an IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, as deputy chief minister of UP. Sharma hails from UP and is now doing duty as BJP vice president in the state. Adityanath also seems to have made it known to the party top brass that the ensuing UP elections will be fought with him as the mascot and not Delhi leading the charge. Those who have covered Modi for a long time know that he has a way of getting even. The chief ministerial heads rolling in the BJP-ruled states - some which have and some more will - are an assertion of his authority.  (The writer is a veteran Ahmedabad-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rupanis-exit-modis-predictable-unpredictability-and-aap-surge-in-gujarat-1030230.html
14-09-2021||Opinion||Naming & shaming of Infosys and India's fall into a moral abyss||The naming and shaming of Infosys, India's post-liberalisation poster child software company by Panchjanya, apparently has sent shockwaves in the industry. A couple of press reports quote anonymous industry honchos that nobody seems to like this pushback for Infy as they are fondly and colloquially called in Bengaluru circles. But this is nothing new for a nation that has largely lost its voice and has stopped speaking truth to power. Consider, for example, the farmers' protests where laws are being bulldozed through. Not once has the prime minister, the president, or most senior cabinet ministers cared to visit the farmers and check their condition when some 500 plus farmers have lost their lives. Nobody basically denies that India's agricultural sector does need reforms. But if structural changes are to be ushered in through such hectoring and Indian society decides to stay quiet, why should anybody be surprised with Infy being defamed? For scientists, meanwhile, it is quite commonplace today to be told to suppress or reframe results if they are working on questions of policy interests. Should they be working with administrative datasets, there is always the likelihood of a nudge, most times gentle but firm, to get them vetted by relevant governmental authorities. If one doesn't, access to important data will remain out of reach is the unambiguous message.  Few examples. It's now many months since India's vaccination program for Covid-19 has started. Still, nobody yet knows where the data on adverse events is, if it is getting independently evaluated, or the status of the national genome sequencing data that track variants of interest for Covid-19 in India. Nobody also knows of the migrant database the government was supposed to create after the havoc ushered in with the first lockdown in India in March 2020. Note that if you thought this was just a Delhi phenomenon, make no mistake. Quite a few conversations with bureaucrats working with state governments indicate a similar slant at the provincial level. We want to be evidence-based, they often say, but you know, "hush, hush - there's Pegasus and look around yourself, times are different. One has to be cautious more than ever before to make sure one doesn't get punishment posting and protect one's post-retirement perks and benefits. Are you not seeing the plight of that particular state's chief secretary who didn't toe the line." Corporate entities and private data providers have also taken a leaf out of such kowtowing to power, asking researchers apriori, summaries of research papers and findings (even without analyses done) when selling data to them. When pushed back, they plead helplessness. Nobody wants to rub governments in India the wrong way anymore these days, it seems. Such a demand would have resulted in a polite but firm "thanks but no thanks" in more advanced economies. Not so anymore in India. Of course, if the focal researcher refuses, there are enough compliant champions of marginal science sitting on the fence waiting to prune the bushes and present the particular government's coveted line. Policy and scientific eulogies related to work by certain state governments, amidst various research groups reporting gross discrepancies in mortality reporting with horrifying excess death statistics across states of India, bear testimony to this phenomenon. Another easy approach is to capture universities and institutes through governmental endowments, land or special concessions to set up centres, let's say for data sciences, climate change, public policy or analytics, the buzz words of choice. These centres then will have special peekaboos to India's surveillance state championed highly multidimensional disaggregated digital data to showcase that a particular state or central policy is indeed generating positive welfare consequences.  In some cases, overseas researchers, either diaspora or foreigners (potentially with sentiments on certain sides of the political spectrum), will join hands with these compliant local researchers or centres to get the paper published; navigating a global, but many times fractured and captured peer review process in scientific journals of repute, thereby giving the evidence its required scientific veneer. Of course, the fruits of labour here can be multiplied if a local or multinational firm can join in this mega endeavour with matching financial support. Thankfully though, not all of the international scientific community have given in. There is strong pushback yet from many worried about India from abroad. Many influential voices have stepped back too into a quiet corner witnessing the ghoulish turn of events in India as the Infy effect continues proliferating. It is increasingly clear that it will leave no one untouched across society, be it industry associations, clinicians, medical associations, the average middle-class citizen, non-compliant incumbent firms or new entrepreneurs in the venture capital and startup ecosystem and the sundry. Today it is Infy, and tomorrow it may be (and will be) them. Their inner Martin Niemollers, meanwhile, continue on their Rip Van Winkle sleep undisturbed in peaceful slumber. For a country that adopted Satyameva Jayate from the Hindu scripture Mundaka Upanishad on January 26, 1950, as its national motto, that is a tragic moral abyss from where there may be fewer and fewer paths of going back.  It is ironic and perhaps intriguing that Infosys was shamed in the journal Panchjanya, which is derived from the name of the demon that the Hindu God Vishnu killed, naming his conch after him. The great war of the Mahabharata began after blowing Panchjanya by Krishna, as the legend goes; perhaps a new Mahabharata is where India's society is now headed towards as the Infy effect loudly and clearly demonstrates.  (The author is a tenured faculty member at the University of Sussex, visiting fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University, and visiting faculty at IIM Ahmedabad) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/naming-shaming-of-infosys-and-indias-fall-into-a-moral-abyss-1030268.html
14-09-2021||Panorama||International Day of Democracy: Pause, breathe and reflect||Today is International Day of Democracy. Neither House of Parliament functioned for the most part last year, ostensibly due to Covid-19. The winter session of Parliament was cancelled, and the budget session earlier this year was cut short by two weeks citing Assembly elections. Question Hour was suspended in the monsoon session last year, and the functioning of parliamentary committees has remained stalled all through since the pandemic began. Not even a single bill presented and passed before either House in the last 18 months has been sent to a parliamentary committee for scrutiny. Post-second wave, when Parliament eventually did start functioning, it was disrupted frequently. Members did not allow either House to function. On November 21 last year, the Standing Committee of the Parliament on Health had sent detailed recommendations to the government, calling for ramping up of oxygen facilities. This went unheard, and the lack of oxygen facilities during the second wave of the pandemic led to the death of citizens. Just before the second wave, the Committee on Science & Tech, Environment, Forest and Climate Change, chaired by Jairam Ramesh, recommended the government to ramp up the production of vaccines by providing increased infrastructure support. This, too, went unheard. A narcissistic government is a troubling development for a democracy. The oft-heard refrain that there is nothing new about governments functioning in this way has some truth attached to it. However, it is the routinization of it that is becoming a growing concern. Covid was not unique to India. It has hit countries globally. Yet, governments across the world chose to deal with it maturely. They made efforts to keep democracy intact even in the most difficult of times. Italy, for instance, which suffered the most during the first wave, allowed its parliament to sit and function virtually, despite its constitution mandating the physical presence of a member to hold a session of parliament. In the UK, MPs were provided with special grants to interact with their constituents virtually. New Zealand allowed its parliamentarians to submit pre-recorded oral and urgent questions, and Germany allowed video submissions of arguments on the debate of relief package for Covid. It also placed a ballot box outside parliament for members to cast their votes and put in their suggestions. Intensive cross-party negotiations over the budget were also held in the US, which led to a broad economic support package for citizens. Sweden, Ireland and Kenya also conducted parliamentary sessions physically even when Covid was at its peak. Countries like Brazil, Spain and Czech Republic allowed parliamentary committees to function during Covid as a check against their governments. In any democracy, it is the efforts to protect the Constitution and its values that matter. History will always be kind to those who choose to travel through the dark dense forest despite obvious dangers. There can never be a good reason to justify centralisation in a quasi-federal state which believes in co-operative federalism, or for suspending parliament in a country that believes in participatory and deliberative democracy, or for being intolerant towards those who choose to speak truth to power in a country where there is rule of law. This World Democracy Day, our Parliament needs to pause, breathe and reflect. (The writers are students at National Law University, Visakhapatnam and National Law University, Odisha, respectively)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/international-day-of-democracy-pause-breathe-and-reflect-1030440.html
14-09-2021||Panorama||Grey, blue, green: The chromatics of a hydrogen economy||The French author Jules Verne’s classic science fiction novels have beguiled readers for over 150 years. Among the many characters he has immortalised, Cyrus Smith, the ingenious engineer from The Mysterious Island, stands out for his prophetic postulations about a futuristic fuel source. To recall the words of this Vernian protagonist, “I believe that water will one day be employed as fuel, that hydrogen and oxygen which constitute it, used singly or together, will furnish an inexhaustible source of heat and light...” Little did the world realise that this fictional hypothesis would one day come to fruition in the form of a hydrogen economy. Indeed, in a rare coinciding of fact and fiction, humans today are exploring the possibility of using hydrogen as a low-carbon alternative to fossil fuels. Its versatility as a clean energy carrier has been particularly attractive for governments, as they seek to accelerate their decarbonisation agendas. However, as pointed out by climate scientists, not all hydrogen is created equal. Depending on the production techniques employed, its carbon emissions may vary significantly. Against this backdrop, it is critical to establish an international certification system that allows consumers to track and verify the carbon footprint of hydrogen generation. A hydrogen rainbow There is little dispute that hydrogen when combined with oxygen in fuel cells, can release heat without harmful emissions. The only by-product is water, making it a critical energy vector for net-zero economies. However, the climate benefits of hydrogen are also predicated on its production process. If the methods for generating it are not emission-free, then it can hardly be deemed a clean substitute for fossil fuels. Therefore, policymakers need to account for the full lifecycle of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in hydrogen production, encompassing upstream activities like steam re-formation or electricity generation, and downstream functions like transport and distribution. In this regard, organisations like the International Renewable Energy Agency have devised a useful nomenclature, based on colour gradients, to evaluate the environmental impact of hydrogen generation. For instance, when hydrogen is extracted from natural gas using steam methane re-formation (SMR), it is classified as ‘grey hydrogen’. Although carbon-intensive, it remains the most commonly used process, as low-carbon technologies are not necessarily cost-competitive. When the same SMR technique is employed with carbon capture and sequestration, the resultant product is referred to as ‘blue hydrogen’. It has a low-to-moderate carbon intensity. Similarly, the colour ‘green’ is used to signify the extraction of hydrogen from water, using electrolysis powered by renewable energy. Currently accounting for less than 1% of the total hydrogen production, it is often touted to be the ‘future of clean energy’. Despite its obvious advantages, the large-scale deployment of green hydrogen is weighed down by high production costs and the capital expenditure of electrolysis units. Only technological innovation and economies of scale can eventually drive down these prices. Until then, the more cost-efficient blue hydrogen is expected to be a part of the energy mix, playing a transitional role in net-zero economies. Quality Standards While the carbon footprint of blue hydrogen may be relatively less than grey hydrogen, climate activists assert that SMR prolongs fossil fuel usage and ‘locks’ nations into a future of methane leakages. As a result, countries are under increasing pressure to prioritise green hydrogen, despite cost constraints. There is, however, no internationally accepted system to verify the renewable credentials of hydrogen. Given that all hydrogen molecules look alike, it is entirely possible for unscrupulous producers to pass off grey or blue hydrogen as clean energy. In this context, there is a clear and pressing need to institute uniform certification schemes that allow consumers to trace the origin of hydrogen. If climate concerns have indeed driven them to spend more on green hydrogen, it is only reasonable that they get their money’s worth. Authenticating the hydrogen quality may also be critical for claiming tax rebates or other ‘green’ policy incentives. Currently, countries and organisations have formulated their own standards, such as Australia’s Hydrogen Certification Scheme or EU’s CertifHy project. However, these may not necessarily be compatible with each other. Depending on the baselines used for emission intensities or GHG savings, the definition of blue, green and grey hydrogen can vary considerably. Such discrepancies can also hinder global trade and complicate the market-based pricing of different shades of hydrogen. More worryingly, governments and businesses may get away with setting the lowest possible benchmarks for themselves, while projecting a veneer of climate consciousness. Consequently, it is important to establish a uniform ‘Guarantee of Origin’ scheme at the international level, which harmonises certification standards and attests to the low-carbon bona fides of a hydrogen product. To track the audit trails and preserve supply chain integrity, new technologies like blockchain can also be used. As India prepares to scale up green hydrogen production, a uniform certification system would be in its best interests. In fact, the country has already lobbied for common quality standards at multilateral forums like the BRICS Green Hydrogen Summit. Going forward, such sustained efforts will be key for India in establishing itself as a responsible norm-setter in the field of environmental jurisprudence. (The writer is a Policy Research Associate with Synergia Foundation, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/grey-blue-green-the-chromatics-of-a-hydrogen-economy-1030441.html
14-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Finding a lost cricket ball||It was a bright Sunday morning as I was walking around our apartment complex wearing my mask and keeping my social distance. “Uncle, uncle, ball please!” — I heard young voices pleading, from beyond the compound wall of our apartment complex. Some children from the neighbourhood had been playing tennis-ball cricket on the adjacent playground, and a local Chris Gayle had smashed the ball for a huge Six that eventually landed inside our compound. I later came to know that he was declared “out” because of his indiscretion, but that did not help their cause. A few of the walkers, including me, looked around for the ball, but could not find it. On my second round of walking, the scene had not changed — anxious young faces, curious onlookers and a stern-looking security guard unwilling to help the kids. My mind travelled back 65 years to the time when I had my own cricket team, as a proud 11-year-old. I was brought up by a doting maternal grandmother in Chennai, while my parents lived in Madurai. I had the luxury of a big private playground in front of my home. My grandmother permitted me to buy a full cricket kit. I was allowed to buy an imported cricket scorebook as well. All these possessions enabled me to become the de-facto owner and captain of a cricket team that called itself the ‘Netaji Cricket Club’. Our team generally consisted of boys from my school. I used to keep wickets. We had regular tennis-ball cricket matches with other teams. An adjacent vacant house served as our pavilion. From its balcony, we cheered our batsmen. Our ground, although reasonably large, had one major disadvantage. An 'uppish’ cover drive invariably resulted in the ball disappearing through an opening in the wall of an adjacent shop. The burly shop-owner would invariably refuse to return the ball, although sometimes after buying some items from his shop, I would get back three or four balls. I can still distinctly recall the disappointment that went through us when we lost a ball during an interesting match. So during the third round of my walk, I decided to help the boys out. It took a long, long time before I could locate it. The young gully cricketers were delighted and relieved. My first throw across the compound wall did not succeed.  On my second throw, I could hear the loud cheers from the other side of the wall. They found their ball and I found my happiness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/finding-a-lost-cricket-ball-1030444.html
14-09-2021||Second Edit||Hypocrisy, bid to communalise issue||The BJP government’s decision to demolish illegal religious structures across Karnataka, based on a 2009 Supreme Court order, which began with the razing of a temple in Nanjangud in Mysuru district, has led to a major controversy, with the BJP’s own local leaders losing no opportunity to communalise the issue. A recent letter from Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar which reminds deputy commissioners to start the demolition drive puts the number of illegal religious structures at over 6,300, including temples, mosques and churches. The Mysuru district administration and the city corporation have drawn up a list of 93 such structures located in public places, including roads, junctions and parks. Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha has opposed the move and threatened to launch a ‘save temples’ movement. The irony of it is not lost on the people. The Centre and state governments and the Mysuru city corporation are all under the control of the BJP. Nanjangud falls within Mysuru district and Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha constituency, which are both represented by ruling party MPs. The Nanjangud MLA also belongs to BJP. Thus, Simha’s outrage is clearly misplaced and motivated. With one temple being razed and many more facing a similar fate, the Congress and JD(S) have also jumped into the fray, questioning the BJP’s claim of being the custodian of Hindus, further vitiating the atmosphere. Simha, who initially tried to give the episode a communal colour by claiming that only temples were being targeted, has now changed tack, perhaps after realising that the list also includes mosques and churches. Now, he has taken exception to equating temples with mosques and churches, saying that the latter are “only prayer halls” and can be demolished but not Hindu temples. Elected representatives are expected to act responsibly in such matters, instead of adding fuel to fire for political gain. Chief Minister Bommai has since halted the demolition drive and said the government will arrive at a clear view on the matter after studying the Supreme Court order. He will do well to remember that it has been more than a decade since the SC order. The Karnataka High Court, too, has repeatedly reminded the government on the matter and asked it to report to it on the action taken. While Mysuru has bitten the bullet at least now, the BBMP is yet to begin. The government must not stall the drive in the name of religious sentiments. Many of these illegal structures obstruct the free movement of people and traffic. Many of them have also been erected by the real estate mafia to encroach on government land and public spaces. Illegal structures must be demolished forthwith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/hypocrisy-bid-to-communalise-issue-1030439.html
14-09-2021||South||Telangana health official appeals to IT companies to reopen office||Telangana's Director of Public Health Dr G. Srinivasa Rao on Monday appealed to the information technology companies in the state to reopen their offices, saying they need not have any apprehensions about Covid-19. He said the managements of the IT companies should resume work from offices as lakhs of livelihoods are indirectly dependent on them. His appeal came as more than 90 per cent employees of the IT companies in Hyderabad continue to work from homes for over one and a half year now. Rao said as the staff and their families are 100 per cent vaccinated, and Covid case load in the state is low, the IT companies should have no apprehensions in reopening the offices. "We urge the managements of companies to reopen their offices. We have ensured that over 90 per cent of the support staff and workers from unorganised sector, who provide services to the IT sector in the city, were vaccinated," he said. He said a third wave can happen only if new and more virulent variant of SARS-CoV-2 emerges and so far, there has been no evidence of this happening in Telangana. Pointing out that the state eased Covid-19 restrictions more than three months ago, he said since then there has been no indication of any major surge of new infections. This should be a good reason for IT companies to reopen their offices, he said. Rao said following Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing, and application of hand sanitizers was enough to stave off fresh surge of Covid cases. He also noted that it has been nearly two weeks since schools were re-opened in the state and there is no indication of a surge or even a cluster of Covid infections. "More than one lakh people have been tested for Covid in schools and only 55 children have tested positive," he said He claimed that attendance in both government and private schools across the state is gradually improving. He assured the parents that the government has taken enough measures including vaccination to contain Covid-19. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-health-official-appeals-to-it-companies-to-reopen-office-1030129.html
14-09-2021||South||Maoist member wanted in NIA case held in Kerala||An absconding CPI (Maoist) activist from Kerala was reportedly held by the anti-terrorism squad of the Kerala police from Malappuram district. According to sources, Usman was held on Tuesday morning from a hideout and was being quizzed by the police and intelligence agencies. Usman was accused in around ten cases, including one in which two youths from Kozhikode district, Allan Shuaib and Thwaha Fasal, were held in 2019, accused of a CPI (Maoist) nexus. It was suspected that Usman supplied materials like pamphlets to the two. NIA was probing the case registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maoist-member-wanted-in-nia-case-held-in-kerala-1030238.html
14-09-2021||South||Madras HC admits PIL to declare amendment taking away education from State List||The Madras High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Union and Tamil Nadu government on a writ petition filed by a Chennai-based trust challenging transferring of the subject ‘education’ from the State list to the Concurrent list. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu asked the governments to file their responses within eight weeks after which the case will be taken up for hearing. Aram Seyya Virumbu, the trust which provides free legal aid to the poor, has challenged the Constitutional amendment that allowed education to be transferred to Concurrent from State subjects. Both Centre and state governments have powers to enact laws that are on the Concurrent list. The petition filed by DMK MLA Dr N Ezhilan, in his capacity as trustee of the trust, pointed out that education was a State subject since the British-era and the Indian Constitution also allotted the subject to the state. However, it was transferred to the Concurrent list in 1976. The petition nudged the court to strike down Section 57 of the 1976 Act and consequently restore the position of education as a State subject. The petition assumes significance in the wake of the Tamil Nadu Assembly passing a Bill seeking exemption from NEET for students from the state. Dr Ezhilan has been campaigning against NEET since 2016 and has now approached the court seeking to transfer education back to the state list. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-admits-pil-to-declare-amendment-taking-away-education-from-state-list-1030239.html
14-09-2021||South||Take steps to keep afloat Ford Motor in Tamil Nadu: O Panneerselvam urges CM Stalin||Expressing concern over the future of thousands of workers and allied industries, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on Tuesday sought Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin's immediate intervention in the issue concerning the American auto major Ford Motor's decision to shut its operations and ensure the company’s facility at Maraimalai Nagar is kept afloat. Such a move, the former Chief Minister contended, would augur well for the industrial growth in the state and also safeguard jobs of the workers. "The news regarding the closure of the plants in India is shocking. It has come amid a move to bring new jobs to Tamil Nadu based on the fact that workers can survive if industries grow," Panneerselvam said. He appealed to the Chief Minister to provide relief to the employees by sustaining the industrial climate in the state. On Thursday, Ford Motor announced that it will shut its two manufacturing plants (Maraimalai Nagar and Sanand in Gujarat) in India and sell only imported vehicles in the country, as part of a restructuring exercise. In a statement here, Panneerselvam said Ford announced the closure of its plant in Maraimalai Nagar in the second quarter of next year due to huge accumulating losses and lack of growth in a difficult market. "The move will affect the future of about 4,000 direct employees and also that of about 40,000 indirect workers. The future of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) dependent on Ford Motor is also very bleak," the AIADMK coordinator said. Maintaining that the state government has a responsibility to protect the workers and industrial climate in Tamil Nadu, he said "therefore, I urge Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin to intervene and resolve the issue." Panneerselvam recalled that during her tenure, former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa took various steps to promote industries besides creating a conducive atmosphere in the state.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/take-steps-to-keep-afloat-ford-motor-in-tamil-nadu-o-panneerselvam-urges-cm-stalin-1030262.html
14-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu girl dies by suicide, a day after she appeared for NEET||An 18-year-old student from the Ariyalur district in Tamil Nadu has died by suicide after attending the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission into medical and dental courses. This is the second such incident being reported in the state in three days – a 20-year-old student ended his own life on September 11 due to fear of taking the exam. Kanimozhi, daughter of lawyer parents Karunanidhi and Vijayalakshmi, took the NEET exam on Sunday (September 12) and is believed to have found the question paper “tough.” She ended her life on Monday evening when her parents were away.  Police said Kanimozhi was under stress after attending the exam and quoted family members to say that the girl was upset over her performance in NEET. She had scored 562/600 in plus-two exams.  Kanimozhi’s father is an advocate at the Jayankondan court in Ariyalur district, which witnessed the first NEET death when S Anitha ended her life in 2017 after she failed to get admission into a medical college despite scoring “good marks” in plus-two exams.  Kanimozhi’s suicide came hours after the Tamil Nadu Assembly passed a Bill seeking exemption from NEET for students from the state. However, the Bill will come into being as a law only if the President gives his assent to the legislation.  Chief Minister M K Stalin appealed to the students not to take the “extreme step” of ending their lives and asked parents to counsel their children to be strong.  “We have been opposing NEET which takes away the lives of students in the state right from the beginning. We have launched our legal struggle to abolish NEET in the state and as a first step, we have passed a bill with support from all political parties except BJP. I want to assure parents that we will not back down from the fight until we get exemption from NEET,” Stalin in a statement.  The Chief Minister also referred to allegations of NEET question paper being sold for lakhs of rupees. Opposition Leader and former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami blamed the DMK for Kanimozhi’s suicide. “DMK has to stop playing politics. Instead of merely watching students dying by suicide out of fear, the DMK should speak the truth on NEET,” he said.  NEET is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with 14 young students ending their lives either due to fear of appearing for the exam or due to not landing in a medical college despite scoring “high marks.”  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-girl-dies-by-suicide-a-day-after-she-appeared-for-neet-1030270.html
14-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu withdraws 5,570 cases filed during various protests||Over two months after Chief Minister M K Stalin made an announcement in the Assembly, the Tamil Nadu government has issued an order to withdraw 5,570 cases registered during protests against Chennai-Salem Green Express Corridor, CAA, and farm laws. The Government Order (GO) signed by Home Secretary S K Prabhakar said the cases have been withdrawn. The cases, which have now been withdrawn, relate to those against freedom of the press, protests against CAA, farm laws, Neutrino project, the Green Express Corridor and methane extraction project. While 26 cases filed against free of media/press are being withdrawn, the same number of cases filed during protests against the Koodankulam Nuclear Power Plant will also be taken back. "The Government, after careful examination, hereby order for the withdrawal of 5570 cases against the freedom of media press (2011-2021) and protesters who protested against three Agricultural Amendment Laws, National Register of Citizens/Citizenship Amendment Act, Eight Lane/Methane/Neutrino and Koodankulam,” Prabhakar said in the GO. As many as 2,831 cases filed during the agitation against farm bills and 2,282 cases filed in connection with protests against CAA have been withdrawn. 405 cases filed during protests against Eight lane /Methane/Neutrino have also been withdrawn, the GO said. All the cases were filed during the AIADMK regime. The public prosecutor had opined that in cases, where the investigation was still pending or the charge sheet not taken on the file, further action may be dropped by the police concerned. “In cases where the cases are pending trial, the assistant public prosecutors in charge of respective cases may be directed to move an application under section 321 of the CrPc for withdrawal of prosecution and follow the procedure prescribed therein,” the GO added. Stalin had on June 24 announced the cases mentioned above will be withdrawn. The Chief Minister had also withdrawn several cases filed against anti-Sterlite protesters in 2018. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-withdraws-5570-cases-filed-during-various-protests-1030304.html
14-09-2021||South||Kerala further eases Covid-19 restrictions||Further easing Covid-19 restrictions in Kerala, the state government has decided to allow all government offices and institutions to work on Saturdays also. The punching system for attendance which was suspended in view of Covid was also restored. Government offices and institutions were so far allowed only to work from Mondays to Fridays. The decision was taken as the Covid-19 cases as well as the severity of the infection was coming down in the state. The restriction on dining at hotels and opening of bars would be reviewed this week, said government sources. Meanwhile, 15,876 fresh Covid cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday with a test positivity rate of 15.12 per cent. The number of infected persons in Kerala came down to 1.98 lakh. Nearly 80 per cent of those aged above 18 were so far given first dose of vaccine and 32 per cent got the second dose also. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-further-eases-covid-19-restrictions-1030313.html
14-09-2021||South||Kerala logs 15,876 fresh Covid-19 cases, 129 deaths||After reporting more than or close to 30,000 Covid-19 cases daily during the first week of September, Kerala has been logging comparatively lesser fresh infections since then with the state reporting 15,876 cases on Tuesday, which took the total caseload to 44,06,365. The number of active cases in the state dropped below two lakh -- 1,98,865 to be exact -- with 25,654 people recovering from Covid-19 since Monday and the total recoveries rose to 41,84,158, a state government release said. The state also reported 129 deaths in the last 24 hours, which took the total fatalities to 22,779, the release said. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) stood at 15.12 per cent after testing 1,05,005 samples in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said. Among the 14 districts, Thrissur recorded the highest with 1,936 fresh cases followed by Ernakulam (1,893), Thiruvananthapuram (1,627), Palakkad (1,591), Malappuram (1,523), Kollam (1,373), Alappuzha (1,118), Kozhikode (1,117), Kannur (1,099) and Kottayam (1,043), the release said. Of the new cases, 95 were health workers, 44 from outside the state and 14,959 infected through contact, with the source of the contact not being clear in 778 cases, it said. There are currently 5,75,668 people under surveillance in various districts, of whom 5,46,791 are in home or institutional quarantine and 28,877 in hospitals.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-15876-fresh-covid-19-cases-129-deaths-1030314.html
14-09-2021||South||DMK names candidates for Rajya Sabha bye-elections||Dr Kanimozhi N V N Somu, granddaughter of one of the founders of the party, and K R N Rajeshkumar were on Tuesday named as candidates by the DMK for the bye-elections to two Rajya Sabha seats to be held on October 4.  The bye-elections were necessitated after two AIADMK members – R Vaithilingam and K P Munusamy – resigned their posts following their election to the Tamil Nadu Assembly. While Vaithilingam’s tenure ends in 2022, Munusamy’s tenure is till 2025.  With the DMK and its allies commanding a two-thirds majority in the 234-member Assembly, both candidates are likely to be elected unopposed.  If Kanimozhi and Rajeshkumar are elected unopposed, the DMK’s strength in the Rajya Sabha will go up to 10 from the current 8, including the recent election of M M Abdulla. DMK’s announcement puts to rest all speculation about ally Congress getting a Rajya Sabha seat, though the national party said they have an oral assurance on a seat in 2022.  “When we got the oral assurance from the DMK during seat-sharing talks early this year, there was no vacancy in Rajya Sabha. The assurance is for a seat in 2022. We will get a seat from DMK then and we never expected a seat now. Moreover, these seats do not have full-term,” a Congress leader told DH. Kanimozhi, who unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections twice in 2011 and 2016, is the granddaughter of N V Natarajan, who is one of the five leaders along with C N Annadurai and V R Nedunchezhian formed the DMK in 1949 after quitting the Dravidar Kazhagam then led by social reformer E V R Periyar.  Kanimozhi’s father N V N Somu was Union Minister of State for Defence during the United Front government. He died in a helicopter crash in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh while on an official visit.  Rajeshkumar is in charge of the DMK’s unit in Namakkal district and his nomination is significant given the party makes a concerted effort to make further inroads in the western region, a bastion of the AIADMK.  Out of the total 18 Rajya Sabha seats from Tamil Nadu, eight are currently held by DMK and five by AIADMK, while PMK, Tamil Maanila Congress, and MDMK hold one seat each.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-names-candidates-for-rajya-sabha-bye-elections-1030327.html
14-09-2021||South||Wedding of Ravi Pillai's son in Kerala temple stirs row||The wedding of NRI businessman Ravi Pillai's son at the Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple in Kerala is caught up in a row with the High Court pulling up the authorities for the blatant violation of Covid-19 protocol. Three security personnel of the temple are also facing action for allowing popular actor Mohanlal's car to restricted areas in the temple when he turned up for the wedding last week. Show cause notices have been issued to them. The Devaswom Bench of the High Court, which earlier took up the matter suo moto following reports of the extensive decoration on the temple premises for the wedding, observed that only the available infrastructure of the temple should have been allowed to any devotee for conducting weddings. The wedding took place on September 9 at the temple in the Thrissur district. Following court intervention, hoardings and cutouts had to be removed ahead of the wedding. On Tuesday, the bench comprising Justice Anil K Narendran and Justice K Babu reviewed the video footage of the wedding and noted that Covid-19 protocols were flouted during the ceremony. The court asked the Guruvayur Devaswom that manages the temple about the presence of private security personnel during the marriage.  The temple authorities were directed to furnish details of the weddings held at the temple premise from August as well as the permissions granted. The court also made district administration, police and sectoral magistrate parties in the case in view of the lapses in enforcing Covid-19 protocol. Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wedding-of-ravi-pillais-son-in-kerala-temple-stirs-row-1030328.html
14-09-2021||South||Narcotic jihad: CPI(M) accuses BJP of dividing people on communal lines||Amid raging debate over controversial "narcotic jihad" remarks by Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt of Pala diocese, Kerala's ruling CPI(M) on Tuesday accused the BJP of trying to reap political benefits by dividing people on communal lines and said no one should make any offensive references to break the communal peace and harmony in the state. "No statement should be made by anyone that would create religious polarisation in the society. People of Kerala longs for communal harmony & peace. No one should make any offensive reference to break that harmony. BJP is trying to communally exploit the issue," Acting Secretary of CPI(M) in Kerala, A Vijayaraghavan, said in a tweet. Although he did not mention "narcotic jihad" in his statement, it came after the opposition Congress accused the state government of remaining "a mute spectator" over the issue and the BJP used the Bishop's statement to target both the Congress and CPI(M), alleging that they were adopting a soft approach towards religious extremist groups creating trouble in the state. After meeting the Bishop in Pala yesterday, BJP national executive member P K Krishnadas had alleged that the Congress and the CPI(M) were taking a position in favour of extremist elements creating trouble in society, instead of addressing the issue raised by the senior Catholic priest. Responding to Leader of Opposition (LoP) V D Satheesan's allegations that the CPI(M) had joined hands with Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), a political offshoot of Islamist outfit Popular Front of India (PFI), to unseat the UDF administration in Erattupetta municipal council in Kottayam district, Vijayaraghavan said the Congress had tied-up with communal parties like Jamaat-e-Islami to garner their votes in the Assembly polls held in April this year. "Congress has no moral basis to criticise the government in this matter. They contested the last assembly elections by garnering the votes of communal parties like Jamaat-e-Islami. Even the LoP got elected to the Assembly, after enjoying such advantages", the CPI(M) leader said. Earlier in the day, Satheesan urged the state government to convene an all-party meeting to find a "permanent solution" to end the row over the 'narcotic jihad' remark by the Bishop and accused it of remaining a "mute spectator" while both the Christian and Muslim communities were heading towards a conflict. A group of people, who was not at all a party in the matter, were indulging in hate campaign in the social media platforms to add fuel to the fire and thus disrupt communal harmony in the southern state, Satheesan said here. However, the Left government was doing nothing to end the conflict and remaining a mute spectator, he alleged. The Opposition leader urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to go through the social media posts on the 'narcotic jihad' remark by the Catholic priest and asked what his government, intelligence department and the cyber cell of the police were doing when vested interests were trying to trigger communal clashes over it. Stating that the Congress had taken a strong stand in the issue to prevent clashes between the two communities, he said they would support any government endeavour to end the tension. "The government should be ready to convene an all party meeting, participating all leaders concerned from both the communities, and find a permanent solution in the issue. There are those who are waiting to use the opportunity to burn Kerala down to ashes. We repeatedly request everyone not to fall into their trap," he added. The BJP, which had supported the Bishop on the controversial remark, also brought the attention of the Christian community to the recent political tie-up between the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and the SDPI in the Erattupetta Municipality and tried to establish that the LDF and the CPI(M) would extend support to extremist groups. BJP state Chief K Surendran alleged that the SDPI councillors in the Erattupetta Municipality were the ones who had taken out a violent protest march towards the Bishop House over his 'narcotic jihad' remark and the CPI(M)'s decision to foster a political tie-up with them was its "arrogance" towards the "suppressed Christian community" in the state. The LDF had toppled the UDF-led council of the Erattupetta Municipality with the support of the SDPI members and a Congress councillor, who turned hostile, on Monday. "The Marxist party is now moving towards a public political tie-up with the SDPI. The collaboration is a grave threat to the secular stand adopted by the state. The CPI(M) has joined hands with the anti-national forces for political gains. It is anti-democratic," he told reporters in Palakkad. He asked how the Left party, which always preaches about secularism, could collaborate with a group which had allegedly triggered several communal clashes in the southern state. "The Christian community and the secular mindset in Kerala should discuss this," Surendran said, adding that the 'narcotic jihad' was a usage mentioned in many conferences of the United Nations as 'narcotic terrorism' and it was not a new issue.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/narcotic-jihad-cpim-accuses-bjp-of-dividing-people-on-communal-lines-1030349.html
14-09-2021||South||Kerala to tap tourism potential of farming, agriculture||In a bid to explore the tourism potential of the agriculture and farming sectors of Kerala, the state tourism department has launched a Kerala Agri Tourism Network. As many as 500 farm tourism units and 5,000 homestay farms would be brought under the Farm Tourism initiative under the network by 2023. As many as 680 farmers so far registered for the training under the programme that began on Tuesday. The Responsible Tourism Mission of Kerala Tourism department has initiated the programme aimed at blending agriculture and tourism activities. Special tour packages will be worked out by the RT Mission for the farm tourism units that successfully complete the training. Produces from the farms would be also promoted and marketed as part of the initiative. A similar initiate of the RT Mission was going successful at Kumarakom backwater tourism destination at Kottayam district in Kerala. Kerala Tourism Minister P A Mohamed Riyas who launched the initiative said that the project would give additional profit to the farmers. The state tourism department is aiming at identifying and developing at least 500 more tourist spots across the state as well as promoting responsible tourism that would ensure adequate benefits to the local community also. The scope of linking tourism with other sectors like health and sports would be also explored, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-tap-tourism-potential-of-farming-agriculture-1030355.html
14-09-2021||South||Kerala eases restrictions in Nipah containment zones as more samples test negative||The Kerala government on Tuesday decided to ease restrictions in the containment zones of Kozhikode district where a 12-year old child had succumbed to the Nipah virus infection. The decision was taken as the incubation period of 14 days was over and no new cases have been reported from the region. "However, ward 9 in the Chathamangalam panchayat will continue to be a containment zone. The decision was taken as per the direction of the medical board and the expert committee," state health minister Veena George said in a release. The minister also said that the Covid-19 vaccination, which was stopped after the Nipah outbreak will restart from Wednesday. "Further vaccination will take place as per an action plan. Those with symptoms must not go for vaccination. There are 9,593 people in the containment zone who are yet to get the first dose of vaccine," the minister said. She also informed that three more samples of close contacts of the deceased child came back negative. Currently, 143 samples have been tested negative. The Health department was on a high vigil since September 4 when the 12-year old child was found infected with the Nipah virus. The three-km-radius from his house was cordoned off and house-to-house surveillance was conducted and samples were tested. The child succumbed to infected on September 5 early morning. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-eases-restrictions-in-nipah-containment-zones-as-more-samples-test-negative-1030424.html
14-09-2021||State||Gold worth Rs 10.55 lakh seized at Mangalore International Airport||Customs officers have seized 219 grams of gold from a passenger who arrived at Mangalore International Airport from Dubai in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to the officials, the value of the seized gold is Rs 10,55,580. The passenger hailing from Kasargod had concealed the gold in the packing boxes of toy kitchen sets. Further investigation is in progress. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gold-worth-rs-1055-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-international-airport-1030317.html
14-09-2021||State||Yettinahole: Can’t pay uniform rate for land acquisition, says Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government told the Legislative Assembly that the demand by farmers for higher compensation towards their land meant to be acquired for the Yettinahole project cannot be met, virtually dead-ending the Rs 23,000 crore venture. The Yettinahole project, first approved in 2014, aims to provide drinking water to Chikmagalur, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagar, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts from the Netravati river in Hassan. Its cost was estimated at Rs 12,912 crore then, shooting up to Rs 23,251 crore now. The biggest bottleneck in making the project work is the construction of a balancing reservoir at Byragondlu, for which farmers of Koratagere taluk in Tumakuru have demanded compensation equal to what their counterparts in the neighbouring Doddaballapur taluk have been offered.  “It’s the same water body that falls in two taluks, but one side is getting paid more than the other,” Koratagere MLA and former deputy chief minister G Parameshwara said, raising a question on the project.  According to Law Minister JC Madhuswamy, the farmers of Doddaballapur can be given Rs 32 lakh per acre whereas those in Koratagere will have to settle for Rs 8 lakh. “As per rules, we cannot give Rs 32 lakh to [Koratagere] farmers,” he categorically said, adding that some other way had to be found to fix the issue.  Parameshwara hit out at the government for being “rigid” and delaying the entire project. “All that it’ll take to compensate these farmers is an additional Rs 319 crore. Instead of paying this, the cost of the entire project was allowed to escalate to Rs 23,000 crore,” he said, adding that the government had already spent Rs 8,200 crore.  This led to a heated exchange between Madhuswamy and Parameshwara, both accusing each other of being responsible for the quagmire.  Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol said 90% of the work was done. “There are issues with the remaining 10% that we’re trying to resolve. We want to do a trial run and give people confidence that the project will work,” he said.  Also, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had to intervene. “This is an unprecedented land acquisition issue,” he said. “This project was born in 2010 when I was the water resources minister and I know all about it. A suitable decision will be taken,” he said.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yettinahole-can-t-pay-uniform-rate-for-land-acquisition-says-karnataka-govt-1030337.html
14-09-2021||State||Villagers demand liquor outlet's closure by not sending their girls to school in unique protest||Villagers of Bellikoppa in Sagar taluk have resorted to a unique protest demanding the closure of Mysore Sales International Limited (MSIL) liquor outlet in the village. Parents have told the school teachers that they would not send their daughters to attend the classes till the liquor outlet is closed down. Despite the opposition from villagers, the excise department issued a licence for the establishment of Mysore Sales International Limited liquor outlet in the village. In order to put pressure on the authorities concerned to close down the liquor outlet, villagers decided not to send female students to the school. They had staged a protest in the village on September 13. Members of various organisations staged a protest in the premises of the assistant commissioner's office in the city on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Taluk Pragatipara Yuva Okkuta President Ramesh Keladi said when there was an attempt to start a liquor outlet in the village, the then assistant commissioner V C Prasanna had issued an order stating that liquor outlet can't be opened there as per the norms. Block Congress President B R Jayanth demanded the authorities concerned to book a criminal case against the set up of liquor outlet for violating the order. Disciplinary action must be initiated against revenue department staff. KPCC Secretary Rajanandini Kagodu said the violation of the order has led to suspicion. Former District Congress Committee president Ti Na Srinivas and others took part in the protest. Our safety, education both important: Students Girl students of Bellikoppa village in Sagar taluk told that they have decided not to attend the classes as they have to pass through the liquor outlet to go to the school. "But our parents would be highly disappointed. So, we would skip the classes till the shop is closed. Our safety is as important as education." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/villagers-demand-liquor-outlets-closure-by-not-sending-their-girls-to-school-in-unique-protest-1030347.html
14-09-2021||State||Karnataka govt, BBMP differ on reason for dip in Covid-19 vaccination||The city witnessed a dip in vaccination in the last few days, which, though blamed on the festive season, has also been attributed to a drop in supplies. From Friday to Monday, the state dispensed an average of 2.07 lakh doses per day — much below the average of 5.43 lakh doses it was dispensing between August 21 and September 9. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar acknowledged the dip. “This was due to the Gowri-Ganesha festival and the long weekend associated with it,” he said. “It is a deserving break for healthcare professionals who have been relentlessly working on the vaccination drive for seven months. It is back to business from Monday.” He added that the vaccination supply from the Centre “is normal”. However, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said that last week was a return to the vaccine-austerity days of July and August. “The whole of last week saw limited supplies of vaccines,” said D Randeep, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP. As per data, while municipal authorities received over 70,000 doses on September 5 and 6, deliveries began to drop afterwards. On Thursday, September 9, only 28,323 doses were provided, followed by a low of 15,492 doses on Friday. On Saturday, 45,785 doses were provided. “Our closing stock on Sunday was 35,750 doses and we received 70,000 new doses, which brought the available number of doses on Monday to 1,05,760,” Randeep said, adding that he expects most of these doses to be expended as public demand for vaccination remains high. As of Monday night, the BBMP had administered over 73,000 doses. Gauging coverage The statewide dip means the government’s ambitious goal of vaccinating the entire adult population by November will be delayed. Further, there have been problems gauging vaccination coverage in districts. Bengaluru Urban district was deemed as having reached 100% first dose coverage on August 30. However, in the 13 days since, it has dispensed an additional 48,993 first doses. Sudhakar said the variation is due to a floating population and people from neighbouring districts or the BBMP areas getting vaccinated in the district. Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner J Manjunath said the discrepancy is because the target population figures were projections — in the absence of 2021 census data. “While this challenges how we track vaccination coverage, we can ultimately gauge the success of the drive by seeing how many new Covid-19 cases are recorded daily. Thanks to our vaccination coverage, our daily numbers are in single digits,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-bbmp-differ-on-reason-for-dip-in-covid-19-vaccination-1030398.html
14-09-2021||State||Will vaccinate all 18 and above by November end: Bommai||The government has set a target of administering two doses of vaccine to everyone above 18 years of age by the end of November, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday. During the massive vaccination drive scheduled on September 17 - to coincide with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday - the CM said 30 lakh vaccine doses will be administered in the state. Around two to three crore doses will be administered in the country during the day, he said. Henceforth, Karnataka will administer 15 lakh doses every Thursday and five lakh doses during other days of the week, Bommai said. He was speaking after chairing a meeting with deputy commissioners of various districts ahead of the massive vaccination drive. The government was prioritising administering vaccines to those below poverty line and weaker sections of the society. In urban areas like Bengaluru, vaccination drives should be taken up at slums on priority. Officials are directed to coordinate with private hospitals and medical colleges for the purpose. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-vaccinate-all-18-and-above-by-november-end-bommai-1030404.html
14-09-2021||State||Karnataka govt presents supplementary estimates worth Rs 10,265 cr||The Karnataka government tabled Supplementary Estimates aggregating to Rs 10,265.33 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal at the Legislative Assembly, on Tuesday. As per the estimates, the budget of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department has increased by Rs 2,858 crore - of which around Rs 2,450 crore is allotted to the Jal Jeevan Mission. Allocation for Health and Family Welfare Department saw an upward revision of Rs 2,155 crore. Of the allocation, Rs 840 crore will be for the National Health Mission for Covid-19 maintenance and payment of Covid Risk Allowance to contract doctors and staff, Rs 150 crore is for the civil works of district and taluk hospitals ahead of the third wave and Rs 45.87 crore for 250 ICU and life care units for medical colleges and hospitals of the state. Food and Civil Supplies Department received an additional allocation of Rs 1,700 crore, Revenue Department Rs 1,476 crore and Education Department Rs 440 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-presents-supplementary-estimates-worth-rs-10265-cr-1030405.html
14-09-2021||State||Private vendors may get licences for kerosene supply in tribal areas||The government will examine the possibility of increasing kerosene supply under PDS in tribal areas, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti said on Monday. At a larger level, the government will ensure adequate electricity supply in remote regions, apart from considering issuing licences to private vendors for supplying kerosene in these regions, the minister said. Katti was responding to a concern raised by member Shantaram Siddi in the Council that the government's current distribution of one litre kerosene under PDS is inadequate. In his response, the minister said the government was providing one litre kerosene per month at subsidised price of Rs 35 for families that require it in the absence of electricity. That apart, the government also provides 3 litres of kerosene for those without LPG connections, who add up to about 11,658 families in the state. Siddi said one litre kerosene would not suffice in remote areas where there were frequent power cuts, urging the government to increase the quantity. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-vendors-may-get-licences-for-kerosene-supply-in-tribal-areas-1030407.html
14-09-2021||State||Arecanut worth Rs 7 crore without GST documents seized||Central GST and Central Excise Commissionerate, Belagavi, officials in a chase intercepted seven vehicles transporting arecanut, worth Rs 7 crore, without proper GST documents on Hubballi-Navalgund Road on Tuesday. Based on specific information received from DGGI, Mangalore Zonal Unit, the officers of CGST and Central Excise swiftly swung into action. Upon inquiry, it was noticed that the conveyances were carrying arecanut and moving without E-Way Bill.  arecanut, commonly known as 'supari' is liable for GST @5%. It is mainly grown in Malnad and the coastal part and used in the preparation of pan masala, scented supari or raw usage along with pan leap. It was noticed that a lot of tax evasion was taking place in respect of the supply of arecanut. In this regard, the office was continuously making efforts to contain the revenue loss to the exchequer by taking appropriate preventive measures. Initial examination indicated that purchases of the arecanut was made near Shivamogga and was meant for delivery in Delhi and Ahmedabad. It appears that the modus operandi involved in the case was the supply of arecanut without payment of GST. All seven vehicles were seized by the task force, headed by Central GST assistant commissioner Ajinkya Katkar. Several officers, including Rajeev Hegde, Riyaaz Belgaum, S P Naik, Abidhussain Nesargi and Vishwanath Nidagundi, intercepted the vehicle in a movie-like fashion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/arecanut-worth-rs-7-crore-without-gst-documents-seized-1030409.html
14-09-2021||State||Committee to look into water release from Almatti||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Monday that the government would soon constitute a committee to look into water management in Almatti reservoir and to study the floods in the surrounding region. The minister's response followed allegations by a few members in the Council about mismanagement of water release from the reservoir, resulting in heavy floods in Mudhol taluk and surrounding areas. "The government will constitute a committee to look into the issue," Ashoka assured. He said he would discuss the matter with the water resources minister and arrive at a permanent solution to the problem.  Raising the issue, R B Thimmapur said people in villages of Mudhol taluk were living in constant fear of the villages being flooded during the rainy season. "This is because of the official mismanagement of water released from the Almatti reservoir," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/committee-to-look-into-water-release-from-almatti-1030415.html
14-09-2021||State||MySugar lease will be finalised after talks: Nirani||Following a heated debate in the Legislative Council against privatisation of the MySugar factory in Mandya, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said on Monday that a meeting of all the stakeholders with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be held before a decision is made.  Cutting across party lines, MLCs opposed the government's move to lease out the ailing sugar factory to private companies. JD(S) MLC Srikante Gowda argued that the factory was a heritage initiative started in the 1930s that provided crores of rupees as income to the state government over the decades. "It has assets spreading over 250 acres and worth about Rs 2,000 crore. There is no basis for the government to lease it out," he contested. The demand saw support from across party lines with BJP MLC Tejaswini Gowda, too, urging the government not to lease it to a private company. However, asserting the government's move, Nirani said it would be a challenge to sustain the factory without leasing it out to companies. "Ultimately, farmers have to benefit. By leasing it out, farmers will be assured of adequate compensation to their produce," he said.  The MLCs then demanded that Nirani himself should take over as the chairperson of the factory and run it for at least a year. The government should also consider appointing a retired IAS officer to monitor the factory, Gowda demanded.  Responding to the legislators' demands, the minister said he would host a meeting between the chief minister and all the stakeholders after the Legislature session. He also specified that the MRN Group, which he founded, will not be a bidder to run MySugar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysugar-lease-will-be-finalised-after-talks-nirani-1030416.html
14-09-2021||State||KPSC scam: Karnataka govt to establish 'changed circumstances' in courts||The government is trying to establish the ‘changed circumstances’ in courts to absorb the 362 group ‘A’ and ‘B’ gazetted probationers of the 2011 batch appointed by Karnataka State Public Services Commission (KPSC), Law and Parliamentary Affairs minister J C Madhuswamy said. Responding to a calling attention motion by Mudigere MLA M P Kumaraswamy, Madhuswamy said that though the Cabinet had withdrawn prosecution sanction against KPSC members involved in the recruitment scam reported in 2011, provisions invoked against them under Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA) could not be revoked by the government. Only the President of India had powers to withdraw sections under PCA. “There is a legal process”, he said, adding that the state was caught between its powers to exercise legislative powers (and absorb the probationers) or filing a petition in the court. “This is a major issue for us. We are trying to look for an alternative. We are bound to convince the court,” Madhuswamy said. Discussions are being held with experts to assess whether the government should convince the high court (where a case is being heard about the gazetted probationers) or whether it should discharge the case in the sessions court,” he said. Now, the government is trying to establish the “changed circumstances” in front of courts for the benefit of affected candidates, Madhuswamy said. The appointment of the gazetted probationers of 2011 batch is mired in controversy and the legality of the appointments initiated by the government is challenged in the High Court. The CID had investigated the issue and also filed a charge sheet. In the previous session, the government had said that it was mulling the ordinance route to absorb the candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kpsc-scam-karnataka-govt-to-establish-changed-circumstances-in-courts-1030423.html
14-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada organisations stage protests against 'Hindi imposition'||In protest against the "imposition of Hindi", Kannada organisations on Tuesday held a twitter campaign and picketing in front of banks in several parts of Karnataka, on the occasion of Hindi Diwas. The Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) has organised a Twitter campaign with hashtag "#StopHindiImposition" from 10 am to 10 pm on Tuesday, while its activists staged picketing in front of banks in different parts of the State. KRV has tweeted pictures of its activists staging picketing in Sedam, Chincholi, Ron, Hungund, Hiriyur, Pandavapura, Bengaluru, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Chikkaballapura, Thirthahalli, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kolar, Mandya and Dharwad, among several other places. They submitted a petition to managers of the banks urging them to stop alleged Hindi imposition and to provide services in Kannada. According to Arun Javgal, state organisation secretary of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), the intention behind conducting protests in front of nationalised banks is also to raise awareness among the masses and thereby tell the people of Karnataka about the way, "Hindi Imposition" has snatched thousands of jobs from Kannadigas in Banks operating in the state. "Using the Taxpayers money from across the country and yet, giving undue importance only to Hindi in a multilingual country like India is something KRV opposes vehemently," he said in a tweet. KRV state President ‌Narayanagowdru T A termed Hindi Diwas celebrations as "anti-democratic and immoral". "It (Hindi Diwas) is against the intent of the constitution which says all citizens are equal ," he said, as he called on all non-Hindi speaking communities and those Hindi speakers, who believe in equality, to oppose it. Coming in support of voices against Hindi Diwas celebration, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy in a tweet said "Kannada is first in Karnataka. Hindi Diwas celebration is unnecessary. Let's not disturb the peace in multilingual India by imposing Hindi." ಹಿಂದಿ ಹೇರುವವರಿಗೆ ತಿಳಿದಿರಲಿ. ನಮ್ಮ ಕನ್ನಡ ಅಭಿಜಾತ ಭಾಷೆ. ನಮ್ಮ ಕನ್ನಡ ಸಾವಿರಾರು ವರ್ಷಗಳ ಘನ ಚರಿತ್ರೆಯುಳ್ಳ ಭಾಷೆ. ನಮ್ಮ ಕನ್ನಡ 6.4 ಕೋಟಿ ಜನರ ಹೃದಯಮಿಡಿತ. ನಮ್ಮ ಪಾಲಿನ ಮಾತೃಸ್ವರೂಪಿಣಿ. (3/4) Several other organisations like Karnataka Janaadhikaara Paksha observed it as 'Black Day'. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-organisations-stage-protests-against-hindi-imposition-1030303.html
14-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||It’s relaxing time for Dasara jumbos||Eight elephants Abhimanyu, Ashwathama, Vikram, Dhananjaya, Kaveri, Chaithra, Laksmi and Gopalaswamy have arrived at Aranya Bhavan in Mysuru for participating in the Dasara festivities this year. While Lakshmi, 20, from Ramapura, is the youngest, Vikrama, 58, from Dubare is the oldest. This time Abhimanyu is slated to be the golden howdah carrier during Vijayadashami celebrations, Jamboo Savari, to be held within the Palace premises. They are relaxing and will be formally accorded a traditional welcome at Mysuru Palace on September 16. The caretakers, who accompanied the jumbos, are taking care of them. They are being fed with Banyan leaves and a mixture of grains and jaggery. All arrangements have been made for their three-day stay here. Almost all caretakers have been vaccinated for Covid-19. Arrangements will be made for administering the second dose of vaccination for those who require it on the premises, said officials. In all, around 50 people have accompanied the jumbos, including mahouts and kavadis and are staying at Aranya Bhavan. The elephants will be taken by walking to Mysuru Palace on September 16 morning where they will be given a warm welcome at Jayamarthanda Gate. The forest department officials, district administration officials and dignitaries will accord a welcome to the jumbos by performing pujas, according to deputy conservator of forest V Karikalan. Public entry is restricted at Aranya Bhavan for three days. All arrangements have been made for sheltering the jumbos and their caretakers on Mysuru Palace premises. MLA presents cloths Hunsur MLA H P Manjunath presented  dothis, shirts and a honorarium of Rs 2,000 cash each to the 24-member contingent of the elephant caretakers, including the mahouts and kaavadis during Gajapayana, the first leg of Mysuru Dasara in Veeranahosahalli in Hunsur taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/it-s-relaxing-time-for-dasara-jumbos-1030335.html
14-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Special vaccination drive on Sept 17 in Karnataka to target 25-30 lakh doses: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the government will organise a special Covid-19 vaccination drive on September 17 across the state, with a target to administer 25 to 30 lakh doses that day. "We are organising a special vaccination drive on September 17 in all districts including Bengaluru. I have held a video conference with Deputy Commissioners of districts regarding this. Our aim is to administer maximum vaccines this month, so it has been decided to conduct such special drives," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters after meeting with Deputy Commissioners and officers involved in Covid-19 management from all the districts, he said, Ministers will be joining the drive from their respective districts and that he will be in Kalaburagi that day. "Our target is to administer 25 to 30 lakh doses that day. It is a big target, because till now the maximum we have given is 12 lakh doses. I have asked officials to have in place the necessary infrastructure and to involve the private sector too in this," he added. The Chief Minister, in response to a question on demolition of an "illegally" constructed temple in Mysuru's Nanjangud, said all district administrations have been asked not to take any action hastily regarding demolition of such structures, and that he would give a detailed response on the issue in the assembly, as the legislature session is on. "A show cause notice has been given to Tahsildar and DC regarding the demolition and why such an action was taken without consulting everyone. In the entire state no hasty action should be taken to demolish any temple. After thoroughly studying the Supreme Court order, we will issue specific directions," he said, adding that the matter will also be discussed in the next cabinet meet. The recent demolition of illegal religious structures on public property in compliance with the court order, has drawn widespread criticism from various Hindu outfits, including Mysuru-Kodagu BJP MP Prathap Simha. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/special-vaccination-drive-on-sept-17-in-karnataka-to-target-25-30-lakh-doses-cm-bommai-1030374.html
14-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai halts temple demolition drive||Under fire from his own party men and others, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday halted the demolition of temples that are said to have been constructed illegally. "There should be no emergency or hurried action to demolish temples anywhere in the state," Bommai told reporters. Bommai's diktat comes after the state government was slammed by BJP members and even Congress following the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud by the Mysuru district administration. BJP's Mysuru MP Pratap Simha publicly chided the government for targeting only Hindu temples. "We have issued a show-cause notice to the Mysuru deputy commissioner and the tahsildar for whatever demolition that has been done and the action that was taken without consulting everyone," Bommai said. The Supreme Court issued orders in 2009 to ‘demolish/relocate/ regulate’ unauthorised religious structures from public places. Based on this, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar reportedly wrote to all deputy commissioners on over 6,000 such unauthorized structures in the state. Authorities had identified 93 religious structures for demolition in Mysuru alone. "We will comprehensively study the Supreme Court order and issue specific directions," Bommai said. "We will bring this before the Cabinet as well in a day or two and come out with a clear direction on temples. And, since the legislature session is underway, the details will be provided in the House." Following the Nanjangud temple demolition, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah called it "an act against Hindu sentiments" and flayed the BJP government. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-halts-temple-demolition-drive-1030386.html
14-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not enough sewage from Bengaluru for treatment: Minister||The government told the Assembly on Tuesday that there isn’t enough sewage being generated in Bengaluru to be treated and fill up lakes in the city’s parched neighbourhood. Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy was responding to a question on the Hebbal-Nagawara (HN) valley project, of filling up 65 lakes in the arid taluks of Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Chikkaballapur districts by subjecting Bengaluru’s sewage to secondary treatment.  The minister said this project is not going as per plan because of a shortfall in sewage water.  “The BWSSB is supposed to give us 210 MLD of sewage, but only 90 MLD has been made available,” Madhuswamy said. “We are unable to fill up lakes as envisaged. If we get sewage, we will supply the water to the lakes,” he said. Similarly, the Koramangala-Challaghatta (KC) Valley project aims to fill up lakes in Kolar and Chikkaballapur by treating 400 MLD of Bengaluru’s sewage.  “We aren’t able to generate the required 400-odd MLD sewage from Bengaluru. We’re able to treat 290-330 MLD sewage,” Madhuswamy said. “Somehow, we’re unable to pool in and use Bengaluru’s sewage. Even now, it is flowing into drainage and getting wasted.”  Former speaker K R Ramesh Kumar blamed the BWSSB for failing to provide the quantity of sewage required. “If you don’t handle this octopus (BWSSB), there’s no way you can ensure the supply of sewage to the subjectment of secondary treatment. Unless that’s done, how can you provide water? Why aren’t we finding sewage? Has Bengaluru’s population or water consumption decreased?” he said.  Madhuswamy said the BWSSB gave an “endorsement” that it cannot supply more sewage, which angered Kumar. “Wasn’t BWSSB consulted when the project was planned?” he thundered.  Gauribidanur MLA N H Shivashankara Reddy suggested making use of rainwater, while Kolar’s K Srinivasa Gowda said secondary-treated sewage should be allowed for human consumption. “I drank the Narsapura lake water and I’m not dead. It’s potable,” Gowda said.  Madhuswamy rejected both suggestions. “We can’t mix rainwater and sewage. And, only tertiary-treated sewage is fit for drinking as per law,” he said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai intervened and said there is a need to revisit the sewage treatment process itself. “I will hold a special meeting with BWSSB to take a critical look at its performance on this front. I will do justice to Kolar and Chikkaballapur,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-enough-sewage-from-bengaluru-for-treatment-minister-1030412.html
14-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||It was an easy paper, say students on Comed-K test||The undergraduate entrance test conducted by the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (Comed-K) on Tuesday witnessed 80% attendance in Karnataka. The online-based test was conducted in two shifts with an overall attendance of 67% (Karnataka 80%) for shift 1 and 67.84% (Karnataka 80%) in shift 2. The candidates who appeared for the test were extremely happy and said the paper was very easy. Puneeth Kumar, an examinee, said, "The KCET was very tough. Compared to that, Comed-K was easy." "I was expecting a tough and tricky paper, but it was actually very simple and easy," said another candidate. Comed-K UGET is a gateway for admissions to engineering courses at private engineering colleges in the state. There are over 180 member institutions that accept Comed-K ranks. "The exam was conducted keeping in view all guidelines related to Covid-19," said Dr S Kumar, executive secretary, Comed-K. The test was conducted in 157 cities across India and 23 cities in Karnataka (32 centres in Bengaluru). There were no malpractices reported from any of the centres, Comed-K said. As many as 44,741 out of the 66,304 registered candidates attended the exam across the nation. In Karnataka, this number was 17,295, of the total 21,352 registered candidates. The provisional answer keys will be notified on the Comed-K website on September 17, along with forms for challenging the answer keys. The final answer keys will be made available on September 23. The scorecards will be made available to the candidates in their respective applicant logins on September 26. However, Comed-K had to face a few unexpected situations. At Aligarh in UP, 120 students were scheduled to take their exam. But state authorities refused permission, saying that a major event with the participation of the prime minister was scheduled 1 km away from the exam venue. Immediate alternative arrangements were made to accommodate all candidates at a centre 10 km away. Two centres in Chandigarh and Jalandhar (Punjab) were not made available by the governmental authorities and this happened on September 13. The service provider's team managed to identify, sanitize and establish alternative centres for the exam. Students from Jamnagar found it difficult to reach the exam centre in Rajkot (Gujarat), because of heavy rain and flooding of the highway. This resulted in only 50% attendance at the centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/it-was-an-easy-paper-say-students-on-comed-k-test-1030417.html
14-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'States to get list of comorbidities to vaccinate adolescents soon'||Amidst reports of the Centre's decision to jab adolescent children between 12 years and 17 years suffering from heart ailments, kidney disease, immunodeficiencies and obesity first, before vaccinating healthy children, the state health department is yet to get a cumulative estimate on the number of children suffering from comorbidities. Conforming this to DH, Dr N K Arora, chief of the National Immunisation Technical Advisory Group or NTAGI, said, "In a week or 10 days, an exhaustive list of comorbidities will be prepared, to be sent to the states. We will be concentrating on conditions that lead to severe infection and risk of severe disease in children". "For example, heart attacks don't occur in children. There are diseases that are unique to childhood and associated with children like congenital heart problems." "The exhaustive list will be science-based, based on Indian and global evidence. The effects of diabetes or hypertension in a child and an adult are different. We have set up an expert group and are looking at it. Shortly, we will communicate how the vaccine should be given to children with comorbidities," he added. The government is expecting around four crore doses of Zydus Cadila's vaccine ZyCoV-D by December, which has a three-dose regimen. In Karnataka, the key to finding children with comorbidities will be the recently launched Arogya Nandana scheme, where the state decided to screen 1.5 crore children for low immunity and comorbidities. Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram officials said the drive has been on for a month now and a portion of the paediatric population has been screened. As of March this year, there were 10,211 boys and 8,459 girls aged 0-17 years who were immunocompromised (suffering from HIV). There are 8,443 children suffering from various diseases in Haveri district alone and 132 obese kids in Udupi district. Dr Rajath Athreya, consultant neonatologist, Kaveri Hospitals, Bengaluru, who is one of the two paediatricians on the State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said, "Children having HIV, post-chemotherapy, post-transplant patients, chronic kidney diseases, type-1 diabetes, and children with congenital heart disease, severe lung disease who are under specialists, will be easy to target for Covid vaccination." "There are super-speciality hospitals like Kidwai, Nimhans, Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, Jayadeva, and Institute of Nephrourology in Bengaluru, where adolescents suffering from cancer, cerebral palsy, heart ailments and kidney problems can be identified. But, in north Karnataka, it is difficult to identify such children," he said.  "The best way will be to approach district units of Indian Academy of Paediatrics and the paediatricians themselves for the list of children being treated under their care," he added.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/states-to-get-list-of-comorbidities-to-vaccinate-adolescents-soon-1030420.html
14-09-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare case: Sachin Vaze procured gelatine sticks, says NIA in charge sheet||Dismissed police officer and encounter specialist Sachin Vaze has procured gelatine sticks that were planted near the residence of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani through “confidential sources”.  Vaze, an assistant police inspector, who was later dismissed, is the accused no.1 (A-1) in the sensational twin cases of planting 20-odd gelatine sticks and a threat note in a Mahindra Scorpio near Antilia along the Carmichael Road, the residence of the Ambani-family, and murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren.  The National Investigation Agency (NIA) charge sheet states: “…It is further established that A-1 procured gelatine (explosive) and placed the explosive (gelatine sticks) in the Scorpio vehicle and also planted a threat note addressed to Mukesh Ambani and family…” The charge sheet also appends a report of the District Collector and Magistrate of Mumbai City, which states: “...and whereas, it is further revealed that, Sachin Vaze procured gelatine sticks (explosive substance) through confidential sources.” The gelatine sticks were originally manufactured at Solar Industries India Ltd in Nagpur, according to the report and charge sheet.  The Gamdevi police station, which has seized the Scorpio, sent the gelatine sticks to the Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratories, Maharashtra State, Mumbai, for analysis. The forensic report stated: “Ammonium and Nitrate radicals along with petroleum hydrocarbon wax, constituent of explosive mixture were detected in exhibits.”  The NIA, which is investigating the twin cases, is trying to find out the chain of people responsible for helping Vaze in procuring the gelatine sticks. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-case-sachin-vaze-procured-gelatine-sticks-says-nia-in-charge-sheet-1030153.html
14-09-2021||West||Death due to Covid highest among patients with diabetes, obesity: Rajesh Tope||The number of deaths due to Covid-19 was the highest among patients with diabetes and obesity, Maharashtra's public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. “Currently, 3 to 4 out of every 10 patients are diabetic and obese, and these health issues are on the rise. It is the need of the hour to create awareness about obesity and diabetes,” Tope said at the Nutribolism International Conference hosted by the Laparo Obeso Centre in Mumbai. “Obesity invites various diseases, so it is very important to lose weight. However, the cost of the dietitian is not affordable to all. So, information on obesity and diabetes can be made available on the government's online website. I am going to make sure that all the employees work together for this cause. Exercise is an integral part of our lives. Regardless of this, exercise regularly and avoid any illness,” he said. Environmental Forum of India’s founder Sunetra Pawar, laparoscopic bariatric surgeon Dr Shashank Shah, Dr Poonam Shah, and Radhika Shah, chief dietitian of Laparo Obeso Centre and the organiser of the conference were present. The conference, over the weekend, was also backed by the Indian Dietetic Association and the Indian Obesity Society besides the Maharashtra government. “Obesity and diabetes are linked. These patients have a higher risk of corona infection due to low immunity. Obesity and diabetes can be prevented and the patients need to know what kind of diet these patients need to follow,” said Dr Shashank Shah. “For this, it has been decided to start a campaign all over Maharashtra with the objective of creating awareness among the people. Under the campaign, adequate information on diabetes and obesity will be provided on the state government's website. Apart from this, tips will be given on how the diet should be. Maharashtra will be the first state to implement such an initiative on obesity and diabetes,” he added. "In addition, we will appeal to each and every hospital to give a sapling to discharged patients as we are trying to convey the message that if the environment is clean, health will also be good. Environment is important to preserve and use environmental natural things in diet to preserve health, this is the crux of Nutribolism," added Radhika Shah, Organising Secretary of 1st Nutribolism conference. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/death-due-to-covid-highest-among-patients-with-diabetes-obesity-rajesh-tope-1030231.html
14-09-2021||West||4 drown, 7 missing after boat capsizes in river in Maharashtra||Eleven people are feared dead after their boat capsized in the Wardha river in Maharashtra's Amravati district on Tuesday. The incident took place in the tri-junction of Wardha, Amravati and Nagpur districts, reports said.  The incident occurred at around 10 am in Warud tehsil under the jurisdiction of Benoda police station, when 12 members of some families from Gadegaon village along with the boatman were on their way to a temple after visiting a waterfall nearby, a police official said. Teams of district administration, police and civic bodies have reached and a search and rescue operation is underway. So far, four bodies have been fished out. Efforts are on to look for survivors, however, chances are bleak. The Vidarbha region districts are receiving heavy downpours since the weekend and the Wardha river was swollen.  According to initial information, the boat was overloaded.  Two male occupants, aged 27 and 35, swam to safety. Of the four dead bodies, three have been identified as Narayan Matare (45), the boatman and two occupants Wanshika Shivankar (2) and Kiran Khandale (25).  Warud's sub-divisional officer Nitin Hingole is supervising the search and rescue operation. (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-drown-7-missing-after-boat-capsizes-in-river-in-maharashtra-1030235.html
14-09-2021||West||Bombay HC division bench to hear Deshmukh's plea against ED summons in money laundering case||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said its division bench (comprising two judges), instead of a single-judge bench, would hear the petition filed by Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh against the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. A single bench of Justice S K Shinde said the objection raised by the HC registry department that the issues raised in the plea ought to be heard by a division bench is “correct”. Justice Shinde directed the registry department to place Deshmukh's petition for hearing before the appropriate division bench. Deshmukh filed the petition earlier this month, seeking to quash the five summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Last week, when the plea came up for hearing before Justice Shinde, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ED, brought to the HC's attention a note addressed by the registry department saying the plea has to be heard by a division bench. Senior counsel Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam, appearing for Deshmukh, said the single bench had the jurisdiction to hear the plea. The court had then said it would consider the issue and pass orders. The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed its FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. Deshmukh in his plea claimed the ED's action was a result of political vendetta. The petition also said the agency's whole case was based on “malicious statements” made by dismissed police officer Sachin Waze, who is presently in jail in connection the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in February this year and the subsequent killing of businessman Mansukh Hiran. “The statements made by Waze, a tainted cop, are absolutely false and concocted with a malafide intention to defame and frame the applicant (Deshmukh) with ulterior motives,” the petition said. Deshmukh refuted the claims made by the ED that while serving as Maharashtra's home minister, he had misused his official position and through Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was allegedly laundered to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, an education trust controlled by Deshmukh's family. “The entire claim of Waze giving Rs 4.70 crore to the applicant (Deshmukh) and the same amount being routed by the applicant's family is factually incorrect,” the plea said. The petition also said the amount received by the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha was donations made before the period in which Waze alleged to have received illegal gratification from bars and restaurants. “There was never any cash received as illegal gratification from bar owners as claimed by Waze,” the plea said. The ED has so far arrested two persons in the case – Sanjeev Palande (additional collector rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant). The agency last month submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court. The CBI had lodged its FIR against Deshmukh after it conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Deshmukh resigned from the post of state home minister on April 5, but has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-division-bench-to-hear-deshmukhs-plea-against-ed-summons-in-money-laundering-case-1030236.html
14-09-2021||West||Girl dies after mistakenly using rat-killer instead of toothpaste||In a bizarre and shocking incident, a girl died in the Dharavi slum-cluster of Mumbai after mistakenly using a rat-killer instead of toothpaste.  The deceased has been identified as Afsana Khan, an 18-year-old girl. The incident took place on September 3 morning, when the girl got up from her sleep and used a rat-killer paste kept near the toothpaste.  Realising what happened, she rinsed her mouth. However, she felt giddy and stomach ache and resorted to self-medication. Later, when her condition did not improve, the family consulted doctors and rushed her to the Sir JJ Hospital. This was only after she told the truth to the family.  In the hospital, doctors tried their best, however, she did not recover and passed away on September 13 night -- after battling for 10 days. The family comprises her parents, an elder sister and two younger brothers.  The Dharavi police station has registered an Accidental Death Report and collected the samples from the house.  Further investigations are underway. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/girl-dies-after-mistakenly-using-rat-killer-instead-of-toothpaste-1030253.html
14-09-2021||West||NCP, Congress central leaders in talks over Goa poll alliance for 2022: Official||Congress and NCP leaders are speaking to each other over the possibility of forging an alliance for the 2022 Goa assembly polls, state Nationalist Congress Party president Jose Phillip D'Souza said on Tuesday. D'Souza also said that the Congress should not take the NCP lightly in the run-up to the polls, adding that a split in secular votes, would only ensure that the ruling BJP stays in power. D'Souza's comments come at a time when the Congress has failed to commit to an alliance for the Goa polls with the NCP, even after the Sharad Pawar-led party's national general secretary Praful Patel's 15-day deadline to the Congress to come clear on the alliance lapsed on Tuesday. "When our leader Praful Patel came to Goa the last time, he gave 15 days for the alliance to happen. Yes, our leaders are working on it. They are talking to the central leaders of the Congress," D'Souza said, adding that the NCP's state unit would go ahead with whatever decision is taken by his party's central leaders. He also warned the Congress party to not take the NCP for granted urging Congress leaders to say yes to the alliance in order to keep the secular votes intact. "Do they feel that we cannot do anything and that we cannot move ahead without an alliance? That is wrong," D'Souza said. "Division of the secular votes, the non BJP votes, will benefit them (BJP). If we do not come together, the non BJP votes may swing to the BJP, sensing no unity among us," D'Souza further said. The NCP currently has only one MLA in the 40-member Goa legislative assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-congress-central-leaders-in-talks-over-goa-poll-alliance-for-2022-official-1030307.html
14-09-2021||West||IIT Bombay launches AI-based translation ‘Project Udaan’||As India celebrated Hindi Diwas, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay rolled out ‘Project Udaan’, which enables translation from English to Hindi and all Indian languages of textbooks and learning materials in engineering and all main streams of higher learning. Institute Chair Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Bombay, Prof. Ganesh Ramakrishnan, and his team launched the Project Udaan at a virtual event in which Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, Dr Krishnaswamy VijayRaghavan was the chief guest. ‘Project Udaan,’ a donation-based project, is an end-to-end ecosystem, which translates scientific and technical content from English to Hindi and all other Indian languages.  Prof. Ganesh and his team have built an AI(Artificial Intelligence)-based translation ecosystem, which can help translate engineering textbooks and learning materials in one-sixth the time it would take for a team consisting of domain and linguistic experts working manually.  In due course, textbooks in all domains can be taken up.  Prof Ganesh said: "Our approach to machine translation has been that it will be aided by human effort. We started building lexicons of various technical domains.  Here we faced the challenge of digitising the bilingual dictionaries and glossaries produced by the Commission for Scientific & Technical Terminology (CSTT).” "We have developed very robust bilingual OCR technology and several post-editing tools by which we now have access to digital bilingual dictionaries in machine-readable format. We are therefore able to use the appropriate scientific and technical terms available in Hindi instead of transliterating the English terms. "We are happy to state that by deploying our AI-based Translation Engine, we are now able to translate a technical book in less than one-sixth the time it would take for a team consisting of domain and linguistic experts working manually. In due course, as our AI and ML engine learns with every page and every book being edited in each domain, we expect to achieve a much shorter turnaround time,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-bombay-launches-ai-based-translation-project-udaan-1030309.html
14-09-2021||West||Mumbai Police forms Nirbhaya Squad for women's safety||Rattled by the brutal rape and murder of a woman last week, the Mumbai Police has swung into action and have set up a Nirbhaya Squad for the safety of women.  The incident - which bore similarities to New Delhi’s Nirbhaya episode - has come as a major embarrassment for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, which has once again come under fire from opposition BJP. Mumbai is known as one of the safest cities for girls and women. However, after the incident, the government and police have received a bashing on social media platforms.  Basically a women safety cell, the squads would be set up at every police station of Mumbai. Moreover, the Nirbhaya Squad will include one woman officer of PSI or ASI rank, one female and one male constable and a driver. The measure was passed on to all officers and other ranks of the police through a circular by Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale. The `Mobile-5′ vehicle of each police station will be assigned to this squad. Each station has a fixed number of `Mobile’ patrolling vehicles at its disposal. The Nirbhaya Squads will undergo two-day training.  Among other things, they will be trained to collect intelligence from areas where girls hostels, children’s shelter homes and orphanages are located. Under an initiative named ‘Saksham’, police will offer counselling to the victims of sexual harassment and assault. The Nirbhaya Squad would organise training workshops in schools, colleges, girls hostels for self-defence. A box namely “Nirbhaya Peti” would be provided in every place. After the incident, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil met and discussed the issue.  Thackeray himself went to the Maharashtra Police headquarters and held a meeting of top officials including Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey. The government has directed immediate action against sexual offenders and to file a chargesheet within 60 days.  Pandey has also asked the force to monitor places like railway stations and colleges to keep an eye out for instances of eve-teasing and take action against offenders. Nagrale has issued an order instructing the force to maintain a list of sexual offenders arrested in offences such as rape, molestation, kidnapping or outraging the modesty of a woman or those held under POCSO charges and to take prohibitory action, as necessary. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-forms-nirbhaya-squad-for-womens-safety-1030354.html
14-09-2021||West||NITI Aayog praises Maharashtra’s Covid-19 handling||India’s public policy think-tank NITI Aayog has praised the Maharashtra government’s overall handling of the Covid-19 situation.  A delegation of NITI Aayog comprising vice-chairman Dr Rajiv Kumar, member Ramesh Chand and chief executive officer Amitabh Kant called on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, during which Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance and planning portfolios and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte were present.  During the meeting, 41 issues concerning the state were discussed.  “Maharashtra government has performed well in controlling the Covid-19 infection,” Kumar told the meeting on Tuesday. Thackeray told the delegation that since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic the state government has focussed on beefing up the health infrastructure. “However, if the third wave hits us, we would have to continue to increase health infrastructure and for this Centre’s support would be needed,” he said.  The state’s push for electric vehicles (EVs) was also praised by the central agency.  Environment, protocol and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray gave a presentation on the EV Policy which earned appreciation as a good step from Kant for the “state’s vision for the future”.Among the issues that figured in the meeting are making the availability of land for construction of the Mumbai Metro depot at Kanjurmarg, acquisition of 45 acres of land from the Railways for the Dharavi redevelopment project, expansion of the Pune, Thane, Nashik, Nagpur metro rails, the Pune-Nashik double-railway.  Thackeray pointed out that the GST refund to the state has reached Rs. 30,000-crore and will soon touch Rs.50,000-crore, and though the Centre earned revenues through the increased cess on petrol and diesel, it did not benefit the state.  The Centre will provide Rs. 3,000-crore for the development of the Dighi Port Industrial Area as part of the plan to set up a new city here under a SPV, said Kant. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/niti-aayog-praises-maharashtra-s-covid-19-handling-1030373.html
14-09-2021||West||Rains lash Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh districts of Gujarat, CM visits flood-hit areas||Heavy rains in Rajkot and Jamnagar districts of Gujarat have led to evacuation of over 7,000 people, officials said on Tuesday evening. Rains also lashed Junagadh district during the day, they said. Newly sworn-in Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on Tuesday visited rain-hit parts of Jamnagar city and district and assured help to those affected by the floods. Earlier in the morning, officials said that a national highway passing through Jamnagar and 18 state highways passing through Rajkot, Jamnagar and Junagadh districts of the Saurashtra region were closed due to flooding. Many villages were cut off from other parts of the state as roads were inundated. A bridge over the river Fofal collapsed, forcing the closure of a road connecting Jam Kandorna and Gondal in Rajkot district, officials said. After pounding Rajkot and Jamnagar districts for 24 hours since Monday morning, the rains eased a bit on Tuesday, while heavy showers were reported in Junagadh district during the day. The Indian Air Force (IAF), Navy and Coast Guard were called in to help in the rescue operations along with teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), officials said. Rajkot's Lodhika taluka received the maximum rainfall of 516 mm in the state in the 24-hour period ending at 6 am on Tuesday, the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. Visavadar taluka in Junagadh district of Saurashtra received the second highest rainfall at 468 mm, while Kalavad in Jamnagar recorded 406 mm rain, Rajkot taluka 325 mm and Dhoraji in Rajkot district 250 mm of rain, the SEOC said. On Tuesday, Mangrol taluka of Junagadh district received 151 mm rainfall in just four hours since 6 am, while Keshod taluka in Junagadh received 108 mm rainfall during the same period, the SEOC said. IAF helicopters rescued 22 people stranded in parts of Jamnagar. They also rescued seven villagers in Rajkot. "A Navy team was helping in the operation to search for two persons who are missing after their car got washed away in Rajkot on Monday," Collector Arun Mahesh Babu said. "Two teams of the SDRF are deployed in Gondal and Lodhika talukas," he said, adding that 1,467 people from rural areas and over 600 from urban areas were shifted to safer places. Teams of the Navy and Coast Guard also assisted the Jamnagar administration in rescuing 150 to 160 people within the city limits, Jamnagar Collector Sourabh Pardhi said. During the 24-hour period ending at 6 am on Tuesday, 35 talukas received over 100 mm rainfall, mainly in Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Porbandar, Gir Somnath and Devbhumi Dwarka districts in Saurashtra region, as well as in south Gujarat's Valsad and Navsari districts, the SEOC said. Chief minister Patel visited Jamnagar during the day, an official release said in the evening. Patel, accompanied by local MP Poonam Maadam and state Chief Secretary Pankaj Kumar, first visited Dhuvav village and spoke with its residents. The CM then visited some flood-affected areas of Jamnagar city. Addressing a press conference, Patel expressed satisfaction about the relief and rescue work. Over 5,000 persons in the entire Jamnagar district were shifted to safer places and over 800 stranded persons were rescued, the CM told reporters. "As many as 4,760 persons have been shifted to safer places and 144 persons rescued in rural parts of Jamnagar district by NDRF, SDRF and Air Force. Similarly, 1,146 persons were shifted elsewhere while 724 persons were rescued in Jamnagar city. Around 10,000 food packets were distributed," he said. Electricity supply will be restored in 84 villages in Jamnagar district by Wednesday evening, he assured. "Livestock was also killed in large numbers. Health and sanitation teams have already started their work in the district. The government will conduct a survey of loss and announce compensation accordingly," the chief minister said. Patel then left for Rajkot district to review the situation. Gujarat has so far this monsoon season received 69.24 per cent of the average rainfall, and the downpour this month has helped the state narrow rain deficiency. In September the state has received 219.2 mm rainfall so far, against 65.3 mm in the entire August, 176.7 mm in July and 120.4 mm in June, as per the SEOC data. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rains-lash-rajkot-jamnagar-junagadh-districts-of-gujarat-cm-visits-flood-hit-areas-1030376.html
14-09-2021||West||Court summons BJP leader Kirit Somaiya in defamation case||A court here has issued a summons to BJP leader Kirit Somaiya in a defamation case filed by the founder of an NGO for allegedly making false and slanderous remarks. Praveen Kalme, the complainant, alleged that Somaiya, a former MP, accused him of being the right-hand man of a Maharashtra cabinet minister and doing illegal things at the minister's behest. The allegations were baseless and defamatory, the complaint, filed in the Mazgaon metropolitan magistrate's court, said. The court last week held that documents produced before it reveal prima facie (on the face of it) that Somaiya had made the statements in question, and asked him to be present before it on October 5.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-summons-bjp-leader-kirit-somaiya-in-defamation-case-1030427.html
