15-09-2021||National||PM Modi holds 'Chintan Shivir' with council of ministers, says simplicity way of life||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a meeting with the Union Council of Ministers, which was termed as 'Chintan Shivir', and stressed that simplicity is the way of life, sources said. At the meeting, presentations were made by Union Ministers Mansukh Mandaviya and Dharmendra Pradhan on efficiency and time management. Four more such "Chintan Shivirs" will be held for further improving governance, they said. According to sources, four more such sessions will be held where different Union ministers will give presentations. Both the ministers shared good practices on time management, efficiency, root cause analysis of problems and selection of personal staff. Good practices about some basic issues such as dealing with people, promptly responding to letters were also shared in their presentations. At the meeting, Modi asked the ministers to learn from the best practices of their colleagues. Recalling late Union Minister Manohar Parrikar, the prime minister said that simplicity is a way of life. Stating that sharing is caring, Modi spoke about Tiffin Meetings during his Gujarat days where everyone used to bring their own tiffins in meetings and shared the food as well as ideas. The meeting at the auditorium of the Rashtrapati Bhavan lasted nearly five hours. Sources said the meeting was termed 'Chintan Shivar', a contemplation session for overall improvement in the efficiency and governance, they said. The prime minister holds regular meetings of the Council of Ministers where various ministries make presentations on important issues. The meetings also help ministers to keep themselves updated with various welfare schemes being carried out by the government. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-chintan-shivir-with-council-of-ministers-says-simplicity-way-of-life-1030485.html
15-09-2021||National||Bhabha atomic centre scientist hangs self inside the premier facility||A scientist with the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre in Mankhurd in Mumbai allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the helium plant inside the premises, police said on Tuesday. Champalal Prajapati (44), a Scientist Officer G with the Technical Physics Division, took the extreme step on Friday, a Trombay police station official said. "He was a native of Sujangarh in Rajasthan with expertise in superconductors. On the day of the incident, his wife rang up his colleagues after he failed to reach home in time. His colleagues found him hanging some time later," the official said. An accidental death case was registered after his post mortem report as well as a police probe did not reveal anything suspicious in the incident, the official added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhabha-atomic-centre-scientist-hangs-self-inside-the-premier-facility-1030489.html
15-09-2021||National||JEE-Main result: 44 candidates score 100 percentile, 18 share top rank||A record 44 candidates have scored 100 percentile in the engineering entrance exam JEE-Main this year while 18 candidates have shared the top rank, according to National Testing Agency (NTA). The result for the crucial exam was announced post-midnight on Tuesday with the website crashing for several hours after that. The first rank holders included Gaurab Das (Karnataka), Vaibhav Vishal (Bihar), Duggineni Venkata Paneesh (Andhra Pradesh), Siddhant Mukherjee, Anshul Verma and Mridul Agarwal (Rajasthan), Ruchir Bansal and Kavya Chopra (Delhi), Amaiya Singhal and Pal Agarwal (Uttar Pradesh), Komma Sharanya and Joysula Venkata Aditya (Telangana), Pasala Veera Siva, Karnam Lokesh and Kanchanapalli Rahul Naidu, (Andhra Pradesh), Pulkit Goyal (Punjab) and Guramrit Singh (Chandigarh). Last year, 24 candidates had scored 100 percentile. On account of using unfair means, a total of 20 candidates have been debarred from appearing in future examinations for a period of three years. Their results have also been withheld. Starting this year, Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main was conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May but those were postponed in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that raged through the country affecting lakhs. The third edition was held from July 20-25 while the fourth edition was conducted from August 26 to September 2. The examination was conducted in 13 languages -- English, Hindi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. Over 9.34 lakh candidates appeared in four editions of JEE-Main. A total of 2.52 lakh common candidates had appeared for all four editions of the exam. A total of 6.58 lakh male candidates had appeared for the exam while the number of female candidates appearing for the exam was 2.80 lakh. The ranks of the candidates have been released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy already made. NTA scores are normalised across multi-session papers and are based on the relative performance of all those who appeared for the examination in one session. "The marks obtained are converted into a scale ranging from 100 to 0 for each session of examinees. NTA score is not the same as the percentage of marks obtained," a senior official said. As per NTA's tie-breaking policy, candidates with higher marks in Mathematics are given preference; followed by NTA score in Physics; followed by NTA score in Chemistry and if the tie remains, the candidate with a lesser ratio of negative to positive response will be preferred. The examination was conducted in 925 centres in 334 cities including outside India including 12 cities outside India in Bahrain, Colombo, Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, Singapore and Kuwait.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-main-result-44-candidates-score-100-percentile-18-share-top-rank-1030495.html
15-09-2021||National||Cong to prepare plan for nationwide agitations to take on BJP govt ahead of LS polls||The Congress will prepare a plan for nationwide agitations to take on the BJP government ahead of the next Lok Sabha elections and highlight issues of price rise and unemployment among others, sources said on Tuesday. It was also suggested that party leader Rahul Gandhi should take over as the Congress president and lead the agitations, they added. Senior leaders of the party discussed the issues to be highlighted during the protests at a meeting of the Congress committee constituted by the party president. The panel chaired by Digvijaya Singh will prepare the plan for agitations after identifying the issues and will present the report to Sonia Gandhi for approval, the sources said. Panel members Ripun Bora and Udit Raj also suggested that a senior leader like Rahul Gandhi should take over as party chief and lead protests across the country to make them a success. Raj also suggested that social organisations and civil society groups should be involved in such agitations and their support would make the protests a success. The sources said price rise and unemployment have been identified as the issues to be taken up first, but the timelines will be decided by onia Gandhi. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also participated in the meeting that was held at the party's "war room" office at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj road.  She also called for raising the issue of plight of MSMEs due to "wrong" economic policies, they said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-to-prepare-plan-for-nationwide-agitations-to-take-on-bjp-govt-ahead-of-ls-polls-1030505.html
15-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Remembering 'Abba Jaan' of the nation||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's use of the word 'Abba Jaan' (father in Urdu) during a public meeting in Kushinagar district has stoked a massive controversy, with opposition leaders decrying what they said an attempt to "communally polarise" the forthcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-remembering-abba-jaan-of-the-nation-1030511.html
15-09-2021||National||India sees 27,176 new Covid-19 cases||Daily new cases of coronavirus in India continued to remained below 30,000 with the country recording 27,176 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 284 new fatalities were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to  3,33,16,755, while the death toll has climbed to 4,43,497, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases declined to 3,51,087 comprising 1.05 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.62 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 11,120 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,10,829 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to        54,60,55,796. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 16 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 82 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,25,22,171, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 75.89 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 284 new fatalities include 129 from Kerala and 52 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,43,497 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,38,221 from Maharashtra, 37,529 From Karnataka, 35,217 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,884 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,779 from Kerala and 18,599 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-27176-new-covid-19-cases-1030537.html
15-09-2021||National||Sputnik Light gets DCGI nod for bridging trials in India||The Drugs Controller General of India has permitted Indian pharmaceutical major Dr Reddy’s Laboratory (DRL) to carry out a bridging trial of the Sputnik Light vaccine to check if the single dose Russian Covid-19 vaccine can be introduced in India in future. While the two-dose Sputnik vaccine has been approved for emergency use in India, the DCGI had refused to accord such an approval to its single dose counterpart in the absence of long term data on the vaccine’s immunogenicity. The first request for the trial was declined in July but a Subject Expert Committee of the DCGI asked DRL a month later to go ahead with the exercise with the condition that the primary endpoint of the trial has to be assessed on day 42, day 90 and day 180. Also an interim analysis is to be conducted on day 42 because such a dataset was not generated during the Sputnik V trial in India after the first dose. Data up to 21 days after the inoculation is available with the Hyderabad-based company, which is the lead agency for conducting the clinical trials for Sputnik in India, besides distributing the imported Russian vaccine. The two-dose Sputnik-V received the Emergency Use Authorisation in India in April following which there was a soft-launch of the Russian vaccine in 50 cities in May. For the subsequent three months, the vaccine was not available in the commercial market. Earlier this month, the company claimed that the two-shot version of the Russian vaccine is now available at many private hospitals in most of the states. So far 8.62 lakh Sputnik-V doses (first dose: 5.05 lakh and second dose 3.56 lakh) have been administered, sources in the National Health Agency told DH. Notwithstanding the continued use of two-dose Covid-19 vaccines, a global search is on for a single dose shot for better compliance. A recent study published in The Lancet showed that Sputnik Light - the first component of Sputnik V - showed 78.6-83.7 per cent efficacy against Covid-19, which is significantly higher than most two-shot vaccines. Conducted on more than 415,000 people in Argentina, the study compared 40,387 people belonging to the 60-79 age group who got the Sputnik Light with 38,978 unvaccinated individuals. Vaccine effectiveness for preventing laboratory-confirmed infections was 78.6 per cent; and for reducing hospitalisations and deaths was, respectively, 87·6 per cent and 84·8 per cent.The vaccine effectiveness was high across all subgroups, said the Lancet study. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sputnik-light-gets-dcgi-nod-for-bridging-trials-in-india-1030550.html
15-09-2021||National||Very unhappy with the Centre on cherry-picking names recommended for tribunals: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it is 'very very unhappy' with the Centre over the 'cherry-picking of names' recommended for appointment to various tribunals by selection panels headed by the top court judges. "What is the sanctity of recommendations by the panel headed by sitting top court judges, for various tribunals, if the government has the last say on the matter?" a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked Attorney General K K Venugopal, representing the Centre. The court said it was very unfortunate to note how the Centre dealt with the recommendations made by Search-cum-Selection panel. The bench, also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, pointed out that the panel recommended nine judicial members and 10 technical members for National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) but the appointment letter was issued only to a few and others were kept in waiting list. "We cannot ignore selected candidates and go to waitlist. What type of selection and appointment is this?" the bench asked Venugopal who maintained that the government has power not to accept the recommendation.  The court, however, said in a democracy one cannot say recommendations made by the panel cannot be accepted. It is distressing that names recommended by selection panel, which comprised of sitting top court judges and two senior bureaucrats, were not treated seriously, the court added. The bench gave the Centre two weeks, a last opportunity, to make good the appointments and furnish reasons for names, which were rejected.   “Make all appointments. Appointment is the only solution. We give you two weeks’ time," the bench told Venugopal, directing the Centre to file an affidavit in this regard. During the hearing, the court also quizzed the Centre on the formation of the National Tribunal Commission. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/very-unhappy-with-the-centre-on-cherry-picking-names-recommended-for-tribunals-sc-1030561.html
15-09-2021||National||Hindus most decent and tolerant majority: Javed Akhtar after Taliban-RSS remark row||Days after his Taliban-RSS remark sparked a row, screenwriter and lyricist Javed Akhtar said that ‘Hindus are the most tolerant majority in the world’ in Shiv-Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamna’. In his earlier statement, Akhtar had said that Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Bajrang Dal and the Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh (RSS) were similar to the Taliban in their form of extremism. Clarifying his remarks, Akhtor wrote, “Actually, in the recent interview, I have said ‘Hindus are the most decent and tolerant majority’ in the world. I have repeated this time and again and also emphasised that India can never become like Afghanistan because Indians by nature are not extremists. It is in their DNA to be moderate, to keep to the middle of the road.” Further, Akhtar went on to explain what according to him was similar between the Taliban and Hindu right-wing.  “As a matter of fact, there are a lot of similarities. While the Taliban is forming an Islamic government based on religion, the Hindu right-wing wants a Hindu Rashtra. The Taliban wants to curb women’s rights and put them on the margin, the Hindu right-wing has also made it clear that they don’t like the freedom of women and girls,” he said. Akhtar was earlier criticised by the Shiv-Sena for his controversial comment. An editorial in Saamna said that even though Akhtar was secular and spoke against fundamentalism in general, he was completely wrong in comparing the RSS with the Taliban. In his piece, Akhtar praised Uddhav Thackeray and said that even Thackeray's worst critics could not accuse the chief minister of discrimination and injustice -- so it was beyond his understanding why the Thackeray government might be referred to as ‘Talibani’. “My detractors have said that while I am criticizing the Hindu right-wing I have never stood against fanatics among the Muslim fold. They have accused me of not saying anything about triple talaq, of not speaking on purdah or any other regressive practice within the Muslim community. I am not surprised at the fact that they are totally unaware of my activities over the years,” he also said. “Over the past two decades, I have been given police protection twice because of the threats to my life from fanatical Muslims: first, because not only had I vociferously opposed triple talaq when the issue was not on the national radar, but I had, along with an organisation named Muslims for Secular Democracy (MSD), toured several cities across India like Hyderabad, Allahabad, Kanpur and Aligarh and from a variety of public platforms spoken out against this retrograde practice,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindus-most-decent-and-tolerant-majority-javed-akhtar-after-taliban-rss-remark-row-1030566.html
15-09-2021||National||PM Modi greets engineers on Engineers Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted engineers on Engineers Day, saying no words are enough to thank them for their pivotal role in making our planet better and technologically advanced. Engineers Day is observed on September 15 to mark the birth anniversary of M Visvesvaraya, a civil engineer and Diwan of Mysore known for his pioneering works.  Modi tweeted, "Greetings on #EngineersDay to all hardworking engineers. No words are enough to thank them for their pivotal role in making our planet better and technologically advanced. I pay homage to the remarkable Shri M. Visvesvaraya on his birth anniversary and recall his accomplishments." Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-engineers-on-engineers-day-1030572.html
15-09-2021||National||Diwali: Delhi announces 'complete ban' on firecrackers||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announces a complete ban on sale, storage and use of crackers in Delhi for a third consecutive Diwali this year as pollution concerns mount in the natonal capital. "In view of the seriousness of pollution after the stocking of firecrackers by traders last year, a complete ban was imposed late, which caused losses to the traders," Kejriwal tweeted. पिछले साल व्यापारियों द्वारा पटाखों के भंडारण के पश्चात प्रदूषण की गंभीरता को देखत हुए देर से पूर्ण प्रतिबंध लगाया गया जिससे व्यापारियों का नुकसान हुआ था। सभी व्यापारियों से अपील है कि इस बार पूर्ण प्रतिबंध को देखते हुए किसी भी तरह का भंडारण न करें। Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diwali-delhi-announces-complete-ban-on-firecrackers-1030578.html
15-09-2021||National||India top source of social media misinformation on Covid-19: Study||India produced the largest amount of social media misinformation on Covid-19 due to the country's higher internet penetration rate, increasing social media consumption and users' lack of internet literacy, according to a new study. The study, 'Prevalence and Source Analysis of Covid-19 Misinformation in 138 Countries', was published in Sage's International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions journal. The study analysed 9,657 pieces of misinformation that originated in 138 countries. They were fact-checked by 94 organisations to understand the prevalence and sources of misinformation in different countries. "Of all the countries, India (18.07 per cent) produced the largest amount of social media misinformation, perhaps thanks to the country's higher internet penetration rate, increasing social media consumption and users' lack of internet literacy," the study said. Also, the results also showed that India (15.94 per cent), the US (9.74 per cent), Brazil (8.57 per cent) and Spain (8.03 per cent) are the four most misinformation-affected countries. Based on the results, the study said, it is presumed that the prevalence of Covid-19 misinformation can have a positive association with the pandemic situation. "Social media (84.94 per cent) produces the largest amount of misinformation, and the internet (90.5 per cent) as a whole is responsible for most of the Covid-19 misinformation. Moreover, Facebook alone produces 66.87 per cent of the misinformation among all social media platforms," it stated. Earlier, the World Health Organisation had also warned that false information on Covid-19 is spreading and putting people in danger. The WHO had urged people to make sure to double-check everything they hear with trusted sources. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-top-source-of-social-media-misinformation-on-covid-19-study-1030595.html
15-09-2021||National||Mu, C.1.2 variants of SARS-CoV2 not found in India so far: INSACOG||India has so far not seen Mu and C.1.2, the two new variants of SARS-CoV2, and the Delta variant and its sub-lineages continue to the main Variants of Concern in the country, INSACOG, the genome sequencing consortium, has said.  The consortium has called for more strongly implementing existing recommendations on sequencing of positive samples from international travellers. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has added B.1.621 (including B.1.621.1) to the list of Variants of Interest (VOI) on August 30 and christened it “Mu”. It has also added C.1.2 as a new VOI. C.1.2 is a sub-lineage of the C.1 variant described in South Africa but did not spread globally, the INSACOG said.   “Neither Mu, nor C.1.2 are seen in India so far. Existing recommendations on sequencing of positive samples from international travellers may be more strongly implemented. Monitoring and evaluation of further data appears to be adequate at this time,” the INSACOG said in its bulletin dated September 10.  “Delta and Delta sub-lineages continue to be the main VOC in India,” it added. The Delta variant has been driving infections in several countries. In India, it led to a deadly second wave.  The INSACOG said Mu has mutations that indicate potential immune escape properties. There appears to be a reduction in neutralisation capacity of convalescent and vaccine sera, similar to that seen for the Beta variant, but this needs to be confirmed by further studies.  Although the global prevalence of the Mu variant has declined and is currently below 0.1 per cent, the prevalence in Colombia (39 per cent) and Ecuador (13 per cent) has consistently increased, according to the WHO bulletin.  It said the C.1.2 variant seems to have undergone many mutations in a short time, and contains mutations of all the three types that have previously been found to be important for transmissibility and immune escape.  The only clinical data for actual transmissibility is a rise from 0.2 per cent in May to two per cent in July, the INSACOG said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mu-c12-variants-of-sars-cov2-not-found-in-india-so-far-insacog-1030598.html
15-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Southern states continue to add to India's surge in cases||Although the overall Covid-19 situation in India appears to be under control, southern states in the country are apparently the ones that are still in the danger zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-southern-states-continue-to-add-to-indias-surge-in-cases-1030609.html
15-09-2021||National||PM Modi to virtually lead Indian delegation at SCO summit on September 17||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the Indian delegation virtually at the annual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to be held in Tajik capital city of Dushanbe on September 17, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Wednesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will travel to Dushanbe for the SCO meetings that are expected to extensively deliberate on the Afghan crisis and its internal as well as external implications, people familiar with the matter said. "The 21st meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of State will be held on September 17 in Dushanbe in a hybrid format. The meeting will be chaired by the President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the Indian delegation and address the plenary session of the summit via video-link," the MEA said. "At Dushanbe, India will be represented by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar," it said in a statement. The MEA said the summit will be attended by the leaders of the SCO member states, observer states, secretary-general of the SCO, executive director of the SCO regional anti-terrorist structure, the president of Turkmenistan and other invited guests. In Dushanbe, Jaishankar will attend a meeting on Afghanistan of the heads of state of the SCO and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, the people cited above said. It will be the first SCO summit being held in a hybrid format and the fourth summit that India will participate in as a full-fledged member of the bloc. "This summit assumes significance as the organisation is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. At the summit, the leaders are expected to review the organisation's activities over the past two decades and discuss the state and prospects of future cooperation," the MEA said. It said topical issues of regional and international importance are also expected to be discussed. Jaishankar is also likely to hold a series of bilateral meetings at the Tajik capital city with his counterparts from Iran and Tajikistan among others. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian and Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi are expected to be in Dushanbe for the SCO meetings. Earlier this month, Jaishankar spoke to his newly appointed Iranian counterpart and discussed the situation in Afghanistan as well as bilateral issues. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, the Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India has shown keen interest in deepening its security-related cooperation with the SCO and its regional anti-terrorism structure (RATS), which specifically deals with issues relating to security and defence. India was made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping, which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-virtually-lead-indian-delegation-at-sco-summit-on-september-17-1030621.html
15-09-2021||National||Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel transfers 4 senior bureaucrats from CMO||Ahead of the swearing-in of new ministers of the Bhupendra Patel government in Gujarat, four senior IAS officers were on Wednesday shifted out of the Chief Minister's Office. As per a notification issued on Wednesday, the bureaucrats who have been transferred include M K Das, who was serving as the additional chief secretary (ACS) to the CM, and Ashwani Kumar, who was secretary to the chief minister. Two officers on special duty (OSDs) K N Shah and D H Shah were also transferred. Patel, who took charge as the state's chief minister on Monday, has chosen to replace all the main officers in the CMO, official sources said. M K Das has been replaced by Pankaj Joshi, who was serving as the ACS in finance department, while IAS officer Avantika Singh Aulakh has been appointed secretary to the CM in place of Ashwani Kumar. Besides, Bharuch Collector M D Modia and Ahmedabad's Deputy Municipal Commissioner N N Dave have been appointed as OSDs to the CM. Patel (59) took over as the Gujarat chief minister on Monday after the sudden resignation of Vijay Rupani last Saturday. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-cm-bhupendra-patel-transfers-4-senior-bureaucrats-from-cmo-1030658.html
15-09-2021||National||Crimes against women, children drop in 2020; disobedience cases go up drastically: NCRB||The coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown resulted in a drop in traditional crimes like theft, robbery, and assault on women and children in 2020, but there was a drastic jump in disobedience to government orders, primarily arising due to violations of Covid-19 norms, official data showed. According to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on 'Crime in India – 2020', a total of 66,01,285 cognisable crimes comprising 42,54,356 Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes and 23,46,929 Special and Local Laws (SLL) crimes were registered in 2020. It shows an increase of 14,45,127 (28 per cent) in registration of cases over 2019 (51,56,158 cases), while the crime rate registered per lakh population increased from 385.5 in 2019 to 487.8 in 2020. During 2020, registration of cases under IPC increased by 31.9 per cent whereas SLL crimes rose by 21.6 per cent over 2019. The percentage share of IPC cases was 64.4 per cent while that of SLL cases was 35.6 per cent of total cognisable crimes during 2020. Major increase was seen in the cases registered under disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant from 29,469 cases in 2019 to 6,12,179 cases in 2020 and under 'other IPC crimes' from 2,52,268 cases in 2019 to 10,62,399 cases in 2020, the report said. Similarly, under SLL category, more cases were registered under 'other state local acts' — from 89,553 in 2019 to 4,14,589 in 2020. These together have resulted in 16,43,690 more cases registered in 2020 as compared to 2019. “These cases are primarily those arising out of violations of Covid norms. Effectively, therefore, there is a decrease in registration of traditional crime by about two lakh cases,” it said. During 2020, a total of 55,84,135 IPC cases (13,27,167 cases pending from the previous year, 42,54,356 reported during the year and 2,612 cases re-opened for investigation) were under investigation, of which 34,47,285 cases were disposed of by police including 26,11,925 cases which were charge-sheeted, resulting in the charge-sheeting rate of 75.8 per cent. The country remained under complete lockdown from March 25 to May 31, 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic (first wave), during which movement in public space was very limited. The cases registered under crimes against women, children, and senior citizens, theft, burglary, robbery and dacoity declined, whereas Covid-related enforcement resulted in an increase of cases registered under 'disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Sec. 188 IPC)', under 'other IPC crimes' and under 'other state local acts', it said. A total of 10,47,216 cases of offences affecting the human body were registered which accounted for 24.6 per cent of the total IPC crimes during 2020, of which hurt (5,78,641 cases) accounted for the maximum cases -- 55.3 per cent -- followed by cases of causing death by negligence (1,26,779 or 12.1 per cent) and cases of assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty (85,392 or 8.2 per cent). The cases registered under offences against human body depict a marginal decrease of 0.5 per cent in 2020 over 2019 (10,52,016 cases) and the crime rate has declined from 78.6 in 2019 to 77.4 in 2020. A total of 29,193 cases of murder were registered during 2020, showing a marginal increase of 1 per cent over 2019 (28,915 cases) with ‘disputes' (10,404 cases) being the motive in the maximum cases followed by 'personal vendetta or enmity' (4,034 cases) and 'gain' (1,876 cases). A total of 84,805 cases of kidnapping and abduction were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 19.3 per cent over 2019 (1,05,036 cases). A total of 88,590 people (14,869 males and 73,721 females) were reported kidnapped or abducted during 2020, of which 56,591 (8,715 males and 47,876 females) victims were children and 31,999 (6,154 males and 25,845 females) were adult. During 2020, a total of 91,739 kidnapped or abducted people (22,872 males and 68,867 females) were rescued, of which 91,458 people were rescued alive and 281 found dead. A total of 3,71,503 cases of crime against women were registered during 2020, showing a decline of 8.3 per cent over 2019 (4,05,326 cases). Majority of crimes against women under IPC were registered under 'cruelty by husband or his relatives' (30 per cent) followed by 'assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty' (23 per cent), 'kidnapping and abduction of women' (16.8 per cent) and 'rape' (7.5 per cent). A total of 1,28,531 cases of crime against children were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 13.2 per cent over 2019 (1,48,090 cases). In percentage terms, major crime heads under 'crime against children' during 2020 were kidnapping and abduction (42.6 per cent) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (38.8 per cent) including child rape. A total of 29,768 cases were registered against juveniles during 2020, depicting a decrease of 7.8 per cent over 2019 (32,269 cases). The crime rate also depicts a decrease from 7.2 in 2019 to 6.7 in 2020. A total of 35,352 juveniles were apprehended in 29,768 cases, of which 31,618 juveniles were apprehended under cases of IPC and 3,734 under cases of SLL during 2020. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crimes-against-women-children-drop-in-2020-disobedience-cases-go-up-drastically-ncrb-1030661.html
15-09-2021||National||Income Tax officials search six places linked to actor Sonu Sood||In a surprise development, Income Tax teams carried out searches at places linked to actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood, who emerged as a hero of migrant workers during the Covid-19 lockdown.  The Punjab-born Mumbai-resident Sood (48) works predominantly in Hindi, Tamil and Telugu films.  Half a dozen places in Mumbai and Lucknow were surveyed by the taxmen. Sonu Sood or his office is yet to give any statement on this topic, and the details of the I-T action are not yet known. The tax survey comes days after Sood became the brand ambassador for the Delhi government's mentorship programme for school students after a meeting with Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal. There were also speculations in a section of the media that the actor may contest elections in Punjab. However, no formal statement has been made by the actor in this regard.  Sood has acted in films like Dabangg, Yuva, Athadu, Ashok, Jodha Akbar, Arundhati, Dookudu, Shootout at Wadala, Happy New Year, Kung Fu Yoga. He also owns a film company Shakti Sagar Productions and a hotel in Juhu. The star also endorses a few products as a model and brand ambassador. In 2020, after the outbreak, he emerged as a messiah for migrants as he organised buses and flights to ensure that stranded people reach their homes. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-officials-search-six-places-linked-to-actor-sonu-sood-1030666.html
15-09-2021||National||Gaganyaan mission likely to be launched by 2022 end or early 2023: Jitendra Singh||India's ‘Gaganyaan’ mission is likely to be launched by the end of 2022 or early 2023, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Wednesday. The mission, originally scheduled for a launch by 2022, was delayed due to a coronavirus pandemic. It aims to launch a manned mission in the Lower Earth Orbit. “We could have actually done this (launched Gaganyaan by 2022). We had planned to time it along the 75th anniversary of India's Independence, but it could not happen that way because of the inevitable delay caused due to Covid-19. “But I am sure, maybe by the end of next year or may be (by) the beginning of 2023, we would be able to do that as well,” he said. Singh, the Minister of State in the Department of Space, was addressing a webinar on ‘Future of India-Oceania Space Technology Partnerships’ organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) here. He further said a brainstorming exercise by space scientists and government officials in 2015-16 helped them understand where space technology could be used. “Space technology has a role to play, virtually, in every sector,” he asserted. Space technology has come very handy in the area of disaster management, the minister said, adding that space medicine is also deeply connected in the endeavour to send three Indians to space. According to the government, four biological and two physical science related microgravity experiments from academic institutions are shortlisted for unmanned mission of the Gaganyaan programme. Singh also emphasised on the importance of reaching out to start-ups and industry players working in the arena of space. Speaking on India's collaboration with oceanic countries in the area of space, he noted that India has a “comfort level” with these countries which makes it easy to collaborate with them. “The Oceania countries such as New Zealand, Australia and the Pacific Island countries can also collaborate (with India) and work on joint space technology solutions and innovative products,” the MoS added. Earlier this week, Anthony Murfett, Deputy Head, Australia Space Agency had said Australia would be supporting India's Gaganyaan mission by tracking it through Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 'Mangalyaan', India's Mars Orbiter Mission, was tracked from Fiji.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gaganyaan-mission-likely-to-be-launched-by-2022-end-or-early-2023-jitendra-singh-1030669.html
15-09-2021||National||India hits out at Pakistan, OIC for raising Kashmir issue at UN Human Rights Council||India on Wednesday slammed Pakistan and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) for raising the issue of Jammu and Kashmir at the United Nations Human Rights Council. New Delhi accused Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government of failing to protect the rights of the minorities, including Sikhs, Hindus, Christians and Ahmadiyas. “Thousands of women and girls from minority communities have been subjected to abductions, forced marriages and conversions in Pakistan and its occupied territories,” Pawan Badhe, first secretary of India’s permanent mission to the UN offices in Geneva, said in a statement at the UNHRC. The statement was made using India’s 'right to reply' after Pakistan and OIC accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government of human rights violation in Jammu and Kashmir. “Pakistan has been engaged in systematic persecution, forced conversions, targeted killings, sectarian violence and faith-based discrimination against its ethnic and religious minorities,” said Badhe, turning the table on Pakistan. He said that the incidents of violence against minority communities, including attacks on their places of worship, their cultural heritage, as well as their private property had taken place with impunity in Pakistan. A ‘climate of fear’ continues to drastically impact the daily lives of minorities in Pakistan, he added. He rejected the reference made by the OIC to Jammu and Kashmir and stated that the Union Territory was an integral part of India. “The OIC has no locus standi to comment on internal affairs of India. The OIC has helplessly allowed itself to be held hostage by Pakistan, which holds the chairmanship of their Geneva Chapter, to subserve its own agenda. It’s for the members of the OIC to decide if it is in their interest to allow Pakistan to do so,” said Badhe.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hits-out-at-pakistan-oic-for-raising-kashmir-issue-at-un-human-rights-council-1030672.html
15-09-2021||National||Delhi HC notice to EC, others on PIL against parties offering cash in polls ||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Election Commission why it failed to take action against political parties for violating its guidelines on corrupt practices and offering cash transfers in manifestos to voters. "Why are you shying from taking action? Start taking action. Don't just issue notices and letters. Let us see what action you are taking. Proposed actions also, you can state," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh told a counsel, appearing for the poll panel. As the EC's counsel submitted that it had issued strict guidelines for the political parties in relation to corrupt practices following S Subramaniam Balaji case judgement (2013) by the Supreme Court, the bench sought to know the action taken by it against the parties, saying powers are ornaments and those have to be used for the welfare of the public at large. The court was hearing a PIL filed by two advocates Parashar Narayan Sharma and Capt Gurvinder Singh who contended that offering cash without any work in election manifestos has to be declared illegal. It also sought a response from the Centre on the petition which said such cash for vote promises are in violation of Section 123 of the Representation of People Act related to corrupt practices and bribery. The bench also issued notice to two political parties -- Indian National Congress (INC) and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) -- as the petition pointed out both had in the 2019 general election offered cash to a certain section of the society. The INC announced the Nyuntam aay Yogyna -- NYAY scheme and offered to put Rs 72,000 yearly to a section of voters. The court posted the matter for hearing on September 24. Senior counsel Soumya Chakraborty, appearing for the petitioners, contended that when cash is offered, not against any labour, it is not supported by any policy and countenanced in the Constitution. "During the Covid-19 pandemic, funds were put in accounts of people. It was an extraordinary situation. If political parties start the trend of giving money not against any work, our industries, and agriculture will finish," he submitted. The petition filed through lawyer Amardeep Maini claimed a spike in practices such as offering cash and freebies would be a death blow to the foundation of democracy and cast a pall of gloom over the free universal franchise. It further alleged the EC for reasons best known to them have adopted a stony silence. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-notice-to-ec-others-on-pil-against-parties-offering-cash-in-polls-1030681.html
15-09-2021||National||'PM Modi sent me money': Bihar man refuses to return wrongfully credited funds||A man in Bihar's Khagaria district received Rs 5.5 lakh in his account by a bank error, but refused to return the amount, claiming the money "was sent by Prime Minister Narendra Modi". The Gramin Bank in Khagaria had mistakenly sent the money to Ranjit Das, a native of Bakhtiyarpur village under Mansi police station, and despite several notices, Das refused to return the amount, saying he had spent it. "I was very happy when I received the money in March this year. I thought as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised every one of depositing Rs 15 lakh in their bank account, I thought that it could be the first instalment of it. I have spent all the money. Now, I did not have money in my bank account," Das, who has been arrested, said in a statement to police. Mansi Station House Officer Deepak Kumar said: "We have arrested Ranjit Das on the complaint given by the manager of the bank. Further investigation is on." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-sent-me-money-bihar-man-refuses-to-return-wrongfully-credited-funds-1030686.html
15-09-2021||National||Trust between govt and industry increased following scrapping of retrospective taxation: Rajnath||The trust between the government and the industry has increased following the scrapping of the retrospective taxation regime, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday. In a virtual address at the Indo-US Economic Summit organised by a leading industry chamber, Singh listed a range of measures initiated by the NDA government to boost economic growth and said the global investors are now receiving "red carpet" welcome in India instead of "red-tapism". "We have formulated progressive and investor-friendly tax policies. We have said 'Good Bye' to retrospective taxation. "The trust between the government and the industry has increased following the scrapping of the retrospective taxation. By doing this, we have rectified the mistake of the earlier government (UPA)," Singh said. He said the government is preparing for 'dynamic growth' in this entire decade and noted that there is a lot of scope for American and Indian defence firms to go for co-production and co-development of military equipment. "The coronavirus pandemic has brought newer challenges in terms of disruption to supply chains, a downturn in industrial activities, negative growth in travel and tourism industry and there is no doubt that the Indo-US cooperation will go a long way to restore normalcy and further boost economic dynamism," Singh said. A number of top executives of leading American defence companies participated in the summit organised by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trust-between-govt-and-industry-increased-following-scrapping-of-retrospective-taxation-rajnath-1030694.html
15-09-2021||National||India participates in SCO military exercise in Russia||India sent a military contingent to Russia to take part in a multilateral exercise along with China, Pakistan and other members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). The 6th edition of the SCO military drill – Exercise Peaceful Mission – is being held in the Orenburg Region of South-West Russia. It started last Monday and would continue till September 25. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) in New Delhi stated that India sent 200-member military contingent onboard two IL-76 aircraft to Russia to take part in the drill. The exercise is aimed at fostering close relations between the SCO member states and enhancing the abilities of the military leaders to command multi-national military contingents. It will enable sharing of best practices between the armed forces of SCO nations, the MoD stated in a press release issued on Wednesday. The exercise will focus on counter-terrorism operations in an urban scenario in a multinational and joint environment, it added. India, however, is unlikely to take part in another SCO counter-terror drill being hosted by Pakistan later this month. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-participates-in-sco-military-exercise-in-russia-1030696.html
15-09-2021||National||Business activities should not compromise public health: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has observed that business activities should not compromise public health. While hearing a petition on the closure of hot mix plants in Uttar Pradesh, the Green Bench made this observation. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the hot mix plants which are beyond carrying capacity may be closed at the earliest and as far as possible from November 1, 2021, by the statutory regulators in the exercise of their jurisdiction under the Air Act, 1981 and the Environment Protection (EP) Act, 1986. The bench said that the sustainable development principle requires that the business activity should not compromise public health, and this requires the study of carrying capacity. The bench also formed a panel to study and sought a report from the panel. The committee will comprise the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF & CC), Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and subject experts. Pending this report, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board is not to allow non-compliant hot mix plants, said the NGT The court asked the joint committee to give a report on the issue relating to the operation of hot mix plants beyond 'carrying capacity'. The NGT said ways and means need to be explored to sustain such activities to the extent possible without adversely affecting public health.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/business-activities-should-not-compromise-public-health-ngt-1030712.html
15-09-2021||National||PM Modi, Mamata, Adar Poonawalla among Time Magazine’s 100 'most influential people of 2021'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla have been named among the world’s 100 most influential people of 2021 by TIME magazine. TIME on Wednesday unveiled its annual list of ‘The 100 Most Influential People of 2021’, a global list that includes US President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Duke and Duchess of Sussex Prince Harry and Meghan, former US president Donald Trump and co-founder of the Taliban Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. TIME's profile of Modi says that in its 74 years as an independent nation, India has had three pivotal leaders - Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Modi. "Narendra Modi is the third, dominating the country’s politics like no one since them.” The profile written by noted CNN journalist Fareed Zakaria alleges that Mod has "pushed the country away from secularism and toward Hindu nationalism." It also accuses the 69-year-old leader of "eroding the rights” of India’s Muslim minority and imprisoning and intimidating journalists. On Banerjee, her profile for the 100 most influential list says that the 66-year-old leader "has become the face of fierceness in Indian politics." "Of Banerjee, it is said, she doesn’t lead her party, the Trinamool Congress - she is the party. The street-fighter spirit and self-made life in a patriarchal culture set her apart,” the profile says. Poonawalla’s TIME profile says that from the beginning of the COVID19 pandemic, the 40-year-old head of the world’s largest vaccine maker “sought to meet the moment.” "The pandemic is not over yet, and Poonawalla could still help end it. Vaccine inequality is stark, and delayed immunisation in one part of the world can have global consequences—including the risk of more dangerous variants emerging,” it says. The Time profile describes the Taliban co-founder Baradar as a "quiet, secretive man who rarely gives public statements or interviews." "Baradar nonetheless represents a more moderate current within the Taliban, the one that will be thrust into the limelight to win Western support and desperately needed financial aid. The question is whether the man who coaxed the Americans out of Afghanistan can sway his own movement,” says Baradar’s profile. The list also includes tennis player Naomi Osaka, Russian opposition activist Alexei Navalny, music icon Britney Spears, executive director of the Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council Manjusha P. Kulkarni, Apple CEO Tim Cook, actor Kate Winslet and the first African and first woman to lead the World Trade Organization Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-mamata-adar-poonawalla-among-time-magazine-s-100-most-influential-people-of-2021-1030716.html
15-09-2021||National||Sedition, UAPA cases decrease in 2020; convictions still at low: NCRB data||The number of cases filed for sedition and those under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act saw a decrease in 2020 compared to the previous year even as the investigators continued to fail to get convictions in almost two-third of the cases in which trials were completed. Last year saw 73 cases of sedition as against 93 in 2019 while UAPA cases saw a sharp dip to 796 from 1,226 during the same period, according to the Crime in India 2020 report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Wednesday. Manipur registered the highest number of cases under Section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code while 2019's topper Karnataka saw a steep decline from 30 cases to eight cases, ranking third. Assam came second with 12 cases of sedition. Uttar Pradesh (7) and Delhi (5) were other toppers. When it comes to cases under UAPA, Jammu and Kashmir was at the top with 287 cases followed by Manipur (169), Jharkhand (86), Assam (76) and Uttar Pradesh (72). Karnataka had just one UAPA case last year. Altogether 44 people, including two women, were arrested in sedition cases last year while 1,321 people, including 34 women, were apprehended under UAPA. Three persons were convicted in two cases of sedition while four were acquitted in a total of six cases in which trial was completed. 80 people were convicted, 115 were discharged and 116 were acquitted by courts in UAPA cases. While no women were convicted in sedition or UAPA cases, nine women were either acquitted or discharged in UAPA cases. If one takes the statistics on sedition cases, it tells a story: 356 cases of sedition were filed between 2015 and 2020, 62 cases went to trial and at least 59 people were acquitted in 55 cases. Only 12 people in seven cases were sentenced to jail term during this period. Trial was completed only in six cases of sedition last year, one in 2019 and 13 in 2018. Six cases saw trials completed in 2017, three in 2016 and four in 2015. There was no conviction in 2015 while there was one each in the next two years, two in 2018 and one in 2019. While the conviction rate is 33.3% last year, 2019 recorded the least conviction rate at 3.33% in the past five years. It was 15.40% in 2018, 16.70% in 2017 and 33.30% in 2016. According to the report, 103 cases are still pending trial in courts at the end of 2020. When it comes to police investigations, cops had 230 cases for probe, including 157 cases pending from 2019. Of this, they could file chargesheet only in 23 cases -- 14 cases originated in 2020 while nine were from cases registered before 2020. The report said the chargesheet rate was 57.5% while the pendency was 82.2%. In UAPA cases, 2,642 cases came up for trial, including 2,244 cases pending from 2019, of which trial was completed only in 128 cases while a total of 142 cases were disposed of. Conviction happened only in 27 cases at a rate of 21.1% as against a better rate of 29.2% in 2019, while 2,500 cases are still pending trial. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-uapa-cases-decrease-in-2020-convictions-still-at-low-ncrb-data-1030721.html
15-09-2021||National||Often difficult to distinguish between murder and culpable homicide as both involve death: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reduced life imprisonment awarded to a truck driver to 10-year jail for mowing down a Sub Inspector after breaking a forest department barrier, finding that the convict reacted disproportionately in rage without any motive, intention or animus to kill the police officer. A bench of Justices K M Joseph and S Ravindra Bhat allowed an appeal filed by Mohd Rafiq alias Kallu and altered his conviction from the offence of murder to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Going through the penal provisions, the bench said it is often difficult to distinguish between culpable homicide and murder as both involve death. Yet, there is a subtle distinction of intention and knowledge involved in both crimes. This difference lies in the degree of the act. There is a very wide variance of degree of intention and knowledge among both the crimes. Coming back to the case at hand, the bench pointed out the conviction of the appellant for murder was not appropriate as he did not have any previous quarrel with the deceased Sub Inspector D K Tiwari. There was a lack of animus. The act resulting in SI Tiwari’s death was not pre-meditated, it said. "If one considers that the deceased tried to board the truck, and was perhaps in plain clothes, the instinctive reaction of the appellant was to resist; he disproportionately reacted, which resulted in the deceased being thrown off the vehicle. Such act of throwing off the deceased and driving on without pausing, appears to have been in the heat of passion, or rage," the bench said. However, the court noted the appellant did have the intention of causing such bodily harm, to the deceased, as was likely to result in his death, as it did, so he should be convicted for the offence punishable under Section 304 Part I of the IPC. On March 9, 1992, the deceased Sub Inspector along with others tried to stop the truck which broke the forest department barrier at Damoh in Madhya Pradesh. Instead of applying brakes, the accused tried to speed away, upon which SI Tiwari boarded the truck from its left side. The accused warned SI Tiwari not to do so and that he would get killed. Nevertheless, SI Tiwari boarded the truck. Immediately thereafter, the appellant pushed him, as a result of which SI Tiwari fell off the truck and he was run over by the rear wheels of the truck, resulting in his death. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/often-difficult-to-distinguish-between-murder-and-culpable-homicide-as-both-involve-death-sc-1030722.html
15-09-2021||National||Raj Kundra chargesheeted in pornography case||Controversial British-Indian businessman Raj Kundra has been chargesheeted by the Mumbai Police in connection with the sensational pornography case which had international ramifications.  The 46-year-old Kundra is the husband of Bollywood actor, model and fitness expert Shilpa Shetty. Kundra, who is the founder of Viaan Industries Ltd, and his United Kingdom-based brother-in-law Pradeep Bakshi, the Chairman of Kenrin Group, London, are the alleged masterminds of the racket. The Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police, which has been investigating the case for the past few months, filed the first supplementary charge sheet in the case, which ran into 1,500 pages. Kundra and his associate Ryan John Tharpe have been named as accused in the case. The duo is currently in judicial custody.  The porn content was uploaded on HotShots App. After making the content, the two companies -- Viaan and Kendrin -- made them available on mobile apps, offering subscriptions, advertise them on social media, all of which were illegal as pornography in any form and is banned in India.  Earlier, nine persons were arrested including TV actress Gehna Vashisht (32) Yasmin Khan (40) Monu Joshi (28) Pratibha Nalavade (33) Atif Ahmed (24), Dipankar Khasnavis (38), Bhanusurya Thakur ( 26) Tanvir Hashmi (40) and Umesh Kamat (39) - and they have already been chargesheeted.  The accused were booked under the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Information Technology Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raj-kundra-chargesheeted-in-pornography-case-1030725.html
15-09-2021||National||No KYC for shifting from prepaid to postpaid connection and vice versa||With the Union Cabinet approving major reforms in procedures in telecom sectors, shifting from prepaid to postpaid connections and vice versa will not require fresh KYC (Know Your Customer). "While acquiring the new SIM, or MNP, all procedures will be digital. There will not be any physical KYC," Union Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said after the Cabinet meeting. "Self-KYC (App-based) is permitted and the e-KYC rate has been revised to only Rs 1," he said, before adding that “We all have mobile connections and for whatever connection it is, we have filled up some forms. All these forms are deposited in the warehouses and there are 300-400 crore forms in warehouses. In Digital India, there is no need for this paperwork. So all these will be digitised and going forward, there will be no physical KYC." "In the backdrop of the outstanding performance of the telecom sector in meeting Covid-19 challenges, with a huge surge in data consumption, online education, work from home, interpersonal connect through social media, virtual meetings etc., the reform measures will further boost the proliferation and penetration of broadband and telecom connectivity. The Cabinet decision reinforces the Prime Minister’s vision of a robust Telecom Sector. With competition and customer choice, antyodaya for inclusive development and bringing the marginalized areas into the mainstream and universal broadband access to connect the unconnected. The package is also expected to boost 4G proliferation, infuse liquidity and create an enabling environment for investment in 5G networks,” the ministry of communications said in a statement. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-kyc-for-shifting-from-prepaid-to-postpaid-connection-and-vice-versa-1030741.html
15-09-2021||National||Credibility of legislatures linked to conduct of members: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||The credibility of legislatures is linked to the conduct and behavior of the members, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Wednesday, expressing anguish over the "increase of unparliamentary behaviour of public representatives in recent years." He asked members to observe the highest standards of discipline and decorum, both inside and outside the legislatures. Birla's observations came at the 81st All India Presiding Conference on Wednesday, which was attended by presiding officers of legislative assemblies and legislative councils of states in India as well as presiding officers of Austria, Guyana, Maldives, Mongolia, Namibia, Sri Lanka, Zimbabwe and Mauritius. At the event which took place a month after a stormy Monsoon Session, Birla said incidents of unparliamentary behaviour of public representatives have increased in recent years, which have tarnished the image of institutions and called for collective efforts to maintain discipline and decorum there. "Credibility of legislatures is linked to conduct of the members. Privileges of public representatives come with their responsibilities," the Speaker said, calling for introspection by members collectively and individually about their conduct. Birla recalled that different conferences were organised on this issue earlier in 1992, 1997 and 2001 as well and suggested that a mega conference of MPs and MLAs may be organised in the country next on the completion of 75 years of the country's independence. The Speaker also suggested organising a programme on role of women and young MPs and MLAs in strengthening democratic institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/credibility-of-legislatures-linked-to-conduct-of-members-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-1030757.html
15-09-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi calls BJP & RSS 'fake Hindus'; ruling party hits back||Taking the names of goddesses from Hindu pantheon, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at BJP and RSS with "fake Hindus" barb and accused the Modi government of trying to "snatch powers of employment and education" from people. "People from BJP and RSS say they are Hindu parties. If anybody in the last 100-200 years has understood Hinduism most and put it in practice, it was Mahatma Gandhi. We also accept him and the people from RSS and BJP also vouch for him. So if Mahatma Gandhi understood Hinduism, why somebody with (alleged) RSS ideology shot him dead. You should think about this contradiction," Gandhi said addressing a gathering of Mahila Congress at its foundation day in AICC headquarters. Asserting that the goddess Laxmi is about the power of employment, goddess Saraswati the strength of knowledge and goddess Durga the strength of fearlessness, Gandhi accused the Modi government of snatching all these from the people of India and "weakening women". "What kind of Hindu are they? They are fake Hindus. They use Hindu religion but they are not Hindus," Gandhi said at the event creating a binary of "good Hindu" and "bad Hindu" and claimed for Congress the "real Hindu" space. Meanwhile, BJP hit back with its general secretary Arun Singh slamming Rahul saying he is "totally disconnected from the ground" and has "no information". "No one takes him seriously. He is not a serious person. Look at the track record of Rahul Gandhi. Sometimes he speaks after reading papers, sometimes after copying two or three lines, he doesn't know what is happening on the ground," he said. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said, "In his address, Rahul Gandhi hurt Hindu religious sentiments. Laxmi, Durga, Saraswati are the centre of the sentiments of crores of people." Showing Congress party's symbol of hand, Gandhi at the event said this sign can be seen in photos of lord Mahaveer, lord Buddha, Sai Baba, Jesus Christ and Guru Nanak and even Muslims look at their hands while seeking something from God. "You can't have this hand in the BJP office but can see in every religion," Gandhi said seeking to give an all-religion identity to the Congress symbol. Congress, which had in AK Antony committee report cited perception of Muslim appeasement about the party one of the key reasons for its worst ever poll debacle in 2014 general elections, had assiduously gone for an image makeover in last few years reaching out to Hindus even while targetting the BJP, whose Hindutva nationalism plank ensured its two consecutive general election victories. The party called Rahul Gandhi a 'janeudhaari Brahmin'' and a "Shiv Bhakt '' during the 2018 Assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh. Of late, Rahul has been taking a strong position on the plank of secularism and asked "those scared of RSS '' to leave the party. The party this month appointed Digvijaya Singh, a trenchant critic of BJP's Hindutva politics, the head of a panel to identify issues to take on the BJP nationally.   Party sources say that Congress is going in with a balanced approach on the Hindutva issue and will not leave Hinduism plank solely to the BJP and will instead raise questions on the commitment of the BJP and RSS to Hinduism rather than appearing to be against Hindu politics. At the Mahila Congress event, Gandhi said, "All these people from RSS have got confused. We have to remove this confusion about Hinduism from the mind of such people". He also said that the ideology of the Congress was completely opposite to that of the BJP and RSS and only one of the two ideologies can rule the country. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-calls-bjp-rss-fake-hindus-ruling-party-hits-back-1030665.html
15-09-2021||National Politics||PM Modi launches 'Sansad TV'; VP Naidu warns of fake news, sensationalism||'Sansad TV', which merges the Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV after deliberations of over two years, was officially launched on Wednesday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi reminding that "content" is king while Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu warned that the current media scene is confronted with the challenge of "fake news and sensationalism" due to the 'breaking news' syndrome. Modi said the 21st century is bringing revolution especially through communication and dialogue and in such a situation, it becomes natural that the channels associated with Parliament should also transform themselves according to modern times. At the launch function, he said, "My experience is -- 'content is connect'. That is, when you have better content, people automatically engage with you. As much as this applies to the media, it is equally applicable to our Parliamentary system. Because there is not only politics in Parliament, there is also policy." Emphasising that the role of media and TV channels is also changing in the rapidly changing times, he said when MPs know that the country is watching them, they also get inspiration for better conduct and better debate inside the Parliament. While LSTV and RSTV come under single management, both the channels will be on air throughout and stream proceedings of the Houses separately under the new brand name. When Parliament is not in session and beyond the working hours of Parliament, both the variants will telecast common content to a large extent with the LSTV, launched in 2006, telecasting programmes in Hindi and RSTV, launched in 2011, in English. Launching the 'Sansad TV' along with Modi and Lok Sabha Speaker, Naidu also said the media should function as a "Means of Empowerment for Development through Informed Actions" by the citizens. Naidu said, "With speed and the compulsion to be the first with breaking news occasionally overriding all other considerations, we are confronted with the challenges of fake news and sensationalism. Separating truth from falsehood has become a real challenge. However, we can legitimately be proud of our press which has zealously preserved its freedom over these years and given people multiple viewpoints on issues that matter. This has in many ways greatly enriched our democratic tradition." He also stressed the need for dialogue and constructive action by all and bringing an end to disruptions in the legislatures. Calling for "meaningful debates echoing people's aspirations" in the legislatures, Naidu said, "The loud disruptive noise should not drown the voice of people. The debates should amplify concerns, clarify doubts and deepen shared understanding. Debates in the legislature throw up solutions to the problems. But disruptions only dissipate our collective energies and delay the task of building a new India." The merger of both the channels came after a report by a committee headed by former Prasar Bharati Chairman Surya Prakash in February 2020. The committee, which also included Rajya Sabha Secretariat's A Rao and Lok Sabha Secretariat's Ganpati Bhatt, was formed in November 2019 following a discussion between the Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha Chairman. "Two language variants would enable better branding and increased viewership by overcoming the shortcomings associated with the present bi-lingual telecast format of both the channels," the committee had said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-launches-sansad-tv-vp-naidu-warns-of-fake-news-sensationalism-1030701.html
15-09-2021||National Politics||Parliament more about policy than politics: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that Parliament is not only about politics but policy too and described content as "connect", saying this is as much applicable to the parliamentary system as to the media. Launching Sansad TV, which has been created by merging Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV, jointly with Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, he said it is very important that the common man connects with Parliament and feels he is part of it. Parliament is in fact more about policy than politics, Modi said. The new channel adds another important chapter in the country's parliamentary system, he said. Noting that the launch coincides with International Day of Democracy, Modi reiterated that India is the mother of democracy, saying democracy is not just a system but an idea and not merely a constitutional structure but spirit. Democracy in India is not just a collection of the Articles of the Constitution but it is our lifestream, the prime minister added.   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-more-about-policy-than-politics-pm-modi-1030718.html
15-09-2021||North and Central||Sukhbir urges farmers to join his party's protest march on Sept 17||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday urged farmers agitating against the three central farm laws to participate in a protest march in Delhi on September 17. The Shiromani Akali Dal had announced to observe September 17 as "black day" on the completion of one year of the enactment of the three laws. The SAD workers would also take out a protest march from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament demanding repeal of the three laws. “@Akali_Dal will observe Sept 17, the day three #FarmLaws were passed in 2020, as 'Black Day'. We request our farmer brothers to join us in this historic march in Delhi, from Gurdwara Rakabganj Sahib to Parliament, to lodge a protest against GOI for passing these black laws,” said Sukhbir in a tweet. Bathinda MP and Sukhbir's wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal also appealed to farmers to take part in the “historic” event. “To mark the year of our fight against black laws & quitting the NDA, @Akali_Dal will observe #Black_Day on Sept 17. We will hold a protest march from Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib to the Parliament. We appeal to our farmer brothers & party leadership to make it a historic event,' she said in a tweet. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbir-urges-farmers-to-join-his-partys-protest-march-on-sept-17-1030492.html
15-09-2021||North and Central||IAF to hold air show over Srinagar's Dal Lake on Sept 26||The Indian Air Force will hold an air show over the famous Dal Lake here on September 26 that will help motivate the youth of Jammu and Kashmir to join the IAF, according to officials. More than 3,000 schoolchildren and college students will attend the show, the officials said. "The main aim of the air show is to motivate the youth of the Valley to join the Indian Air Force and to promote tourism in the region," Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole said. On Tuesday, Pole chaired a meeting of principals of various educational institutions regarding students' participation in the air show that is being conducted by the IAF as part of the 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' celebrations. The theme of the show is 'Give Wings to Your Dreams'. More than 3,000 college and school students are expected to participate in the programme to witness the impressive manoeuvres of the IAF aircraft that will motivate them to dream about a career in the IAF and in the aviation sector, an official spokesperson said. "The show will also develop a passion among the students to give wings to their dreams. Along with the students, 700 teachers will also be present at the venue," he said. The spokesperson said Pole directed the heads of educational institutions to ensure the participation of NCC cadets. Stalls will be set up at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre and students will be familiarised with the achievements of the IAF, employment opportunities in the force, recruitment rules and eligibility criteria.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-to-hold-air-show-over-srinagars-dal-lake-on-sept-26-1030563.html
15-09-2021||North and Central||L-G Gurmit Singh sworn in as Uttarakhand Governor||Lt Gen (retd) Gurmit Singh was on Wednesday sworn in as the new Governor of Uttarakhand. Uttarakhand High Court Chief Justice R S Chauhan administered the oath of office to Singh at a simple function held at the Raj Bhawan here. The function was attended by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, his cabinet colleagues Satpal Maharaj and Dhan Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal, Director General of Police Ashok Kumar and a number of senior government officials including Chief Secretary S S Sandhu. Singh succeeds Baby Rani Maurya, who resigned two years before completing her tenure. Singh, who retired as the deputy chief of the Indian Army, is a highly decorated officer. He is considered an expert on India-China affairs. Talking to reporters soon after the swearing-in ceremony, Singh said, "After serving the country as a soldier, I feel proud to have got the opportunity to serve Uttarakhand, which is also called 'Veerbhoomi', where every family has someone in the armed forces." He said addressing issues related to ex-servicemen, soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty and their dependents will be among his priorities. "I will try to rise to the expectations (of people) from the Governor's office," he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-gurmit-singh-sworn-in-as-uttarakhand-governor-1030568.html
15-09-2021||North and Central||Fairs, exhibitions to be allowed in Delhi from tomorrow||The Delhi government has allowed public fairs and exhibitions from Thursday, under a phased reopening of economic activities interrupted by the lockdown during the second wave of Covid-19 in the city. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in an order issued on Wednesday, said business-to-consumer exhibitions will be permitted in the city from September 16. Banquet halls will be allowed to hold such exhibitions and fairs, it said. Schools, however, will be closed for students up to Class 8, the order said. The exhibitions and fairs will be allowed with all stakeholders strictly following the standard operating procedure laid down by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the DDMA said. Other activities prohibited and allowed by the DDMA will remain so till the intervening night of September 30 and October 1, the order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fairs-exhibitions-to-be-allowed-in-delhi-from-tomorrow-1030608.html
15-09-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh elections: Congress asks ticket aspirants to deposit Rs 11,000||In a decision many viewed as an attempt to shore up financial resources of the party, Congress has asked those aspiring to contest on the party ticket in the next Assembly polls, which is due in March 2022, to deposit Rs 11,000 with their applications. UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu said that the ticket aspirants would have to submit their applications by September 25.  The grand old party has termed the charges as 'sahayog rashi' (contribution). Congress leaders said that the applications would be scrutinised by the high command.  A senior Congress leader in Lucknow told DH that the decision to ask for a deposit was to ensure that only serious contenders applied for the nominations. "We are flooded with requests for party nominations... many times even those, who are not serious in contesting the polls, also seek tickets... this decision will surely deter non-serious people," the leader added. Sources in the party, however, said that it would also shore up the financial resources and help tide the cash crunch to some extent. The decision however came under attack from the rival BJP, which said that the Congress was short of candidates and hence was resorting to such tactics. "The Congress does not have a sufficient number of candidates to be fielded on all 403 assembly seats... it is politically irrelevant in Uttar Pradesh," UP minister and senior BJP leader Satish Mahana said here on Wednesday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-elections-congress-asks-ticket-aspirants-to-deposit-rs-11000-1030620.html
15-09-2021||North and Central||Chemistry lab-made 'alum Ganesha' creates eco-friendly ripples||Students of a government school in the Satna district of Madhya Pradesh have prepared eco-friendly Ganesha idols in their chemistry lab from potash alum, a water purifying chemical compound, to spread the message of "science for environment". The group of eight students from the Venkat Higher Secondary Excellence School No 1 struck on the idea last week during their class with their chemistry teacher Dr Ramanuj Pathak. The idols, about 1.5 ft tall, were moulded and prepared on Ganesh Chaturthi day on September 10. "We were discussing in the class about how idols, statues made of plaster of paris and paint pollute the environment and damage the ecosystem after immersion. It was then that we decided to put science into action and hence the idea to create eco-friendly Ganesha idols of alum in our chemistry laboratory came about," Pathak told PTI. Potassium alum or simply called alum is a water purifier and a double-salt chemical compound which not only purifies water but also leaves no harmful residue. Alum also has antiseptic properties and multiple medicinal uses, he said. "When we immerse idols made of alum into water bodies they are not polluted but instead cleansed," Pathak said. Those made from plaster of paris are hard and insoluble in water as they have calcium sulphate and end up polluting and choking the water body. Even idols made of clay are adorned with wood, varnish, paint, fodder, paper and other items which are not eco-friendly and dirty the water, he said. The students have now installed the idol created by them in the chemistry lab and plan to immerse it on the Ganesha 'visarjan' day. "We started the experiment with first heating the alum on the gas burner in the lab and melting it in glass beakers. It was later cooled and put in a cast made of wet flour," Pranshu Gautam, a student, said. The teachers at the school informed that potash alum melts at 92 degrees Celsius and starts boiling around 120 degrees Celsius. It is then allowed to cool for about 30 minutes after which liquid alum is put in a cast made in the shape of Ganesha. Pathak said alum can be purchased from the market at around Rs 40 per kilogram and one such idol of 1.5-2 ft height can be made for just Rs 3. The crystalline idol looks nice even without using paint or colours, however, organic colours can be used to beautify it, he said. Pathak said he and his students are looking to take this experiment further and prepare Durga idols during the upcoming Durga Puja/Dussehra festivities "so that the message reaches more people and everyone can come together in the initiative to celebrate our festivals with care for the environment." Once successful, such idols of Ganesha and Durga can be made on a commercial scale too, he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chemistry-lab-made-alum-ganesha-creates-eco-friendly-ripples-1030638.html
15-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to get Rs 10,000 crore revenue from bidding of liquor shops under new excise policy||The Delhi government earned 23% less revenue in the current financial year due to Covid-19 but it is expecting a leg up with the auction of liquor shops through which it is expecting to cough up around Rs 10,000 crore, an increase of around Rs 3,500 crore under the new excise policy. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told reporters that tax collection has been hit in the past two fiscals owing to Covid-19 and subsequent lockdowns. In 2020-21, he said there was a 41% decrease in revenue while it is 23% this fiscal as of now. "One good thing is that we will have better revenue collection in the next 12 months as we expect to get around Rs 10,000 crore through auctions of liquor shops under the new excise policy. There will be around Rs 3,500 crore extra revenue from what we got in 2019-20 when it was around Rs 6,300 crore," he said. Owing to the dip in tax collections, the Deputy Chief Minister said the administration has cut down on all expenses other than salaries and those related to Covid-19 pandemic. The GST collection was down by 23%, VAT by 25%, Excise Duty 30%, Stamp Duty 16% and Motor vehicle tax by 19%. He said Delhi gets only Rs 325 crore as grant from the Centre while Delhiites pay Rs 1.4 lakh crore as tax to the Centre. "It will be tough for Delhi in the future as the Centre is not helping us. We have been demanding that Delhi should be given its share from the central pool," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-get-rs-10000-crore-revenue-from-bidding-of-liquor-shops-under-new-excise-policy-1030662.html
15-09-2021||Opinion||A tropical paradise is brewing a storm in a tea cup||By Andy Mukherjee, The Maldives and Sri Lanka, both highly tourism-dependent tropical islands, have seen the pandemic devastate their economies and finances. Government debt this year is expected to linger above 100 per cent of gross domestic product in the two small Indian Ocean nations. Unsurprisingly, both have similar — and similarly poor — credit standings. A default by CCC-rated borrowers is a “real possibility” on Fitch Ratings’ scale. And yet, the Maldives seems to be turning the corner on visitor arrivals, with numbers last month exceeding the figure for August 2019. Sri Lanka, where a deadly Easter Sunday suicide bomb attack two years ago hit tourism even before the pandemic, is falling behind.  With a population of just half a million, the Maldives was hit hard by the the delta variant. In May, the virus infected almost three out of a 1,000 people in just one day. Sri Lanka, which is home to 21 million, has seen a more manageable spike by comparison, with the surge peaking at a 7-day average of just under 6,000 new cases late August. That’s 0.28 new infections for a thousand people. Since then, Covid-19 is in retreat, and the country is on track to cover 60 per cent of its population with the required two vaccine doses by the end of the month. Among other popular beach destinations, Mauritius, which reached that milestone late last month, is optimistic about a revival in its leisure industry. With some luck, and restoration of international flight links, the winter might bring more holidaymakers to Sri Lanka’s sandy beaches, too. Will it be enough, though, to make up for a 99.6 per cent drop in tourism earnings from the pre-pandemic level? Clearly not. But that’s not the only problem. It it doesn’t help that the 9 per cent decline in the Sri Lankan rupee since the start of the pandemic — a depreciation that could make tourist towns like Galle and Kandy cheaper for vaccinated travelers from India — has also stoked a food crisis. Amid an acute shortage of imported rice, sugar, milk, pulses and cereals, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa announced a state of economic emergency from Aug. 31, and named an army officer as the commissioner general of essential services, a telltale sign that the food queues are turning serious. At least they’re serious enough for Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, one of the president’s several brothers in the cabinet, to replace the central bank chief. Ajith Nivard Cabraal, who was the governor between 2006 and early 2015, is returning to his old job to find money. After meeting a $1 billion debt repayment out of foreign-exchange reserves in July, the $3.55 billion kitty can barely cover two months of imports. Additionally, $3.65 billion in repayments are coming due next year on hard-currency borrowings. If Cabraal has a magic wand, he has to wave it now — or Sri Lanka will have to seek a rescue from the International Monetary Fund.  Tea, the country’s most famous export, could have helped soften the blow. But the commodity that pulled in $1.2 billion last year is facing its own crisis because of the government’s sudden decision to do away with chemical fertilizers. The industry can’t possibly find enough new buyers of niche, organic tea to offset a threefold jump in the cost of production. Experts warn that crop diseases could lead to unmitigated disasters like in 1869, when the island’s then significant coffee plantations were wiped out by a fungal infection.  Colombo couldn’t have found a worse time to go back to the 19th century. The country’s share among top global sellers of the beverage has been declining for some time. Rivals who manage to lure more customers away from Ceylon tea won’t let go of them in a hurry. That isn’t all. With even vegetable crops sputtering, the ban on fertilizer imports is untenable. Still, a decision to reverse it was dropped. The Rajapaksa administration doesn’t want to appear weak politically by changing its mind. Or maybe it knows that Sri Lanka won’t need to go to the IMF. Since the onset of the pandemic, a cozy relationship with China has helped the president secure a $1 billion loan, in addition to a $1.5 billion dollar swap facility with the Chinese central bank and a gift of 600,000 vaccine shots. Colombo could approach Beijing again for help, automatically putting some pressure on its next-door neighbor. At a public debt-to-GDP ratio of about 90 per cent, India’s own finances aren’t a whole lot better than that of the Maldives and Sri Lanka, though a large, diversified economy gives it a much bigger sway with investors — and a (barely) investment-grade credit rating. While aware of the economic trouble brewing at its southeastern tip, India has long delayed a decision on Colombo’s request for a loan-repayment moratorium. Having just seen its $3 billion investment in Afghanistan go up in smoke, New Delhi’s appetite for economic diplomacy may even be lower than usual. Still, caught in a debt trap, a previous Sri Lankan government sold the port of Hambantota to China Merchants Port Holdings Co. To stall further Beijing-backed enclaves at its doorstep, New Delhi may be compelled to bring out its checkbook. A deepening economic crisis is narrowing Rajapaksa’s options, but the president hasn’t run out of cards yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-tropical-paradise-is-brewing-a-storm-in-a-tea-cup-1030544.html
15-09-2021||Opinion||Kerala: The Church and Hindutva entente?||Kerala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt of Pala Diocese, while addressing a Church gathering on September 9, said "narcotic jihadis" are spoiling the lives of non-Muslims. The Bishop offered no material proof to support his theory. However, the Kerala Catholic Church Council and several other dioceses supported Bishop Kallarangat's comments. Earlier, the Church had accused a section of the Muslim community of using love as a tool to lure girls belonging to other faiths into their fold. We should note here that the Union and the state government have denied any "love jihad" in Kerala. Despite this, the Church and the Sangh Parivar organisations have continued to raise this issue repeatedly. What reasons prompt the Church to indulge in a campaign that could have severe societal repercussions? Political considerations are the main factor. The Christian community has been the bedrock of the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala since the formation of the state. The Congress party waged the infamous liberation struggle against the first communist government led by EMS Namboodiripad, with the wholehearted support of the Church and other religious organisations. Despite the formation of the Kerala Congress, the Christian Church continued to wield tremendous influence in the Congress party. But with the Congress party weakening, the Church seems to be changing its political preferences. The Church is also sceptical of the increased influence of the Indian Union Muslim League in the Congress-led UDF.  These factors might have led the Church to become more pragmatic towards the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP has failed to consolidate Hindu votes in Kerala. Hence, the BJP sees the disenchantment of the Christian leaders with the Congress as a godsend. It understands the importance of garnering the Christian votes if it breaks the binary in Kerala politics between the CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led UDF. Before the state Assembly polls earlier this year, church leaders met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and, according to media reports, expressed their concerns, including increased restrictions on foreign contributions to churches. The BJP has been consistently taking a pro-Christian stand on a host of issues ever since. But all those attempts failed to bear fruit for the BJP in the Assembly elections. Responding to the Bishop's allegation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said those in responsible positions should be cautious about stoking societal divisions. The Congress party's VD Satheesan was more forthright. He said the Sangh Parivar is working to create Muslim-Christian sectarianism in the state. But the BJP was quick to seize the opportunity. It asked the Union government's intervention and said it endorsed the Church's position on narcotic jihad. According to a Lokniti-CSDS survey, the BJP, which got 10 per cent of the Christian votes in 2016, could get only two per cent in the 2021 assembly elections even though the BJP was consistently raising the bogey of love jihad and conversion issues with the Church. With the Church being more aggressive now, the saffron forces in the state are sure to push their polarisation agenda in the coming days. The saffron party knows the battle is a long drawn one, and it has to keep the Church in good humour. Apart from the political imperatives, there are other reasons for the Church to take up this divisive issue vociferously. The Cardinal of Syro Malabar Church, Mar George Alancherry, faced serious charges of financial misconduct, leading to open protests from the believers of the Church. The High Court has recently asked the Cardinal to face trial in the case, denting the image of the Syro Malabar Church. Then there are cases of sexual misconduct involving priests have been that have surfaced recently, and the Church's attempt to protect the accused has come for criticism. It has caused disenchantment among the believers. Some feel the love jihad and narcotic jihad bogeys are attempts by the leaders of the Church to divert the attention of the believers by pointing towards an imagined enemy. Like in other parts of the country, in Kerala, too, the BJP devised "love jihad" as a plank to target Muslims. The Sangh Parivar has also targeted Christian missionaries, but it seems to have successfully sold its agenda to the Church in Kerala. In the long run, this could have a detrimental effect on the social fabric of one of India's most religiously diverse states. According to the 2011 census, 54.73 per cent of the state's population is Hindu, Muslims constitute 25.56 per cent, while 18.38 per cent are Christians. While the controversy around "narcotic jihad" and "love jihad" continued unabated, Asianet News published a research report on the status of religious conversions in the state between January 2021 and September 2021. Based on the data from the government gazette, the report stated that a significant chunk of the conversions took place from Christianity to Hinduism and not Islam, as suspected by the Church leaders.  Of the 449 people who converted to other faiths, according to the report, 116 Christians converted to the Hindu religion. Only 45 of those who converted from Christianity chose Islam. Of those 116 Christians who converted to the Hindu religion, the majority are Dalits, laying bare the caste prejudices in the Christian Church in Kerala. These are facts based on official reports. However, those who attempt to take political mileage by pitting one group against another and the ones who fall prey to divisive agenda seldom care about the facts. Amid such bleak developments came the silver lining a couple of days after the Bishop's "narcotic jihad" comments. On Sunday, sister Anupama Kelamangalathuveliyil and three other nuns, Alphy Pallasseril, Ancitta Urumbil, and Josephine Villoonnickal, boycotted the service when a priest allegedly delivered hate speech against Muslims at the St Francis Mission Home, Kuravilangad. "Christ taught us to love everyone, to care for neighbours and against communalism. But the priest during the mass said that vegetables should not be bought from shops run by Muslims and asked us not to travel in autorickshaws they drive. He has been making such vitriolic statements earlier also against Muslims. Today we could not help but walk out of the mass in protest," they said. The nuns had earlier come out against the Church when it had tried to protect rape accused Bishop Franco Mulllaikkal. (The writer is a Kochi-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kerala-the-church-and-hindutva-entente-1030653.html
15-09-2021||South||Telangana: TRS, BJP in war of words over funds from Centre||The ruling TRS and opposition BJP in Telangana were engaged in a war of words on Tuesday after the TRS Working President and minister K T Rama Rao threw a challenge at state BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar over funds given by Centre to the state. "... they say all the money is given by the Centre but state is showing it off. I would like to ask that Member of Parliament Bandi Sanjay ji, I will quit my state minister's post and come out if what I am saying is wrong. Would you quit as MP if what you are saying is wrong? You accept this challenge if you have courage," Rama Rao, son of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, said addressing a public meeting in Gadwal district. While the state has paid Rs 2.72 lakh crore to the Centre towards taxes during the last six-and-half years, what it received was Rs 1.42 lakh crore, he said. Asked about the comments, Sanjay Kumar, who has undertaken a state-wide 'padayatra', said the Centre has increased the allocation to the state from 32 per cent during the UPA regime to 41 per cent now. The Centre tries to provide help during disasters and others, he told reporters in Medak district on Tuesday evening. He cited the examples of vaccines and relief measures announced by Centre during the Covid-19 crisis. He alleged that the TRS government took an indifferent attitude towards the workers of state-run Road Transport Corporation (RTC). Rama Rao should quit over the alleged rise in debt burden in the state, for allegedly not providing unemployment allowance as promised and not implementing farm loan waiver, among others, said Sanjay Kumar, a Lok Sabha member. Sanjay Kumar launched his 'Praja Sangrama Yatra' ('padayatra') on August 28 at the Bhagya Lakshmi at Charminar here.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-trs-bjp-in-war-of-words-over-funds-from-centre-1030474.html
15-09-2021||South||Only obstacle before Sangh Parivar in establishing Hindu Rashtra is India's history: Kerala CM||The Sangh Parivar wants to destroy the democratic and secular fabric of the country in order to establish a Hindu Rashtra and the only obstacle before them in attaining it is the history of India, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday. Vijayan said while defending the history of our country and fighting the attempts to change it, it is equally important to bring to light the real face of those who want to destroy the same. The Left leader was speaking at the inaugural session of the 'Malabar revolt, 100 years, 100 seminars', a seminar series organised by the DYFI, the youth wing of CPI(M). The Chief Minister's remarks come at a time when the state was witnessing a raging debate over whether the Malabar Rebellion or the "Moplah Rebellion" reported in the northern part of the state in the year 1921 was a revolt against the British or a communal riot. "The most important agenda of the Sangh Parivar is to tweak the history of our country. Sangh Parivar wants to destroy the democratic secular and socialistic fabric of our country in order to establish a Hindu rashtra and the only obstacle before them in attaining the same is this history of India," Vijayan said. He said there were attempts by the Sangh Parivar to "validate" certain people as freedom fighters whereas they never took part in our freedom struggle but were in support of the Britishers. "There are attempts to glorify those who had betrayed our freedom struggle," Vijayan said. Vijayan said the Sangh Parivar wants the young generation in India to grow up without knowing the real history of the country and without realising the values ​​of renaissance. "The attack against the Malabar revolt is part of their campaign. Any injustice done to history cannot be pardoned," the chief minister said. Vijayan said the Sangh Parivar is using the same words and tactics of the British to demean the Malabar revolt and remove it from history. "The British policy of divide and rule is being implemented in India these days by the slaves of British," the Left veteran charged. While the CPI(M) described the rebellion as the most organised agitation against the exploitation by feudal landlords, the Congress described it as a shining movement against the anti-imperialist forces. However, the BJP and the RSS have described the rebellion as one of the first manifestations of the Taliban mindset in India, strongly opposing the move by the Left and Congress to treat it as part of India's freedom struggle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/only-obstacle-before-sangh-parivar-in-establishing-hindu-rashtra-is-indias-history-kerala-cm-1030486.html
15-09-2021||South||Cracks in AIADMK alliance; PMK to contest alone in rural local body polls||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), an influential party among Vanniyars in northern Tamil Nadu, on Tuesday night announced it will contest alone in the elections to rural local bodies in nine districts, in what appears to be the first crack in the AIADMK-led alliance. In a late night announcement, PMK President G K Mani said office-bearers of the party in the nine districts that would go to polls on October 6 and October 9 opined that the party should go about it alone in its “own interests.” Elections in these nine districts were not held in 2019 due to the bifurcation of old districts and the creation of new ones.  “Based on the unanimous opinion expressed in the meeting, I hereby declare that the PMK will contest the rural local body elections in nine districts on its own. This announcement is being made with the approval of PMK founder Dr S Ramadoss and youth wing secretary Anbumani Ramadoss,” Mani said in the statement. AIADMK and BJP did not immediately react to PMK’s announcement. The three parties had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 assembly polls in an alliance. PMK going it alone in the polls might hurt the AIADMK’s prospects further as seven of the nine districts that will witness elections are from Northern Tamil Nadu where the party wields considerable influence. The districts in the northern part that will go to polls are Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tiruppattur, Vellore, and Ranipet. The PMK confirmed its alliance with AIADMK for the assembly elections only at the last minute after the government rushed through a legislation to provide 10.5 percent reservation to Vanniyars, among whom the party enjoys huge influence, in the 20 per cent MBC quota in jobs and educational institutions. However, the gamble did not pay off in the elections. PMK’s decision was not completely surprising as it was not happy with the AIADMK alliance after the elections. The PMK feels AIADMK cadres did not work for the party in the assembly elections whereas the party’s votes were transferred to the then ruling party enabling its win in districts dominated by it. PMK won only 5 of the 23 seats it contested in the April 6 assembly elections and the friction between the party and AIADMK was visible for some time now. PMK voted in favour of resolutions against CAA and Farm laws, while AIADMK and BJP staged a walkout over the issue. In the Assembly, the PMK has been siding with the DMK on several issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cracks-in-aiadmk-alliance-pmk-to-contest-alone-in-rural-local-body-polls-1030501.html
15-09-2021||South||Couple tying the knot after hiding love affair in a room for 10 years||A Kerala couple who surprised many by hiding their love affair in a room for ten long years is finally tying the knot. Rahman and Sajitha, natives of Nenmara in the rural parts of Palakkad district in Kerala, were in the news a few months ago after they claimed that Sajitha, who was reported missing by her family ten years ago, was staying in the former's house without the knowledge of any others in his family. The couple's tale was quite hard to believe, especially that no other in Rahman's family was aware of the presence of Sajitha in his room in a small house. The room did not have a toilet even. Police examination found that the story could not be rejected totally and investigations are still going on. The couple on Wednesday turned up at the local sub-registrar office and submitted an application for registering their marriage. Sajitha's parents were also present. Local MLA K Babu and some social activists of the area wished the couple and presented gifts. The couple requested the MLA for support in setting up a house and to avoid any further police investigations into their past life. Rahman, who is an electrician by profession, had made a special lock for his room to ensure that no one would open it and made his family members believe that anyone trying to open the door would suffer an electric shock. He always kept the volume of the television in his room high and provided earphones to Sajitha to watch TV when he went out. The bars of a window were made detachable for Sajitha to use the toilet during the night. The untold love story came out after Rahman, who left the house a few months ago, was spotted along with Sajitha by his brother in a nearby locality. Rahman and Sajitha, who were neighbours, fell in love, but since their families were from two different communities, their wish to get married with their blessings was in vain. Hence, Sajitha decided to leave her house at the age of 18, while Rahman was 24. Their plans to move to a rented house did not materialise owing to the financial crunches of Rahman. Members of rights forums had also collected Sajitha's statement following concerns that her rights were curtailed for a decade. But she told them that Rahman was taking good care of her. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/couple-tying-the-knot-after-hiding-love-affair-in-a-room-for-10-years-1030680.html
15-09-2021||South||Row in Kerala over actor-turned MP Suresh Gopi seeking salute from police||Actor-turned Rajya Sabha MP from Kerala Suresh Gopi seeking a salute from a police officer has triggered a row in Kerala. It was while visiting a heavy wind affected area of Thrissur district that the MP asked a sub-inspector to salute him. With video footage of the incident going viral on social media, the MP maintained the sub-inspector sat in the police jeep even when he was visiting the spot. As he felt it was a disrespect to an MP, he reminded him that an MP could be saluted by police. The incident has reportedly triggered resentment among the police personnel as the police officer was insulted in the public. Police sources maintained that police officers are supposed to salute only higher officers and ministers in the hierarchy. Kerala witnessed a similar row recently as Thrissur Mayor M K Varghese complained that the police were not saluting him. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-in-kerala-over-actor-turned-mp-suresh-gopi-seeking-salute-from-police-1030697.html
15-09-2021||South||One more Congress leader joins CPM in Kerala||One more Congress leader, G Rethikumar, a former general secretary of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, joined the CPM on Wednesday.  Another former general secretary of Kerala Congress K P Anil Kumar and former secretary P S Prasanth were the others who recently left the Congress and joined the CPM. A V Gopinath, a prominent leader from Palakkad district, resigned from Congress recently. CPM leaders indicated that more leaders from Congress may soon join the party. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that though earlier there was a tendency among Congress leaders to join the BJP, now it is very well evident that the Left Front is fighting against the BJP's policies and not the Congress. "Hence, Congress leaders are joining CPM. The Congress is a tent that is collapsing," he said. Meanwhile, the Congress leaders have unleashed a campaign that the CPM is becoming a trash bin of the national party. While Opposition leader V D Satheesan of the Congress said that nothing would happen to the party even if any top leader left, senior leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy did not react to queries of media persons on the exodus. Some Congress leaders said that the party should introspect on the reasons behind the exit of the leaders. The present unrest in the Congress mainly started after the leadership change in the state with Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran being made the Kerala PCC president and Satheesan the Opposition leader. The district presidents of the party have been already announced while the new office bearers for the district and state committees are being finalised. The new leadership is also trying to bring a semi-cadre structure to the party to ensure discipline.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-congress-leader-joins-cpm-in-kerala-1030740.html
15-09-2021||South||Big relief for AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy as CBI court dismisses bail cancellation pleas||A special CBI court in Hyderabad has on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by YSRCP rebel MP Raghu Rama Krishna Raju seeking cancellation of Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy's bail. Jagan, as the YSRCP chief is popularly known, was arrested in the disproportionate assets case by the CBI in May 2012 when he was representing the Kadapa Lok Sabha constituency in Parliament. He has been out on bail since September 2013 and became the chief minister of AP in May 2019. In April this year, Raju had petitioned the CBI court for cancellation of the bail granted to Jagan, claiming bail condition violations, and apprehending that the CM was using his position to influence the persons connected with the case, seating them in plum positions. Subsequently, the Narasapuram MP filed another petition for the cancellation of the bail of co-accused in the alleged quid pro quo deals case Vijayasai Reddy, who is the YSRCP Parliamentary party leader. The CBI court, which completed the hearings last month and posted its verdict on September 15, has now turned down this plea too. Reacting to the order, Raju said he would approach the higher courts seeking review of the judgment. Earlier on Wednesday, the Telangana high court had refused to direct the transfer of the bail cancellation pleas to another court. Ahead of the CBI court's verdict date, Raju had approached the high court under suspicion that the ruling could be favourable to Jagan and Vijayasai. The DA case pertains to the alleged quid pro quo investments made by various firms in Jagan's companies, when his father late YS Rajasekhara Reddy was the chief minister of united Andhra Pradesh from 2004-09, in return for favours like allocation of land and other resources. Central agencies CBI and ED had investigated the claims of criminal conspiracy etc., against Jagan in the case involving several industrialists, ministers and top bureaucrats. Jagan is the prime accused and YSRCP Parliamentary party leader Vijayasai Reddy is the second accused in the 11 charge sheets filed by the probe agency. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/big-relief-for-ap-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-as-cbi-court-dismisses-bail-cancellation-pleas-1030742.html
15-09-2021||South||Kerala tourists could soon travel in luxury caravans||Tourists to Kerala could soon be able to move around in luxury caravans as the state is initiating a Caravan Tourism initiative. In yet another attempt at reviving the Covid and floods ravaged tourism sector of Kerala, the Caravan Tourism is being modelled as an extended version of Kerala's popular houseboat tourism project in which tourists can spend nights in luxury houseboats. The Caravan Tourism project, brand named as 'Keravan Kerala', is expected to be rolled out formally by next January. Luxury caravans would be offered to travel to tourist spots. Caravan parks would be also set up at tourist spots where caravans can be parked for overnight stays. Kerala Tourism Minister P A Mohamed Riyas who announced the new initiative on Wednesday said that the project would be initiated with a private-public partnership. Private players would be offered subsidies and incentives for setting up caravans. The state government would set up caravan parks at tourist spots. Unexplored tourist spots across the state would be identified and developed, he said. Riyas, who unveiled the Caravan Tourism Policy of the state, said that in the post-Covid scenario the Caravan tourism project would be of much attraction for tourists and it was the first of its type initiative in the country. Over the last few years, Kerala tourism has been facing huge losses owing to the back to back floods and calamities, Nipah and Covid. Hence, various new initiatives were being made to revive the tourism sector which is a major employment and revenue generation sector for the south Indian state. The state tourism has also initiated a farm and agriculture tourism network under responsible tourism initiative. As many as 500 farm tourism units and 5,000 homestay farms would be brought under the network by 2023. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tourists-could-soon-travel-in-luxury-caravans-1030751.html
15-09-2021||South||Rape-murder of six-year-old girl: Hyderabad police launch massive manhunt for absconding perpetrator||Nearly a week after the horrific rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in Hyderabad, the perpetrator is still at large. With the opposition parties are mounting an attack on the Telangana government, alleging failure of law enforcement, the Hyderabad police have announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh for information leading to the arrest of the accused Pallakonda Raju (about 30 years of age). The offer from the Telangana police department came on Tuesday, days after the initial claims of the arrest by the police and a tweet stating so by Telangana's IT, industries minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday.  “Deeply anguished with the news of a six-year-old child's sexual molestation and murder in Singareni Colony. While the perpetrator has been arrested within hours, I request home minister Mahmood Ali and the Telangana DGP to ensure that justice is delivered expeditiously,” Rao said in a tweet on 12 September. However, on Tuesday, Rao clarified the status in another tweet. “Would like to correct my tweet. I was misinformed that he was arrested. Regret the erroneous statement. The perpetrator is absconding and the Hyderabad police have launched a massive manhunt for him. Let's all make our best efforts to ensure he is nabbed and brought to justice quickly.” Telangana Congress chief Revanth Reddy called the minister irresponsible and demanded that the police officer who misled him should be dismissed from service immediately. "Who gave you the wrong information which you used to mislead the people? Are you not accountable for such a goof-up?" Revanth questioned Rao while addressing the media on Wednesday. The incident took place on September 9 in the Singareni Colony, under the Saidabad police station limits. Raju, a neighbour of the girl's family, allegedly abducted and sexually molested her. The girl's body, with bite marks, was reportedly found at Raju's dwelling. The girl's father is an auto driver from the ST community. Several politicians including JanaSena chief Pawan Kalyan visited the family. Terming the incident as a failure of the police, YSRTP chief YS Sharmila threatened to sit on a protest in the locality till a proper response comes from Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. The public is also outraged, with several people demanding an “encounter killing” of the culprit like that of the four accused in the rape and murder of a young veterinarian “Disha” in Hyderabad in December 2019. Meanwhile, police teams have fanned out all over the city and the state in search of Raju. In some road junctions, cops were seen displaying the suspect's photos to auto-drivers, commuters etc., in hope of any leads. “Despite serious efforts, the accused Raju, is still at large,” Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad police commissioner said. Police said that he is addicted to alcohol and is used to sleeping at the bus stands, pavements. Revanth, who visited the Singareni Colony, said that locals complained that their area has turned into a hub of ganja and drug addicts. “The locality has become unsafe for women. The local police never acted on the multiple complaints lodged by the residents. The colony is just 1 km away from the residence of Home Minister Mahmood Ali. But the government did nothing to check the spread of drug abuse there," the Congress leader said. Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rape-murder-of-six-year-old-girl-hyderabad-police-launch-massive-manhunt-for-absconding-perpetrator-1030752.html
15-09-2021||State||Demolition of temple revealed true colour of BJP: Harish Kumar||MLC and District Congress Committee President Harish Kumar alleged that the true colour of the BJP government was revealed by the demolition of temples in the state. "The demolition of the temple was sponsored by the BJP- led government. Without the government’s approval, such a sensitive issue can not be undertaken," he told media persons in Mangaluru. “For demolishing a temple in Mysuru, the government is now pointing its finger at the DC and Tahsildar. Without the government’s permission, will an officer take a step to demolish a temple?” he sought to know. "When several directions of the Supreme Court are not being implemented, why was the direction of the demolition implemented in a hurry? There was direction from the Supreme Court during the UPA government as well. Only the BJP government can demolish a temple. The Congress never indulged in such acts," he added. "The protest by the Hindu organisations against the demolition of the temple was just an eyewash. The BJP government failed to convince the Supreme Court of the need for saving religious structures. The demolished temple should be rebuilt," he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/demolition-of-temple-revealed-true-colour-of-bjp-harish-kumar-1030683.html
15-09-2021||State||NIA chargesheets FICN racketeer in Karnataka||The NIA on Wednesday filed a supplementary charge sheet before a special court here against a person for his alleged involvement in circulating Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) after procuring them from Bangladesh, an official said. Sariful Islam of West Bengal's Malda used to procure FICN from absconding accused Saddam Sekh and Hakim Sekh, who are residents of Bangladesh, for further circulation in Karnataka along with his co-accused, the official of the premier investigation agency said. The case was registered in Karnataka's Belagavi after the arrest of two FICN racketeers and seizure of FICN with a face value of Rs 82,000, the NIA official said. The Special NIA Court, Bengaluru had earlier convicted five accused in the case for their role in procurement and circulation of FICN and sentenced them to imprisonment for six years, the official said. Further investigation against the absconding accused Saddam Sekh and Hakim Sekh continues, the NIA official added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nia-chargesheets-ficn-racketeer-in-karnataka-1030737.html
15-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||VIP treatment: Karnataka govt to use ambulance lane on highways for MLAs||Karnataka Public Works Minister C C Patil on Wednesday told the Legislative Assembly that the ambulance lane on state highways will be used for VIPs after legislators demanded preferential treatment while passing through toll plazas.  Patil was responding to a calling attention notice raised by JD(S) legislator K Annadani in the Legislative Assembly. The Malavalli MLA demanded a VIP lane for legislators to pass through tolls without any hassle.  “State highways have two-lane roads, not four-lane. So, having a separate VIP lane on both sides is difficult on two-lane highways. There’s an ambulance lane. Instructions will be issued to allow VIP movement on ambulance lanes,” Patil said.  Annadani said legislators end up spending ten minutes at toll plazas despite having a pass. “Even if we show the pass, those at the toll plaza scan it and ask for ID. We end up wasting time while having urgent works to attend to. We face unnecessary harassment and humiliation,” he said.   Citing the example of the NICE Road, Annadani said: “Our situation is miserable at the toll plaza. The gunman informs the toll personnel that there's an MLA in the car. Still, our pass gets scanned. We can’t even argue if there’s a woman at the toll plaza.” Another JD(S) MLA KM Shivalinge Gowda (Arsikere) angrily asked the government to withdraw its pass given to legislators. “Given the way we are treated, we might as well pay money. Take your pass back. This is a question of respect,” he said, demanding a separate lane.  Patil explained that IDs are asked by the toll plaza personnel to prevent the misuse of passes. “Also, due to heavy movement of vehicles, private vehicles are allowed on reserved lanes. We will issue instructions to prioritize VIP vehicles and ensure MLAs aren’t troubled,” Patil said.  When MLAs continued to persist, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said he would convene a separate meeting on this with the minister to find a solution. “This is a problem of 224 MLAs. There are lakhs of people who use these roads and they have their own problems. So, let's discuss this internally,” Kageri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vip-treatment-karnataka-govt-to-use-ambulance-lane-on-highways-for-mlas-1030684.html
15-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Southern Army Commander visits Bengaluru||Lt-General J S Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command visited Bangalore Military Station on September 14 and 15.  He was briefed by the General Officer Commanding, Karnataka and Kerala Sub Area about their active role in operations as well as during peacetime.  While General Nain noted the preparedness and efforts of the Sub Area in extending support to the Civil Administration of both Karnataka and Kerala states during Flood Relief Operations over the years, he also praised the support given to veterans and their dependents during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/southern-army-commander-visits-bengaluru-1030704.html
15-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru airport staff take bribe for Covid-19 test: Karnataka MLA Vinisha Nero||In a startling revelation, Anglo-Indian MLA Vinisha Nero told the Legislative Assembly that she paid a bribe of Rs 9,000 to get her Covid-19 RT-PCR report within minutes at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru. “There’s huge corruption at the airport,” Nero said during a discussion. “I had an RT-PCR report from Bowring Hospital, which was not accepted. I was told that I’d have to wait six hours if I pay Rs 800, two hours if I pay Rs 3,200 and just 15 minutes if I pay an additional Rs 1,200. I paid Rs 9,000 in spite of them knowing I’m an MLA. Like this, there were more than 100 people in one flight who paid Rs 3,200 plus Rs 1,200 bribe to the airport officials. I got my RT-PCR printout in under three minutes,” she said. She was speaking on a calling attention notice raised by Shantinagar legislator NA Haris, who asked the government to fix a uniform rate for Covid-19 tests being done at the Bengaluru airport.   “People are charged Rs 3,200 for a rapid antigen test (RAT) at the airport and the result is out immediately. In my constituency, the RAT costs just Rs 150-200. The RT-PCR test that’s done at the airport costs just Rs 800,” Haris said and asked why the RAT rate was so high. “This is daylight robbery.” Responding to this, Health & Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said the Covid-19 test is done only for people on inbound flights entering the airport. “We haven’t said anywhere that the RAT should be done. The rule is to do an RT-PCR test for which the cost is Rs 800. The report will be out in 4-5 hours,” he said.   Sudhakar said there is an express test whose result is out in 15 minutes. “This Abbott express test is for outbound flyers and it’s not mandatory,” he said.  Contesting this, Haris said he got a RAT done himself. “That’s the Abbott express test and it’s compulsory. Without it, people aren’t allowed to board the flight,” he said.  Sudhakar said the Abbott express test is cartridge-based and cannot be conducted on a large scale. “It looks like the legislator does not have the proper information. I will have my officials explain to him the difference between RAT, RT-PCR and the Abbott test,” the minister said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-airport-staff-take-bribe-for-covid-19-test-karnataka-mla-vinisha-nero-1030720.html
15-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai calls Subramanian Swamy a 'freelance politician'||Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Wednesday termed senior BJP Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy as a 'freelance politician' whose character and forte had been to speak against his own party and its leadership. "You know well about Subramanian Swamy. Whichever party he is in, he is like a freelance politician. He says whatever comes to his mind. Based on his analysis, he keeps saying things," Bommai said during a debate on price rise in the Karnataka Assembly. Bommai said Swamy spoke against the leadership of Janata Party and then Janata Dal as well. "While being in the government, he spoke against the then Prime Minister Chandrashekhar. It is the character and forte of Subramanian Swamy," he said. The Chief Minister's statement came as the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah quoted Swamy's February 2, 2021 tweet, which read, 'Petrol Rs 93 in Ram's India, Rs 53 in Sita's Nepal and Rs 51 in Ravan's Lanka." Siddaramaiah quoted the sitting BJP Rajya Sabha member to point out the rising fuel prices in India and its cascading effect on other commodities. "It's not me who has said this but Subramanian Swamy, who is a sitting Rajya Sabha member of the BJP. He was your father's (former CM Late S R Bommai) friend," Siddaramaiah quipped. He even challenged the BJP leadership to sack Swamy if he was not right. "I have no objection if the BJP leadership tolerates his statement. Don't forget that he is an economist and you have made him your Rajya Sabha member," Siddaramaiah said. To this, Bommai agreed saying Swamy is genius in economics and the party gave him due credit. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-calls-subramanian-swamy-a-freelance-politician-1030730.html
15-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to have airports in all major cities: Minister||Karnataka Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani on Wednesday said all major cities in the state will have airports and land acquisition process will begin soon. He also said the government will build permanent helipads in all the district headquarters. "Airports will be constructed in all the major cities in Karnataka. We will start the process of land acquisition to build airports soon. Widening domestic air connectivity is crucial for industrial development, tourism and other sectors in the region," Nirani said. Increased regional connectivity and air passenger traffic will help spur economic activities. The Minister was speaking at the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry's (FKCCI) Export Excellence Awards ceremony. Nirani said, in an effort to enhance rapid transportation and movement of people, the government will build permanent helipads in all the district headquarters. "Government will build permanent helipads in all the district headquarters. A dry port will come up in Hassan district and Karwar port will be developed further," he said. Noting that Karnataka’s exports across the sectors are increasing manifold, the Minister said the state has abundant opportunities, skill and capacity to excel in the global export market. "We are no. 1 in software exports contributing 40 per cent of India’s exports and a leading player in manufacturing and trade exports. We have made a mark in aerospace, automobile, readymade garments, cotton yarn, silk, pharma, food products, minerals, marine products, handicrafts among others," he said. Further elaborating on enhancing exports, Nirani said Karnataka is aiming for greater share in India's exports. "Our government is keen to make Karnataka a global manufacturing hub. We are encouraging manufacturing companies and exporters to possess core competence, cutting-edge technology and become an integral part of global supply chains. We have been encouraging our industries including MSME sector, start-ups and exporters with many sops in an attempt to make India self-reliant in every sector," he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-have-airports-in-all-major-cities-minister-1030736.html
15-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt files to go paperless from October 1||Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Wednesday ordered deputy commissioners, zilla panchayat chief executives and others to move all files to government secretaries only through 'e-office' starting October 1.  Under 'e-office', all files are scanned and uploaded onto the system for further transactions. Besides saving reams of paper, the ‘e-office’ cuts manual movement of files and ensures speedy clearances. “From 1.10.2021 onwards, movement of proposals, letters and reports by the DCs, CEOs of Zilla Panchayats and heads of departments to the secretary to government concerned should be only through e-office. Proposals should be sent as a single file by the concerned officer to the secretary concerned through e-office,” Kumar said in his order.  The order was issued at the behest of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who “directed that the movement of files and the number of levels at which the files are handled should be reduced”.  According to Kumar, the secretary should, as far as possible, dispose of the matter at his/her level or submit it to the minister concerned for orders. “Only in exceptional cases, where the matter requires additional information or if the matter has to be brought before the Cabinet and Cabinet note has to be prepared, the secretary can send the e-office single file to the deputy secretary,” the order states.  The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) had already implemented the ‘e-office’ on November 1, 2019, and all outgoing files to various departments are paperless. In June 2020, the then chief minister B S Yediyurappa announced that his office would receive files and letters in this paperless system.  Check DH latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-files-to-go-paperless-from-october-1-1030739.html
15-09-2021||West||Gujarat: DRI seizes Afghan heroin worth over Rs 2K cr at Mundra port||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized two containers of narcotic substances worth over Rs 2,000 crore at Mundra port in Kutch district, believed to have originated from Afghanistan. DRI sources said that the containers, carrying heroin in 38 bags, were imported by a firm based in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. The firm had declared the consignment as "talcum powder''. The exporter firm has been identified as Hasan Hussain Ltd, based in Kandahar, Afghanistan.  "The consignment has originated from Afghanistan and they were loaded at Bandar Abbas in Iran," an official, requesting anonymity, said.  He said, "The total amount of the narcotics is likely to be around Rs 2,000 crore''. Another source said that evaluation of the total worth is still going on and it could be one of the biggest cases in recent times. The case is being handled by the Gandhidham unit of DRI. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-dri-seizes-afghan-heroin-worth-over-rs-2k-cr-at-mundra-port-1030616.html
15-09-2021||West||One of Pak-organised terror module accused from Dharavi||One of the accused in the ISI-backed terror module by the Delhi Police’s Special Cell on Tuesday was living in Maharashtra. Jaan Mohammed Shaikh alias Sameer Kalia -- who was part of the “Pakistan-based terror module” is from the financial capital of Mumbai. After the Delhi Police action, teams of Mumbai Police’s Crime Branch-CID and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) swung into action and gathered more details about him. Shaikh, a resident of Dharavi slum, stayed with his family in a small one-room tenement and worked as a driver.  His wife and two daughters were taken to the Dharavi police station and are being questioned. Incidentally, he has links to the family of fugitive underworld don and 1993 Mumbai serial blasts mastermind Dawood Ibrahim, who is a designated global terrorist.  Jaan Mohammed Shaikh was reportedly in touch with Anees Ibrahim, the younger brother of Dawood Ibrahim. “He worked as a driver and was a quiet fellow... this news is shocking to us,” said Fayyaz, who is his friend. “I have known him for 30 to 35 years,” he said, adding that he was really surprised to hear the news.  Another neighbour said that Jaan Mohammed Shaikh was brought up in Dharavi. “His parents stayed here, they have passed away,” a lady neighbour said, adding that the couple were very good. After the news broke out, the room is now locked. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-of-pak-organised-terror-module-accused-from-dharavi-1030622.html
15-09-2021||West||2 penguin chicks born in Mumbai zoo in last 4 months: Mayor||In what comes as great news, two Humboldt penguin chicks were born in the Mumbai Zoo.   The Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and Zoo or the Mumbai Zoo is one of the oldest zoos in India. Spread over 50 acres, it is popularly known as Byculla Zoo or Rani Baug. Last week, a controversy erupted over the Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) floating of a Rs 15.26-crore tender for the upkeep of the penguins in the enclosure at the zoo for three years. Recently, political parties, including BJP, Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP), had cornered the Shiv Sena-ruled BMC over the tender. In the wake of the controversy, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar chose to announce that two new penguins have been born in the zoo. “We have two new penguins now,” she said. A male penguin chick, named Oreo, was born to Humboldt penguins Donald and Daisy on  May 1 this year and is four months old now. Another penguin chick was born to Flipper, the oldest female among the Humboldts, and Mr Molt, the youngest male in the zoo, on August 19. The baby penguin is stable and under the observation of zoo authorities. Besides the two newborn chicks, the zoo currently has seven adult penguins -- three males and four females. Eight Humboldt penguins -- Donald, Daisy, Popeye, Olive, Flipper, Bubble, Mr Molt and Dory --- were brought here from Seoul in South Korea, on July 26, 2016. However, Dory could not survive and died on October 23, 2016, because of a bacterial infection. A baby penguin born to Mr Molt and Flipper, in August 2018 had died a week after birth. “The existing pen has enough space to facilitate as many as 25 penguins,'' Mumbai Zoo director Dr Sanjay Tripathi said. The Humboldt penguin (Spheniscus humboldti) (also termed Chilean penguin, or patranca) is a South American penguin that breeds in coastal Chile and Peru. Its nearest relatives are the African penguin, the Magellanic penguin and the Galápagos penguin. The penguin is named after the cold water current it swims in, which is itself named after Alexander von Humboldt, an explorer. Humboldt penguins are medium-sized penguins, growing to 56–70 cm (22–28 in) long and a weight of 3.6-5.9 kg (8-13 lbs). The Mumbai Zoo has a special enclosure -- is spread across 1,700 sq ft -- where temperature ranges of 16 to 18 degrees C would be maintained and the penguins would feed on fish including the Indian mackerels. Water quality is monitored at regular intervals and there are several support systems that have been created. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-penguin-chicks-born-in-mumbai-zoo-in-last-4-months-mayor-1030625.html
15-09-2021||West||We don't show Calcutta bridge in Lucknow: Rajasthan minister takes a swipe at Yogi||Days after an Uttar Pradesh government advertisement showcased a Kolkata flyover, Rajasthan Energy Minister B D Kalla said the Ashok Gehlot government does not have to claim another state's development as its own. Replying to a debate on Tuesday on the power situation in the state, Kalla told the assembly that the state government's work is visible on the ground. "We do not run the government with tweets and posters, we do not show the Calcutta bridge in Lucknow. We do not confuse the public," he said, in a dig at the BJP. The newspaper which ran the UP government ad had owned up to the mistake, saying its marketing department had used the wrong photograph. Kalla also denied any scam in power purchase and said due to the wrong policies of the central government, the price of coal has increased and its burden has fallen on common consumers. He said the state government has cut unnecessary expenditure. Earlier, Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore had alleged corruption in the purchase of electricity at higher rates. The opposition also staged a walkout while expressing dissatisfaction with the reply of the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-dont-show-calcutta-bridge-in-lucknow-rajasthan-minister-takes-a-swipe-at-yogi-1030626.html
15-09-2021||West||All five accused plead not guilty in Dabholkar murder case||All the accused booked for murder of rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar pleaded not guilty before a special court in Pune, which framed the charges against them on Wednesday. The Special Court presided over by additional sessions judge S R Navandar framed the charges against the five accused - Virendra Sinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, Vikram Bhave and Sanjiv Punalekar. While Tawde, Andure, Kalaskar and Bhave faces sections 302 (murder), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, relevant sections of the Arms Act and section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (punishment for terrorist act), Punalekar, a lawyer by profession, faces section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence or giving false information to screen offender) of the IPC.  All of them are linked to right-wing Sanatan Sanstha.  Dabholkar, 67, an anti-superstition activist, was shot dead on August 20, 2013, by two unidentified gunmen near Omkareshwar temple in Pune.  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had taken over the case from Pune Police in 2014.  Tawde, appeared from Yerwada Central Jail through video conference, while Sachin Andure, appeared from Aurangabad jail and, Sharad Kalaskar from Arthur Road jail in Mumbai.  Two others -- Vikram Bhave and Advocate Sanjeev Punalekar, who are currently out on bail, were present in the courtroom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-five-accused-plead-not-guilty-in-dabholkar-murder-case-1030642.html
15-09-2021||West||Afcons completes daylighting of Maharashtra's longest and widest road tunnels at Igatpuri||Infrastructure major Afcons achieved the fourth and final breakthrough of Maharashtra’s longest and widest road tunnels at the Hindu Hrudaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg Package-14 on Tuesday.  The daylighting of both tunnels (LHS & RHS) is major progress and accomplishment towards construction and speedy completion of the expressway connecting Mumbai with Nagpur. Describing the project milestone, Joint Managing Director, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), Anil Kumar Gaikwad, said: “This is an extremely proud moment and a critical milestone that has been achieved by Afcons in PKG-14 which is the most challenging of all 16 packages in the entire project. The tunnelling has been done efficiently and proactively following the highest safety standards. We are extremely pleased that the tunnelling could be completed so swiftly without any lost time incident.” Afcons has achieved a series of four breakthroughs in just under five months.  The first breakthrough was achieved in May this year, followed by the second and third in July and August respectively.  With the last breakthrough in September, end-to-end connectivity through both tunnels has now been achieved. “It is a matter of pride for all of us at Afcons and MSRDC that all breakthroughs were achieved ahead of schedule. Balance work inside the tunnels after today will include final lining, road pavement works and tunnel mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP) works. As per present projections, the tunnels will be in final shape for hand over by June next year,” Afcons’ Project Manager Sekhar Das said. Remarkably, all breakthroughs were achieved before time despite the Covid-19 pandemic and various associated restrictions and hindrances like shortage of manpower, disruptions in supply of material and explosives. Moreover, heavy and prolonged rainfall with Igatpuri being the state’s highest rainfall area made dewatering a herculean task inside the tunnels. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/afcons-completes-daylighting-of-maharashtras-longest-and-widest-road-tunnels-at-igatpuri-1030655.html
15-09-2021||West||No terror threat to Mumbai, Maharashtra: Dilip Walse-Patil||Amid reports of Mumbai as a possible terror target again, the Maharashtra government said that the city and state are absolutely safe.  After the Delhi Police’s Special Cell busted a “Pakistan-backed terror module” by arresting six persons, Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil held a high-level meeting with officials including Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale and additional director general of police Vineet Agarwal, who heads the Anti-Terrorism Squad. “Some terror suspects have been arrested from Delhi & other parts of the country. A meeting was held in which officials gave me all the necessary information,” he said.  "The matter is sensitive in nature and we cannot reveal any more information at this time as it may hamper the investigation," said Patil. Agrawal categorically said that no reconnaissance had been done in Mumbai nor any weapons or explosives found. “We keep getting terror alerts… But as far as this case is concerned, Mumbai and Maharashtra are safe,” the ATS said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-terror-threat-to-mumbai-maharashtra-dilip-walse-patil-1030668.html
15-09-2021||West||Revamped ECOA extends membership to all entertainment content owners||The Indian Film Exporters Association (IFEA) has been renamed as the Entertainment Content Owners Association of India (ECOA) bringing in emerging platforms under its ambit.  In its new avatar, ECOA embraces and extends its membership to all the entertainment content owners of all languages, genres and formats across all audiovisual platforms, said ECOA president Sushilkumar Agrawal. The IFEA was formed in 1963 by Lim Billimoria and a few other Indian film exporters to promote and facilitate the commerce of Indian films abroad.  ECOA is symbolic of the changing times and acknowledges the meteoric growth of TV, OTT & Digital -- hence the body also wanted to bring them in their purview and expand their membership to these platforms too. Agrawal said: “We are extremely happy to rechristen and relaunch ourselves and outspread our services to more platforms. The landscape of entertainment has changed drastically in the current times both in terms of production and exhibition, hence bringing its own set of challenges along with it. "We at ECOA invite all of you to be a part of our illustrious family & trust us with our history & expertise in safeguarding your content. So that you can focus on continuing what you are best in: Creating cutting edge content & entertaining mankind globally.” ECOA will issue notices to TV channels, OTT, digital and other existing and upcoming platforms for infringement and violation of their Member’s Rights. ECOA has also been coordinating with State & Central Governments, legislative authorities & other related departments for making representations for the reduction and revision in tariffs, taxation, levies, GST and policy matters. ECOA is also planning to soon approach the Information & Broadcasting Ministry for appointing itself as an enlisted association for content registration and other related activities. ECOA will regularly also publish public notice ads on its website conveying trade acquisition of various contents and other rights disputes in the industry. It will also constantly disseminate trade centric updated information and developments to the members on a regular basis. ECOA will also create B2B opportunities on their website and platforms for content owners to promote and monetise their content globally. The body will also participate in important film markets and festivals globally and represent the objectives of the body and the interest of the Indian entertainment content owners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/revamped-ecoa-extends-membership-to-all-entertainment-content-owners-1030713.html
15-09-2021||West||Maharashtra govt promulgates ordinance to restore OBC reservation||In a major step to end the impasse, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has decided to promulgate an ordinance to restore reservation to the OBC community while remaining within the 50 per cent ceiling as done by southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.  The decision taken at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday assumes significance ahead of polls to six Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis -- spread across Nagpur, Akola, Washim in Vidarbha region and the twin districts of Dhule and Nandurbar in North Maharashtra -- scheduled on October 5.  “The Maharashtra government will issue an ordinance to restore OBC reservation in local body polls. This won't cross the 50% reservation cap. The ordinance will be issued on the line of Andhra Pradesh & Tamil Nadu government decision," state food and civil supplies minister and veteran OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal said. On Monday, the State Election Commission has announced the poll schedule for the 85 wards in ZPs and 144 seats in PSs for seats that have fallen vacant after the OBC quota was quashed by the Supreme Court. Earlier this year, the apex court has quashed the quota for the OBCs in local bodies in Maharashtra after observing that the total reservation should not exceed 50 per cent.  To restore political reservation for the OBCs in local bodies, the state government has sought empirical data on the population of the social group.  The Supreme Court had said that elections cannot be postponed. To discuss the issue, last week, Thackeray held an all-party meeting and it was unanimously decided that local body polls be postponed till the state backward class commission compiles empirical data giving a clear picture of the political backwardness of OBCs. The Supreme Court had said that elections cannot be postponed. “It is a decision, however, it should have come earlier... this situation would not have arise... better late than never,” leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis told reporters in Nagpur. “We also have to take a call on future polls as well,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-promulgates-ordinance-to-restore-obc-reservation-1030723.html
15-09-2021||West||Infighting in Gujarat BJP over cabinet berth; swearing-in postponed for a day||The swearing-in ceremony of the new cabinet of Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel was cancelled on Wednesday amid reports of infighting in the BJP over the selection of ministers. Party sources said that several senior ministers of the previous Vijay Rupani government have been dropped, which triggered protests.  The event was supposed to happen on Wednesday at 2:30 PM. The stage was all set and posters were up at the Raj Bhawan for the ceremony. The party had to tear down the posters that had the date of the ceremony as September 16 after it couldn't resolve the disagreement. Sources said that over 20 ministers were likely to be inducted into Patel's new cabinet, with the majority of legislators first-timers. The future of former Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja and several other ministers are said to be uncertain. Meanwhile, a group of MLAs and former ministers also visited former chief minister Vijay Rupani.  Later in the day, The Chief Minister Office announced on its Twitter handle that "The swearing-in ceremony of the new cabinet of CM Bhupendra Patel will take place tomorrow, September 16, 2021, at 1:30 PM at Raj Bhavan, Gandhinagar."  The BJP denied having scheduled the swearing-in ceremony on Wednesday and brushed aside reports of dissent. "We had never planed the ceremony on Wednesday, to begin with.  We think that there was some issue with the coordination in the government agency," said BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas. He also denied reports of infighting over berth in the new cabinets.    On Monday, 59-year-old first-time MLA Bhupendra Patel was sworn in as 17th Chief Minister of Gujarat which was attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior party leaders. Before returning to Delhi, Shah held a meeting with party leaders when the list of probable ministers was finalised. It is said that it didn't have the names of any of the previous ministers. Meanwhile, several ministers of the Rupani regime were asked to vacate their offices. Meanwhile, opposition Congress alleged that at a time when people in Saurashtra and other regions are grappling with floods, BJP leaders were busy "pulling down each other to gain power."  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/infighting-in-gujarat-bjp-over-cabinet-berth-swearing-in-postponed-for-a-day-1030732.html
15-09-2021||West||Mumbai sees steady increase in Covid-19 cases amid Ganesha festival||In a worrying development, Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) have shot up amid the ongoing Ganesha festival. According to the Public Health Department, the Mumbai and MMR reported 515 and 970 cases, respectively, on Wednesday. Last Thursday, the Mumbai/MMR figures were 457/955, Friday 441/961, Saturday 361/710, Sunday 357/751, Monday 345/663 and Tuesday 367/724.  During the day, the state recorded 3,783 cases and 56 deaths taking the progressive total to 65,07,930 and 1,38,277, respectively.  A total of 4,364 patients were discharged, pushing the total treated patients to 63,17,070. The active patients now stand at 49,034.  For the Maharashtra government, the active cases between 49,000-50,000 is a matter of concern as it has remained nearly stagnant for months.  At the weekly Cabinet meeting, presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the pandemic situation was discussed threadbare.  Last week, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar stated that Mumbai is sitting on the verge of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.   “The third wave is not coming, it is already here,” she had stated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-steady-increase-in-covid-19-cases-amid-ganesha-festival-1030734.html
