16-09-2021||First Edit||Pegasus affidavit: Centre's stand untenable||It is becoming clear from the proceedings in the Supreme Court on the petitions on the use of the Israeli software Pegasus for hacking and surveillance on citizens that the government is stonewalling any questions about it and is unwilling to provide the answers sought by the affected citizens and the general public. It has indicated that it is not ready to answer the questions posed by the court also, and is raising issues that are not relevant to the matter. That is why the bench of Chief Justice NV Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, which is hearing the case, had to tell Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that “there cannot be any beating around the bush’’ on the issue. This was after the government refused to file a detailed affidavit and thus failed to respond to the charges of illegal spying, as sought by the court. The government’s refusal to file the affidavit is untenable. The government said that such an affidavit in the court would be too public and would compromise national security. This would be considered an untenable argument even in a mock court of schoolchildren. The court again made it clear to the government, as it did in the last hearing, that it is not interested in matters concerning national security but that its only concern was whether any government agency has “used any method of interception other than in accordance with the law’’. This is the heart of the matter and the government has been evading the question by various ruses and in many ways from the time the charges first appeared in public. It is using the standard excuse of national security to withhold information from the court. This is the last refuge of a government that has run out of reasons.  National security was the ground invoked by the government for not giving relevant information about the Rafale fighter jet deal also in the Supreme Court in 2018. Its reasoning in the present case that a discourse on whether a particular software was used or not would alert terrorists is strange. The issue before the court is a violation of the right to privacy, and the court has made this clear. The questions raised by the petitioners and those posed by the court to the government can all be answered without reference to matters affecting national security. The CJI’s question as to how the government could reveal to a committee information that it could not reveal to the court is also moot. That punctures the government’s proposal to set up a committee to look into the charges. The court has given the government time for a rethink, and hopefully, the interim orders to be passed by it will vindicate the citizens’ case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pegasus-affidavit-centres-stand-untenable-1030801.html
16-09-2021||First Edit||A stitch in time for telecom, hopefully||The relief package announced by the government for the telecom sector can help the ailing sector to recover from a state of extreme distress, or at least stop its continuing financial slide. The telecom operators are weighed down by huge debts, low profits and falling cash flows, and even the top one among them is surviving because of the support from its otherwise resourceful management. The weakest among them, Vodafone Idea, would have gone completely down without support from the government, and could therefore be the biggest beneficiary of the package. The government, according to telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, has made nine structural changes and five process reforms. These include a redefinition of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR), enhancement of the life of spectrum by 10 years, removal of a financial constraint to spectrum-sharing and a four-year moratorium on all spectrum and AGR dues.  All these are demands that have been made by the sector for many years. The decision on AGR would exclude non-telecom revenues from its purview prospectively. All operators owe huge amounts to the government under this head. Along with the decision to give a four-year moratorium on AGR payments and spectrum dues purchased in past auctions, this will go a long way to lighten the current financial burden of the companies. Vodafone Idea, for example, would be relieved that it does not have to pay about Rs 9,000 crore towards AGR payments by March 31, 2022, and over Rs 15,000 crore in the next financial year towards spectrum. The moratorium will give an annual cash flow benefit of Rs 46,000 crore to the industry, which has an estimated debt burden of over Rs 3.6 lakh crore. The government can also exercise the option of converting debt into equity at the end of the moratorium.  The decision to allow 100% FDI through the automatic route will help the companies to raise capital, and the package of measures will help to increase investor confidence. The government has shown that it is serious in coming to the aid of a crucial industry by forgoing some of its own current revenues. But it may also have been persuaded by the prospect of the industry going down, putting at risk even the present revenues and endangering the finances of public sector banks which have extended huge loans to the sector. In any case, the sector has got a respite that should be utilised well to slim down debt, improve capex and technology, and to adopt a sustainable business model. The government may have to do more to ensure that the sector remains competitive and is not reduced to a duopoly.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-stitch-in-time-for-telecom-hopefully-1031110.html
16-09-2021||In Perspective||Privatising power distribution: A hoax||A major plank of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill (EAB), 2021, is to de-license the electricity distribution business, bring in competition, and give the consumer power to choose her supplier (‘open access’). This is easier said than done. It has to do with the fundamental weakness of State-owned and controlled power distribution companies (discoms), who will come under greater stress if private players also get involved. What makes discoms weak? The states order them to sell electricity to poor households and farmers at a fraction of the cost of purchase and distribution, or even free. On units sold to them, discoms incur huge under-recovery. This is aggravated by aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses -- mostly theft. Inflated tariff, allowed to producers under a cost-plus formula, exacerbates the revenue shortfall. At the same time, using their monopoly position under the existing dispensation, they charge high tariffs on supplies to industries and businesses, which helps them trim the shortfall. Now, if private players also enter the fray, offering lower tariff (as they don’t carry the baggage of low-paying customers, theft and inefficiencies), industries and businesses will shift to them, resulting in huge loss of revenue to discoms, even threatening their survival. Last year, due to Covid, many businesses were shut, and hence did not draw power from discoms, causing huge loss to the latter. Imagine what would be their fate if they were to lose these customers permanently. No wonder, moves to let the private sector in have faced roadblocks from the word go.     First, under the amended Electricity Act (2003), there was a provision for ‘open access’, which gave choice to bulk consumers (consumption >1 MW) to choose their supplier. But, another provision in the Act required such customers to pay an ‘open access surcharge’ (OAS) to the discom that they wanted to leave. By fixing the surcharge at a high level, they ensured that post-switch, the effective cost of power – tariff charged by the new supplier plus OAS – is higher than what they hitherto paid to the discom. That rendered the switch uneconomical! Second, the direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy has been on the Modi government’s agenda since 2017. Under it, the state government gives subsidy directly to the target beneficiaries even as the supplier is free to fix tariff taking into account the cost of purchase, wheeling and distribution. This will free discoms from having to supply power to farmers/households at subsidised rates (or free); hence, no under-recovery. There won’t also be any reason then for them to charge more from industries and businesses. To ensure that discoms don’t take consumers for a ride and we get the best results from this major reform, private firms should be allowed in the distribution business. But the government is silent on this crucial link, though it has included DBT in EAB, 2021. Meanwhile, following protests from farmers, it has promised that they will continue to get subsidised or free power – riding piggyback on discoms. Logically, it will keep the same arrangement for extending subsidy to households as well. Hence, even DBT is off the table.   Third, at present, almost the entire infrastructure for transmission, wheeling and last-mile delivery of power is owned and controlled by discoms. For other suppliers to come in, this infrastructure needs to be stripped from the discoms and vested in an independent entity. All suppliers should have access to it on ‘common carrier’ principle in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. But we don’t see any discernible moves being made in this direction. Moreover, the states which had under the Electricity Act (2003) made the switch to a new supplier uneconomical by charging high OAS, will not allow this historical advantage of discoms (read: monopoly over the infrastructure) to go away so easily.   Fourth, over 95% of the power supply in India is tied to power purchase agreements (PPAs) that discoms have with producers – mostly long-term, extending up to 25 years. So, any scope for churning by inducting private players could arise only after the existing agreements expire. Till then, it will be status quo. Undeterred by no progress thus far, Union Power Minister R K Singh has alluded to penalising states that put hurdles in the way of privatisation. The penalties include denial of extra borrowing limits, non-release of funds under ‘Reforms-Linked, Result-Based Scheme for Distribution’ (RLRBSD), cap on hike in tariff, linking payment by discoms to LoC (letter of credit), etc. But, on ground zero, none of these riders work, even as the discoms manage to receive financial support from the state or its agencies by hook or crook.     To conclude, de-licensing and privatisation of the electricity distribution business are still many months, if not years, away. They won’t happen as long as political parties chase their populist and short-term goal of giving cheap/free electricity to the people who matter in elections (farmers, households) and use State-owned and controlled discoms to achieve it.  (The writer is a Delhi-based policy analyst) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/privatising-power-distribution-a-hoax-1031104.html
16-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four booked for entering Karnataka without RT-PCR negative reports||Nippani Rural police filed a case against a private bus driver, cleaner and travel company manager for allegedly sneaking into the district by using an alternative route and ferrying passengers, who did not have RT-PCR test reports for Covid-19, here on Tuesday. The private bus had entered the district from Mangur village in Nippani taluk. The police, on getting information of it, quizzed the passengers and none of them had RT-PCR negative report for Covid-19. Cases have been booked against bus driver Vaman Sonkamble, Lahu Landage, residents of Latur in Maharashtra, cleaner Yogesh Koneri resident of Hubballi and maxicab driver Nitin Godgeppa, a resident of Kurli in Nippani taluk.  Nippani Rural police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-booked-for-entering-karnataka-without-rt-pcr-negative-reports-1030778.html
16-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga: Accused consumes glass pieces fearing arrest||Fearing the arrest by police, a 22-year old man, accused in four cases including robbery, reportedly assaulted a policeman and consumed glass pieces of a bike's mirror at Vinobnagar in the city on Wednesday.  According to police, Roopesh (22) was wanted in four cases. Despite issuing notices to him to appear before the court for hearing, he had not come once. So, the court had issued arrest warrant against him. Acting on tip-off, police constable rushed to Shubha Mangala convention hall and tried to nab him. Fearing the arrest, he pushed police into the drain and consumed glass pieces of the bike's mirror after breaking it. Local people took both of them were taken to the hospital. Vinobnagar police registered one more case against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-accused-consumes-glass-pieces-fearing-arrest-1030845.html
16-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dasara jumbos given traditional welcome at Mysuru Palace||The eight elephants participating in Dasara 2021, led by Abhimanyu, were given a traditional welcome at Mysuru Palace during the auspicious hours on Thursday. The jumbos had reached Mysuru on September 13, from Veeranahosahalli, in Hunsur taluk, and were housed at Aranya Bhavan. After relaxing for three days, the jumbos left Aranya Bhavan on Thursday morning and walked to the Palace. The first time participant Ashwathama, from Doddaharave camp, got slightly confused over the hustle and bustle of the city while walking towards the Palace and entered the footpath. However, the mahouts and 'kavadis' pacified and brought the jumbo back on the road. Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, MLAs S A Ramadass and L Nagendra, Mayor Sunanda Palanetra and other dignitaries participated in the programme between 8.36 am and 9.11 am at Jayamarthanda Gate. The jumbos are the main attraction during the Vijayadashami procession, the last leg of Dasara festivities, in Mysuru. All arrangements, like sheds, have been made at the Palace premises for the caretakers and the jumbos. They will begin rehearsing for the Dasara procession from Friday, according to the Forest Department. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dasara-jumbos-given-traditional-welcome-at-mysuru-palace-1030928.html
16-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga tops Karnataka in revenue department||Shivamogga topped the state in disposal of applications related to the revenue department in August. The government announces ranking every month on the the basis of the disposal of applications related to land conversion, settlement of cases in Assistant Commissioner's court, Deputy Commissioner's court, rectification in pahani and other applications in various departments. Reacting to it, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said he had directed heads of various branches to dispose of applications received in the Deputy Commissioner's office within the stipulated time. They have discharged their duties promptly. So, people have also benefitted from it. Additional Deputy Commissioner Nagendra F Honnalli said Shivamogga has bagged the first ranking in the state in the affairs of the revenue department. There had been high progress in disposal of applications related to land conversion and settlement of cases in Assistant Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner's courts. Considering this, Shivamogga bagged the top spot in the state, he explained.   He also claimed that an e-office system has been implemented in the Deputy Commissioner's office. Applications are being digitised everyday without fail. This is a transparent system and disposal of applications also becomes easier. E-office system is being implemented in the offices of the Assistant Commissioner and Tahasildar. The Revenue department will be transformed into an e-office in the coming days.  This would prevent people from visiting the office many times.  He also claimed that efforts are being made to expedite the implementation of social security schemes, identification of land for setting up of solid waste disposal unit at gram panchayat level, and identification of land for burial ground. Steps are being taken to provide timely-service to people. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-tops-karnataka-in-revenue-department-1031037.html
16-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Journalist assaulted by pro-Hindu activists in Mysuru||A journalist of an Urdu daily 'The Daily Kausar'  Mohammed Safdar Kaiser, was allegedly assaulted by the members of pro-Hindu organisations, during the protest rally staged by the Hindu Jagaran Samiti, near Kote Anjaneyaswamy Temple in Mysuru on Thursday. The journalist was covering the event and recording the speech of pro-Hindu leader Jagadish Karanth when they suspected his intention and assaulted him, it is said. Condemning the assault on the journalist, the Mysuru District Journalists Association has lodged a complaint with the Police Commissioner seeking protection to the journalists covering the events. Members of various Hindu organisations, under the banner of Hindu Jagarana Vedike, took out a huge rally in Mysuru on Thursday condemning the BJP government and the district administration for the demolition of Hindu temples. They raised slogans against the BJP government, Minister S T Somashekar, MLA S A Ramadass and other BJP leaders for failing to protect the temples. As permission was not given for the rally, the protesters staged a protest near Kote Anjaneyaswamy Temple. The organisations sought action against all the officials, who were responsible for the demolition of the historic Mahadevamma Temple, that was built centuries ago at Uchagani village in Nanjangud taluk recently.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/journalist-assaulted-by-pro-hindu-activists-in-mysuru-1031039.html
16-09-2021||Main Article||A terrorist regime armed with biometric scanners||For more than a fortnight, a popular Afghan TV journalist did not step out of the safety of his house after the Taliban walked into a defenceless Kabul. Fearing that his past will bring grief to him, he furiously erased all his social media posts on the Taliban. And then he did what everyone who had worked closely with the Afghan government has done — run to the airport.  At the airport, he sought anonymity in the chaotic crowd that was converging there to escape the Taliban, till August 31, when the Americans made their final evacuation. By now, he had jettisoned his clean-shaven look by growing a beard and wearing a soiled and wrinkled salwar kameez. He failed to find a seat for himself and his family in any of the aircraft that evacuated thousands of foreigners and Afghans out of the country.  Now, he fears the worst.  Unlike in the past, when persecuted Afghans could escape by changing their identities by falsifying their documents or their appearances, now their exposure to the regime is just waiting to happen — it’s a biometric scan away. This is a widespread fear across Kabul, and elsewhere.  Though the Taliban has announced amnesty to all Afghans, including those who served in the army, reports of Taliban militants armed with biometric scanners linked to a government database knocking on the doors of many residents have begun to swirl around. No one really gives credence to the belief that the Taliban are technology-challenged and so cannot access the database containing the biometric data of millions of ordinary Afghans. What is being slowly realised is that if they need help, the Taliban can get it from Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).  Many fear-stricken Afghans are also aware that weeks before Kabul fell, Taliban soldiers kidnapped some 200 people traveling through the town of Kunduz. The bus was stopped and the biometric scans of the occupants were taken. And then, young soldiers of the Afghan National Defence Force (ANDF), returning home on vacation in civilian clothes, were pulled out and shot in cold blood.   Everything that ordinary Afghans wanted to do to escape the hawk-eye of the Taliban failed in Kunduz. Today, Afghanistan presents a ‘doomsday scenario’ for a society that succumbed to the compelling reasoning of those technology evangelists who claimed that corruption could only be fought by bringing in biometric scans. Undoubtedly, in Afghanistan, corruption was endemic. Army recruitment presented the worst-case scenario. It is common knowledge that the Afghan defence forces were known as the ‘ghost army’ — so many soldiers existed only on paper. This is one of the reasons that the Afghan army could not stand up to the Taliban juggernaut. This dubious phenomenon of ghost soldiers allowed the notorious warlords and the local commanders to squirrel away their salaries in their own accounts, apart from huge and organised corruption across the army network and ground operations. In 2019, the US army claimed to have discovered 42,000 ‘ghost servicemen.’   The discovery of such fraud may have helped in upholding the usefulness and efficacy of a central biometric database. However, did it occur to its votaries in Afghanistan, and in other countries like India — what happens when this data falls into the wrong hands?  In New Delhi, Attorney-General KK Venugopal fielded these questions in the Supreme Court in March 2018. When the issue of the safety of Aadhaar data was raised, he proudly told the apex court that the theft of data was impossible “as it is secured behind walls that are 13 feet high and five feet thick.” The good lawyer thought that data theft was similar to burglary. He did not know it could be hacked from a distance. Since 2009, biometric scans of 1.2 billion citizens have been collected.  Ironically, in Afghanistan these days, the fear of data betraying the identities of citizens is playing out in different ways, and with different people. Newspaper reports suggest that 14 BBC journalists and 200 judges are in hiding. There must be many more engineers, businessmen, professionals, doctors, nurses, journalists, interpreters, translators, etc., and people with a wide range of skills, who must be in a similar situation. They must be worried that a Talibani with a hand-held biometric scanner would come knocking.  Technology websites claimed that the ‘secure’ Afghan databases would have iris, finger and face scans of millions of nationals. Many of these people would be those who helped the US and the Karzai and Ghani governments. By accessing the database, the Taliban authorities would have a clear idea of who fought against them in which theatre of war. The central biometric database is thus the starting point to exacting vengeance for many a Talibani!    There are 40-odd data fields that are included against each name. According to MIT Technology Review, “It also contains details on the individual’s military specialty and career trajectory, as well as sensitive relational data such as the names of their father, uncles and grandfathers, as well as the names of the two tribal elders per recruit who served as guarantors for their enlistment. This turns what was a simple digital catalogue into something far more dangerous.”   In other words, this access to data imperils not just one man but his entire ecosystem, his social network, his professional and personal life, his colleagues, friends, relatives and clan. In these peculiar and sinister circumstances, imagine the fate of the thousands of soldiers of the Afghan army who sought to melt away into the crowds by stepping out of their uniforms!  Now, the Taliban would not just know their location and their family networks, their military and professional capabilities  Perhaps they won’t have to worry too much about their usual problems — who will fix their grounded Black Hawk helicopters or operate many of the other war machines abandoned by the fleeing US and Afghan army. Within no time, the Taliban may be able to upgrade their military strength.  That is the reason why many Afghans who were cognizant of being badly compromised by giving their biometric scans to the US-backed Afghan government in the belief that they would remain secure, were the ones desperate to fly out of the country. The US evacuated about 1.3 lakh Afghans and US nationals; other countries also lifted about 50,000 people. Millions who remained are crossing into Pakistan, Iran or other countries.  The grave threat that the creation of such a biometric database presents to ordinary Afghans should worry democratic institutions in other countries. They should rethink this unquestioning submission  to the seduction of technology to fight petty corruption by asking, “What happens when the data falls into the wrong hands?”  (The writer is Editor of the Delhi-based magazine, Hardnews)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-terrorist-regime-armed-with-biometric-scanners-1030792.html
16-09-2021||Main Article||Afghanistan: Watch Qatar, Turkey closely||With the exit of US troops from Afghanistan and its takeover by Taliban, the three Sunni Muslim-majority countries — Pakistan, Qatar and Turkey — have initiated engagement with Kabul’s new dispensation.  The proximity of the Pakistani military establishment to the infamous Haqqani clan, who are from Loya (meaning ‘big’ in Pashtu) Patika, in the eastern part of Afghanistan, is a well-documented fact. Most members of the Taliban leadership have studied in Pakistani Deobandi Islamic seminaries. These facts make Pakistan an influential player in Afghanistan.  Along with Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia was one of the few countries that recognised the Taliban when they assumed power the first time in 1996. Various studies have pointed out that during the “Afghan jihad”, Saudi funding led to the radicalisation of the Deobandi seminaries of Afghanistan and Pakistan with the infusion of its Wahabi ideology, rooted in the Salafi school, a narrow interpretation of Sharia. Outside the region, this time around, Turkey and Qatar are engaging with the Taliban, and this dimension requires more probing than present reports indicate there is.  Qatari and Turkish technicians have reportedly helped the Taliban restart Kabul airport. Recently, Qatar’s deputy prime minister Sheikh Mohammad bin Abdur Rahman Al-Thani, who is also the country’s foreign minister, visited Kabul to meet the Taliban leadership. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is also among the few world leaders who have said that their government is open to working with the Taliban.  Qatar has played host to the dialogue between the Taliban and the US since 2011. The family members of some Taliban interlocutors still live in Qatar. Qatar, which has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world, maybe amenable to continue assisting the Taliban, particularly in the humanitarian domain. Due to Taliban’s connection to the 9/11 attacks and domestic political opposition, the US political leadership is likely to abhor any visible engagement with them. However, it may continue to encourage Qatar, which hosts the Al Udeid airbase near Doha, the largest American military outpost in the Middle East, to positively incentivise Taliban and gain some leverage on critical issues, safe passage for potential remaining evacuees, counter-terrorism, women’s rights and other pressing human rights issues.  With regard to Turkey’s role in Afghanistan, it is influenced by history and its own larger foreign policy orientations. Turkey shares the Hanafi school of Sunni Muslim jurisprudence with South Asia and Central Asia. Deobandi Islam, which is the most popular among Pashtuns on both sides of the Durand Line, is a derivative of the Hanafi school. Broadly speaking, the Hanafi school gives more emphasis to the contextualization of Quranic injunctions and creating consensus. One reason for the spread of Deobandi Islam in the Pashtun areas in the 19th century and the early part of the 20th century was that it married neatly into the tradition of consensus-forming among Pashtun tribes, as reflected in the ‘jirga’, a tribal tradition of holding community meetings of male elders.  In addition, Turkey’s involvement in Afghanistan will be tempered by its economic and political interests in the neighbouring Central Asia region. Turkey has some distinct cultural and geographical linkages with Central Asia. Most of the air routes from Europe to the Central Asian countries are through Istanbul. Turkey has sought to create its own sphere of Turkic-speaking countries by forming the Cooperation Council of Turkic-Speaking States, or the Turkic Council. The council, established in 2009, has headquarters in Ankara and it aims to bring various countries linked by Turkic linguistic roots under one umbrella and coordinate in various spheres, including the economy. In Central Asia, three countries — Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan — are part of the council as the native languages in these countries are of Turkic origin. Russian is also spoken in Central Asia because of its association with the former Soviet Union. The two non-members of the council in the region are Tajikistan, which is Persian-speaking and shares ethnicity with northern Afghanistan, and Turkmenistan, where Turkmen, the native language is of Turkic origin but the political leadership invokes the neutrality principle in order to avoid hurting its equities with Russia. Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan share ethnicity with Afghanistan’s northern frontiers. The political elite in Central Asia is perpetually wary of the spread of radicalisation in their own boundaries. Political freedoms are often curtailed, ostensibly to counter the forces of religious extremism. In 2014-15, the highest numbers of foreign fighters that joined the Islamic State in the Syria-Iraq war theatre were from Central Asia, a number reportedly the same as from Western Europe. A number of extremists from Central Asia are already present in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. In addition, Qari Fasihuddin, a Tajik from Afghanistan, is the acting army chief of Taliban. Fasihuddin belongs to the Badakhshan province, an area that borders Tajikistan, China and Pakistan-controlled Gilgit-Baltistan. Turkey’s engagement with Afghanistan will be inoculated by its own ambitions in the Central Asian countries. The role of China and Russia, the two pre-eminent powers of the region, is also important in this respect. Both will keep a close watch over any external engagement that impacts Central Asia or their own territory. China, one of the players in Central Asia because of its economic heft, has its own concerns about the Taliban, including Fasihuddin, because of his alleged connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a militant outfit of Uighurs from China’s Xinjiang province. The region’s language is of Turkic origin as well. Russia, which in the recent past re-gained its foothold in Central Asia, is perpetually worried over the spill-over effects from the Central Asian region to its own insurgency-hit Chechnya. To sum up, Qatar and Turkey’s engagement with Afghanistan must be watched more closely.  (The writer previously managed a counter-terrorism project on Central Asia at the UN) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/afghanistan-watch-qatar-turkey-closely-1031109.html
16-09-2021||Mysuru||Hindu outfits protest against Mysuru temple demolition||Condemning the demolition of Hindu temples, hundreds of people, under the banner of Hindu Jagarana Vedike, took out a huge rally against the district administration and the government, in Mysuru, on Thursday. Members of various Hindu organisations joined the protest and raised slogans against the BJP government, Minister S T Somashekar, MLA S A Ramadass and other BJP leaders for failing to protect the temples. The organisations sought action against all the officials, who were responsible for the recent demolition of the historic Mahadevamma temple at Uchagani village in Nanjangud taluk. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/hindu-outfits-protest-against-mysuru-temple-demolition-1030956.html
16-09-2021||National||Decision-making on school reopening should be decentralised: Paediatrics body||The Task Force on School Reopening 2021 constituted by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) recommended that the school reopening decision should be taken at the level of districts (or taluk/city/village/school) according to the local situations, rather than at the national or state level. IAP set up the task force to review and update its earlier recommendations in the current context and scientific evidence. The number of new cases per lakh population per day in a taluk should be less than 20 for the preceding two weeks, the IAP recommended. It also recommends that the decision regarding keeping the schools open should be reviewed every 15 days. Schools and governments should facilitate students' return to school by arranging transport as before, and not impose restrictions such as RT-PCR tests of students, it said. Paediatrician Dr G V Basavaraj from Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, who was part of the 12-member team of experts from across the country, told DH that vaccination of the adult population (with at least one dose) in a district should be 60 per cent or more before considering school reopening. He said he submitted a copy of the report to the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Friday. DH spoke to all the 30 district health officials, including BBMP. Data revealed that Ballari district has only 58 per cent of its population covered with the first dose of the Covid vaccine. "If the first dose coverage is less than 60 per cent, then it is a concern. Since, in Ballari, it is off by two percent it should be safe to open schools. Also, if a taluk with 10 lakh population, for example, has 200 cases, it means cases are on the rise where we do not recommend opening schools. All districts in the state have a test positivity rate less than 5 per cent, so reopening is recommended," Dr Basavaraj said. BBMP had vaccinated 80.71 per cent of 92 lakh people residing in the civic body's limits with at least one dose till September 10. The first dose coverage in Dakshina Kannada district that is currently battling cross border infections from Kerala was 76 per cent. Kolar had 69 per cent first dose coverage, Bengaluru Urban (104 per cent), Dharwad (66.19 per cent), Chitradurga (62 per cent), Bidar (63.4 per cent), Koppal (65 per cent), Udupi (83.4 per cent), Ramanagara (78 per cent), Tumakuru (67 per cent), Vijayapura (60.12 per cent), Kodagu (84 per cent) and Haveri (67.24 per cent). The other districts did not respond to DH's queries. The IAP advisory on school reopening notes: "Children have been homebound for more than 17 months now. Consequently, they are displaying significant physical and psychosocial health issues. The educational void is increasing... However, the horrific experiences during the second wave were traumatic and act as a big barrier to any attempts to bring children back to school." Other IAP recommendations — High-risk staff members (those with diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, chronic lung or kidney diseases) should have completed two doses of vaccination 15 days before attending schools — High-risk children (those with asthma, kidney diseases, disabilities, those on steroids) should consult their paediatricians before joining schools — The current scientific research suggests that seroprevalence is an unreliable indicator with high false positivity and should not direct policy decisions on social restrictions — This unreliability is due to factors like restricted population surveys, non--representative samples, uncertainty around test accuracy, and limited knowledge about antibodies in the long term — To understand the disease epidemiology, the survey results need to be interpreted in the context of other external information, such as confirmed cases, deaths, and infectious disease models — Hence, IAP does not recommend the seropositivity of the population as an epidemiological indicator for school reopening Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-making-on-school-reopening-should-be-decentralised-paediatrics-body-1030808.html
16-09-2021||National||India’s Covid-19 death toll may be 4-11 times higher, economic cost is 30% of GDP: Study||India’s Covid-19 death toll may be 4 to 11 times higher than official numbers and translate into whopping economic costs worth 30 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product, a team of health experts and economists has said in a new study. The researchers from the University of Michigan, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata and Delhi School of Economics reported that India might have lost 1.7 to 4.9 million people to Covid-19 as against the Union Health Ministry’s official record of over 400,000. In addition, the Covid-19 infection cases were under-reported by 25 to 30 times, says the study, which is the latest among a series of research papers that have reported undercounting of Covid cases and deaths in India – a claim that has been consistently refuted by the Union Health Ministry. The team led by biostatistician and epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee collated existing studies to estimate infection fatality rates - the proportion of the deaths among the total counts of infections - and Covid-19 deaths. They also used an epidemiologic model to generate their own estimate that yielded 1.4 million deaths by July 1. The calculations from the pooled results on the other hand gave cumulative excess deaths in India to be 1.7 million to 4.9 million, with variations across states. “Due to the raging discussion and debate regarding India's true Covid-19 mortality, we undertook a comprehensive survey of the existing literature, pooling estimates from multiple studies for the extent of underreporting of deaths and infections. This systematic review suggests that the true death toll may be 4-11 times more than what is reported with considerable variation noted across different studies, regions and time periods,” Mukherjee told DH. “After synthesizing the estimates India's true Infection Fatality Rate appears to be around 0.4-0.5 per cent. But if you just rely on reported deaths, this number is around 0.1 per cent.” This implies that by June 30, 2021, India may have seen nearly 900 million Covid-19 infections and 1.7-4.9 million Covid deaths when the reported numbers stood at 30.4 million cases and 412,000 odd deaths. “It is now well-known that only a fraction of SARS-CoV-2 infections are captured, stemming from a large degree of covert infections, access, willingness and availability of testing, and sometimes a desire to maintain public image,” the team reported in the study, which is yet to be peer reviewed but released in an online archive. The researchers calculated the economic cost of Covid-19 deaths following two separate approaches and found that even on the lower side, the losses would be huge. For instance, the model used by the researchers suggests a Covid toll of 1.4 million, which would translate to a whopping economic cost equivalent to 31 per cent of the GDP. On the other hand, if the economic loss of 412,000 reported Covid deaths is estimated, it comes down to just 9 per cent of the GDP. “Aside from the health lens, premature mortality and infectious disease mortality’s consequences for economic stability and ensuing welfare policy further support the need for continued attention to assessing the mortality burden of Covid-19 within India,” the team reported. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-death-toll-may-be-4-11-times-higher-economic-cost-is-30-of-gdp-study-1030812.html
16-09-2021||National||Cabinet decisions 'watershed moment' for telecom sector: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the Cabinet decision on telecom as a "watershed moment", saying the reforms are a win-win for the sector and consumers as they will ensure sectoral growth and job opportunities. In his reaction to another decision of the Cabinet for the auto and drone industry, he said, "Continuing the reform trajectory, the Cabinet has approved a PLI Scheme for the auto industry and drone industry. This will give an impetus to manufacturing and bring the sector at par with global trends as well as best practices." The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a big-bang relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. Modi tweeted, "It is a watershed moment for the telecom sector, which plays a critical role in connecting and empowering our nation. Today's reforms approved by the Cabinet are a win-win for the sector and consumers. They ensure sectoral growth and job opportunities." The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies such as Vodafone Idea that have to pay thousands of crores in unprovisioned past statutory dues, also include the scrapping of Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) for airwaves acquired in future spectrum auctions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-decisions-watershed-moment-for-telecom-sector-pm-modi-1030815.html
16-09-2021||National||Nine foreign NGOs restrained from direct funding in India||At least nine foreign NGOs, which have been providing funds for work in different sectors in India, have been restrained by the government from transferring funds to the country without permission from appropriate authorities, officials said. The NGOs were put on the 'Prior Reference Category' by the Ministry of Home Affairs under the provisions of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act 2010, making it mandatory for the banks to inform authorities if any funds come from these foreign entities. Among these foreign NGOs three are from the United States, two are Australian and four are from the United Kingdom, officials said. The NGOs provide funds mostly for works related to environmental issues, they said. According to law, if an NGO is put on the prior reference category, banks are bound to inform the foreigners' division of the home ministry if any funds come from them. According to home ministry data, over Rs 49,000 crore in foreign funding was received by more than 18,000 NGOs in the country between 2018-20. As per the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, every FCRA-registered NGO has to now compulsorily open an 'FCRA account' in SBI, Main Branch, New Delhi for initial remittance/receipt of foreign contribution (FC) from a foreign source. Till July 31, 2021, a total of 18,377 designated FCRA accounts have been opened with SBI, New Delhi Main Branch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-foreign-ngos-restrained-from-direct-funding-in-india-1030821.html
16-09-2021||National||Is 'Abba Jaan' an unparliamentary word? asks Yogi Adityanath||Is “Abba Jaan” an "unparliamentary word", Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asked on Wednesday, questioning why those who want Muslim votes are shy of it. "I have not taken any names. They want Muslim votes, why should they shun it? Is it an unparliamentary word? It is not. No one should have any problem with it," asserted the UP chief minister, facing the Oppositions' ire over his 'Abba Jaan' remark on Saturday in Kushinagar. In Kushinagar on Saturday, Adityanath, in an apparent attack against the Samajwadi Party had said people who say 'Abba Jaan' used to digest the ration earlier. The UP chief minister made the assertion at the Times Now Navbharat conclave here when asked about Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav’s displeasure over the use of term “Abba Jaan”. Asked what is the message he wanted to give, Adityanath said, "The message is clear. People understanding it. I do not have to make them understand. Those who are 'nasamajh' (naïve) will not understand it." In the conclave, Adityanath also attacked Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav, accusing him of having "no thought for the development". "He had no time (when he was in power). He used to wake up at 11 am and spend two hours taking bath. And after taking lunch, he would go to the office for 10 minutes and remained busy in his friend circle (for the rest of the day),” Adityanath said. “In such a situation, how could he have led 22-24 crore people of the state?" he asked. Adityanath also asserted that no bulldozer was run on the houses of the poor. Only those who earned money with corrupt means and encroached upon government land are being targeted in his regime, he said. "The pain of those in whose regime goons and mafia ran the government is visible," Adityanath said.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-abba-jaan-an-unparliamentary-word-asks-yogi-adityanath-1030822.html
16-09-2021||National||Police on lookout for uncle of one of arrested Pakistan-trained terrorists||The Delhi Police is looking for Humaid-ur-Rehman, a relative of one of the alleged terrorists arrested by the Special Cell, officials said on Wednesday. The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Tuesday busted a Pakistan-organised terror module with the arrest of six men, including two Pak-ISI trained terrorists. The accused, identified as Jaan Mohammad Sheikh (47) alias ''Sameer'', Osama (22), Moolchand (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohd Abu Bakar (23) and Mohd Amir Javed (31), were arrested following raids in Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh. All the six arrested accused, including Osama and Qamar, were produced at a Delhi court and have been taken on 14 days' police remand for further interrogation, they said. Jamil Khatri (28), a resident of Rae Bareli, and Imtiaz Ali (38), a resident of Pratapgarh, were detained on Wednesday in connection with the probe by police. Through technical surveillance and manual inputs, both Khatri and Imtiaz came under suspicion. Both of them belong to a poor economic background, police said. They did small work to earn their living. Ali earlier worked in Mumbai and was now engaged in fishing activities at his native village. Both of them were let off after questioning and were handled over to their relatives. They will be called for questioning again, if required, a senior police officer said. Police are looking for Humaid-ur-Rehman, a resident of Uttar Pradesh's Allahabad who is uncle of Osama, the Pak-trained terrorist who was arrested by the special cell team on Tuesday. Osama, is a third year BA student of an Allahabad-based university, while Zeeshan Qamar, a native of Lucknow, the second Pak-trained terrorist arrested by the Special Cell on Tuesday is a graduate and earlier worked as an accountant in a business firm, the officer said. Qamar allegedly got in touch with Humaid-Ur-Reham for business-related work a few years ago and eventually got radicalized by him. Police said that Humaid-ur-Rehman was the primarily link through which both Osama and Qamar came in touch with the terror operatives. He arranged for their transportation and helped them in reaching Pakistan, police said. Police said the accused men, Qamar, Humaid-ur-Rehman and Osama, preferred meeting physically and avoided contacting each other on mobile phones. Even when they sent messages on WhatsApp, they ensured that they deleted their conversation immediately. The arrested accused, Shaikh, who is closely associated with underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's brother, Anees, since last over a decade, used dark network applications to receive instructions from across the border, the officer said. Phones of the accused have been seized and will be sent to Forensic Science Laboratory for further examination, they said. Police had said interrogation revealed that the Pakistan terror module was being operated through two components, via underworld and the Pak-ISI trained terror module. Special Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Neeraj Kumar Thakur had said, "In a multi-state operation, we have arrested six people, including two Pakistan-trained terrorists. Two among them, Osama and Qamar had gone to Pakistan for training this year, following which they returned to India.” Police said they got inputs from central agencies that a Pak-abetted and sponsored group of entities is planning to execute serial IED blasts in India. "With the help of human and technical surveillance, it was found that the network was spread across various states. On Tuesday, we conducted raids simultaneously in different states and initially, the first accused, Sheikh, was apprehended from near Kota in Rajasthan while he was on a train on the way to Delhi," Thakur had said. Later, Osama was nabbed from Delhi's Okhla and Bakar from Sarai Kale Khan, while Qamar was apprehended from Allahabad, Javed from Lucknow and Moolchand from Rae Bareilly in close coordination with the UP Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) team, the officer had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-on-lookout-for-uncle-of-one-of-arrested-pakistan-trained-terrorists-1030826.html
16-09-2021||National||ABVP urges Irani to give special stipend to women for education||The RSS-affiliated ABVP submitted a memorandum to Union Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Iran, urging that a special stipend be provided for education of women whose studies were interrupted due to the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. A delegation of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) met Irani on Wednesday to raise the issues related to women and discussed possible solutions, while also handing over the demand letter, a statement said. In its letter, the ABVP included issues like providing special stipend for education of girl students whose studies were interrupted due to the second wave, making plans with government and non-government organisations to make women self-reliant and increase their self-employment opportunities, issuing a helpline number for immediate redressal of women's problems and constructing hostels for girl students at tehsil level. They also raised the issue of identifying sporting talent in women while making proper arrangements for their training at regional level, starting a working women housing scheme and added that keeping in mind their safety and health, public toilet facilities must be increased. The ABVP also included the demand that the WCD Ministry organise a campaign in schools and colleges on the lines of ABVP's 'Mission Sahasi' campaign in order to make girl students strong, safe and self-reliant.  The ABVP believes that despite various laws being in place, women's safety is still a matter of concern which needs to be rectified, the statement read. The student outfit suggested creation of a separate task force keeping in mind issues related to women, formulation of appropriate policies to investigate cases like rape and harassment, mandatory establishment of childcare units in premises of all government or non-government organisations for an equal and healthy environment for women employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abvp-urges-irani-to-give-special-stipend-to-women-for-education-1030836.html
16-09-2021||National||Vacant in Tribunals: SC reiterates need for creation of National Tribunal Commission||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reiterated the need for creation of National Tribunal Commission while emphasising on the need to have an independent body for making appointments to the tribunals across the country. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said that the top court in November 2020 directed the government to form the commission but nothing has happened till date.  "This court has been speaking of an independent body for making appointments. You were also in agreement with us when we spoke about the National Tribunals Commission. "Till the national commission is constituted, we had said there should be one separate wing in the finance ministry to take care of all these appointments. We do not know whether anything has happened. Regarding National Tribunal Commission, we have not heard anything at all," the bench also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao said.  Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, told the bench he would seek instructions on the issue. The observations of the apex court came while hearing a clutch of petitions on the issue of vacancies in tribunals and the new law governing quasi judicial bodies. The top court in November last year had directed the Centre to constitute a National Tribunals Commission (NTC), which would act as an independent body to supervise appointments and functioning as well as take care of the administrative and infrastructural needs of tribunals across the country. Stressing on the "imperative need" to ensure that tribunals discharge the judicial functions without any interference of the executive whether directly or indirectly, the apex had court said that till NTC is constituted, a separate wing in the Ministry of Finance shall be established to cater to the requirements of tribunals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vacant-in-tribunals-sc-reiterates-need-for-creation-of-national-tribunal-commission-1030837.html
16-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Taking on SpaceX with our Pushpak Viman||Madhya Pradesh government has announced that Ramayana, Mahabharata and lessons on Ramsetu, the mythological bridge featuring in the epic, will be part of the engineering courses in the state.  Additionally, first-year students of graduation courses in Madhya Pradesh colleges and universities will be offered epic 'Ramcharitmanas' as an elective subject under philosophy discipline in art stream, Higher Education Minister Mohan Yadav said earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-taking-on-spacex-with-our-pushpak-viman-1030844.html
16-09-2021||National||India reports 30,570 new Covid-19 cases, 431 deaths||With 30,570 more people testing positive for Covid-19, India's overall infection tally has risen to 3,33,47,325, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,42,923, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,928 with 431 daily fatalities being recorded, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am. The number of active cases has dropped to 3,42,923, which comprises 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.64 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 8,164 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed.    Also, 15,79,761 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 54,77,01,729, it stated. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. This has been below three per cent for 17 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.93 per cent. This figure has been below three per cent for 83 days now, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,25,60,474, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 76.57 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 431 new fatalities include 208 from Kerala, 70 from Goa and 56 from Maharashtra. "In the last 24 hours, two deaths have occurred in Goa. But 68 additional deaths from August 2020 to June 2021 are added to cumulative deaths and have been reported late from South Goa District Hospital (Margao)," the ministry said. A total of 4,43,928 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,277 from Maharashtra, 37,537 from Karnataka, 35,246 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,987 from Kerala, 22,885 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,613 from West Bengal, the data showed. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-30570-new-covid-19-cases-431-deaths-1030873.html
16-09-2021||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to address media at 5 pm on Thursday||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will address the media at 5 pm on Thursday. While it is not yet known what the FM will be speaking about, speculation is rife that she will announce the cabinet clearance for the bad bank proposal. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to provide government guarantee to security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) as part of resolution of bad loans, sources told PTI. The cabinet on Wednesday announced major relief packages for telecom and auto sectors. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-media-at-5-pm-on-thursday-1030889.html
16-09-2021||National||Cabinet clears proposal for government guarantee to bad bank||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to provide government guarantee to security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) as part of resolution of bad loans, sources said. Indian Banks' Association (IBA), entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has pegged the government guarantee to be around Rs 31,000 crore. The proposed bad bank or NARCL will pay up to 15 per cent of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts. The government guarantee would be invoked if there is loss against the threshold value. Last month, the IBA moved an application to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for a licence to set up a Rs 6,000-crore NARCL. According to sources, the Cabinet nod was required as sovereign guarantee would be extended to security receipts issued by NARCL. The Cabinet nod will pave the way for operationalisation of the bad bank announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Budget this year, the sources added. The Finance Minister in Budget 2021-22 announced that the high level of provisioning by public sector banks of their stressed assets calls for measures to clean up the bank books. "An Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt," she had said in the Budget speech. It will then manage and dispose of the assets to alternate investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, she had said. Last year, the IBA made a proposal for the creation of a bad bank for swift resolution of non-performing assets. The government accepted the proposal and decided to go for asset reconstruction company and asset management company model in this regard. Meanwhile, state-owned Canara Bank has expressed its intent to be the lead sponsor of NARCL with a 12 per cent stake. The proposed NARCL would be 51 per cent owned by PSBs and the remaining by private sector lenders. NARCL will take over identified bad loans of lenders. The lead bank with an offer in hand of NARCL will go for a 'Swiss Challenge' wherein other asset reconstruction players will be invited to better the offer made by a chosen bidder for finding higher valuation of a non-performing asset on sale. The company has picked up those assets that are 100 per cent provided for by the lenders. Banks have identified around 22 bad loans worth Rs 89,000 crore to be transferred to NARCL in the initial phase. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-clears-proposal-for-government-guarantee-to-bad-bank-1030890.html
16-09-2021||National||Covid pandemic will become endemic in next 6 months in India, says NCDC Director||Sujeet Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has said that Covid-19 pandemic will start becoming endemic in the coming six months in India and claimed that a new variant of Covid-19 cannot alone bring a third wave. Covid-19 pandemic becoming endemic would mean that the infection will become manageable and easier on the healthcare system, he said. Giving the example of Kerala, which is now emerging from a raging crisis that was going on a few weeks ago, he said, “If the mortality and morbidity is under control, then we can manage the disease.” Singh also asserted that there are no new variants of Covid-19 in the country and a new variant alone can’t be a cause for a third wave. "Just a new variant cannot cause a third wave. The factor will be a mix of behaviour and antibodies. There is some worry because of the festival season," he said.  According to the health body chief, the C1.2 and Mu variants of Covid-19 are not yet found in India. In the interview, Singh stressed that vaccination provides substantial protection against Covid-19. "75 crore people have been vaccinated. If vaccine effectiveness is 70 per cent, then around 50 crore people in India have got immunity. A single dose gives 30-31 per cent immunity. So the 30 crore people, who have received a single dose, are also immunised," he said. Even after vaccination, Singh warned, there is a possibility of a breakthrough infection taking place in 20-30 per cent cases.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-pandemic-will-become-endemic-in-next-6-months-in-india-says-ncdc-director-1030904.html
16-09-2021||National||Justice AIS Cheema to remain NCLAT chairperson till Sept 20||The Centre on Thursday agreed before the Supreme Court to reinstate Justice Ashok Iqbal Singh Cheema as acting chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) till September 20 and send the incumbent head on leave.  The development comes moments after a three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana expressed anguish on abrupt curtailment of Justice Cheema's tenure before the due date of retirement since he completed four years as NCLAT member. The court said it would suo motu stay the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, forcing the government to concede and allow Cheema to rejoin the post.  Hearing a writ petition filed by Cheema, the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, expressed serious displeasure over the hasty decision to replace him with Justice M Venugopal, just 10 days before his retirement.   Initially, Attorney General K K Venugopal, representing the Centre, submitted that he was prepared to argue the Centre’s stand on the matter as the decision was taken as per the newly enacted Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. He said Justice Cheema, who was sent off pre-maturely, can continue as NCLT acting chairman till September 20 but only on paper since the government has appointed another person as acting chairman. However, the impasse did not last long. As the matter was adjourned for 30 minutes for the A-G to take instructions, the government blinked. However, the A-G clarified that Justice Cheema’s reinstatement should not be treated as a precedent.   “I have taken instructions. It was said he (Cheema) took leave to write judgments. So, we have decided that he will be allowed to go to office and pronounce (pending) judgments,” Venugopal said.  Current chairperson Justice Venugopal will be sent on leave, he added.  Appreciating A-G’s efforts in breaking the deadlock, the bench said, “The Attorney General solved the problem. We thank you for this". At the outset, Venugopal submitted that Justice Cheema would be “treated” as acting chairperson till September 20 only on paper and he will be paid his service benefits.  However, the bench pointed out there were five judgments reserved by Justice Cheema and he should be allowed to pronounce these judgments.  To this, A-G said that it would be “very awkward” for the government to remove Justice Venugopal now. The bench then said the way this order (premature retirement of Justice Cheema) was passed was awkward.   Finally, the bench passed the order, stating the current chairperson will be on leave till September 20. It also added that this order was passed keeping in mind the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case.  Justice Cheema questioned his sudden removal from office as NCLAT acting chairperson on September 10. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing Justice Cheema, said it was not proper to treat a former Bombay High Court judge, who had been part of the legal profession for 40 years in this manner. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-ais-cheema-to-remain-nclat-chairperson-till-sept-20-1030916.html
16-09-2021||National||Over 76.11 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs: Centre||More than 76.11 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. Further, more than 1.65 crore doses are in the pipeline. Over 5.33 crore balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7611-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-centre-1030924.html
16-09-2021||National||Crimes against Dalits, tribals rise by over 9% amid lockdown||The country witnessed a lockdown and restrictions owing to Covid-19 for the most part of last year but there was no let up in atrocities against Dalits and tribals, as the number of such cases rose by over 9% compared to 2019. But on a positive note, the conviction rate has risen in cases of atrocities against both the underprivileged sections nationally. States like Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Gujarat and Odisha, however, fared very badly when it came to ensuring punishment for the perpetrators of crime against Dalits. The Crime in India 2020 report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed that crimes against Scheduled Castes or Dalits rose from 45,961 cases in 2019 to 50,291 last year -- an increase of 9.4%. In 2018, there were 42,793 cases. In the BJP-led NDA ruled Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura and Uttarakhand, the cases rose last year while in Gujarat, Karnataka and Goa, the cases were in decline. When it comes to Congress or UPA-led governments, an increase in such cases was witnessed in Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Maharashtra while it was a declining trend in Punjab and Chhattisgarh. The cases declined in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal while it rose in Telangana, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Uttar Pradesh with 12,714 alone accounted for 25.28% of the total cases of crime against Dalits followed by Bihar (7,368 in 2020 as against 6,544 in 2019) and Rajasthan (7,017 as against 6,794). The cases in Madhya Pradesh rose from 5,300 to 6,899 while in Maharashtra, it rose from 2,150 to 2,569. When it comes to conviction rate, there was an increase from 32.1% to 42.4% last year -- convictions in 3,241 cases out of 7,637 in which trial was completed. A total of 6,137 people were convicted across India last year for crimes against Dalits, while 1,108 were discharged and 7,441 acquitted. Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 70.7%. Rajasthan had 48.7% while Madhya Pradesh recorded 11.8%. Karnataka's record in conviction was dismal at 4.4% though it rose from 3.9% in 2019. Last year, the state managed convictions only in 17 of the 370 cases in which trial was completed. 29 people, including one woman, were convicted in Karnataka while 657, including 39, managed to get acquitted. Rajasthan had convictions in 886 cases while Uttar Pradesh had it in 3,955 cases. On cases of crimes against Scheduled Tribes (STs), the cases rose from 7,570 in 2019 to 8,272 -- an increase of 9.3%. In 2018, the number of such cases was 6,528.  The NCRB report showed that the conviction rate rose from 26.4% to 30.1%. Nationally, an analysis showed, the largest chunk of cases of crime against Dalits and tribals were that of simple hurt -- 32.9% in case of Dalits and 27.2% in case of tribals. For Dalits, cases under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act came second with 8.5% (4,273 cases) followed by criminal intimidation with 7.5% (3,788 cases). Rape cases (13.7% or 1,137 cases) were the second most crime against tribals followed by assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty with 10.7% (885 cases). Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crimes-against-dalits-tribals-rise-by-over-9-amid-lockdown-1030962.html
16-09-2021||National||From concession to Covid-19 drugs to petrol taxation changes, here's what to expect from the GST council meet||The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on Friday, which among other things may review tax rate of over four-dozen items and extend till December 31, tax concessions on 11 Covid drugs. Also, taxing petrol and diesel under the single national GST tax and a proposal to treat food delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy as restaurants and levy a 5 per cent GST tax on supplies made by them would be taken up by the Council at its meeting in Lucknow on September 17. "Finance Minister Smt @nsitharaman will chair the 45th GST Council meeting at 11 AM in Lucknow tomorrow. The meeting will be attended by MOS Shri @mppchaudhary besides Finance Ministers of States & UTs and Senior officers from Union Government & States," the Finance Ministry tweeted. The Council, comprising central and state finance ministers, will deliberate on the proposal of extending the existing concessional tax rate structure on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab, Remdesivir and anti-coagulants like Heparin, till December 31, 2021, from the present September 30. Tax rate on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab was cut to 'Nil', while Remdesivir and Heparin was reduced to 5 per cent in June 2021. The Council on Friday may also discuss the proposal of reducing GST from 12 per cent to 5 per cent to seven more drugs till December 31, 2021. These are Itolizumab, Posaconazole, Infliximab, Bamlanivimab & Etesevimab, Casirivimab & Imdevimab, 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose and Favipiravir. To curb tax evasion, the proposal to make the food delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato liable to pay the Goods and Services Tax on restaurant services supplied through them would also be considered by the Council. Once approved by the GST Council, food delivery apps will have to collect and deposit GST with the government, in place of restaurants, for deliveries made by them. There would be no extra tax burden on the end consumer. As per estimates, tax loss to exchequer due to alleged under-reporting by food delivery aggregators is Rs 2,000 over the past two years. In light of the Kerala High Court order, the Council will also discuss taxing petrol and diesel under the GST, a move that may require huge compromises by both central and state governments on the revenues they collect from taxing these products. In June, the Kerala High Court, based on a writ petition, had asked the GST Council to decide on bringing petrol and diesel within the GST ambit. The Council will also discuss the interim report of a state-ministerial panel on capacity based taxation on pan masala and composition scheme for brick kilns and stone crushers. The Panel has recommended a Special Composition Scheme in the Brick Kiln sector with effect from April 1, 2022, prescribing a GST rate of 6 per cent, without ITC, similar to the rate in the services sector. It has also suggested hiking the GST rate on supply of bricks from 5 per cent to 12 per cent (with ITC), with effect from April 1. The council will review and also clarify regarding GST rates 32 goods and 29 services. The items under review are Zolgensma and Viltepso medicines for personal use, solar PV modules, copper concentrate, carbonated beverage with fruit juice, coconut oil, scented sweet supari, oncology medicine, and diesel-electric locomotives. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-concession-to-covid-19-drugs-to-petrol-taxation-changes-heres-what-to-expect-from-the-gst-council-meet-1030965.html
16-09-2021||National||President Kovind arrives in Shimla on four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Shimla on Thursday for a four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh. Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and other dignitaries welcomed him at the Annadale Helipad here. Kovind will address a special session of the state assembly on Friday, and on Saturday, he will attend the valedictory ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts, Shimla, as the chief guest, an official said. Kovind will be staying at the Cecil hotel in Chaura Maidan here instead of The Retreat, the President's residence at Chharabra on the outskirts of Shimla, where he normally stays during his visit to the state. The President will be staying at the hotel as four staff members of The Retreat tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the official added. All those who come in close contact with the President will have to carry a Covid-19 RT-PCR negative report even if they have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus, he said. The President will address the special session of the state assembly on Friday at 11 am to mark the golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh's statehood. Kovind will be the third President to address the Himachal Pradesh assembly after APJ Abdul Kalam in 2003 and Pranab Mukherjee in 2013, Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said. Apart from all sitting MLAs, former legislators, including ex-chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal, have been invited to attend the special session, he added. Ninety-three former MLAs, including Kumar and Dhumal, have given their consent to attend the session, the speaker said. Five MPs from the state and seven former parliamentarians will also attend, he added. On Friday evening, the President will attend a cultural programme and a banquet hosted by the governor, the state official added. On September 19, he will leave for Delhi around 11.15 am. Shimla Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Aditya Negi has imposed restrictions on traffic movement from Kennedy Chowk to Boileauganj via Chaura Maidan during the President's stay from Thursday to Sunday. Issuing the order on Tuesday under section 115 of the Motor Vehicles Act, Negi stated that vehicles of local residents of the area would be allowed on production of residence certificate. Vehicles of officials deployed in connection with the President's visit and emergency vehicles are exempted. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-arrives-in-shimla-on-four-day-visit-to-himachal-pradesh-1030991.html
16-09-2021||National||Delhi riots: Court frames charges against 5 accused for setting man on fire inside Ramlila ground||A Delhi court on Thursday framed charges of murder and arson against five accused for allegedly setting a man on fire inside the Ramlila Ground during last year's riots, to which they have pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. As per Delhi Police, five men shot Mohd Anwar and set him on fire inside Ramlila Ground opposite his house in Delhi's Karawal Nagar area, as he was from a "different community". The police stated that only a small piece of his leg could be recovered. Additional Sessions Judge said that prima facie there is enough material on record to frame charges against the accused, namely Lakhpat Rajora, Yogesh, Lalit, and two men named Kuldeep under the requisite sections of the Indian Penal Code. Following this, the charges were explained to the accused persons in vernacular and asked if they plead guilty or claim trial, to which they all pleaded not guilty and claimed trial in the case. The judge noted that the Call Data Record (CDR) locations of all the accused have been found at the spot on the date of the incident, which is prima facie out of their routine locations. ASJ Yadav also concurred with the prosecution's contentions that the accused were not visible in the CCTV footage as the rioters had broken virtually every camera in the vicinity and damaged the digital video recorders (DVRs) during the violence. The judge noted that even though there was a delay in recording the statement of public witnesses, he cannot lose sight of the fact that police were facing difficulty to trace them as people were shocked and traumatized and it took them time to muster the courage to report the matter. “Statements cannot be brushed aside merely because there has been some delay in recording thereof or that the complainant did not specifically name/identify the accused persons in his initial written complaint made to the police,” the sessions judge said. They have been charged under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 395 (dacoity), 427 (mischief), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), an accused should be informed of the offence under which he is charged. The basic purpose of the charge is to let them know of the offence that they are charged with so that they can prepare defence.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-court-frames-charges-against-5-accused-for-setting-man-on-fire-inside-ramlila-ground-1031008.html
16-09-2021||National||Delhi reported least number of cybercrimes among 4 metros in 2020: NCRB data||Among the four major metropolitan cities, Delhi registered the least number of cybercrime cases at 166, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. However, cybercrimes in the national capital saw an increase in 2020 as compared to 2019 when it registered 107 such cases. Among the four major metro cities, Mumbai registered 2,433 cases, Chennai registered 186 cases, and Kolkata registered 172 cases, the data showed. The NCRB, which functions under the Union home ministry, classified 19 cities with over 20 lakh population as metropolitans -- Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Coimbatore, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Kanpur, Kochi, Kolkata, Kozhikode, Lucknow, Mumbai, Nagpur, Patna, Pune and Surat. Among them, Bengaluru reported highest number of cybercrime cases at 8,892 while Coimbatore recorded four such cases. Of the total 166 cases registered in Delhi last year, 12 cases were related to cyber stalking/bullying of women/children (section 354D of IPC), the data showed. Mumbai registered 105 cases of cyber stalking and bullying, Chennai registered two such cases, and no such case was reported in Kolkata, according to data. Two cases of OTP fraud, 19 cases of online banking fraud, six cases of cheating (section 420) and nine other cases were registered in Delhi in 2020, the data showed. While Mumbai witnessed 57 cases of OTP fraud, Chennai and Kolkata reported no such cases. A total of 289 cases of online banking fraud were registered in Mumbai, it said. No case of fake news on social media (section 505) was lodged in the national capital, however, the numbers for Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata stood at five, 14 and 11 respectively, the data showed. Analysis of cybercrimes reported from the 19 metropolitan cities cited that personal revenge, anger, fraud, extortion, and sexual exploitation were among the motives behind such offences. Delhi reported two cases of crimes committed due to personal revenge, three due to anger, 23 cases of fraud, 15 of extortion, 20 of sexual exploitation, and 103 in the others category in 2020, the data showed.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-reported-least-number-of-cybercrimes-among-4-metros-in-2020-ncrb-data-1031017.html
16-09-2021||National||People need to pay for good roads: Nitin Gadkari on toll charges on highways||Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said people need to pay if they want better road infrastructure in the country. Reviewing the progress of Delhi-Mumbai Expressway (DME) in Sohna in Haryana, the Union Minister told reporters, "If you want to use an air-conditioned hall, you have to pay for it. Otherwise, you can arrange a marriage on a field as well." He was answering a question on the rise in travel costs due to toll charges. The Minister also said the expressway will decrease travel time significantly, which will result in reduction in cost of fuel. "The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will decrease travel time to 12 hours. A truck takes 48 hours to reach Mumbai from Delhi. But on the expressway, it will take only 18 hours," he said "So, a truck will be able to undertake more trips, which would in turn mean more business," Gadkari said. Developed at Rs 98,000 crore, the Delhi-Mumbai expressway  is expected to be completed by March 2023. The first phase from Delhi-Jaipur (Dausa)-Lalsot and Vadodara-Ankleshwar is expected to be open to traffic by March 2022. The eight-lane access-controlled expressway can be expanded to a 12-lane expressway depending on the volume of traffic in the future. Gadkari also said that the Road Transport Ministry was exploring options to adopt new technologies for the construction of roads and cut down the use of cement and steel. The government is also exploring options such as the use of steel fibre, which is used abroad, he said. Gadkari said that in a liberal approach, the ministry had paid 1.5 times more than the market price to farmers for land acquisition. “I appeal to farmers to not sell their land to builders and developers, who usually profit when prices increase after road construction. They (farmers) will get more money if they develop the land,” he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-need-to-pay-for-good-roads-nitin-gadkari-on-toll-charges-on-highways-1031031.html
16-09-2021||National||JAM trinity proved to be game-changer, helped reach out to people during pandemic: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||The Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile (JAM) trinity has proved to be a game-changer and helped in reaching out to the citizens living in the farthest corners of the country, during the coronavirus pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday. She was addressing the Rashtriya Bank Parishad-organised 'Manthan', a one-day meeting in Aurangabad, which she inaugurated virtually. "The JAM trinity concept of the Narendra Modi government helped to reach the farthest person in the country. There were questions in the mind of people when the Jan Dhan scheme was launched. "The inclusion of people in Jan Dhan stood by us in the Covid-19 pandemic, and we could help the people directly so that they can live their lives," she said. Sitharaman also said the Aadhaar linkage also helped in getting KYC-verified accounts. "It also helped us to get a credible robust structure through which banking, financing facilities could reach people. The last of the trinity, that is mobile, where every information about the deposit, benefits of government schemes (MNREGA) or the subsidies in the account, was sent...even in regional languages," Sitharaman added. Still, there are parts in the country that need an extra and special push, she said. The minister said the Rashtriya Bank Parishad would prove to be beneficial for this region of Maharashtra. Union Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad, who chaired the conclave, said the focus henceforth would be on opening Jan Dhan accounts of those who have reached the age of 18. The focus will also be on opening accounts in 111 aspirational districts across the country. The agenda of discussion in Aurangabad included difficulties in availing Mudra loans and the agriculture sector, he said. Punjab National Bank CEO and MD S S Mallikarjun Rao said, "The government has taken timely and impactful measures to bring the economy on track. It helped those who lost their jobs, entrepreneurs, industry and agriculture segment of the country." Rao added that the contribution of Maharashtra in the country's economy is "lion's share" in terms of industrialisation and developing entrepreneur skills in the state, and it has a healthy deposit ratio.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jam-trinity-proved-to-be-game-changer-helped-reach-out-to-people-during-pandemic-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-1031033.html
16-09-2021||National||Was not aware of Raj Kundra's work: Shilpa Shetty to Mumbai police||Bollywood actor, model and fitness enthusiast Shilpa Shetty, whose husband Raj Kundra has been chargesheeted in the sensational pornography case, told the Mumbai Police that she was not aware of her husband’s activities.  Shetty’s brief statement forms part of the 1,500-page chargesheet that the Crime Branch-CID filed on Wednesday.  Shetty remained too tied up in her work to know the porn apps or other activities of her husband, according to her brief statement as a witness in the case.  A total of 11 persons have been arrested so far during the investigations that have  been going on since February.  The Mumbai Police had initially chargesheeted nine persons and the supplementary chargesheet has named Kundra, a British-Indian businessman, and his close associate and techie Ryan Thorpe. Shetty further stated that Kundra had launched Viaan Industries Ltd around April, 2015 and she was on the board till July, 2020 before she quit owing to "personal reasons".  Kundra allegedly used his company’s Mumbai offices to manage the daily operations of the sleaze content racket and upload those through HotShots and Bollyfame apps for paid viewers.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/was-not-aware-of-raj-kundras-work-shilpa-shetty-to-mumbai-police-1031034.html
16-09-2021||National||AP, Bihar, UP among major states to straggle behind in Covid vaccination race||While India crossed the milestone of administering 75 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, some major states like Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh haven’t been able to do their best. Meanwhile, Tripura, Kerala, and Uttarakhand have been able to secure a top spot in the list with more than 90 per cent of the population getting at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.   Tripura and Kerala have 96.38 per cent and 95.67 per cent population vaccinated against Covid-19 respectively. The daily positivity rate of the country has been recorded below three per cent for the past 17 days. Hoping to break the previous records of Covid vaccinations, BJP workers across the country will run a special campaign on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on September 17 to help maximum people get inoculated against Covid. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ap-bihar-up-among-major-states-to-straggle-behind-in-covid-vaccination-race-1031036.html
16-09-2021||National||Centre calls recent NYT article on India's Covid response 'provocative, attention seeking'||The government called the recent New York Times article on India's Covid response a "provocative, attention seeking" piece that comes at a time when the country is doing well in tackling the pandemic. The article said that the "ICMR tailored its findings to fit Prime Minister Narendra Modi's optimistic narrative despite a looming crisis". Responding to a question at a press briefing, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said, "This is a provocative, attention seeking article published at a time when India is doing good and our vaccination is excellent and it is diverting attention. All the issues raised are dead ones and probably do not merit any attention." Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Union government as well as the state governments are fully emerged in fighting a pandemic and all our energies and time is devoted to that. "We greatly value journalistic and editorial freedom and at the same time we must also realise that all of us - Union government as well as the state governments - are fully emerged in fighting a pandemic and all our energies and time is devoted to that," he said. "We cannot afford to be diverted by things that can be addressed at a later day which are not priority from the public health point of view," Bhushan said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul condemned the article. "We actually condemn this type of distorted out of context reporting. This is not desirable and it should not happen," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-calls-recent-nyt-article-on-indias-covid-response-provocative-attention-seeking-1031061.html
16-09-2021||National||'ISI-trained terrorists were to blow bridges, railway tracks in India'||Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) trained the two terrorists, that were arrested by the special Cell of Delhi police, who were to blow bridges and railway tracks to cause mass casualties in India, it was revealed during the interrogation on Thursday. According to official sources, the two suspected terrorists -- Osama and Zeeshan -- who were trained by the ISI in Thatta of Pakistan's Sindh province, were instructed to do a recce of railway tracks.The interrogation revealed that the duo was also asked to acquire the details of the timings and route of the trains with more passengers so that the blast results in a high number of casualties. Sources informed that 1.5 kg of RDX was found from their possession when they were caught by the Special Cell earlier this week. "This much amount of RDX is enough to cause large-scale destruction," the source said. As per the latest reports, a team of Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) and Special Cell of the Delhi Police is still jointly interrogating all the suspected terrorists.The cops are also specifically focussing on another suspected terrorist Jaan Mohammed who is suspected to be an operative of D company. He was arrested in Kota when he was on his way to Delhi. Maharashtra ATS chief Vineet Agarwal, on Wednesday, said that Jaan Mohammed belongs to Dharavi, Mumbai. The cops are also looking for Osama's father Humaid-ur-Rehman, who is being suspected as the mastermind of the terror module.It is alleged that Humaid had sent Osama and Zeeshan Qamar, a resident of UP's Allahabad, to Muscat in Oman to join training in Pakistan. Once they reached Muscat, Pakistan Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) took them to Gwadar port through sea routes to get them trained in making explosives and bombs. Osama and Zeeshan Qamar were imparted the training of making bombs and IEDs and committing arson with the help of daily use items at a farmhouse in Thatta in Sindh province. There were three Pakistani nationals in the farmhouse. Two of these, Jabbar and Hamza imparted training to them. Both of them were from Pakistan Army as they wore military uniforms, according to the information obtained.The training lasted for almost 15 days and thereafter, they were taken back to Muscat via the same route. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isi-trained-terrorists-were-to-blow-bridges-railway-tracks-in-india-1031064.html
16-09-2021||National||India's 20% adult population fully vaccinated against Covid-19; govt stresses on following protocols||The government on Thursday said that 20 per cent of India's adult population received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Also, as the festival season approaches, it cautioned against a spike in coronavirus infections and stressed that the call of the hour is vaccine acceptance, maintenance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, responsible travel and responsible festivities. Noting that there is an overall stabilisation in Covid-19 cases, it urged people to be careful in the coming two-three months to retain the gains achieved in the pandemic management so far.  "Overall there is stabilisation in Covid-19 cases and Kerala has also reported a drop in cases. Mizoram is a state of concern but we hope conditions will improve there by fast vaccination and pandemic response and containment.   "In the coming two-three months, we need to be cautious that there is no upsurge.... It is also the period of festivities and also when flu cases rise...we request everyone to be careful and retain the gains that we have achieved (in the pandemic management)," Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog Member (Health), said at a press briefing. He also requested every state, district, municipality to be prepared to tackle any surge by giving home care and make preparations in hospitals and human resources and oxygen requirements. "There is the role of administration and government in this and through our channels we must give hand-holding, resource building, resource transfer and all that is happening but the society also has to contribute in it. Let us push the vaccination programme that is our real shield going into the future. Those who have not received any dose must get vaccinated," Paul said. ICMR Director Dr Balram Bhargava said, "Festivals are in the anvil and sudden increase in population density creates a very conducive environment for viral spread. If there is sudden increase in population density anywhere then the virus finds it very useful to spread so the call of the hour is vaccine acceptance, maintenance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, responsible travel and responsible festivity." Thirty-four districts in the country are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over 10 per cent and the figure is anything between five and 10 per cent in 32 districts, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.  "For us and for the states where these districts are located they are districts of concern and they are areas where Covid-appropriate behaviour, vaccination, surveillance and testing parameters must be monitored on a strict and effective basis," Bhushan said. He said Kerala reported 67.79 per cent of India's total Covid-19 cases last week and that it is the only state with more than 1 lakh active cases. The commissioning of 3,631 PSA plants will produce 4,500 metric tons of medical oxygen and that 1,595 of them are already in operation, he said. Of the 3,631 plants, 1,491 plants are being commissioned from the central resources and 2,140 from from states and other resources. So far 1,595 PSA plants have been commissioned which are providing 2,088 MT medical oxygen to patients at various hospitals in the country, he said. Also, 99 per cent of the healthcare workers have received the first dose while 82 per cent of the eligible healthcare workers have taken the second dose. It said 100 per cent of the frontline workers have been administered the first dose, while 78 per cent of them have been given the second dose. According to data, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in the first 15 days of September has been 74.40 lakh per day, Bhushan said. On the administration of vaccines by the private sector, Bhushan said there is no earmarked quota for the private sector. There is an indicative percentage of what the government would procure and what would be available for the private sector, so this in effect means that if the private sector is unable to either procure or utilise the earmarked percentage then whatever is the shortfall would also be procured by the government because at the end of the day whatever is produced in the country must be utilised. On flu cases, Bhushan said that during the rainy season when clean water gets stagnant dengue outbreak takes place. "Every year, the Centre gives these directions to states on what all they have to do. The states also have sentinel sites that examine samples of dengue patients and those results are shared with the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme and NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control). The treatment is symptomatic...and like every year this year too the Centre had asked states to pay attention to it." "At present, dengue outbreak news has been received from Delhi, Haryana, UP and WB and Gujarat and Assam. In UP, the Centre had sent a team and UP had also deployed its team and...necessary action is being taken," Bhushan said. Asked if a new national record in vaccination will be set on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on Friday, Bhushan said, "We have been running the vaccination programme since January 16 and till all of the country gets vaccinated this programme will continue." With 30,570 more people testing positive for Covid-19, India's overall infection tally has risen to 3,33,47,325, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,42,923, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,928 with 431 daily fatalities being recorded, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-20-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-govt-stresses-on-following-protocols-1031079.html
16-09-2021||National||Covid booster dose not central theme at the moment: Centre||The government on Thursday said Covid-19 booster shot is not the central theme in scientific discussion as well as in the public health domain at the moment and getting the two doses remain the main priority. Responding to a question at a press briefing, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said administering both the doses is absolutely essential and there should be no breakage in that. "We need to remember one thing very clearly that booster dose is not the central theme at the moment in the scientific discussion as well as in the public health domain. Getting the two doses remains the major priority," Bhargava said. "Several agencies have recommended that antibody levels should not be measured...but the important understanding is that full vaccination of both the doses is absolutely essential and there should be no breakage in that," he said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Also, 99 per cent of the healthcare workers have received the first dose while 82 per cent of the eligible healthcare workers have taken the second dose. Bhushan further said that 100 per cent of the frontline workers have been administered the first dose while 78 per cent of them have been given the second dose. So far, all adult people in five states and union territories -- Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Chandigarh and Lakshadweep -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine. According to data, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in the first 15 days of September has been 74.40 lakh per day, Bhushan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-booster-dose-not-central-theme-at-the-moment-centre-1031081.html
16-09-2021||National||New ministry in Gujarat: CM Patel keeps Home, Desai gets Finance||Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on Thursday allocated portfolios to 24 newly-inducted ministers, keeping a host of departments including Home with himself without appointing any deputy. Kanubhai Desai was allocated Finance and Energy and Petrochemicals portfolios. Besides the Home ministry, CM Patel will hold the charge of General Administration Department, Information and Broadcast, Industries, Mines and Minerals, Capital Projects, Urban Development, Urban Housing and Narmada and Ports, an official release said. The allocation was announced in the first cabinet meeting held in Gandhinagar after the ministers were sworn in earlier in the day. Rajendra Trivedi, who was Assembly Speaker during the previous Vijay Rupani government, was allocated Revenue, Law and Justice, and Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs departments as a cabinet-rank minister. Jitubhai Vaghani was given the Education portfolio as cabinet minister, while Rishikesh Patel was given Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education as well as Water Resources and Water Supply. Purnesh Modi will handle Roads and Building, Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism and Pilgrimage Development. Raghavji Patel will handle Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. Another cabinet-rank minister, Kiritsinh Rana, has been given Forest, Environment, Climate Change, and Printing and Stationery departments. Naresh Patel will hold Tribal Development and Food and Civil Supply. Pradip Parmar has been made Social Justice and Empowerment Minister while Arjunsinh Chauhan was allocated the Rural Development and Rural Housing. Harsh Sanghavi, youngest member of the ministry, would be the Minister of State (MoS), Home. He would also handle the Disaster Management and Police Housing. Sanghavi was also allocated independent charge as MoS of Sports, Youth and Cultural Activities, NRI, Excise and Prohibition, Border Security and Prisons. MoS Jagdish Panchal has been given independent charge of Cottage Industries, Cooperation, Salt Industry and Protocol. He will also handle Industries, Forest and Environment, Climate Change and Printing and Stationery portfolios. MoS Brijesh Merja has been given independent charge of Labour and Employment as well as Panchayats. He will also handle Rural Development and Rural Housing as an MoS. Jitu Chaudhary has been made MoS for Kalpsar and Fisheries with independent charge and also given the responsibility of Narmada, Water Resources and Water Supply as MoS. MoS Manishaben Vakil has been given the independent charge of Women and Child Development. She would also handle Social Justice and Empowerment as junior minister. While Mukesh Patel has been made MoS for Agriculture and Energy and Petrochemicals departments, Nimisha Suthar was given Tribal Development, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education as junior minister. MoS Arvind Raiyani has been alloted Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism and Pilgrimage Development. Kuber Dindor will handle Higher and Technical Education as well as Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs as an MoS. Kirtisinh Vaghela has been made MoS for Primary, Secondary and Adult Education while Gajendrasinh Parmar is MoS for Food and Civil Supply. R C Makwana has been given Social Justice and Empowerment as MoS. Vinod Moradia has been made MoS for Urban Development and Urban Housing. Deva Malam will be MoS for Animal Husbandry.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-ministry-in-gujarat-cm-patel-keeps-home-desai-gets-finance-1031084.html
16-09-2021||National||12 killed in separate incidents of house, wall collapse due to heavy rains in UP||Twelve people were killed in incidents of house and wall collapse in Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Jaunpur and Barabanki districts of Uttar Pradesh due to heavy rains, police said on Thursday. According to meteorological department, Pratapgarh and Ayodhya received 20 cm rainfall in the last 24 hours. The heavy downpour resulted in waterlogging at several places and caused inconvenience to people. In Fatehpur district, two people were buried under the rubble of their 'kutcha' house after it collapsed in Mohammadpur Gaunti late on Wednesday night, police said. Tiya (18) and her sister Muskaan (3), daughters of Rakesh Lodhi, died on the spot, SHO of Sultanpur Ghosh Police Station Arvind Kumar Gautam said. In another incident in the district, a couple and their daughter Komal (2) were sleeping when their 'kutcha' house collapsed in Mardaha village on Wednesday night, SHO Kalyanpur Police Station, Amit Kumar Mishra said. The neighbours rushed to their rescue, but could not save the girl, the SHO said, adding that the couple sustained injuries and was admitted to a government hospital. In Pratapgarh district's Gode village under Kotwali Police Station area, one person was killed and three others injured when the wall of a house collapsed while they were sleeping. Inspector-in-charge of the police station, Ravindra Rai said Ramzan (18) died in the incident, while his sister and her two children were injured and admitted to a hospital. In a similar incident in Gahrichak village under Kandhai Police Station area, Urmila Misra (55) died when her 'kutcha' house collapsed due to rains, Inspector Neeraj Walia said. In Kaushambi, a woman was killed and her husband injured when their house in Birner village in Sarai Akeel area collapsed due to heavy rains on Wednesday evening. While Murdi Devi (62) died during treatment, condition of her husband Prem Narain (65) was stated to be stable, police said. In Barabanki, a father-son duo were killed on Wednesday night after wall of their house in Bayasagpur in Asandra area fell on them, police said. Their bodies were taken out from the debris Thursday morning when the villagers came to know about it. Those died were identified as Arvind Kumar Yadav (40) and his son Arvind (8), who were sleeping when the incident took place, they said. In Jaunpur, four people, including three of family, were killed and three others injured in separate incidents of house collapse. The first incident took place in Sujanganj area, where Bharat Lal Jaiswal (38), his wife Gulaba Devi (34), daughter Sakshi (10) were killed and three others injured when their 'kutcha house' collapsed at around 4 am. In similar incident in Sikarara area on Wednesday, Urmila Devi (47) were killed. In the state capital, waterlogging was reported from several places due to heavy rainfall since Wednesday night. Rainwater entered the office of Lucknow Municipal Corporation and trees fell at various places while some roads caved in too. Taking note of the heavy rainfall, District Magistrate, Lucknow Abhishek Prakash has advised people to remain indoors and avoid going out. He also asked people to remain cautious about open sewer, electricity wires and poles, and inform integrated control centre in case of waterlogging, felling of trees and power breakdown. According to the MeT office, in the last 24 hours, Fursatganj received 19 cm rainfall, followed by Kunda (Pratapgarh), Chitrakoot, Basti, and Rae Bareli received (17 cm each), Mirzapur (15 cm), Gauriganj (Amethi), Bindki (Fatehpur), Prayagraj Sadar (13 cm each), Lucknow and Sultanpur (12 cm each), Sant Ravidas Nagar, Musafir Khana (Amethi), Sambhal, and Ayodhya (11 cm each). Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-killed-in-separate-incidents-of-house-wall-collapse-due-to-heavy-rains-in-up-1031094.html
16-09-2021||National||Saregama India to raise funds up to Rs 75 crore||RP Sanjiv Goenka group’s music company Saregama India Thursday announced a plan to raise funds up to Rs 750 crore. The funds would be raised through an additional issue of securities via options like private placement, preferential issue, public issue, or through qualified institutional placement, the company said in a regulatory filing. The specific purpose of the fundraising was not disclosed. The board of directors decided to convene an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of the company on October 19 to seek the nod of shareholders for the said plan. Saregama India owns the largest music archive in the country. Saregama has also expanded into other branches of entertainment - publishing, film production, and digital content. It has a catalogue of more than 130,000 songs in 25 languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saregama-india-to-raise-funds-up-to-rs-75-crore-1031096.html
16-09-2021||National||Fake vaccination certificates for India being sold on Telegram for Rs 5,520 each: Check Point||Fake Covid-19 vaccination certificates and fake test results of 29 different countries, including India, are being sold on Telegram, a report by Check Point Research said on Thursday. According to the report, a fake vaccination certificate for India is available at a price of about $75 (Rs 5,520) each. Oded Vanunu, head (products vulnerability research) at Check Point Software Technologies, said there are people who don't want to take the vaccine but still want the freedoms that come with being vaccinated such as access to places. "These people are turning to the Darknet and Telegram. Since March 2021, prices for fake vaccination cards have dropped by half and online groups for these fraudulent coronavirus services boast followings of hundreds of thousands of people. "I strongly recommend people to not engage these sellers for anything as these vendors are after more than just selling you fake vaccination cards," Vanunu said. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, in India, various state governments have mandated certain regulations for those undertaking inter-state travel by road or air to mitigate the further spread of the virus. Travellers are required to have a negative Covid-19 test result (RT-PCR report) or a vaccination certificate to visit some states that see large influx of tourists. The Check Point Research (CPR) report said movement regulation may have resulted in the demand for and availability of fake test results and vaccine certificates in the black market from those who do not wish to be vaccinated. "In March 2021, the majority of the fake coronavirus certificates were advertised on the Darknet. Now, CPR sees a majority of black market activity centered around Telegram. CPR suspects the shift to Telegram has helped sellers scale their distribution efforts, reaching more consumers, faster," the report said. The advertisements spotted by CPR are specifically designed for people "who do not want to take the vaccine". "Since March, CPR has spotted over 5,000 Telegram groups selling fake documents, making Telegram the primary selling platform. Globally, Telegram has been downloaded more than 1 billion times, and with India being the largest market," the report said. No immediate comments were received from Telegram. One advertisement displayed "we are here to save the world from this poisonous vaccine". The advertisements highlight the ability to travel and work freely as a benefit of their product, the report said. "Sellers mostly accept payments through PayPal and cryptocurrency (Bitcoin, Monero, Dogecoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, and others).  In some cases, Steam, Amazon, and eBay gift cards are accepted," the report said. It added that sellers list their method of contact as Telegram, WhatsApp, email, Wickr, and Jabber.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-vaccination-certificates-for-india-being-sold-on-telegram-for-rs-5520-each-check-point-1031097.html
16-09-2021||National||As festivals near, govt says nearly 1,600 oxygen plants commissioned||Ahead of the festive season that has the potential to trigger a Covid-19 spike, the Centre on Thursday said nearly 1,600 oxygen generating PSA plants were commissioned in hospitals across the country whereas another 2,000 odd such plants were being set up. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said as many as 3,631 pressure swing adsorption plants were being set up to generate nearly 4,600 metric tonnes of oxygen per day. As of now around 40% of such plants – 1,595 plants to be exact – have been commissioned to produce 2,100 MT of oxygen. During the ferocious second surge of the Covid-19 epidemic in India, the availability of oxygen was a major crisis faced by many hospitals leading to complications in patient management and deaths. However, last month the Union Health Ministry stated that no states barring one had reported any Covid-19 deaths due to oxygen shortage contradicting the ground realities three months ago. Bhushan said 34 districts -- almost entirely in Kerala and North East -- were reporting a weekly test positivity of more than 10% while another 32 districts have a positivity between 5-10%. Nearly 68% of cases reported last week are from Kerala even though there seems to be a stabilisation in the number of fresh cases reported daily. NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said Kerala reported a drop in cases, but Mizoram emerged as a worry. With 13,525 active cases, Mizoram is one of the five states with more than 10,000 active cases, others being much larger Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. The government said 20% of India's adult population received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and 62% have got at least one dose. Administration of a booster dose was not being considered because such a strategy was not a central theme of scientific studies and giving the full dose to the adult population was more important, said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-festivals-near-govt-says-nearly-1600-oxygen-plants-commissioned-1031114.html
16-09-2021||National||India should share its ancient knowledge with the world: Dalai Lama||The Dalai Lama on Thursday said India should share its ancient knowledge with the world and praised the country's secular approach to treating all spiritual traditions with respect. “Although our world has changed a great deal since the time of Buddha, the essence of his teaching remains as relevant today as it was 2,500 years ago. Buddha's advice stated simply is to avoid harming others and to help them whenever you can in whatever way possible," he said in a statement released by his office on Thursday in Dharamshala. Indians were our gurus, but now the time has come for India to share its knowledge with the rest of the world, the Buddhist spiritual leader said. It will be necessary to present ancient Indian knowledge in a secular and academic way, the Nobel laureate said while praising the Indian tradition of respecting all spiritual traditions with respect. Connecting Buddhism with India, the Dalai Lama said, "When I first came to India, I reflected on the close links between this country and my home land, Tibet. As the Honourable Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has said, India is the land of Buddha. The ultimate purpose of Buddhism is to serve and benefit humanity." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-share-its-ancient-knowledge-with-the-world-dalai-lama-1031115.html
16-09-2021||National||University in Kerala to keep portions on RSS in abeyance||The Kannur University in Kerala has decided to keep in abeyance portions from books written by RSS leaders in the post-graduate syllabus after being criticised for including them. Vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran said on Thursday that necessary changes would be made in the said portions and included in the fourth semester of the PG course. The state witnessed strong protests last week over including portions of the books of RSS and Hindutva ideologues like M S Golwalkar and V D Savarkar in the syllabus. Even Left Front leaders including Rajya Sabha MP Benoy Viswam of the CPI had condemned the decision.  However, a section of political leaders, including Congress MP Shashi Tharoor had commented that as an academician, he felt that students should read and critically understand all perspectives. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/university-in-kerala-to-keep-portions-on-rss-in-abeyance-1031116.html
16-09-2021||National||Mohan Bhagwat to visit Jammu on October 1, first time since August 2019||For the first time after the abrogation of Article 370, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will be on a three-day visit to Jammu from October 1, a senior Sangh functionary said on Thursday. This is Bhagwat's first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the erstwhile state’s special status was ended and it was bifurcated into union territories -- J-K and Ladakh. Describing the tour as a 'routine visit', the functionary said it is part of the RSS chief's itinerary to meet and interact with Sangh workers across the country. During his three-day visit, Bhagwat will hold several meetings with workers of the outfit and its affiliates to discuss organisational issues. He is also scheduled to address a meeting of eminent personalities from Jammu as part of the Sangh's outreach programme, the functionary said. In March this year, Bhagwat was scheduled to virtually address the members of the Kashmiri pandit community, but could not do so as he got sick. On Thursday, Bhagwat arrived in Udaipur, Rajasthan as part of his four-day tour to the state. During the stay, the RSS sarsanghchalak will discuss the efforts being made by the volunteers for expansion of work for the development of villages and betterment of the environment, a statement said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mohan-bhagwat-to-visit-jammu-on-october-1-first-time-since-august-2019-1031149.html
16-09-2021||National Politics||Gujarat Speaker resigns ahead of Cabinet oath-taking||Gujarat Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi submited his resignation on Thursday ahead of the the new Cabinet announcement. New ministers of the Bhupendra Patel-led government in Gujarat will take oath on Thursday at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar amid speculation that the BJP may induct new faces into the state cabinet, with just over a year left for the state Assembly polls. There has been suspense over ministerial faces, whose names have not been declared so far, in the backdrop of the BJP's "no repeat" formula. (With agency inputs) More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-speaker-resigns-ahead-of-cabinet-oath-taking-1030944.html
16-09-2021||National Politics||To woo UP voters, AAP promises 300 units of electricity free, 24X7 supply||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday promised that if it is voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, its government will provide 300 units of electricity free of cost to all domestic consumers, waive outstanding bills of 38 lakh families and ensure 24-hour power supply. Addressing a press conference here, AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also announced providing free electricity to farmers. The AAP has made similar promises in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa where assembly polls are due in early next year. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party, which has decided to contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, alleged that electricity tariff is so expensive in Uttar Pradesh that it is becoming very difficult for people to pay the bill. At the same time, Sisodia alleged, the government tells people to either pay the electricity bill or be tagged as criminals. Claiming that there are hundreds of instances in Uttar Pradesh wherein common people have committed suicide after receiving inflated electricity bills, Sisodia said a farmer in Aligarh, named Ramji Lal, killed himself over non-payment of electricity bill while in Etah, a 17-year-old girl committed suicide just because the electricity department had sent a wrong bill to her father who was declared a criminal for not paying it. "There are 38 lakh families in Uttar Pradesh who have been sent inflated electricity bills and the government is considering them as criminals. I want to tell these people that you support the Aam Aadmi Party and ensure that our party forms the government after the assembly elections. Tear the bills as soon as the government is formed. Everyone's outstanding bill will be waived. This is Arvind Kejriwal's guarantee," Sisodia said. He said that today electricity is not a luxury but a basic necessity and it is the responsibility of every government to make it available to every citizen. The party promised to provide 300 units of electricity free of cost to all domestic consumers per billing cycle, waive outstanding bills of 38 lakh families and ensure 24-hour power supply. AAP Rajya Sabha member and in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Sanjay Singh told the press conference that Kejriwal does what he says. Whatever announcements have been made today, including providing 300 units of free electricity, are historic, Singh said. Asked about the party's chief ministerial candidate, Sisodia said when the time comes, the party will take a decision on it. The party is contesting the elections under the leadership of Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, he added. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/to-woo-up-voters-aap-promises-300-units-of-electricity-free-24x7-supply-1031015.html
16-09-2021||National Politics||BJP eying major push to Covid vaccination on Modi's birthday||The BJP is set to launch a mega 20-day public outreach from Friday on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday and it will continue till October 7 to also commemorate his 20 years in public life, including as Gujarat chief minister. The party has asked its workers across the country to facilitate Covid-19 vaccination drive on the birthday as part of its "Seva and Samarpan" campaign. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya called for a major push to the vaccination drive on Friday, saying it would be the perfect gift for Modi on his birthday. "Tomorrow is the birthday of our beloved prime minister, lets do #VaccineSeva by helping all unvaccinated people including their loved ones, family members and all sections of the society by getting them vaccinated. This would be a birthday gift for the prime minister," he said in a tweet in Hindi on Thursday. Since Modi became prime minister in 2014, the BJP has been celebrating his birthday as 'Seva Diwas' (Service Day) and organises welfare activities across the country for a week but this time it has been extended to 20 days as he is completing his two decades holding public office. BJP president J P Nadda has issued a set of instructions to party workers for organising health and blood donation camps and distributing rations to poor as part of the campaign. Over 14 crore ration bags printed with Modi's pictures will also be distributed among the needy during the exercise. As part of the campaign, the BJP workers will carry out a large-scale cleanliness drive on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and people will be encouraged to use Khadi and local products. On this occasion, the party has said that five crore postcards will be sent from the BJP booth workers to Modi across the country highlighting that they are committing themselves to public service. The party has also asked workers to publicise the auction of gifts received by Modi. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-eying-major-push-to-covid-vaccination-on-modis-birthday-1031101.html
16-09-2021||National Politics||PM Modi takes a dig at Opposition for criticising Central Vista||Taking a swipe at Opposition parties for their criticism against the Central Vista project, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said some people are more interested in their "personal agendas" than the condition of key government offices and ministries. The PM was speaking after inaugurating newly constructed two defence office complexes of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) in Delhi as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project at a cost of Rs 775 crore. "This is all part of Central Vista -- something those with false agendas and spreading misinformation will never acknowledge. You can now see the important work being done under this project," the PM said. "We all saw how some people tried to sabotage the important Central Vista project... how they ran personal agendas to spread misinformation," the PM said. He added that those critics of Central Vista did not speak about the conditions of hutments where several offices of the Defence Ministry functions. "It always surprised me that the Defence Ministry, like some others, was run from World War II-era hutments... these were made keeping horses and stables in mind..." he said. "But not once did they speak about the condition of these hutments... from where our ministries work. Not once did they mention the new Defence Ministry complexes and how crucial they are. If they had done so, their lies and agendas would have been exposed," the PM said. He questioned why media houses in Delhi had failed to cover "the conditions in which our important ministries were functioning." He further said, "In the 75th year of Independence, we are taking an important step towards developing the capital of the country according to the needs and aspirations of the new India." The new Defence Ministry offices -- which will house 7,000 officials across two complexes on Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue in central Delhi -- reflected his government placing "highest priority and honour" to the nation's armed forces. “This new Defence Office Complex is going to further strengthen our efforts to make the work of our forces more convenient and more effective for the nation's security, " he said. Opposition parties criticised the ambitious Rs 20,000 crore redevelopment of Central Vista project -- which includes building a new Parliament and central government offices, and constructing the PM and Vice President offices and residences. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, will be completed within two-and-a-half months and the project will be ready in time to host the Republic Day parade in 2022. Puri also said that the winter session of Parliament next year will take place in the new Parliament building. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-takes-a-dig-at-opposition-for-criticising-central-vista-1031118.html
16-09-2021||National Politics||Won't let India become Pakistan or Taliban-ruled state: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asserted that she will not allow the country to turn into Pakistan or the Taliban. Alleging that the saffron party has claimed the Bhabanipur constituency in south Kolkata will become Pakistan if the TMC wins the bypoll from there, Banerjee accused the BJP of practising divisive politics. The Trinamool Congress supremo is contesting the by-election from Bhabanipur. "I don't like the policies and politics of the BJP. They only follow the politics of dividing people on religious lines. In Nandigram, they had said it would become Pakistan (if the TMC wins). In Bhabanipur too, they are saying it will turn into Pakistan. This is shameful," Banerjee said while campaigning.  Banerjee lost to Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP from Nandigram during the assembly election held earlier this year. She has to win this bypoll to retain her chief minister's post. "I want my country to be strong and will protect my motherland with all my might. We don't want India to become another Taliban (ruled state). I will never allow my country to turn into Pakistan," she said while talking to the voters in the area. Criticising the state BJP leadership for taking exception to her recent visit to a mosque in the area, Banerjee said the saffron camp has a problem with her visiting a Gurudwara too. "I have visited a mosque; I have visited a Gurudwara also, and the BJP has a problem with both. I don't bring religion into politics, unlike the BJP leaders who only understand the language of divisive politics," she said. On the sizeable Hindi-speaking population of the Bhabanipur constituency, the TMC boss said she would stand by them through thick and thin. "I never differentiate among communities. It is the BJP which destroys brotherhood and social fabric among communities," she said. To woo the area's business community, Banerjee said she was the first politician in the country who had opposed demonetisation in 2016. "I was the first to oppose demonetisation. I know the kind of harassment the business community has gone through during demonetisation. I used to regularly visit Burrabazar (the business hub of Kolkata) and talk to the business community members," she said. Hitting out at the saffron camp over its "ploy" to sell off the country's assets, she said those were not the personal property of the BJP. "The government is trying to sell off the entire country. Railways, airports and ports... They want to sell everything off. Can you sell the soil of the country?" Banerjee said. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in August announced a Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways. Banerjee said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should speak to the World Health Organisation (WHO) to ensure that Covaxin is recognised so that those who availed that vaccine against Covid-19 can travel abroad. Later, Banerjee visited the Laxmi Narayan Temple in the area and offered puja. She was also seen offering 'Arati'. A metropolitan constituency, Bhabanipur is home to a large number of Gujaratis and Sikhs, mostly into business, living alongside Bengalis. Banerjee, who is herself a resident of Bhabanipur constituency, had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, to dare her former protege and now a BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in his home turf. Though Banerjee powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, she lost in Nandigram. Banerjee is required to win a seat in the state assembly by November 5 in conformity with the constitutional provisions to continue as chief minister. After her defeat in Nandigram, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to allow Banerjee to contest from there. Banerjee is pitted against the BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas for the September 30 by-poll. Congress has decided not to field a candidate against her. The votes will be counted on October 3.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-let-india-become-pakistan-or-taliban-ruled-state-mamata-banerjee-1031122.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Former Apple employee is AAP's 'probable' Noida candidate in UP polls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday named a former Apple employee as it "probable candidate" for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly election from the Noida constituency in Gautam Buddh Nagar district. Rajya Sabha MP and AAP's UP in-charge Sanjay Singh in Lucknow released the first list of 100 "probable candidates" of the party for the state assembly polls due early next year. "The AAP's two likely candidates have been announced today. Pankaj Awana from Noida and Poonam Singh from the Jewar assembly seats," party's district general secretary and spokesperson Sanjeev Nigam told PTI. Awana, who hails from Bhooda village in Sector 81 of Noida, has a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) and has formerly worked for tech giant Apple, Nigam said. The other candidate is Singh, who hails from Nagla Bhatuna village in Jewar. She is a graduate and the party's probable candidate from Jewar, he said. Nigam said a "probable candidate" is almost certain to be the AAP's candidate in the upcoming elections but for exceptional circumstances in which the party might reconsider changing the nominee. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP adjoining Delhi, where the AAP is in power under Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, has three assembly seats of Noida, Jewar and Dadri. Currently, all the three seats are held by the BJP MLAs. Announcement for the AAP's candidate in Gautam Buddh Nagar's third assembly seat Dadri is yet to be done. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-apple-employee-is-aaps-probable-noida-candidate-in-up-polls-1030824.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan like Taliban-ruled Afghanistan under Gehlot: BJP MP||BJP MP from Alwar Baba Balaknath on Wednesday compared the Congress government in Rajasthan with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Targeting the Congress government over allegedly worsening law and order situation in the state, Balaknath said the crime graph has rapidly increased in Rajasthan ever since the Gehlot government came to power and a Taliban-like situation prevails in the state. “The scene which we are seeing in Rajasthan today is like what is going on in Afghanistan. Criminals are openly opening fire, no action is being taken. The crime graph is increasing, people are suffering but the government is doing nothing,” he told reporters in Alwar. He said the miscreants recently opened fire in a bakery shop in Alwar's Bhiwadi and such incidents have become common in the state. The MP said Alwar has become a hotbed of crime and law and order has drastically deteriorated. He said the chief minister should resign on moral grounds. Reacting to the statement, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said in Jaipur that Balaknath has proved by his statements that he is not a 'sanyasi'. "Such language does not suit a sanyasi. Law and order situation in Rajasthan is far better than any BJP-ruled state,” he said. The minister said the BJP and its leaders are frustrated with the defeat they faced in the recent Panchayati Raj elections. Congress MLA Rafiq Khan said the BJP leaders have become mentally bankrupt. “The mental bankruptcy of the BJP leaders is visible from their statement. People understand everything,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-like-taliban-ruled-afghanistan-under-gehlot-bjp-mp-1030827.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Noida residents can now register their pets on an app||Noida residents can now get their pets like dogs or cats registered with the local authority through a mobile phone application, which can also be used to log complaints about littering or disruptions caused by the animals, according to officials. The Noida Authority Pet Registration (NAPR) app was launched on Wednesday, they said, adding that the process of manually getting pets registered involves pet owners having to visit the authority's office in Sector 6. The app's android version is now available free of cost on Google Play Store while the iOS edition is likely to be launched in the first week of October, Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari said. "Pet registration made easier! Launched Noida Pet Registration Android App (iOS version in 14 days) to facilitate seamless registrations for pet owners. Residents can also file complaints if the pet litters in public places or creates disruptions," Maheshwari tweeted. Through the app, pet owners will have to intimate the Noida Authority within 15 days of ownership of a pet and share its details, like breed, name and sex, along with two pictures of the animal and one selfie with it, the officials said, adding they will have to pay a fee of Rs 1,000 online for the registration. Owners can also maintain an online record of vaccination of their pets for rabies etc, according to the officials. They said owners cannot leave their pets unattended in any public space such as a park, street or a road, and shall also not allow open defecation, failing which a penalty would be issued. Other residents can also use the app to raise complaints about any inconvenience caused due to pets, the officials said. A penalty of Rs 100 would be imposed for first-time offenders, Rs 200 for the second time and Rs 500 for any repeat offence after that, the officials added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-residents-can-now-register-their-pets-on-an-app-1030888.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||PM Modi inaugurates two new defence office complexes in Delhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hit out at critics of the ambitious Central Vista project, and asserted that ease of living and ease of doing business was behind the spirit of the work being done under the initiative. Modi made the remarks after inaugurating two new multi-storey swanky office complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue for over 7,000 employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces. "Today, in the 75th year of Independence, we are taking another step towards developing the capital of our country according to the needs and aspirations of the new India," Modi said. "These new defence office complexes are going to further strengthen our efforts to make the working of our forces more convenient and effective," Modi said. The prime minister said the modern offices will go a long way in effectively carrying out all the work related to the security of the nation by the three forces. "This is a big step towards the creation of a modern defence enclave in the capital," he said. The officers and other staffers of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces are moving into the new office complexes from their existing workplaces in pre-Independence era hutments in and around the Raisina Hills. In his address, Modi criticised those who were opposed to the Central Vista project saying they never bothered to find out how the armed forces personnel were working in those hutments. "When we talk about the capital, it is not just a city. The capital of any country is a symbol of the thinking, determination, strength and culture of that country," Modi said. "India is the mother of democracy. Therefore, the capital of India should be such that its central focus should be people," he said. The two buildings, constructed by the Housing and Urban Affairs with resources allocated by the Defence Ministry, have an office space of 9.60 lakhs sq feet. "Today, when we are focusing on ease of living and ease of doing business, modern infrastructure plays an equally important role in this. This is the spirit at the core of the work being done today related to Central Vista," the prime minister said. Modi also said that he was confident that work on the new Parliament building will be completed on time. Fourteen offices are being relocated to the KG Marg complex having a built-up area of 4.52 lakh sq feet while 13 offices are being relocated to the Africa Avenue building that has a total built-up area of 5.08 lakh sq feet, officials said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-inaugurates-two-new-defence-office-complexes-in-delhi-1030895.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to visit Jammu for three days starting Oct 1||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat is arriving in Jammu on October 1 for a two-day visit during which he is likely to meet several prominent personalities from different fields besides  addressing ‘Swayamsevaks’ through online mode. Notably it will be the first visit of the RSS chief post abrogation of special status of erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. Abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A was long pending demand of the RSS. Bhagwat will address the ‘Swayamsevaks’ through online mode in view of Covid-19 guidelines on October 3 before concluding his visit, sources said. The RSS chief is also expected to have separate meetings with senior RSS functionaries to discuss organizational affairs and further strengthening of the organization in J&K. “Security concerns in the country as well as in J&K are likely to figure during discussions Bhagwat will have in the wake of Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan and its impact on the Union Territory,” sources said and added the RSS stand on restoration of Statehood to J&K could also figure during the RSS chief’s three-day visit. Sources said some groups raising the demand of separate statehood for the Jammu region may also meet the RSS chief to convince the Sangh Parivar to support their demand. In 2002, the RSS had adopted a resolution in support of a demand for the re-organisation of Jammu and Kashmir, in its national executive meeting at Kurukshetra. It had demanded statehood for Jammu and union territory (UT) status for the Ladakh region. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-to-visit-jammu-for-three-days-starting-oct-1-1030930.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand HC lifts ban on Chardham Yatra, mandates negative Covid-19 report, vaccine certificate||The Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday vacated its stay on the Chardham Yatra and directed the state government to conduct the pilgrimage with strict adherence to COVID-19 norms.  Lifting the ban on the yatra, a division bench of the court comprising Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said the pilgrimage will start with restrictions like a daily limit on the number of devotees visiting the temples. Carrying a negative Covid test report and a vaccination certificate will also be mandatory for the visitors, the court said.  Putting a daily cap on the number of devotees visiting the famous Himalayan temples also known as the chardham, the high court said 800 pilgrims will be allowed in Kedarnath Dham, 1200 in Badrinath Dham, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri every day.  Pilgrims will not be allowed to take a bath in any of the springs around the temples, it said.           Police force will be deployed as per requirements during the Char Dham Yatra in Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts. The court order comes as a big relief to the state government which was under pressure from various quarters to start the pilgrimage with which the livelihoods of lakhs of people including travel agents and pilgrimage priests are linked.    With the Covid situation being uncertain, the court had on June 28 put a stay on  the state Cabinet's decision to start the Chardham Yatra in a limited way for the residents of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts where the temples are located.  It had plans to open up the yatra in a phased manner for pilgrims from outside the state depending on the Covid situation. The state government then approached the Supreme Court to vacate the high court's stay on the yatra. As the matter was pending in the apex court, the high court was not in a position to hear the state government's plea seeking lifting of the ban.  However, it recently withdrew its SLP  in the Supreme Court paving the way for the high court to hear its plea. Advocate General SN Babulkar and  Chief Standing Advocate CS Rawat, appearing for the government, demanded that the ban be removed to restore the livelihood of the local people. The advocate general said there is an earning period of the Chardham Yatra and if the season passes, many families will suffer huge losses.           The advocate general further pleaded that the initial worry of the Court while imposing the ban has been addressed and there has been a significant improvement in health services.  The government also assured the Court that there will be a strict adherence to the Covid-19 SOP for the Yatra. In June, the high court had stayed the Chardham Yatra till further orders, while hearing public interest litigations (PIL) related to increase in Covid cases, lack of health facilities and other factors.  Against this order, the state government had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court, which could not be heard. Advocate General SN Babulkar and CSC Chandrashekhar Rawat had recently  requested a bench headed by Chief Justice RS Chauhan to lift the ban on travel, but the court refused to consider it, citing the SLP pending before the Supreme Court. The government withdrew the SLP from the Supreme Court and apprised the high court, after which the high court heard the matter.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-hc-lifts-ban-on-chardham-yatra-mandates-negative-covid-19-report-vaccine-certificate-1030933.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||ED raids premises linked to activist Harsh Mander in Delhi on money laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday conducted searches at premises linked to bureaucrat-turned-activist Harsh Mander, a vocal critic of the Narendra Modi government, in a money laundering case hours after he left for Germany for a fellowship programme. The ED action invited sharp criticism from Opposition leaders, intellectuals and activists, as they described Mander as a "tireless crusader for justice" who is facing "malafide and outrageous" action. They said it was a "systematic attempt" at abusing probe agencies to "target and disable public interest activists and organizations". The investigators searched the former IAS officer's residence in Vasant Kunj, office of Centre for Equity Studies (CES) in Adchini and children's home 'Umeed Khar' run by CES in Mehrauli – all located in South Delhi – in connection with the case filed on the basis of an FIR registered by Delhi Police's Economic Offence Wing. Mander, who left for Germany at around 4 am on Thursday for a fellowship programme at the Robert Bosch Academy in Berlin, has been a vocal critic of Modi and was one of the prominent supporters of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. Delhi had filed the case against the Mander-led CES in February following a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), accusing it of violations in two children's homes 'Umeed Aman Ghar' and 'Khushi Rainbow Home'. Political scientist Zoya Hassan, activist Bezwada Wilson, and economist Dipa Sinha are among the board members of CSE. The NCPCR had claimed that it had found financial and administrative irregularities in the running of the children's homes and also alleged in court that they were informed by the children that they had been taken to protest sites. However, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) had contradicted NCPCR claims and had supported Mander's claim that CES was facing trouble because of political vendetta. In a statement, the CES described the searches as a "continuation of harassment and coercion of CES and Harsh Mander for being an outspoken and passionate defender of human rights". Over the last several months, it said, the CES has been subjected to raids and investigations by different agencies including Delhi Police and NCPCR. "The entire set of organisational documents and records have been submitted more than once to the government agencies," it said. 'Karwan e Mohabbat', an organisation in which Mander is an active participant, tweeted, "Harsh Mander has been invited to Berlin for a prestigious international fellowship to foster dialogue, debate and cooperation...In solidarity with Harsh Mander, a tireless crusader for justice." Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh strongly condemned the ED action, saying he knew Mander for the past 40 years. "One of the most conscientious and honest officers I have worked with. Extremely sensitive to the cause of poor underprivileged. He prematurely resigned from IAS to work among the poor," he said. CPI(M) also denounced the searches and said, "This is a blatant misuse of state institutions to muzzle dissent". Senior activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted, "malafide and Outrageous! We are seeing a systematic attempt to abuse agencies like ED to target and disable public interest activists and organizations." The National Federation of Indian Women said that the ED action was a "new low" and it will "go down in history as the most repressive tool" used. "We stand in solidarity with Harsh Mander and his honesty. What is happening to him and other civil society activists is shameful," it said. In a joint statement, over 25 intellectuals and activists, including Aruna Roy, Jean Dreze, Dr Syeda Hameed and Indira Jaising, condemned the searches claiming that it was to "harass and intimidate a leading human rights and peace activist who has done nothing but work for peace and harmony, consistently upholding the highest moral standards of honesty and probity". "Over the past year, Harsh Mander and the CES have been subjected to continued harassment by multiple state agencies. The false and malicious allegations by the NCPCR were definitively countered by the DCPCR, a statutory body, which has filed a strong affidavit in the Delhi High Court, putting an end to the false allegations against CES. CES has also been subjected to harassment by the ED and IT Department," it said. "All these vindictive efforts combined, have shown neither diversion of money nor any violation of the law. The current raids are to be viewed in this context, as part of a continuing chain of abuse of state institutions to threaten, intimidate and try to silence every critic of the present government...The Constitution of India and the law of the land shall prevail, exposing these intimidatory tactics exactly for what they are – an abuse of state institutions to try and curtail all our rights," it added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-raids-premises-linked-to-activist-harsh-mander-in-delhi-on-money-laundering-charges-1030936.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||17-year-old girl raped at gunpoint by two people in UP's Shamli||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped at gunpoint by two people in a village in Shamli district, police said on Thursday. A case has been registered and one of the accused arrested, they said, adding that the minor was sent for a medical examination. According to the complaint lodged by the victim's father, the two accused raped her at gunpoint on Wednesday and threatened to kill her, the police said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-girl-raped-at-gunpoint-by-two-people-in-ups-shamli-1030941.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Redeveloped Central Vista Avenue will be ready to host Republic Day parade in 2022: Puri||The redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, will be completed within two-and-a-half months, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday. According to the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, the project will be ready in time to host the Republic Day parade in 2022. Puri asserted that the Winter Session of Parliament next year will take place in the new Parliament building. He was speaking at the inauguration ceremony of two new multi-storey swanky office complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue for over 7,000 employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated these two new buildings earlier in the day. "I would like to give you (PM) assurance that the redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue will be completed in two-and-a-half months, where the Republic Day parade will be held (next year)," Puri said. Talking about the two new office complexes for the employees of the Defence Ministry, the minister said the construction work of these buildings has been completed in just 12 months. The project has generated over 6.4 lakh person days' of employment. He said that light gauge steel framing (LGSF) technology has been used in constructing these two new office buildings. "Under LGSF technology, there should be a minimum 24 months of time period for such buildings, but it has been reduced to 12 months," he said, adding that 8,782 metric tonnes of steel and 7,920 metric tonnes of cement have been used in the construction work. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, a new prime minister's residence and PMO, and a new Vice President's Enclave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/redeveloped-central-vista-avenue-will-be-ready-to-host-republic-day-parade-in-2022-puri-1030953.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||J&K registers 15% increase in cognizable crime in 2020 compared to previous year||Jammu and Kashmir has recorded a 15% increase in cognizable crimes in 2020 as compared to the previous year while crime against women rose by about 11% in the same period. The latest report by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reveals that J&K, including Ladakh, saw 29,314 crime cases in 2020 as against 25,408 cases the previous year. Similarly, crime against women in J&K also rose from 3,069 cases in 2019 to 3,414 in 2020 notwithstanding a decline of 8.3% such cases at the national level. The murder cases saw an increase of 25% with 149 cases in 2020 as against 119 in 2019. The crimes against children also witnessed an increase of around 29% with 606 incidents in 2020 in comparison to 470 cases in 2019. The figures show that in 2020, there were 247 cases of rape, 783 of kidnapping and abduction of women, 349 of cruelty by husband or his relatives, nine dowry deaths, 24 cases of abetment to suicide, 1744 cases of assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty and 10 cases of attempt to rape. The report also reveals that three cases of sexual harassment at work were reported in 2020. Similarly, the NCRB report reveals that 195 cases were registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (girl child victim only). The increase in crime against women has created a cause for concern among civil society members and women.  Kashmir-based women’s rights activist Ezabir Ali fears that the silence by society on such brutal atrocities will only increase the violence. “Indifferent behaviour of the society towards crime against women will shrink the spaces for women in society. This will certainly restrict the mobility of women and girls and they will not be allowed by their families to step out alone,” she explains.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-registers-15-increase-in-cognizable-crime-in-2020-compared-to-previous-year-1030954.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||MP woman whose dance at zebra crossing went viral booked for public nuisance||Police have registered an offence against the young woman, whose video of dancing on a zebra crossing at a busy square in Indore went viral on social media, an official said on Thursday. The woman, Shreya Kalra, was booked under IPC section 290 (punishment for public nuisance), the police official said. The 30-second-long video shows that the woman, dressed in black and also wearing a mask and a cap of that colour, starts dancing to the tune of Doja Cat’s 'Let me be your woman', an English song, as soon as vehicles stop for the red signal at Rasoma square in the city. Taking serious cognisance of the issue, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra had on Wednesday directed the police to take appropriate action against her. "A case under IPC section 290 was registered against Shreya Kalra, who danced at the traffic signal at Rasoma Square in the city recently," Vijay Nagar police station in-charge Tehzeeb Qazi said. Under this section, a fine of up to Rs 200 is imposed on the offender, he said. After her video kicked up a controversy, the woman had posted another video on social media clarifying that her intention was to make people aware of the importance of following traffic rules, like stopping at the designated place at a traffic signal when it turns red, so that pedestrians can easily cross the road using a zebra crossing. Kalra claimed that she received positive feedback for her act, but added that a few people also tried to project it in a wrong manner. Several netizens and others alleged that the woman posted the video on social media in order to gain publicity. Home minister Mishra had said that whatever the woman's intention behind shooting the video could be, the method she adopted was wrong. He had also said that in order to prevent recurrence of such incidents in future, legal action was necessary against her. Meanwhile, state unit women Congress chief Archana Jaiswal termed the action against Kalra as wrong and said that police should have only warned her instead of filing a case as the offence was not of serious nature. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-woman-whose-dance-at-zebra-crossing-went-viral-booked-for-public-nuisance-1030989.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Rainfall in Delhi this season so far highest since 1964; more in store||The bounteous monsoon this year has already dumped 1159.4 mm of rainfall in Delhi till Thursday afternoon, the highest since 1964 and the third-highest ever, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. Also, Delhi's September rainfall has breached the 400 mm mark. At 403 mm till Thursday afternoon, it is the highest precipitation in the month since 417.3 mm in September 1944. To put things into perspective, Delhi had received 404 mm rainfall in the entire 2019 monsoon period. The figures are subject to change as more rainfall is predicted in the city during the day. Experts say that it could become the second-wettest monsoon ever in Delhi by the time it withdraws. Normally, Delhi records 653.6 mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. Last year, the capital gauged 648.9mm of precipitation. Between June 1, when the monsoon season starts, and September 15, the city normally gets 614.3 mm of rainfall. The monsoon withdraws from Delhi by September 25. According to the IMD, the Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, has received 1159.4 mm of rainfall this season till Thursday afternoon. It had gauged 1,155.6 mm of rainfall in 1975 and 1190.9mm in 1964. The all-time record is 1,420.3 mm rainfall in 1933. Earlier in the morning, the weather department issued an orange alert for moderate rain in Delhi during the day. Light rain is likely on Friday. Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said, "On and off rains will continue till September 23-24, which means Delhi may record its second-wettest monsoon ever by the time it withdraws." This is only the third time in the last two decades that the monsoon rainfall in Delhi breached the 1000 mm mark. The city had recorded 1,031.5mm rainfall in the monsoon season in 2010. In 2003, the capital had gauged 1,050 mm of precipitation. Delhi received 636 mm, 544 mm, 876 mm, 370.8 mm and 505.5 mm during the monsoon season in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. It recorded 524.7 mm rainfall in 2016; 641.3 mm in 2017; 762.6 mm in 2018; 404.3 mm in 2019 and 576.5 mm in 2020, according to IMD data. September, in particular, has been bountiful Delhi. The city has recorded 403mm of rainfall this month till Thursday afternoon, which is the highest in 77 years, according to the IMD. The city gauged 417.3mm of rainfall in September 1944, the highest in the 1901-2021 period. The September rainfall this year has been in marked contrast to the last year, when the city got a meagre 20.9 mm precipitation in the month against the normal of 129.8 mm. Delhi recorded more than 100 mm of rainfall on two consecutive days at the start of the month -- 112.1 mm on September 1 and 117.7 mm on September 2. On Saturday (September 11), it recorded 94.7 mm precipitation.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rainfall-in-delhi-this-season-so-far-highest-since-1964-more-in-store-1031019.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Rakesh Asthana appointed Delhi CP in public interest: Centre tells HC||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court the decision to appoint Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi police commissioner was "just, necessary and in the public interest" to "effectively negotiate and handle the peculiar policing needs, and law and order situation in the national capital". The Ministry of Home Affairs, in an affidavit, said the national capital has a specific and special requirement, as it witnessed certain untoward and extremely challenging public order problems, riots, crimes having an international implication, therefore the appointment of Asthana as Delhi's Commissioner of Police was made in "public interest". It further said in view of complexities and the sensitivities involved and also considering that no officer of appropriate seniority with balanced experience, was available in the AGMUT cadre, it was felt that an officer belonging to a large state cadre, who had the exposure of complexities of governance and who had the knowledge of nuances of broad canvas policing is given charge of Commissioner of Police Delhi.  During the process of appointment of the Commissioner of Police, Delhi, the Cadre Controlling Authority (CCA) was faced with a precarious situation, as most of the appropriate level officers of AGMUT cadre were not having sufficient balanced experience of policing in a vast law and order sensitive state/central investigating agency/national security/paramilitary force for appointment of Delhi Police chief, it added. The Centre maintained that no fault can be found in Asthana's appointment which was done in accordance with and after scrupulously following all the applicable rules and regulations. The response came on a PIL by Sadre Alam which sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police chief and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him just before his superannuation on July 31. The affidavit also claimed the PIL, as well as the intervention of NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation, was an abuse of process of law and manifestly an outcome of some personal vendetta against the incumbent Police Commissioner entertained by the petitioner as well as the intervener. It also gave a list of eight other IPS officers whose tenures were similarly extended and also provided a list of officers given inter-cadre deputation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rakesh-asthana-appointed-delhi-cp-in-public-interest-centre-tells-hc-1031043.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||No passport to J&K govt employees without vigilance clearance||Amid reports that some ‘tainted’ employees have managed to leave the country without facing trials, Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday made vigilance clearance mandatory for its employees to obtain a passport. “The passport to the citizens including Government employees is issued on the basis of verification carried out by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The current system does not contain any mechanism that would help deny the passport to such employees who are either under suspension or facing departmental inquiry or prosecution on account of serious charges,” reads an order issued by the J&K General Administration Department (GAD). Currently, a government employee is only required to inform his employer for applying for a passport in a prescribed format and taking advantage of it, some employees, facing serious charges, have managed to leave the country after obtaining a passport. The GAD order says the guidelines for obtaining a passport have been reviewed by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Personnel & Training, Government of India in consultation with the Central Vigilance Commission and Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). As per the order, elaborate instructions have been issued for obtaining fresh vigilance clearance while considering the grant of passports to government employees. “Anti Corruption Bureau, J&K has also brought into the notice of the Government that the present mechanism for issuance of passport to employees without obtaining requisite vigilance clearance results in the issuance of passport to those employees against whom vigilance cases are pending. Thus, there is an urgent necessity to instruct all the departments to issue the NOC for issuance of passport on the basis of vigilance clearance only,” the GAD order reads further. Accordingly, all the administrative departments/heads of departments have been asked to mandatorily obtain the latest vigilance clearance in respect of an employee applying for obtaining a passport. Last month, the J&K administration had directed the departments to deny security clearance to passport verification for those found involved in law and order and stone-pelting cases. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-passport-to-jk-govt-employees-without-vigilance-clearance-1031047.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||AAP's 'power' politics in Uttar Pradesh||Apparently buoyed by the success of its "free electricity" promise in Delhi Assembly polls, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday declared that it would provide free electricity up to 300 units in Uttar Pradesh if it formed the next government in the state, which is scheduled to go to polls in six months time. The party also promised to waive off the pending outstanding power bills of the consumer. "If AAP is voted to power in UP we will implement our promise of free electricity for domestic use up to 300 units and waive the pending power dues," Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said here while speaking to reporters. He said that the farmers would not be charged for power consumption. "The people in UP have to pay hefty electricity bills...the farmers, in particular, have been facing a lot of difficulties," the AAP leader said. Sisodia also claimed that many people had died by suicide after getting hefty power bills. He cited the example of Delhi and said that the residents of the national capital were now getting zero power bills. "UP produces more than sufficient power but the government has not been able to provide electricity to the people," he added. After initially trying to forge an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the forthcoming elections in the state, AAP has decided to go solo in the polls. The party has declared that it will put up its candidates on all the 403 seats in the state. It has already declared its first list of 100 candidates. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aaps-power-politics-in-uttar-pradesh-1031050.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Former Union minister Saif-ud-Din Soz questions restrictions at Nizamuddin mosque||While terming the Central government’s decision to continue restrictions at the Nizamuddin Markaz mosque in Delhi as “extreme highhandedness”, a former Union minister and senior Congress leader in Kashmir Thursday questioned the BJP over holding of Kumbh Mela and election rallies across India. The Markaz has been closed since March 31 last year after a Tablighi Jamaat congregation took place at the venue which was blamed for thousands of coronavirus infections around the country. In February this year, the Delhi Waqf Board had filed a petition seeking permission to open the premises On Monday the Center defended its decision to continue restrictions at the Markaz mosque with the Union home ministry informing the Delhi High Court that it was essential as the case involved “cross-border implications” and “diplomatic relations” with other countries. Questioning the Center’s assertions in the Court, Saif-ud-Din Soz, former president of the J&K unit of Congress, suggested to the caretakers of the Markaz to take recourse to the court, immediately. “Closing the Mosque is the extreme highhandedness of the Central as well as the Delhi government. Kindly raise the issue that the Central and Uttar Pradesh government did not take any notice of the fact that 10 million people assembled at Haridwar for Kumbh Mela (in March and April this year),” he advised Markaz caretakers in a letter. Soz, who was Union Water Resource minister in UPA-I, also questioned how the BJP leaders continued to hold huge election rallies throughout India when the second wave of Covid-19 was sweeping the country. “Kindly also keep the democratic and secular institutions in India, informed of this development and the necessary action that the Mushawarat (caretakers) may take, in this connection,” the letter further reads. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-union-minister-saif-ud-din-soz-questions-restrictions-at-nizamuddin-mosque-1031082.html
16-09-2021||North and Central||Akali Dal to go on protest march in Delhi to mark one year of farm laws passed by Centre||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will take out a protest march against the Centre's three farm laws on Friday, marking the completion of one year of the legislations being passed in Parliament. The protest march will be taken out from Gurdwara Rakabganj Sahib to the Parliament building to mark the completion of one year of continuing protests by SAD against the three laws, the party said on Thursday. The march would be led by SAD President Sukhbir Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. The three agriculture laws, which the farmers have been protesting against for several months now, were passed in Parliament on September 17, 2020 and the SAD minister had resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akali-dal-to-go-on-protest-march-in-delhi-to-mark-one-year-of-farm-laws-passed-by-centre-1031156.html
16-09-2021||Oasis||The best promoter of health and happiness||People have various opinions about what gives happiness. Some say it is health, wealth, friends, possessions, or fame and power, but we may have all these things to perfection and still not be happy. It is believed that ultimately happiness comes out of contentment. But again, contentment differs in each one’s perspective. For a sick man, it is health and a poor man, wealth; the ambitious man, power; the scholar, knowledge, and the overworked man, it is rest. Author John Burroughs says there is another condition that has a greater bearing upon happiness in life other than those said above. The first condition of a contented mind is to do some congenial work and keep the physical, moral and intellectual currents going like a stream, for when it stops, it stagnates. Take away the occupation of all men, and what a wretched world it would be!  To awaken each morning with a bright smile and approach the day’s responsibility with a clear mind and approach the night with a weariness that gives us good sleep and joy that comes from work done well is the norm to adopt and the way of life. The reward of a well-done thing is in the process of doing it. One stops thinking when occupied with hard physical labour. Therefore, work is a leading factor to be healthy and happy. The great business magnate, Steve Jobs says, "Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. Don’t settle. As with all matters of the heart, you’ll know when you find it." People who are happier at work are considered healthier, likeable, trustworthy and command more respect. They are helpful, supportive and better at coping with stress and reconciling conflict. Happiness is not an object to be sought. It is a state to be induced. Health and happiness have always been parallel like the railway tracks laid for the same purpose and destination. Health is a very important factor for happiness, yet the best promoter of health is work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-best-promoter-of-health-and-happiness-1031106.html
16-09-2021||Opinion||The world’s here in Bengaluru||Bengaluru, which is the software capital of the country, can also take pride as its linguistic capital, speaking and listening to many more languages than any other Indian city. Data from the 2011 census shows that 107 scheduled and non-scheduled languages are spoken in the city, with Pune coming second with about 100 languages. The schedule is in the book for enumeration and disagreement, but the languages, in the schedule or not, are live on the tongue for talking and agreement. Traditional wisdom has it that the taste of water changes every mile, and the language changes every four miles. In Bengaluru, there are four and more languages every mile, and that accounts much for the soft power the city wields in 107 senses. It makes itself understood in Kannada and in Tamil, and in English and in Kabuli and in many other languages not even heard of, and that gives it a better understanding of the lives behind languages.  Bengaluru’s linguistic diversity has made it stronger and more resilient than other cities, and expanded its horizons beyond itself. The city had fair weather, an infrastructure base, growth-friendly policies and the ambition to grow, which attracted people and businesses. Computers, construction, education and all other businesses brought people from everywhere. Everyone who came brought a language that also carried a society, a culture and a worldview. It is the energy created by the mixing of all the languages and minds, dresses and practices, foods and tastes that gave Bengaluru its dynamism, tolerance and traction. It is a virtuous cycle: a diverse society promoting a growing city and the city gaining momentum from a society on the move. It is the interaction in an urban crucible of countless individual and social experiences, told in multiple languages, that makes Bengaluru more cosmopolitan and more truly Indian than any other city. It is a little India where everyone feels at home and has an ecosystem that allows everyone to thrive. Even as more and more people speak a greater variety of languages, the segment of the population that has Kannada as their mother tongue has also grown. About 45% of the people speak Kannada, up from 38% in 1991 and 41% in 2001. The migration of people from other parts of the state has mainly accounted for the growth in the Kannada-speaking population. The number of people who know Kannada may actually be many more. Does the multiplicity of other languages hurt Kannada? It actually helps, because languages, like living things, evolve through interaction and exchanges. Societies and languages grow together, and a city which is a language soup, nourishes lives and languages better than one that speaks in fewer tongues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-world-s-here-in-bengaluru-1031000.html
16-09-2021||Opinion||Playing by the rules||In the last century, when the world seemed a saner place, a satirical comic strip was launched in the United States, which later converted itself and came to be known as Mad Magazine. Among the strips to look forward to, in this magazine, was something called “Spy vs Spy,” where two very similar spies would work to get the better of the other, with some very creative ideas for espionage. The nicest part of the strip was that the same guy would not win the game every time. Trying to find a suitable game to suit post-Covid-19 India seems to be getting tougher as the days go by. If one thought that Spy vs Non-Spy could be the name of the game, it seems to be a different story in the world of social media now, post the recent happenings in Afghanistan. So, now the name of the game could be Good Taliban vs Bad Taliban or Taliban vs RSS or Taliban vs Hindutva or Hindutva vs Hinduism. The only problem is that the rules for each of these games are different and according to those who think that they know how they should be played, not everyone is allowed to play all the games. One group will tell you that there is no such thing as a Good Taliban, so you are out of that game. Another group is of the opinion that it is not right to take the name of the RSS and the Taliban in one breath, as it is insulting to one or the other, as the case may be. The same goes for Hindutva and the Taliban and whenit comes to Hindutva vs Hinduism, you will be roundly ticked off for saying that they are one and the same and surely you should know better. Given all these stipulations and specifications, some of us will soon find that we are not being allowed to play any of the games. Sickened by being trolled and abused online, journalist Swati Chaturvedi decided to spend two years of her life investigating the trolls and then detailing her experiences in an explosive book, I am a Troll. Without going into the sordid details of the book, what seems noteworthy is that most of the trolls hid their true identities and when Swati met them, some of them were actually shamefaced. The country seems to have come a long way since then, with hate becoming the new buzzword. The most recent example is that of a spokesperson of the Congress detailing his experience at a Five Star hotel in Delhi recently. A man, who claimed to be a British Indian, came up to his table and said that he had been following him on television and that he would like to send packing, members of the Congress and all those who opposed this ruling government, including this spokesperson. Had this gentleman not posted a picture of the one who made the death threat and yet posed defiantly for a snapshot that he knew would go viral, it would have been hard to believe this story. Even harder to accept is how far the country has travelled in the past few years. No longer is it enough to be offensive and abusive online, as the time is now ripe to show one’s true nature; face painted in tribal colours no longer required, when your words shout out your intent and your actions speak even louder. So, for those who feel that they are being left out of all the games, it may be time to start playing by the rules enshrined in the Constitution of India. And if this means pointing out what ails your own tribe, so be it. (The author is a Bengaluru-based independent writer.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/playing-by-the-rules-1031107.html
16-09-2021||Panorama||In poll-bound UP, faltering Yogi falls back on polarisation||With the BJP going all out to polarise voters along communal lines ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections six months from now, and its rivals making every effort to counter the same with ‘soft Hindutva’, the state is headed for a fierce, no-holds-barred, multi-cornered electoral battle. For UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the “hardcore Hindutva poster boy”, the coming election is a “question of political survival”, and he has made it clear that his weapon to win it is communal polarisation. The BJP leaders have been working on a two-pronged electoral strategy. While on the one hand, they have been showcasing the ‘developmental’ works undertaken to renovate important Hindu religious sites in Chitrakoot, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Mathura as well as the building of the Ram temple in Ayodhya to keep their core vote bank in good humour, they have also been trying to send the message that their rivals had indulged in the politics of minority appeasement and that Muslims were given preferential treatment during previous regimes. Prime minister Narendra Modi’s reference, at a rally in Aligarh, to the migration of several Hindu families from Kairana in Shamli district, allegedly following threats by Muslims, and Adityanath’s ‘Abba Jaan (father, in Urdu) remark to claim that Muslims got preference over Hindus in the distribution of rations, are only pointers to the kind of election campaign the state is set to witness. The BJP government in the state has also embarked on a name-changing spree in the hope of gaining electoral mileage, and it is expected that the names of around half a dozen districts will be changed, following demands by Hindutva outfits. So, Sultanpur may change to Kush Bhavanpur, Aligarh to Harigarh, Mainpuri to Mayanagar, Firozabad to Chandranagar, Mirzapur to Vindhya Dham, Agra to Agravan, and Muzaffarnagar to Laxminagar in the run-up to the polls. The BJP is also trying to set its caste equations right before the polls by aligning with Apna Dal (AD), an outfit of the Kurmi community, which is a deciding factor in about 50 Assembly constituencies, especially in the eastern UP region. It is also trying desperately to hold on to Brahmin voters, who showed signs of resentment following allegations of persecution of the community under the Adityanath regime. The ongoing farmers’ agitation is a concern for the BJP, which had swept the ‘Jat land’ in the western UP region in the 2017 Assembly polls as well as in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Jats are angry with the BJP, though the latter is trying to persuade them not to desert the party... It will be interesting to see if the party manages to hold on to them,” Gurubachan Singh, a Baghpat-based scribe, said. The mismanagement of the second wave of Covid-19 is another headache for the BJP. The Samajwadi Party (SP), which is the main opposition party in the state, has been trying to bring to its fold a section of the non-Yadav OBC voters in the hope that, coupled with the support of its core vote bank comprising Yadavs and Muslims, it will ensure a comfortable win for the party.  The SP has also entered into an electoral alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), which got a new lease of life from the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws as the Jats, who are at the forefront of the agitation, have signalled that they may return to its fold to defeat the BJP.  The BSP supremo Mayawati, whose party was rocked by desertions and expulsions, too is nurturing dreams of winning a large number of seats by once again weaving her social engineering formula -- bringing together Dalits and Brahmins.  The BSP, which had a committed support base of around 10% Dalits, organised a series of ‘Prabuddh Sammelans’ for Brahmins, with the intention of bringing the community back into the BSP fold as it had done once.  Mayawati has also declared that she would focus on the development of the state instead of building memorials, parks and statues of herself and Dalit icons, as she had done in the past if her party is voted to power this time.  Struggling to remain politically relevant in the state, the Congress, under the leadership of party general secretary and state in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, has also been trying to strengthen its organisation and take up issues concerning the common people.  The Congress is going all out to make the forthcoming Assembly polls a four-cornered contest. It has also hinted that it may project a Brahmin face for the post of the chief minister, in an apparent bid to cash in on the perceived anger against the BJP in the community.  A few Congress leaders want Priyanka to be declared as the face of the party in the next polls. It is doubtful, however, that Priyanka will agree.  Political analysts also say that the election will be a three-cornered contest between the BJP, SP and BSP, though Congress may make it a four-cornered one in certain pockets. “The contest will be mainly between BJP and SP. The BSP may be better placed on seats with a sizeable Dalit population. Congress will also be in the fray in some pockets,” according to political analyst J P Shukla.  AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi might queer the pitch for the opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh by causing a division of Muslim votes, which will only help the BJP. DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-poll-bound-up-faltering-yogi-falls-back-on-polarisation-1030805.html
16-09-2021||Panorama||Genetic test to help you lose weight||It is clear that every person’s physical and biological response to the kind of food they’re consuming will not always be similar. The reason for the same is our genetic constitution. Now, you might wonder how our DNA can determine whether one likes Neem juice compared to a blueberry cheesecake? In your opinion, you might think everyone will prefer the latter, but no, some will choose the beverage over the dessert. Let us help you through that.  The genetic make-up of two individuals is never the same, hence the variations in response. We know that we need a balanced diet with essential macro and micronutrients for proper functioning and development. But when it comes to aspects such as stamina, weight loss, metabolism, tolerance, and preference for different types of food, the response will differ based on our genotype. Nutrigenetics, an emerging field in science, is the study of how genes influence our nutrition. By the day, it is gaining prominence to understand how receptive our body is to nutrients. Taste and food preferences, metabolism rate, are some of the factors our genes control. For example, genetic variants in the TAS2R38 gene impacts whether one finds phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) in cauliflower, wine, and pepper bitter or tasteless.   A genetic test is a perfect guide to understanding one’s ideal diet and nutritional needs. The test can help provide information on the following: ♦Micronutrients (Vitamin and mineral) deficiency: The report tells one about their genetic tendency for various vitamin deficiencies and possible health hazards that might arise from it. ♦Response to macronutrients: Depending on the genotype, some people with high carbohydrate intake gain more weight than others. In contrast, others may lose weight from high fibre intake. ♦Salt intake and blood pressure sensitivity: Higher consumption of salt and how the blood pressure responds to it is partially determined by genetics. It may lead to increased blood pressure for some people, whereas others might be indifferent to it.  ♦Bitter and sweet taste preference: Genetics is also the reason behind your taste preferences. High sensitivity to bitterness may make you avoid food such as black coffee. If you have a sweet tooth, you will have an increased need to eat sugary foods and vice versa. ♦Satiety: The feeling of fullness for long hours post a meal. Due to genetic variations, people might eat more without feeling satisfied, while others may feel full from just a small amount of food. ♦Snacking: The need to eat frequently in between meals. Genes determine whether you crave to munch on something between meals throughout the day. People who snack extensively have higher chances of gaining weight. Bone mineral density (BMD) measures bone minerals present in a particular volume of bone tissues. Along with genetics factors such as age, gender, ethnicity, medications and food intake determine the BMD of a person. Apart from the above-listed factors, a genetic test can also share your response to Green tea intake and if you have the gene marked for weight loss from its consumption, caffeine metabolism, a genetic tendency for food sensitivities like lactose intolerance, amongst many more.  Hence, a DNA-based diet is one of the best ways to understand your body’s needs. The test will help an individual structure and personalise the diet, weight loss/muscle building regime, or fitness reasonably. (The author is a preventive healthcare specialist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/genetic-test-to-help-you-lose-weight-1030807.html
16-09-2021||Panorama||What's heating up the planet? Heating up stuff, on an industrial scale||When we think of global energy consumption, I imagine most of us think of two things. The first is power plants, be they fossil fuel-fired thermal plants, or zero-emissions wind and solar, or nuclear. The second is transportation, ranging from tiny personal scooters to container ships with an engine that could power a small city. These two sectors account for more than half of all energy consumption, with transport alone using up a third. There is another sector though that is nearly as big but commands a tiny fraction of the public attention or research attention as the rapidly changing transport sector: heat. Global industrial heat production accounts for 29% of all energy consumed by end-users like homes, industries, and agriculture. However much I examine this data (all the time), I still am struck by it: almost one-third of human energy consumption goes to making things hot, on an industrial scale. Heat production is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions and much of it is in what are known as “hard-to-abate” sectors where, for technical and economic reasons, lowering emissions can be very challenging. Doing so is both essential and increasingly possible, as my colleagues at BloombergNEF and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development explore in a new white paper. Industrial heat brings to mind metallurgical processes like steelmaking, copper smelting, or cement production. They are indeed a major portion of industrial heat demand, and today meeting that demand is overwhelmingly the job of hydrocarbon fuels, in particular coal and gas.  These processes are not only hot, but they often require constant production and close contact between the source of production and the site of consumption. Steelmaking and petrochemical transformation and similar intensive processes make up a major chunk of industrial heat demand, but there is a very long tail of other industrial heat uses. Food services need steam for peeling vegetables, dry heat for baking, and boiling water for, well, boiling. Paper and packaging production requires heat for drying pulp into finished products. Furniture making needs steam for bending and shaping wood. The apparel industry needs heat for bleaching and dyeing fabric. The list is long. Importantly, though, these processes often separate the source of heat from its point of use — that is, heat is created in one place, and sent to another on-site for use. That means that the technologies used for generating that heat can be swapped into processes more readily, with multiple technologies having multiple applications. The same technology can provide heat for different end uses depending on site or market, and by the same token, different technologies can provide the heat for identical applications in the site or market. Importantly, too, fuels other than coal, gas, and oil can meet the demand for that lower temperature. It can be met with biomass, as the pulp and paper industry uses, or biogas, or with a solar thermal system that concentrates sun to boil water. It can be provided by geothermal power, or even with an industrial heat pump. Below the higher temperatures needed for heavier industrial applications, there are many technologies available to meet demand. However, the relative abundance of suitable technologies has not translated to widespread adoption, for a simple reason. Coal and gas are readily available and they are inexpensive. Moving to an alternative heat source in an existing industrial system requires not only a conscious decision, it requires investment as well. Economics alone cannot pull the low- and zero-carbon lower temperature heat technologies into the market. But thanks to this recent research, we have an idea of where and how a concerted effort towards new technology can make a difference. BloombergNEF and WBCSD determined that the 19 countries (plus the European Union) of the Group of 20 comprise 80% of global low- to medium-temperature heat demand. Of those 20 markets, six countries make up 46% of total demand — China, South Korea, France, Germany, Italy, and the UK. They have favourable market conditions, such as relatively high market prices for gas which translates to higher prices for gas-fired heat. They’re also in a good position because they are mature markets that are able to adopt these heat applications — they have a ready network of installers and maintenance providers. Finally, and most applicably elsewhere, they have strong policies that help new heat technologies along, including a price on carbon which makes fossil-fueled options less economic. BNEF’s white paper found that globally, economies are three times more likely to have an electricity decarbonization policy than a heat decarbonization policy. There is room for heat policy to catch up, such as the carbon price mentioned above, and incentives for deployment of some earlier-stage technologies such as higher-temperature heat pumps that have a greater potential market than today’s models.  Fortunately too, companies themselves are making net-zero emissions commitments which, given their scope and scale, will necessitate renewable heat applications in the future. This source of demand will drive production and ultimately lower costs. Those companies willing to explore every application of renewable heat today can help create the markets and technologies of tomorrow. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/whats-heating-up-the-planet-heating-up-stuff-on-an-industrial-scale-1031108.html
16-09-2021||Right in the Middle||The lost magic of lunch breaks||During my school days, the lunch break provided a welcome rush of excitement. The half-hour recess was not only a much-needed break from the humdrum routine of the classroom but a time to bond with buddies, forge new relationships, share lunch, and indulge in some fun. The tasty meals rustled up by my mother was delivered steaming hot by an elderly housemaid Andalamma. The wire-knitted bag contained a tiffin carrier, a pair of teeny-weeny hand towels, steel tumblers, spoons and a water bottle. We dined under an open-air dining area, which had a few long wooden benches and tables. Andalamma would unpack the tiffin carriers and spoon-feed my brother and me. As we dined along with our classmates, the flavours from the assorted lunch packs around us filled our nostrils. In the old days, fast food was unheard of, and we relished the humble fare of rice and curry. There were students of varying appetites, tastes and preferences — vegetarians and non-vegetarians, fussy and champion eaters. There was even a tribe that gorged on junk food, hailing from well-off families who always hung around the school's Tuck Shop, splurging on sandwiches, fried snacks and other homemade food sold by the school staff. My father availed his month-long annual leave soon after our summer holidays ended and would ferry our lunch boxes during this period. His lunch trips to school always thrilled us, as he would treat us to little packets of goodies from the Tuck Shop or pamper us with the fare dished out by the street hawkers who frequented the school. We always gobbled our lunch in a hurry as we longed to get into the playing arena. Winged visitors like the crows, ravens and sparrows would hop in and pick up the crumbs scattered around, unmindful of the children. Trepidation overcame us whenever a bird parked itself directly on the overhead branches — the feathered beauties did not hesitate to poop on us. There was a real buzz on the playfield — the sound of running feet, screams of tiny tots and the dust kicked up by young legs. Everything fell silent after the bell rang post-lunch. Students lined up in front of the classrooms and were led away to the school kitchen to guzzle a tall glass of milk. The white fluid, stirred by a ladle, simmered from a large cauldron, nestling over a wood-fired oven. I yearn to go back in time and relive those nostalgic moments!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-lost-magic-of-lunch-breaks-1030804.html
16-09-2021||Right in the Middle||The enigma called routine||How often have we heard statements like ‘It is a part of my daily routine’, or ‘I am wedded to my routine’ etc. Does it mean that routine is something that is immutable? Or does it allow for incorporations and deletions based on situations, contexts and requirements? Is it flexible? We also hear about ‘fitness routine’, ‘diet routine’, ‘study routine’ etc. It is often said that ‘the body achieves what the mind believes'. I recently happened to read a book titled ‘Ikigai’. ‘Ikigai’, a Japanese concept, is all about finding a purpose in life in order to make it healthier, happier and longer. The book mentions in a section about ‘finding flow in everything you do’. The import of this phrase struck me!  Regardless of trying to arrive at a definition of 'routine’ or trying to define its parameters, it goes without saying that if we like what we are doing we are going to do what we like. If routine means drabness and drudgery, we should be able to review it. If routine means absorption and adaptation, we should be able to embrace it. The routine could either add or subtract! A daily routine of waking up and going to bed with some exercise thrown in to the mix can usually help make us feel more in control of our lives. This in turn can help in promoting a healthier lifestyle. While a daily routine has much to commend itself, there is a study which found that while routine may be healthy and productive it can also become a creativity dampener which may partly explain the slightly unconventional lifestyles of creative persons like painters, artists, musicians, poets and even scientists. In a letter addressed to his brother in 1888 Van Gough, the eccentric and hugely gifted painter wrote ‘Today again from seven O'clock in the morning till six in the evening I worked without stirring except to take some food a step or two away. I have no thought of fatigue, I shall do another picture this very night, and I shall bring it off’. However, this does not imply that the Mozarts, Teslas, Hemingways, Newtons and Einsteins of the world were against routines. In fact, there are detailed accounts of the daily lifestyle and regimen followed by some of the creative minds mentioned above. Interestingly, some of the exceptional works of Einstein for instance came or were rather conceived and created when he was not doing anything. Possibly, that was a part of his routine. Like most things in life, there is nothing that can be termed as eminently perfect or totally incorrect. As we age and move on in life, wiser from life’s experiences, each one of us has to find and discover for ourselves what is good and suitable for us. That includes decoding the enigma called routine!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-enigma-called-routine-1031005.html
16-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Doctor-prescribed hearing aid||I am an 87-year-old retired engineer. Having worked in very noisy steel plants in my earlier life or due to old age creeping in, I have become deaf in my left ear. Five years ago, I befriended an ENT surgeon. This surgeon had the reputation for cracking jokes with unsuspecting patients. I was aware of this. I went to meet him to get a solution for my hearing problem. I was put through series of tests. Then I had to go through the consultation when I was told about some missing bone within my ear due to which my hearing was impaired. When I asked about the missing bone, I was told that it gets dissolved, and the fluid would have been absorbed in my body fluids. I did not realise, then, that the surgeon was pulling my leg!  Now the question of a hearing aid came up. According to the doctor, there were three types of hearing aids ie. standard, deluxe and super deluxe. The price range was Rs 15,000, Rs 20,000/ and — hold your breath — Rs 50 to Rs 80 for the super deluxe model. This strange price for the super deluxe model was rather intriguing. The doctor told me that the price was deliberately kept low so that all classes of patients would benefit. Then he volunteered to show one piece. This unit consisted of one soft earplug to which two thin bright coloured wires were attached. When anyone mounts the earplug in his ear, the hanging wires are visible to everyone. They would naturally assume that the wearer is deaf. This prompts them to shout to make the poor deaf person listen! The decibel level goes up to make the deaf patient hear and wonder why everyone is shouting at him! A clever ploy indeed! And I did not require any hearing aid!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/doctor-prescribed-hearing-aid-1031111.html
16-09-2021||Second Edit||A ruse to put off local body elections||The Karnataka government has tabled a bill in the ongoing session of the legislature to set up a delimitation commission to redraw constituencies of taluk and zilla panchayats, though the exercise has already been completed by the State Election Commission (SEC), giving rise to suspicion that the real reason is to postpone the already delayed polls at the grassroots level. Elections to 31 zilla panchayats and 232 taluk panchayats representing 30,000 villages in the state, which were due in May-June this year, were put off due to the Covid-19 situation. In effect, the government’s move nullifies the herculean task on delimitation and rotation of roster undertaken by the SEC over the past year or so. Now, with the government deciding to amend the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act, 1993, the entire exercise will be carried out afresh by a new commission, to be headed by a retired additional chief secretary. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy has claimed that the SEC’s list was fraught with “gross errors” with over 2,000 petitions being filed in the High Court. Election at the panchayat level is the real barometer of the mood of the people and the BJP apparently fears that this is not the most opportune time to go to polls considering the recent change in chief minister, price rise and other factors. The commission is expected to take at least a year to submit its report, giving the ruling party so much more breathing time. Besides, it is said the BJP is not happy with the impartial manner in which the SEC had gone about changing the contours of constituencies and the roster system because it would affect the party’s prospects adversely. On a positive note, though, the new exercise will provide an opportunity to the public to air their grievances at the district level before the commission steps in. Whatever be the government’s reasoning, it is undeniable that despite the lip sympathy rendered to self-governance, politicians in Vidhana Soudha, especially MLAs, are averse to sharing power with local bodies, be it the BBMP or gram panchayats, which explains why elections are postponed under one pretext or the other. Delimitation is a necessary exercise given the changing dynamics of the population, as it aims at providing better representation to the people and ensuring effective implementation of the reservation system. In reality, however, it is often reduced to a farce due to political interference. Delimitation can be really meaningful and serve the purpose for which it is intended only if the integrity of the process is protected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-ruse-to-put-off-local-body-elections-1030799.html
16-09-2021||Second Edit||BBMP, get your act together||The death of a differently-abled 75-year-old man in a pothole-related accident in Bengaluru’s Kamakshipalya area once again draws attention to the pathetic condition of roads in the city and to the complete lack of coordination between different civic agencies. While some main thoroughfares are being developed under the smart city project, roads in outlying areas and villages that were merged with BBMP years ago have turned into veritable death-traps due to little or no maintenance. Every year, the BBMP either promises that roads will be repaired before monsoons or gives the excuse that the rains have led to potholes. This has been the template response for over two decades now. The situation is no better in areas managed by the BDA. In 2018, a frustrated Karnataka High Court had ordered that all potholes should be filled within a day and even called BBMP engineers shameless, but nothing came of it all as the present state of the roads indicates. In March this year, the court again directed BBMP to submit an action plan to fill potholes on a time-bound basis. Such orders have become almost an annual affair and are not taken seriously because the courts have not initiated punitive action against the engineers and officers concerned, who must be held responsible for accidents occurring due to poorly maintained roads.  In 2019, following a nudge from the High Court, BBMP issued a notification announcing that a compensation of Rs 3 lakh would be paid in case of death due to potholes and up to Rs 15,000 for compound injuries. While such compensation is a must, even if low, a better way of dealing with the issue is to maintain roads in good condition so that such accidents do not occur. But the city’s various civic agencies work at cross-purposes. One agency lays or repairs a road, and almost immediately another agency digs it up to lay water, power or optic fibre lines. It is unacceptable that in the instant case of the senior citizen’s death, none of the civic agencies is ready to accept responsibility and each is passing the buck to the other.  The government should consider bringing all the civic agencies under an over-arching body so that there is better coordination among them. But that does not mean that until then the BBMP should continue to callously watch as bad roads continue to cause deaths and injuries. It is its duty to provide good roads, without having to be reminded by the court annually. It must get its act together, and it must do so now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bbmp-get-your-act-together-1031004.html
16-09-2021||Second Edit||No justification for extending AFSPA||There was no convincing reason for the recent extension of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act for another six months in Assam, as there is nothing good the draconian law can do for the state. The government has been routinely extending it, and it has not cared to spell out the grounds for its decision. It is claimed that the Centre was not very keen on the extension of the Act but the state government insisted on it. This could just be an observation without a basis because what matters is the fact that the law will continue to be in force, whoever is responsible for it. The irony is that both the central and state governments, both ruled by the BJP, have repeatedly claimed that the situation in the state is normal as the militancy has waned in recent years. But the entire state has now been declared a disturbed area for another six months under the provisions of AFSPA. The disturbed area tag hurts the image of the state when the government is projecting it as an investment destination. Industry and business will not be interested in investing in a state where the continuance of tough laws points to the existence of militancy. It will also act as a dampener for tourism, not only in Assam but in the entire region. AFSPA is in force in Nagaland and parts of Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh, too. It was imposed in Assam in 1990 and has been in force for over three decades. To govern a state with the help of a law with such stringent and draconian provisions for so long is anti-democratic. A whole new generation has grown up in the state without experiencing life under normal laws.   Civil society and rights groups have demanded the withdrawal of AFSPA from states where it is in operation. It gives excessive and unaccounted powers to the armed forces and these are often misused. There have been extensive human rights violations, including killings of civilians and ill-treatment of women, in such states, and many of them have been recorded. The Supreme Court has also taken note of them. The abuse of the law makes it counter-productive as the excesses lead to alienation of the people from the State. The perpetrators of atrocities get away without punishment. The armed forces have always claimed that AFSPA is needed to fight militancy. Such laws should have no place in a democracy, but if at all they exist, their use should be an exception. Instead, in states like Assam, it has become the rule, having been in operation for long periods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/no-justification-for-extending-afspa-1031112.html
16-09-2021||South||Suspect in rape-murder of 6-year-old girl in Hyderabad found dead on railway track||Untraceable for a week despite a massive manhunt by the Telangana police, Pallakonda Raju, the accused in the rape and murder of a 6-year-old girl in Hyderabad was found dead on a railway track on Thursday morning. The heinous crime took place on September 9 in the Singareni Colony, under the Saidabad police station limits. Raju (30), a daily-wage earner and neighbor of the girl's family, allegedly abducted her and resorted to sexual assault. The girl's body, with bite marks, was reportedly found at Raju's dwelling and he went missing since the crime came to light the same day. The family and locals had resorted to protests demanding severe punishment for Raju, drawing the attention of the opposition parties who later rallied in their support. Several people demanded an “encounter killing” of the culprit like that of the four accused in the rape-murder of a young veterinarian “Disha” in Hyderabad in December 2019. Echoing such views, TRS minister Malla Reddy said that the perpetrator “would be caught and killed in an encounter.” Though several police teams fanned out all over the city and the state in search of Raju, some of them displaying the suspect's photos to auto-drivers, commuters etc. in hope of any leads, he remained elusive. A reward of Rs 10 lakh was also announced by the Hyderabad police for any information leading to his arrest. There was a suspicion that the media focus, added to the police search and statements like "encounter killing", could push the suspect to take the extreme step. Raju's body with his face mangled was found by the locals on a railway track at Rajaram, near Station Ghanpur, about 130 Kms north east of Hyderabad. According to the railway workers at the spot, he threw himself before the fast approaching Konark Express and was killed instantly. Telangana DGP Mahender Reddy confirmed Raju's death. He was identified by the tattoos on both hands – five stars and the name Mounika, of his wife. “Just been informed by the DGP that the beast who raped the child has been traced and found dead on a railway track...,” IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao tweeted. Rao, son of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, drew flak earlier for erroneously tweeting that the culprit was arrested within hours of the incident. He corrected his tweet later, stating that he was misinformed. Grieving Raju's family alleged that the police killed him and projected it as a case of suicide. Raju's house in the Singareni Colony was damaged by the locals Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/suspect-in-rape-murder-of-6-year-old-girl-in-hyderabad-found-dead-on-railway-track-1030901.html
16-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu anti-corruption body raids another ex-AIADMK minister||Former Commercial Taxes Minister K C Veeramani on Thursday became the third AIADMK leader to be raided by sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on charges of acquiring assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.   DVAC sleuths swooped down on 28 premises linked to Veeramani in Tiruppattur and other places across the state on Thursday morning. The raid is being conducted by DVAC after registering an FIR which says Veeramani acquired assets worth Rs 28.78 crore during his tenure as Commercial Taxes minister from 2016-2021. Veeramani, who lost the 2021 elections from Jolarpet in Tiruppattur district, is a senior AIADMK leader. “The excess works out to be 654 per cent of his total income,” the DVAC said in its FIR. Veeramani is the third AIADMK minister after M R Vijayabhaskar and S P Velumani to be raided by DVAC after the DMK government assumed office in May 2021. The action by the DVAC comes a month after Arappor Iyakkam sent a 43-page complaint to the DVAC alleging that Veeramani and his family have acquired assets worth Rs 76.65 crore that is disproportionate to the known sources of income between 2011 and 2021. Contending that the former minister’s income was around Rs 10 crore in 10 years as declared in his election affidavits, the NGO said he and his family members own assets worth Rs 76.65 crore. However, the FIR filed by DVAC talks only about the disproportionate assets between 2016 and 2021. The FIR says a case under sections 13 (1) (e), 13 (2) and 13 (1) (b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 has been filed against Veeramani. It says the DVAC went through various documents, including Veeramani’s election affidavit, to conclude that he has acquired assets disproportionate to the known sources of income. The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted a huge list of corruption charges against half a dozen ministers. The party also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-anti-corruption-body-raids-another-ex-aiadmk-minister-1030905.html
16-09-2021||South||SC allows symbolic immersion of Lord Ganesh idols in Hyderabad's Hussain Sagar Lake||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted permission for symbolic immersion of Lord Ganesh idols, made of Plaster of Paris (POP) in Hussain Sagar Lake in Hyderabad, during the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations.   A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant, however, made it clear that the permission for immersion of idols was being given this year only on an assurance that no harm would be caused to the lake and idols would be sent for solid waste management. The court asked the Telangana government to make other arrangements from next year, expressing its unhappiness over their failure to do so. While allowing a plea by the municipal body, the court said the idols should not be allowed to be left in the lake after immersion and they should be taken out immediately. "Let them to do symbolic immersion this year. A last chance for them. They say they will ensure no harm is caused to the pond," the bench noted. Justice Hima Kohli, who was a part of the bench, recused from the case. The top court relaxed the High Court ban on immersion of the idols. Greater Hyderabad Municipality Corporation approached the court challenging September 13 order of Telangana High Court order declining permission for immersion of lord Ganesh idols made of Plaster of Paris in Hussain Sagar Lake located in the heart of Hyderabad city due to pollution caused to the waterbody. The municipal corporation said if immersions is not allowed in Hussain Sagar Lake, then it would take six days for all statues to be immersed in other ponds in the city limits. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-allows-symbolic-immersion-of-lord-ganesh-idols-in-hyderabads-hussain-sagar-lake-1030949.html
16-09-2021||South||BHEL commissions India's largest floating solar plant in Andhra Pradesh||State-owned BHEL on Thursday announced the commissioning of India's largest floating solar photovoltaic plant in Andhra Pradesh. Located at NTPC Simhadri in Andhra Pradesh, the 25-megawatt floating SPV project covers an area of 100 acres, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) said without disclosing the project cost. "BHEL has successfully commissioned India's largest Floating Solar PV plant. Notably, with its unique state-of-the-art design, the project is an engineering marvel, created by BHEL," the company said in a statement. BHEL said its scope of work in the project included design, engineering, procurement and construction of the solar project, which has been executed by the company's recently formed Solar Business Division. The project will help saving valuable land resources and conserving water by reducing evaporation, it said. It further said this complex module array has been designed for the first time in India to withstand gusts of wind up to 180 km/hr. Given the coastal location of the project site that leads to severe corrosion, all the platform structures and other equipment have been made corrosion resistant, it added. The engineering firm is the leading EPC player in the solar industry in India, with an overall portfolio of more than 1.2 gigawatts. Its portfolio of floating solar PV projects is also the largest in the country, with more than 45 MW projects commissioned and around 107 MW under execution. The company offers EPC solutions for both grid-interactive and off-grid, ground-mounted, rooftop, floating and canal top solar plants. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bhel-commissions-indias-largest-floating-solar-plant-in-andhra-pradesh-1030957.html
16-09-2021||South||Keralite church diocese sparks row with handbook mentioning 'Love Jihad'; expresses regret following protest||Amidst raging controversy over the 'narcotic jihad' remark by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt, another church diocese has sparked a row by publishing a catechism handbook detailing nine stages of the implementation of the alleged 'Love Jihad' to trap Christian girls. The Thamarassery Diocese, under the prominent Syro Malabar Church, has published the book with controversial content for the catechism study of students belonging to classes X to XII. When the book triggered a row after various Muslim outfits asked the government to confiscate it, the church authorities expressed regret on Wednesday and clarified that they did not intend to hurt any religion or faith and aimed only to keep the youth rooted in the Christianity. The Diocese has no discrimination or intolerance towards any faith or religion, the statement said. "This book has been published not out of any hatred or objection towards any religion. It is only aimed at keeping the Christian youth rooted in the faith and to protect the community girls from exploitation," Fr John Pallikkavayalil, Director, Department of Catechesis under the Diocese, said. As per the over-130-page handbook, brought out by the Department of Catechesis under the Diocese, 'Love Jihad' is a reality and claimed that it is being implemented through nine stages. It also prescribes some precautions for the community girls to be taken to avoid falling into such love traps. Among the several controversial remarks, the handbook had references about 'kaivisham', a kind of witchcraft allegedly practised through Muslim clerics to lure Christian girls. It alleged that black magic was being carried out by collecting various objects possessed by the girls including their pen, handkerchief or a strand of hair. Though the Diocese, in its press statement, urged to keep a vigil on attempts to destroy communal harmony, it also said that they had been receiving several complaints of "sex terrorism" targeting Christian girls for some time. During the investigation of the Church, it had been found that over hundred community girls had been victimised for sexual exploitation and other harassment in the name of 'love marriages', it alleged in the statement. Several Muslim outfits including Samstha Rights Protection Council came out against the handbook and demanded its confiscation by the government. Check DH latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralite-church-diocese-sparks-row-with-handbook-mentioning-love-jihad-expresses-regret-following-protest-1031010.html
16-09-2021||South||Ensure those buying liquor are not treated as cattle: Kerala HC to govt||The Excise department would be responsible for ensuring those coming to buy alcohol at liquor outlets, including those of state-run Beverages Corporation (BEVCO), are not treated as "cattle" and those watching this are not subjected to "ridicule and embarrassment", Kerala High Court said on Thursday. "You (Excise department) are a statutory authority. You have to ensure that those coming to purchase liquor at these shops are not treated as cattle and those who watch liquor being sold like this are not subjected to ridicule or embarrassment. "I myself am embarrassed to see the queues outside the liquor shops," Justice Devan Ramachandran said and added that some people, however, feel that we should take pride that people stand in "disciplined" queues outside these outlets. He directed the excise department to file a report within one month on the steps taken to bring the functioning of the liquor shops upto a level as directed by the court earlier. The court commenced hearing of the matter by referring to a letter sent by a woman, a housewife and mother, from Kottayam worried over the shifting of a liquor outlet near to a bank in her locality. In her letter dated September 7, the woman said that women and girls would find it difficult to walk past such outlets and the one she was referring to was being shifted near a bank where there was already a dearth of parking facilities. The court asked both the Excise department and BEVCO to take a look into the issue raised by the woman in her letter. It also said to the Excise department that it would be held responsible or accountable for any such complaints that the court receives in future on this issue. The court was hearing a contempt plea which was filed claiming non-compliance of its 2017 judgment directing the state government and BEVCO to ensure that no nuisance is caused to businesses and residents of an area in Thrissur due to a BEVCO outlet there. During the hearing, BEVCO's lawyer suggested that each and every letter received by the court may not be gone into. To this the court said, "How many letters have I told you about? Let me tell you this is not the only one. I have received at least 50 letters by now on this. I only took up the letter which according to me was relevant." The judge said that the letter indicates that "people are scared" of such outlets coming up near their areas and women are scared even to come out and complain against the same. Justice Ramachandran said it takes a lot of courage on the part of someone to come out and complain against such outlets and directed the Excise department -- "I want something to be done immediately". The court also said that it took four years for the government and BEVCO to implement the direction given in the 2017 judgement and that too happened because of the prevailing pandemic. "So sometimes Covid is good," the judge said. The court also refused to pass any directions on BEVCO's oral request for directions to the state and Excise department to increase the number of liquor outlets, saying that it is for the government to take a call on that. The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 18. The high court on September 2 had said that had it not intervened to reduce queues outside BEVCO liquor outlets, "we would have been sitting on a catastrophic time bomb".  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ensure-those-buying-liquor-are-not-treated-as-cattle-kerala-hc-to-govt-1031013.html
16-09-2021||South||Telangana government offers Rs 20 lakh ex- gratia to kin of minor who was raped and murdered||Telangana Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Satyavathi Rathod on Thursday met the parents of the six-year old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered by her neighbour and offered them a cheque for Rs 20 lakh as ex-gratia, an official release said. The girl was allegedly raped and murdered allegedly by a man in a neighbouring house at Saidabad here on the evening of September 9. The accused is still at large. The ministers also assured support and help from the state government and stringent action against the culprit as per law and justice rendered as expeditiously possible, it said. Home Minister Ali on Wednesday asked police officials to take steps to apprehend the accused in the case as soon as possible and take further measures as per law, even as the opposition Congress, BJP and others stepped up attacks on the TRS government over the incident.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-government-offers-rs-20-lakh-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-minor-who-was-raped-and-murdered-1031028.html
16-09-2021||South||TN DVAC raids another ex-AIADMK minister K C Veeramani; seizes Rolls Royce||Former Commercial Taxes Minister K C Veeramani on Thursday became the third AIADMK leader to be raided by sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on charges of acquiring assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.   At the end of the day-long raids at 35 places, including two in Bengaluru, the DVAC said the sleuths recovered nine luxury vehicles, including a Rolls Royce car, 623 sovereigns of gold, US dollars’ worth Rs 1.80 lakh, and cash of Rs 34.01 lakh. Documents relevant to the case were also found during the searches. The raid came a day after the DVAC registered a case against Veeramani, who lost the 2021 assembly elections from Tiruppattur in north Tamil Nadu, on charges of acquiring assets worth Rs 28.78 crore disproportionate to the known sources of income during his tenure as Commercial Taxes and Registration minister from 2016-2021.  “The excess works out to be 654 per cent of his total income,” the DVAC said in its FIR. Veeramani is the third AIADMK minister after M R Vijayabhaskar and S P Velumani to be raided by DVAC after the DMK government assumed office in May 2021.  The action by the DVAC comes a month after Arappor Iyakkam sent a 43-page complaint to the DVAC alleging that Veeramani and his family have acquired assets worth Rs 76.65 crore that is disproportionate to the known sources of income between 2011 and 2021.  Contending that the former minister’s income was around Rs 10 crore in 10 years as declared in his election affidavits, the NGO said he and his family members own assets worth Rs 76.65 crore. However, the FIR filed by DVAC talks only about the disproportionate assets between 2016 and 2021.  The FIR says a case under sections 13 (1) (e), 13 (2) and 13 (1) (b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 has been filed against Veeramani. It says the DVAC went through various documents, including Veeramani’s election affidavit, to conclude that he has acquired assets disproportionate to the known sources of income.  The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted a huge list of corruption charges against half a dozen ministers. The party also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-dvac-raids-another-ex-aiadmk-minister-k-c-veeramani-seizes-rolls-royce-1031085.html
16-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu has received Rs 4,000 crore as CSR funds between 2014 and 2021: Report||Tamil Nadu, the second-largest economy in the country, has received over Rs 4,000 crore of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds between 2014 and 2021 with Chennai and Coimbatore getting the lion’s share, while the interior and rural districts have been largely ignored.  Of the CSR spending in the last seven years, 39 per cent of the funds have gone towards educations followed by health (20 per cent), and rural development (8 per cent). While Chennai, the state capital, and Coimbatore, the industrial city, received one-third of the CSR funds, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram, designated as aspirational districts by the Union Government, got just one per cent of the funds.  A report prepared by Sattva Consulting said Tamil Nadu received over Rs 800 crores of CSR funding in each of the last two financial years – 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 -- accounting for 42% of the total CSR funds received over the six years. It was released recently by Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan.  The top spenders from their CSR funds are companies that are based out of Tamil Nadu like the Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC), MRF, Sun TV Network, and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL).  Chennai received the bulk of CSR outlays at close to 25 per cent, with Vellore and Coimbatore at little over 6 per cent and 5 per cent, the report said, adding that the aspirational districts which are yet to meet many of the markers as per the Sustainable Development Goals received less than one per cent outlay across the last six years. The report also found Ariyalur, Tenkasi, and Tiruppattur received no CSR funds. Tenkasi and Tiruppattur were carved out of Tirunelveli and Vellore districts respectively in 2019.  It also said 18 per cent of the total CSR spending was contributed by the top five funding companies, while 45 per cent of the implementation is directly done by companies. While 61 per cent of the CSR spend by companies headquartered in Tamil Nadu is spent in the state, 19 per cent of the funds from the above-mentioned category is spent by the BFSI industry.   “As we chart a course to build back better after this pandemic, we need to build in strong principles of sustainability and collaboration in all our re-build efforts. The emergence of multi-faceted partnerships, a strategic outlook towards CSR, solving for scale in line with the development needs of the state will be the hallmark of CSR work in Tamil Nadu in the post-pandemic period,” said Srikrishna Sridhar Murthy, co-founder and CEO of Sattva.  Tamil Nadu is the fourth-highest recipient state of CSR funds in India and the corporate sector is emerging as an important player in the state’s development, the report said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-has-received-rs-4000-crore-as-csr-funds-between-2014-and-2021-report-1031095.html
16-09-2021||South||Kerala BJP president K Surendran quizzed in election bribery case||Kerala BJP president K Surendran was quizzed on Thursday by the state police who are investigating an election bribery allegation. Surendran, who lost in the recent Kerala Assembly elections at Manjeshwar in Kasargod, allegedly gave Rs. 2.5 lakh and a mobile phone to K Sundara, a BSP candidate, for withdrawing the nomination. He had denied the allegation. Surendran was quizzed for about one hour by a team led by a Crime Branch DySP.  A local court in Kasargod ordered the police probe based on a petition filed by Left Front candidate V V Ramesh who came third in the election. Surendran lost in the 2016 Assembly election by 89 votes and by 745 votes this year.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bjp-president-k-surendran-quizzed-in-election-bribery-case-1031098.html
16-09-2021||South||BJP's efforts to cash in on 'narcotic jihad' row in Kerala suffers setback||BJP's attempt to make inroads into the Christian vote banks of Kerala by backing the 'narcotic jihad' and 'love jihad' remarks of a bishop seems to be facing a setback as prominent church leaders are also condemning the bishop's remarks. BJP leaders from Kerala, including Union Minister of State V Muraleedharan and even Goa Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, who was a former BJP state president in Kerala, were among those who backed the remarks of Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, bishop of Pala in Kottayam district under the Syro Malabar Church, that jihadis were trying to destroy non-Muslims through 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad'. Even as the controversial remark invited widespread criticism and triggered communally sensitive debates and demonstrations in the state, the BJP leaders backed the bishop and accused the CPM and the Congress of supporting jihadis by flaying the bishop's remarks. A BJP delegation even called on the bishop and extended support and BJP also sought a law to curb 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad'. Many church leaders also backed the bishop citing that he was referring to a social evil. But as the row snowballed into a communal debate, those from the Christian community also started condemning the bishop. Senior priest of Syro Malabar Church Paul Thelakkat said that the Pala bishop's statement was contrary to the stand of the Catholic church as well as Pope Francis towards those believing in other religions. It was unfortunate that the bishop used terms like love jihad and narcotic jihad, he said in an article published in a vernacular daily. On Wednesday Church of South India bishop Malayail Sabu Koshy Cheriyan and Kerala Muslim Youth Federation state president Shamsuddeen Mannani Ilavupalam jointly called for communal harmony. They said that words that hurt any community should not be used. These developments seem to have sent a message to the BJP that trying to take political advantage of the issue might boomerang. On Thursday actor-turned BJP Rajya Sabha MP called on the bishop and later told the media that the bishop's statement was not against any community, but was trying to highlight social evils. During the recent Assembly election campaign in Kerala, BJP national leaders had raised the 'love jihad' issue. But it did not yield any result. Meanwhile, Congress is trying to take political advantage of the issue by accusing the CPM-led Left Front government of not trying to settle the communally sensitive issue from scaling up. On Thursday, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K Sudhakaran called on the Pala bishop as well as other church heads. Being an issue with the Christian and Muslim communities on either side, the Congress and CPM were handling it cautiously as both the communities are crucial vote banks in the state. Even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan initially flayed the 'narcotic jihad' remark of the bishop, on Wednesday he said that there was no reason for registering a case against the bishop as he clarified that he had no intention to create communal enmity. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-efforts-to-cash-in-on-narcotic-jihad-row-in-kerala-suffers-setback-1031117.html
16-09-2021||South||Kerala octogenarian cycles 4,300 kilometre ||An octogenarian from Kerala has become an inspiration for many as he cycled around 4,300 kilometres at the age of 80 and finished his venture at Khardung La mountain pass at Leh in Ladakh. Spreading the message of healthy living at a time when the young generations were falling into substance abuse and liquor was the mission of the plumber turned cyclist from Thrissur district. Jose, a native of Athani in Thrissur, has been a regular cyclist from his school days. He used to regularly take part in short distance cycle trips as well as swimming events. It was a long pending dream that Jose accomplished as he reached one of the highest motorable mountain pass by cycling on Saturday over coming the health issues he suffered in between. He could be even the oldest person to cycle to the Khardung La. Jose started his expedition from Thrissur in July with the support of various cycling outfits. After cycling around 3,000 kilometres in the hilly terrains of Ooty and Wayanad, he reached Chandigarh by middle of August and from there resumed his expedition targeting Khardung La. He was also accompanied by another cycling enthusiast from Kerala, P R Gokul. On the way, Jose suffered breathing difficulties. But Gokul and his wife Dr Lekha Lekhmsi gave moral support to him and he continued the expedition with an oxygen cylinder. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was among those who hailed Jose for his achievement and inspiring others to overcome the odds in life. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-octogenarian-cycles-4300-kilometre-1031136.html
16-09-2021||South||Kerala CM seeks Centre's intervention into skyrocketing airfares||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought the centre's intervention into the skyrocketing airfares to Gulf countries subsequent to relaxation in travel restrictions due to Covid. In a letter to Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday, Vijayan said that the airfares to many Gulf countries had skyrocketed and became unaffordable to a large section of NRIs from Kerala. Most of the NRIs were facing acute financial crunches owing to the unemployment caused by Covid and hence many could not afford the high airfare. DH had earlier reported that the airfares to Gulf countries started skyrocketing within hours after the UAE announced relaxations in restrictions on travellers from India in the first week of August. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-seeks-centres-intervention-into-skyrocketing-airfares-1031137.html
16-09-2021||State||Victim cannot implead in appeal preferred by convict: HC||The High Court has held that the Code of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) does not confer any right on the victim to seek impleadment in an appeal preferred by the convict. A division bench passed this order while dismissing the application filed by the complainant in Bhaskar Shetty murder case in Udupi district. The impleading application was filed by Gulabi Shedti, 79, mother of deceased Bhaskar Shetty. The application was moved in the criminal appeals filed by the convicts in the case - Rajeshwari Shetty, Navneet Shetty, wife and son of Bhaskar Shetty, and Niranjan Bhat, a priest. The applicant contended that the appeal being a continuation of the prosecution, she is entitled to be heard in the appeal, including on the application praying to suspend the sentence and enlarge the convicts on bail. A division bench headed by Justice G Narendar rejected the contention pointing out that if the guilt of a person has been proclaimed and such convict prefers an appeal, it can by no stretch of imagination be construed as a continuation of prosecution. The bench cited the Supreme Court judgment in Rekha Murarka’s case and said that if the interpretation of the applicant is accepted, the mischief and damage that it could cause to the justice dispensation system is immeasurable. “Section 389 of the CrPC, placed in Chapter XXIX, does not confer any right of audience on victims in and during the consideration of the application for suspension of sentence in an appeal preferred by the convict. We hold that the right to assist the prosecution under 24 (8) is not available to the victim in an appeal by a convict under Chapter XXIX,” the bench said. On June 8, 2021, the Principal District and Sessions court at Udupi had convicted sentenced life imprisonment to the three accused. The convicts had challenged the verdict by way of criminal appeals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/victim-cannot-implead-in-appeal-preferred-by-convict-hc-1030780.html
16-09-2021||State||Chief Secretary directs officials to move files under e-office from Oct 1||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Wednesday ordered deputy commissioners, zilla panchayat chief executives and others to move all files to government secretaries only through e-office starting October 1.  Under e-office, all files are scanned and uploaded onto the system for further transactions. Besides saving reams of paper, the ‘e-office’ cuts manual movement of files and ensures speedy clearances. “From Oct 1, 2021 onwards, movement of proposals, letters and reports by the DCs, CEOs of Zilla Panchayats and heads of departments to the secretary to the government concerned should be only through e-office. Proposals should be sent as a single file by the concerned officer to the secretary concerned through e-office,” Kumar said in his order.  The order was issued at the behest of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who “directed that the movement of files and the number of levels at which the files are handled should be reduced.”  According to Kumar, the secretary should dispose of the matter at his/her level or submit it to the minister for orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chief-secretary-directs-officials-to-move-files-under-e-office-from-oct-1-1030784.html
16-09-2021||State||Karnataka budget allocations not getting spent: CAG report||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has recommended the government to be more “realistic” in its budget, noting that 11 per cent of the total provisions made in 2019-20 remained unutilised. A debt sustainability analysis in the audit report also raised concerns over the rising public debt which was higher than GSDP growth. The ‘state finance and audit report’ tabled in the Assembly on Wednesday also advised the government against seeking supplementary grants or appropriations without adequate justification as large amounts were not spent by the government. Comparing budget and expenditure for the last three years, the report noted that both revenue and capital head of accounts of the government had unutilised provisions.  “It was observed that budget allocations remain unutilised every year, indicating non-achievement of the projected financial outlays in the respective years. The budget allocations were made without considering the previous years’ expenditure...” the report said, with reference to three fiscals starting 2017-18. Debt analysis Increase in net debt available to the state was mainly due to increase in receipts under internal debt from Rs 40,470 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 49,784 crore in 2019-20. Commenting on the borrowings made by the government in the 2019-20 fiscal, CAG said data showed that the state “had borrowed more than the requirement”. The report noted that open market borrowings amounted to 59% of the total fiscal liabilities of the state. Noting that rising debt was a cause for concern, the report recommended the government to “make medium term corrections on the expenditure side to moderate committed expenditure.”   Owing to a decrease in tax revenues of the state, non-tax revenue requires significant thrust by rationalising user charges. “Efforts need to be made for efficient enforcement of recovery of non-tax revenues and revision of the user charges,” CAG said. The report also expressed its reservations over increase in cash balance of the state, which had increased by 57% compared to previous years. “Maintaining idle cash balance is not prudent cash management. Hence, government needs to limit the market borrowings to its requirements,” the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-budget-allocations-not-getting-spent-cag-report-1030790.html
16-09-2021||State||Karnataka mulling installation of prepaid electricity meters in govt buildings||With government buildings across the state owing close to Rs 6,000 crore electricity dues, the state government is now considering the installation of prepaid electricity meters in all government buildings.  As of date, the state government has to get Rs 5,792 crore electricity charges dues from various government buildings which have failed to pay bills on time. Having consistently suffered massive losses owing to such delays, the state government is now thinking of setting up prepaid meters in all government buildings, Energy, Kannada and Culture minister V Sunil Kumar said Thursday.  Apart from the introduction of prepaid electricity meters in government buildings, the government was also considering introducing meters in all the "AMRUT cities" and for temporary connections in a bid to generate revenue, the minister added.  The minister was responding to a query by MLA Yashwanth Gowda Patil on concerns about the privatisation of the energy sector in the state. The MLA alleged that in some cases the farmers' IP sets were also being charged in spite of them is meant to be free. In addition, farmers are worried that the government will privatise electricity distribution, he said. To this, the minister specified that there were no such plans by the government.  Meanwhile, BJP legislator Appacchu Ranjan also demanded that the government exempt coffee growers IP sets from electricity charges and consider them on par with other farmers. The government will consider the same, Sunil Kumar said.  The government is in plans of introducing an app, which will serve as 'Transformer Information Management System', where all transformers will be brought under one app, Sunil Kumar said. "This will help us track any requirement for repair. The aim is to replace faulty transformers within 24 hours," he said. The state government will also create a transformer bank, he added.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mulling-installation-of-prepaid-electricity-meters-in-govt-buildings-1031063.html
16-09-2021||State||19 injured in blast in Barauni refinery||At least 19 workers were injured on Thursday in a blast in the refinery of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) at Barauni in Bihar, officials said. The incident took place at the furnace of the refinery's atmospheric vacuum unit at around 10.30 am, they said. Ankita Srivastava, corporate communication manager of IOCL said the injured workers were rushed to Barauni Refinery Hospital and a private hospital. "All 19 injured workers are out of danger,” said Srivastava adding five are employees of the refinery, while the rest are contractual workers. The accident did not cause any financial loss to the refinery and a team of technical experts has been formed to ascertain the exact cause of the incident, she said. “The plant was shut down for a month. Work on getting it started was underway for the last two days. However, a unit suddenly exploded at around 10.30 am injuring the 19 workers," said Srivastava. Senior officials of the district administration also visited the spot, she said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/19-injured-in-blast-in-barauni-refinery-1031075.html
16-09-2021||State||Regional panel nod to widen Karnataka-Goa border road draws flak||The vehement opposition and legal challenges notwithstanding, the highway authorities have managed to get clearance to widen a section (Anmod-Mollem) of NH 4A (NH 748) that connects Goa and Karnataka. Work on the section, which will result in clearing 12,097 trees, has been opposed by NGOs and activists who had alleged that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and Goa’s Public Works Department have split the projects into pieces to ensure length of project doesn’t cross 100 km and thereby avoid the restrictions of environment clearance rules. The Regional Empowered Committee (REC), which looked into the the Anmod-Mollem section widening in February this year, had urged the NHAI to reconsider the proposal. Noting that the doubling of Tinaighat-Kulem railway line has been approved, it sounded caution against multiple linear projects in the sensitive the Western Ghats. However, last month, the REC gave the green signal to the project with a direction that NHAI incorporate the suggestions of the Central Empowered Committee appointed by the Supreme Court. “It’s a tricky situation. The REC tried to take a holistic view by looking at road, rail and power lines cutting through the ghat sections. The approval was given after considering the CEC report - submitted to the Supreme Court - red-flagged the railway line but recommended widening the road with some restrictions,” a source said. An activist said the like-minded persons and organisations will approach the court once again seeking review of the previous order. “There was no evidence of a project proposed on the Goa side when the court was hearing the matter. Now that the officials have given details, it’s time the issue is brought to the notice of the court,” he said. Growthwatch, an NGO, said, “The REC has approved an “ill-conceived route” for coal transportation by ignoring the multiple warnings by climate changeexperts.” “People of Goa and Karnataka have been fighting to safeguard their environment. It is unacceptable that the REC chooses to ignore all this and deliberately approves this ill-conceived coal route. It is indeed a sad day when a UNESCO heritage site and tigers fall prey to vested interests of coal companies,”it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/regional-panel-nod-to-widen-karnataka-goa-border-road-draws-flak-1031130.html
16-09-2021||State||Karnataka BJP rushes Bill on delimitation commission||The Karnataka Assembly witnessed high drama late Thursday evening as the ruling BJP ensured the passage of a Bill, amid condemnation and protests, to create a new delimitation commission that will potentially put off the impending taluk and Zilla panchayat elections.  The Assembly passed the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill even as Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and Congress legislators walked out in protest.  The BJP is in a hurry to get the Bill passed in both Houses before September 20, in time for a hearing in the High Court in connection with the panchayat polls.  The Bill will snatch the power of the State Election Commission (SEC) to carry out delimitation of panchayat boundaries and fix reservation for seats.  The SEC has already finished delimitation and reservation, which have been challenged in the court.  “The case is listed on September 20 and a judgement is expected. This amendment is to make sure there's no court order. Your bonafide intention is under question. Why didn't you do this before,” Siddaramaiah asked. He said the Bill was “unconstitutional and a black law”.  Karnataka has 31 Zilla panchayats under which there are 232 taluk panchayats, representing all 30,000 villages in the state. They were due for elections in May-June this year.  Former Speaker KR Ramesh Kumar slammed the BJP government. “This Bill is nothing but a manipulation to thwart progress, stall elections and bring down the importance of local self-bodies,” he said. “You are launching an assault on the Constitution of this country.”  Law Minister JC Madhuswamy took exception to this. “We are no less than anybody when it comes to democratic values and principles. We are not against reservation. No one can oppose reservation under the Constitution,” he said. “All we’re asking is for a separate commission for delimitation. For that, you are projecting us as villains of the very idea of decentralization and reservation.”  Madhuswamy explained that nowhere in India did the SEC had powers on delimitation. “Even the Constitution is clear that there’s no relationship between SEC and delimitation,” he said.  Former RDPR minister Krishna Byre Gowda said the proposed amendment was "bogus" and that it is a ploy to delay the elections. “It’s known that the BJP members aren’t happy with the delimitation. This Bill won’t help you either,” he said. JD(S) members also had problems with the Bill. However, they did not walk out like the Congress.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bjp-rushes-bill-on-delimitation-commission-1031135.html
16-09-2021||State||Karnataka Assembly passes Bill making rainwater harvesting infrastructure must for large properties||The Karnataka Assembly on Thursday passed a Bill that makes it mandatory for large properties in Bengaluru to install rainwater harvesting infrastructure, a move the government believes will help the city manage the heavy demand for Cauvery water.  The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Bill was passed without any debate as there were hardly any Bengaluru legislators in the Assembly when it was taken up.    Owners and occupiers of buildings having a sital area of not less than 2,325 sq ft and not more than 10,763.9 sq ft are required to provide rainwater harvesting structures for storage, for use and for groundwater recharge.  Also, upcoming and existing buildings with a sital area of not less than 10,763.9 sq ft “shall provide dual piping system and rainwater harvesting structure for storage and for use, other than drinking, cooking and bathing purpose,” the Bill states.  According to the Bill’s statement of objects and reasons, the amendment will “reduce the dependency on Cauvery water, reduce the flow of stormwater drains, mitigate urban flooding, manage the summer peak demand through groundwater charging, provide freshwater source through rainwater harvesting where the groundwater quality is poor and mandate rainwater harvesting as the rain harvested water is free, readily available and has no distribution cost”.   Piloting the Bill on behalf of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law Minister JC  Madhuswamy said it is already mandatory for properties located on sites measuring 60x40 to have rainwater harvesting structures. “Now, we are making it mandatory for 30x40 sites while exempting the existing ones. We’re also including 40x60 properties that haven’t built rainwater harvesting structures and those above 40x60 to have dual pipes,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-making-rainwater-harvesting-infrastructure-must-for-large-properties-1031139.html
16-09-2021||State||Karnataka government to give re-appropriation details to CAG: CM Bommai||In the wake of the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) report on budget allocations remaining unutilised, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday stated that the government would give a report to the CAG on how the re-appropriation would be done. "The CAG gave a similar report last time also, and the Finance Depart gave details about the re-appropriation. I have asked the Finance Department secretary to give details of the re-appropriation to the CAG this time also," he said. Regarding the suspected terror links related to the issue of satellite phone calls from the state, Bommai said that strict vigil is being kept and stringent measures would be taken. Answer on the issue of prices of petroleum products would be given in the session of the Legislature on Friday (September 17), he added. Refusing to speak on BJP's prospects in mayor and deputy mayor election for Kalabauragi municipal corporation, he said, "Let the notification come". Earlier, Bommai attended the last rites of his relative and close friend Raju Patil who passed away on Wednesday. Bommai also held a discussion with the officials of the Dharwad and Haveri districts, at his residence.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-to-give-re-appropriation-details-to-cag-cm-bommai-1031140.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru boy Gaurab Das emerges joint topper in JEE Main||Gaurab Das, a student of Narayana E-Techno School at Sahakara Nagar in the city, is among the 18 All-India toppers in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021, the results of which were announced on Wednesday.  Gaurab, who shared the top rank with 17 others with perfect 100 percentile in session 4, is the only student from the state and one among the 44 students across India to have scored 100 NTA score (percentile). Even during session 3, he had scored 100 percentile. Gaurab is pursuing his degree in Computer Engineering from Purdue University in the United States of America. He, however, has decided to write JEE Advanced in India with an aim to join an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT). A student of DPS North in Bengaluru till grade 10, Gaurab joined Narayana E-Techno school for class 11 and 12 (CBSE), “I participated in Model United, explored subjects in Humanities and other things before I zeroed in on science and mathematics subjects,” he says. With his father Gautam Kumar working as a project manager at a Chicago-based company, Gaurab lived with his mother and twin sisters, who are in grade 9, in Bengaluru. “Pandemic and staying away from my father were the biggest challenges, but constant motivation from my parents and siblings and a clear focus helped me to achieve the feat,” he said. “My mother, Barnali Das, a teacher in a city school, played a major role in keeping me motivated,” he added. He suffered a ligament sprain in March while playing his favourite sport basketball. But that did not stop him from preparing. “It was just before my practical exams and my teachers helped me a lot during that phase. They physically supported me to reach my exam rooms,” he says. Barnali Das said, “Narayana E-Techno School’s student-friendly schedule and giving the children the space to prepare without any pressure is the secret to success.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-boy-gaurab-das-emerges-joint-topper-in-jee-main-1030781.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC sets aside order declaring 60 acres as forest land||The High Court has set aside the order of the assistant conservator of forests (ACF), Hosanagara sub-division in Shivamogga district, declaring 60 acres of land as reserved forest. The Ramachandrapura Mutt had challenged the order of the ACF, contending that the land is gomala land. The petitioner Mutt, through a trust by name Dharma Chakra Trust, had made a representation for grant of 25 acres of gomala land in survey number 7 in Hosanagara taluk. The Mutt wanted the land to run several goshalas. Pursuant to this representation, a complaint was registered by the Forest department and the ACF passed an order under Section 64 A (1) of the Karnataka Forest Act, 1963 on July 25, 2015. Section 64A provides for eviction of an unauthorized occupant from forest land. The petitioner challenged the order claiming that the government all along had accepted subject land as a gomala land. A proclamation order and subsequent gazette notification, issued on March 28, 2005, declared 160 acres of land as reserved forest, which excluded 60 acres of gomala land. The counsel for the Mutt contended that the proclamation order and the notification were not challenged and hence, attainedfinality. Justice Krishna S Dixit said the deputy commissioner of Shivamogga district had written a letter to the state government on November 21, 2012, subsequent to the Mutt’s representation, stating that the land was a gomala land. “The subject land shall be retained as gomala land for the benefit of the cattle of the petitioner - Mutt and other agriculturists/farmers; if entries in the revenue records are changed pursuant to impugned order, the same shall be restored as they were before, within an outer limit of two months from the date a copy of this judgment is handed over to the jurisdictional tahsildar,” the court said. It directed the respondents to consider the representation for the allotment in accordance with law and inform the result of such consideration within sixmonths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-sets-aside-order-declaring-60-acres-as-forest-land-1030782.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Council sees heated exchange on delay in UKP stage 3||Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol said on Wednesday that the government would make all efforts to resolve the legal tangles involving the Upper Krishna Project (UKP) stage III, before completing its term in 2023. This came amid protests from members in the Council over the inordinate delay in the implementation of the project.   The minister’s assurance came even as leader of the Opposition S R Patil threatened to launch a padayatra and go on a hunger strike, if the government did not implement the project soon. “Since the project involves interstate disputes and the matter is also being heard by the Supreme Court, I cannot say much. However, I will say that the government will go 10 steps ahead before the term is over. We have already met CWC officials and Union Jal Shakti Minister, seeking gazette notification for the project at the earliest. We are also in talks with the Maharashtra government,” Karjol said. The government needs to acquire about 1.34 lakh acres of land, apart from rehabilitating and relocating 20 villages which will be affected because of the project, he added.  Members cutting across party lines demanded that the government begin the implementation at the earliest. Patil pointed out that even though the Krishna tribunal award was given in December 2010, the project was yet to take off. “This 130 tmc ft of water, accorded in the tribunal verdict, will irrigate close to 15 lakh acres in North Karnataka region. This project is key to overcoming regional imbalance,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/council-sees-heated-exchange-on-delay-in-ukp-stage-3-1030786.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||How a DH employee was at the centre of history's most famous Test match||Thirty-five years ago this week, an employee of Deccan Herald and Prajavani’s circulation department checked out of the MG Road headquarters and went home to pack for a flight to what was then Madras. Seven days later he was at the heart of one of the most famous moments in world cricket history. Vikrama Raju was in charge of ensuring that copies of the two newspapers reached homes throughout Bengaluru, and on time. It was a quiet life, punctuated by the odd crack-of-dawn trip to distribution points to sort out bottlenecks. He had graduated to the job after joining the Printers (Mysore) -- publisher of DH and Prajavani -- as a cashier in his early twenties. The son of a police fingerprint expert, Raju’s own fingers had produced leg breaks in club cricket, and he could open the innings to boot. He was even captain of the Deccan Herald team. But he had more success when he traded his cricketing whites for an umpire’s coat and tie. It started unpromisingly, at a salary of Rs 5 per day in local league games over weekends. But by 1959, he had qualified to umpire in the Ranji Trophy, which took him to cricket grounds across India and earned him Rs 250 a day. He hit big time when he stood in the first flood-lit international game in India, at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru stadium in 1983, pitting Kapil’s Devils against Pakistan. In between these bouts of excitement, he would return to work in Bengaluru, keeping track of bill collections and ‘returns’ or unsold copies of the two Karnataka papers. “I would apply for leave whenever I had to umpire a game, giving the office one week’s notice. There was never a problem,” the spry 87-year-old told DH. Then, in 1986, he was assigned a game that would change his life: the first Test of an India vs Australia series, to be played nearby in Madras. He landed in the searing hot city two days ahead of the game, which started on Sept 18, to do the normal checks: confirm the distance of the boundaries, inspect the condition of the ground and the rolling of the pitch. His partner umpire for this match was Dara Dotiwala. Raju remembers being paid a princely sum of Rs 5,000 for the game. His recollections of the game, until the fateful final day, centred around Dean Jones’ vomit-and-bat epic 210 (“he went to hospital after the first day”), Sunil Gavaskar playing his hundredth successive Test, Krishnamachari Srikkanth’s rapid half-century, and Kapil Dev’s hundred, which still left India trailing by 177 on first innnings. And it was hot, really hot. “Australian coach Bob Simpson and captain Allan Border suggested that we remove our coats and ties,” recalls Raju. “We asked them to ask our BCCI president....we knew it wouldn’t be allowed.” After Australia manufactured a surprise declaration in their second innings, India took up the challenge of scoring 348 to win. They were well on track but a mini-collapse left the last pair at the crease. With only two to get. Ravi Shastri, the coach of the present Indian team, took a single, exposing the rabbit Maninder Singh to the offspin of Greg Matthews. The ball hit Maninder’s pad, a roar went up....and so did Raju’s finger, ending the match in what remains one of only two Ties in 144 years and more than 2,000 games of Test cricket. “It was a perfect decision, and there was no DRS those days,” says Raju, pre-empting any question. “Shastri should not have taken a single, and we should have won.” The hurt of having arguably the most famous decision in cricket history being questioned -- largely by Shastri -- still lingers, though. A lot has been written, in the last three decades, about Raju and the tied Test. But few remember that he stood in another tied international. It was six months after Madras, in the India-Pakistan one-dayer at Hyderabad. That ended with Pakistan’s Abdul Qadir getting run out with scores level, and India being awarded a win for having lost one wicket less than their rivals. That run-out decision was not Raju’s: he was at the other end as umpire Sunit Ghosh gave Qadir out. Raju never stood in a Test again, though he did one-day internationals until early 1988. He remained a minor celebrity, making a trip to Australia in 2007 to umpire, along with Dotiwala, a festival game to mark 21 years of the Madras game. He retired after a career with Printers (Mysore). But he had another encounter with the Madras Test, a couple of years ago, when he was refereeing a game in the Karnataka Premier League. “Dean Jones met me, and he said the decision was correct.” Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/how-a-dh-employee-was-at-the-centre-of-historys-most-famous-test-match-1030809.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka allows international, other UG students to study Kannada for just one semester||In a major relief for the overseas and non-Kannada students pursuing higher education courses in Karnataka, the state government on Wednesday clarified that these students will have to study 'functional Kannada' only for one semester. during the first year of the programme. As part of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020), the state government had earlier made it mandatory to study Kannada for two years triggering criticism among the student community and academics circles. The department has also received objections from higher education institutions across the state.  Considering the state-wide objections, the department of collegiate education on Wednesday issued a revised order which stated, " The students who have not studied Kannada in second PUC (+2/12th Grade) have the option of getting an exemption and studying it only for one semester. Other domicile students will have to study Kannada for four semesters besides another language of their choice." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-allows-international-other-ug-students-to-study-kannada-for-just-one-semester-1030877.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Price rise continuous, announce special financial package for people in distress: Kumaraswamy tells Karnataka govt||Terming price rise as a "continuous process" JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday urged the Karnataka government to announce a special financial package to those in distress, and announce relief to common man, who is finding it difficult to lead life. He asked the government to use the revenue that was generated out of levying cess and taxes on petrol, diesel and others items, to come to the rescue of the people. "Price rise, according to me, is a continuous process. Since independence, on several instances price rise has been inevitable to improve the financial condition of the government and to raise money for implementing programmes. Whichever party may be in power, it is natural," Kumaraswamy said. Intervening during the debate on price rise in the legislature assembly, he said opposition parties protesting against price rise is also a continuous process in the democracy. Kumaraswamy, during his speech highlighting the trouble faced by common man, especially the poorer section, said it is a double whammy for them with both price rise and Covid-19 pandemic. "This is not the issue to be discussed in a partisan manner and to make allegations against one another to score political brownie points. We should rather look at what can be done to get relief to those in distress from the government in power," he said. Asking Karnataka to become model for the entire country, Kumaraswamy urged the government to announce a special financial package and come to the rescue of poor and weaker sections. "The government has got revenue from the cess, people have filled your coffers. Now the same people and farmers are in distress. Announce a special financial package for the poorer and weaker sections, who are struggling to lead life. Announce 25,000 each to about 55 lakh such families." The former Chief Minister also conceded that populist schemes announced by the governments to reach out to the common man with election in mind, without knowing about its financial implications, has led to loss of taxpayers money at several instances. "It is the duty of the government to rebuild the lives of the common man, the taxpayers who fill the coffers of the government and now are in distress," he said, as he advised the government to postpone the schemes, including the Amrit schemes announced it recently, by a year, and come to their rescue. "I'm not saying the BJP government has to do it, it is our government, the government of the 6.5 crore Kannadigas, all of us have the responsibility. We are ready to give all the cooperation, kindly come to the rescue of the poor and those in distress," he said, adding that government should also come to the aid of small scale industries that have given jobs to lakhs of people. Hitting out his old alliance partner and Congress leader Siddaramaiah, who on Wednesday had claimed that the government led by him had given 7 kgs free rice to poor, Kumaraswamy said Siddaramaiah in his last budget had announced 7 kg, but had kept money only for 5kg. He said, "when I became the CM after the election, Siddaramaiah as the coalition partner of my government put pressure on me to give 7kg that he had promised, despite constraints. As the CM I had to implement it, but he (Siddaramaiah) is claiming credit for it."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/price-rise-continuous-announce-special-financial-package-for-people-in-distress-kumaraswamy-tells-karnataka-govt-1031045.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to crack whip on IAS officers approaching media to air complaints||The Karnataka government will crack the whip on IAS officers who approach the media with complaints on political or administrative matters, Revenue minister R Ashoka said Thursday.  Speaking in the Legislative Assembly, Ashoka was responding to concerns by legislators that some IAS officials were directly approaching the media to air their grievances, instead of raising the issue with the Chief Secretary. Some officers are "overacting", Ashoka said, assuring the legislators that strict action will be initiated against such officials in the future.  Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri also expressed reservations about such a practice. "I have discussed this with the Chief Secretary earlier too. "Such a practice is against the regulations," he said.  JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy too raised an objection, questioning whether IAS officers have the power to directly approach the media. "In a recent incident where two IAS officers were involved in a conflict with each other in Mysuru, I observed that the Chief Secretary himself went to Mysuru to broker peace. Shouldn't he be instead summoning the officials to come to his office in Bengaluru?" he questioned.  The debate began with legislator Sa Ra Mahesh levelling corruption charges against former Mysuru DC, without taking the official's name. Alleging that the official procured cotton bags under Swachch Bharath scheme for inflated prices, he questioned why the government was not conducting raids against corrupt IAS officers.  "A bag that costs barely Rs 4 in the market has been procured for Rs 69 on the pretext of distributing it to the public," he alleged. He further alleged that the government was going soft on "young women officials". Several IAS officers serving in Karnataka have accumulated illegal wealth in other states, he charged.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-crack-whip-on-ias-officers-approaching-media-to-air-complaints-1031088.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,108 new Covid cases, 18 deaths||Karnataka has registered 1,108 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 18 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,65,191 and toll to 37,555, the health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 809 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,11,434. Out of 1,108 new cases reported on Thursday, 308 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 203 discharges and 5 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state is at 16,174. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.66 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.62 per cent. Out of 18 deaths reported on Thursday 5 are from Bengaluru Urban; Belagavi 4, Dakshina Kannada 2, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 308, Dakshina Kannada 186, Udupi 113, Mysuru 87, Hassan 64, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,42,640, followed by Mysuru 1,77,103 and Tumakuru 1,19,800. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,19,141, followed by Mysuru 1,74,170 and Tumakuru 1,18,058. Cumulatively a total of 4.58 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,66,006 were tested on Thursday alone||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1108-new-covid-cases-18-deaths-1031091.html
16-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Accused gets life term in Central University of Karnataka murder case||The Third Additional and Sessions Court in Kalaburagi has sentenced an accused to life imprisonment in the murder case that took place in Central University of Karnataka (CUK) at Kadaganchi of Aland taluk on August 22, 2018, and has slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on him. Ganesh Basavaraj Aldi is the convicted. Prasad Madayya Dinge is deceased. Prasad was sitting with his girlfriend when Ganesh robbed former of Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000 from his friend. When Prasad screamed while snatching the mobile, the convicted stabbed Prasad on his neck, in his chest, right side stomach and left hand. Prasad bled to death on the way to the hospital. Aland Circle Inspector H B Sanamani who registered the case filed a charge sheet to the court. Hearing from both sides, Judge Jagadeesh V N pronounced life imprisonment under various columns and slapped a fine of Rs 25,000. Of the fine amount, Rs 20,000 should be paid to the kin of the deceased and Rs 5,000 to Prasad's girlfriend in the form of compensation, the judge ordered. Third Additional Public Prosecutor Gurulingappa Srimatha Teli argued in favour of the government. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/accused-gets-life-term-in-central-university-of-karnataka-murder-case-1031155.html
16-09-2021||West||Maharashtra minister miffed with Gavaskar over non-utilisation of Mumbai plot||Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad on Wednesday said legendary batsman Sunil Gavaskar should utilise a government plot allotted to him in Mumbai by setting up a cricket academy and maintained in the past he had thought of taking back the prime piece of land. In a series of tweets, Awhad expressed disappointment over Gavaskar not utilising the plot, where a cricket academy has been proposed, even after 30 years of allotment. “I had almost taken the decision to cancel the allotment of the 2,000 sq metre plot located in Bandra (East). Despite such a huge size and prime location, the proposed cricket academy has not yet come there. I did not cancel the allotment because of Gavaskar's stature and his great contribution to the game,” said the minister. The plot was given to him for setting up a cricket academy and he should utilise it for that, he said. “I was ready to take the plot back along with MHADA (state-run housing agency) and utilise it for some good purpose,” Awhad said. The housing ministry will write to people concerned and take the matter to its logical end, he said. “Had it not been #sunilgavaskar as the housing minister, (I) would have cancelled the allotment I m one who used to c god in #SunilGavaskar,” Awhad tweeted on late Wednesday night. “Now at least he should make the best out of the plot. Can't forget the day he was clean bowled by #PhilipsDefraitis and I left the stadium crying,” he added. MHADA (Maharashtra Housing & Area Development Authority) had leased the land to a trust started by Gavaskar for a cricket academy in 1986, but no headway has been made on the project. The plot has been allotted to the Sunil Gavaskar Cricket Foundation Trust. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-miffed-with-gavaskar-over-non-utilisation-of-mumbai-plot-1030825.html
16-09-2021||West||Gujarat most disobedient in following Covid-19 protocols?||Were people of Gujarat the most disobedient in following Covid-19 protocols in the country or was it that the police in the state were more strict compared to their counterparts elsewhere in slapping cases for violating norms like wearing masks or maintaining social distancing? One could argue both ways if one goes by the latest Crime in India 2020 report, as Gujarat tops the list of states in slapping cases under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to the report released by the National Crimes Record Bureau (NCRB), Gujarat accounts for 2.27 lakh cases out under this section followed by Maharashtra (1.39 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (72,138), Uttar Pradesh (40,361), Madhya Pradesh (34,753) and Delhi (32,648). Karnataka had 1,466 cases — least for a south Indian state. Goa had 1,484 cases while Tamil Nadu had 4,605, Telangana 11,176 and Kerala 12,071. Among the metros, Ahmedabad recorded the highest number of 43,120 cases followed by Delhi (31,957), Pune (25,733) and Surat (24,777). Bengaluru recorded 131 cases. Overall, there was a major increase seen in the cases registered under Section 188  — 6.12 lakh cases last year, which is around 30 times from 29,469 cases in 2019 as well as under 'other IPC crimes' from 2.52 lakh cases in 2019 to 10.62 lakh. Similarly under the state's special laws category, more cases were registered — 89,553 cases to 4.14 lakh cases in 2020. "These together have resulted in 16.43 lakh more cases registered in 2020 as compared to 2019. These cases are primarily those arising out of violations of Covid-19 norms. Effectively therefore, there is a decrease in registration of traditional crime by about two lakh cases," the report said. In 2018, there were 22,907 cases under Section 188. Police was very fast in concluding these cases, as it chargesheeted 4.76 lakh chargesheets in cases registered last year. A total of 4.82 lakh chargesheets, including in 6,127 cases from among those pending before 2020, were filed. While 99.4 per cent was the chargesheeting rate for the whole of 2020, 21.9 per cent of the cases were still pending investigation. When it comes to courts, there were convictions in 74,872 cases, of whichc 65,809 cases were filed last year only, with a conviction rate of 90.5 per cent. However, there were acquitals in 7,000 cases and discharge of the accused in another 905 cases. A total of 1.08 lakh people, including 1,824 women, were convicted while 12,173, including 385 women, were acquitted and 12,328 discharged. Of the total 4.99 lakh people arrested last year under Section 188, only a miniscule number were women -- 10,143, which also includes 15 minors and 180 who are above 60 years-- while when it came to charge-sheeting, the total was 7.09 lakh people, including just 12,966 women. The age group of those arrested were: 382 below 18 years, 2.21 lakh between 18 and 30 years, 2.01 lakh between 30 and 45 years, 72,029 between 45 and 60 years and 4,751 above 60 years. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-most-disobedient-in-following-covid-19-protocols-1030883.html
16-09-2021||West||Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases stay almost stagnant for a month now||The active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have remained stagnant between 49,000 to 51,000, even as the third wave seems to be right around the corner.  Besides, 10 of the 36 districts account for over 90 per cent of the active cases.  With the Ganesh festival kickstarting the festive season, the Maharashtra government feels that there could be a spike in cases.  During the first wave in 2020, there was a spike in cases and 2021 would not be no exception, even as the state is at the tail of the second wave. As on Wednesday, the total active cases stood at 49,671. Pune figures on the top of the five districts having maximum active cases with 13,101 cases followed by Thane with 7,253, Ahmednagar with 6,898, Mumbai with 5,393 and Satara with 4,478. The next five districts with highest cases are Solapur (2,759), Sangli (2,018), Kolhapur (1,172), Ratnagiri (1,157) and Nashik (937).  “The five districts with maximum cases total 37,119 which is around 74.73 per cent of the total cases. The next five districts account for 8,043 cases, around 16.19 cases. Totally the 10 districts have 45,961 cases out of the state’s total of 49,671 - which is around 90.92 per cent,” according to a note prepared by the Public Health Department, which was tabled in the Cabinet meeting.  According to epidemiologists and experts, these 10 districts — in Western Maharashtra and coastal Konkan belt — have very high movement during the ongoing Ganesh festival.  “We should increase our health care infrastructure, especially in rural areas. We need proper diagnosis of the infected person to rule out all common infections,” said Dr IS Gilada, consultant, infectious diseases and secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild. “This is a time when we have to exercise extreme precaution,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, president-elect, Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-s-active-covid-19-cases-stay-almost-stagnant-for-a-month-now-1030899.html
16-09-2021||West||New Gujarat ministers to take oath on Thursday||New ministers of the Bhupendra Patel-led government in Gujarat will take oath on Thursday at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar amid speculation that the BJP may induct new faces into the state cabinet, with just over a year left for the state Assembly polls. There has been suspense over ministerial faces, whose names have not been declared so far, in the backdrop of the BJP's "no repeat" formula. Earlier, the ruling BJP announced that the swearing-in ceremony would be held on Wednesday afternoon and preparations for the same had started at the governor's house in the state capital. However, the plan was later dropped all of a sudden and banners of the swearing-in ceremony were also taken down. Neither the BJP nor the state government gave any reason for the postponement. On Wednesday evening, the Chief Minister's Office announced that the swearing-in ceremony of new ministers will be held at 1.30 pm at the Raj Bhavan in the state capital Gandhinagar on Thursday. Patel (59), a first-time MLA from Ahmedabad, took over as the new Gujarat chief minister on Monday after the sudden resignation of Vijay Rupani last Saturday. According to sources, the BJP leadership has decided to try new faces this time and drop almost all the past ministers, even some senior ones, who were part of the previous Rupani government. However, there was no official word from the BJP about it. Many believe that the "no repeat" formula has been proposed keeping in mind the 2022 Assembly polls as the BJP, which has been in power in Gujarat for more than two decades, wants to go to voters with a clean slate.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-gujarat-ministers-to-take-oath-on-thursday-1030907.html
16-09-2021||West||BJP drops all ministers of previous Gujarat government, 24 fresh faces sworn in new CM's team||A day after it cancelled the oath-taking ceremony following infighting over expansion of the new cabinet, the BJP on Thursday brought all new faces in chief minister Bhupendra Patel's team and dropped all the former ministers who were part of the previous Vijay Rupani government. A total of 24 ministers, including two women, were sworn in by governor Acharya Devvrat in a function held at Raj Bhawan in Gandhinagar. In an unprecedented move, the party didn't repeat a single minister from the previous government. The list included ex deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja and energy minister Saurabh Patel, among others. Ten of the MLAs were sworn in as cabinet ministers, five minister of state (independent charge) and nine others took oath as minister of state.  MLAs Rajendra Trivedi, Jitu Vaghani, Hrishikesh Patel, Purnesh Modi, Raghavji Patel, Kanubhai Desai, Kiritsinh Rana, Naresh Patel, Pradeep Parmar and Arjunsinh Chaudhri took oath as as cabinet ministers, Harsh Sanghvi, Jagdish Panchal, Brijesh Merja, Jitub Chaudhary and Manisha Vakil were sworn in as Ministers of State (Independent Charge). Mukesh Patel, Nimisha Suthar, Arvind Rayani, Kuber Dindor, Kirtisinh Vaghela, Gajendrasinh Parmar, R. C. Makwana, Vinod Mordiya and Devabhai Malam were sworn in as ministers of state. The party's decision to not repeat any of its ministers, deepened the impression about the anti-incumbency of the BJP government and gave a tool to the Opposition Congress to raise questions about the much hyped "Gujarat model" and "competence" of the BJP regime.  Gujarat is the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. AICC communication department chief Randeep Surjewala, who was earlier dismissive of replacement of Rupani saying it showed "failure of Prime Minister's and Home Minister's leadership", on Thursday mocked the "Gujarat model of Modi/Shah". "In order to hide their all round failures and show themselves clean, all the 24 ministers of the Rupani Cabinet have been shown the door. Mr Modi, why were they made ministers in the first place if all of them were incompetent and if they were competent, why were they removed? How long will you befool people? The nation wants answers," Surjewala said. However, the BJP called it an "Abhinav Prayog" (new experiment) in Indian politics for "consistency and continuity" in Gujarat politics. Only the Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala earlier this year had removed all sitting ministers except chief minister Pinarayi himself but the change in Kerala had happened after the elections, when a new government was sworn in unlike in Gujarat, where drastic changes were carried out in the incumbent government months before elections. Also in the case of Gujarat, even the Chief Minister was changed. Out of 25 ministers in the cabinet, 23 are first-timers with no prior experience in government that includes chief minister Patel himself. Three of them are Congress turncoats including Jitu Chaudhary, Brijesh Merja and Raghavji Patel. Only three new ministers have previous ministerial experience that includes Raghuji Patel, who was a minister in ex-chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela government, Kiritsinh Rana had served in Keshubhai Patel's government and Rajendra Trivedi was a minister in Anandiben Patel's government. Among the 22 experienced ministers, part of erstwhile Rupani government who couldn't make the cut, the prominent ones are former deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja, education minister Bhupendra Chudasama and energy minister Saurabh Patel, among others. Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the new ministers, hailing them as "outstanding Karyakartas who have devoted their lives to public service and spreading our Party’s development agenda". BJP's Gujarat incharge Bhupendra Yadav told reporters in Gandhinagar, "This has been the practice of the BJP to promote new leadership. This is a natural process for the party to maintain continuity and consistency. One can take it as an inspiration that the party has been created through a democratic experimentation. The party has served people of Gujarat for nearly three decades and made it number one in the country. This is a new experiment for consistency and continuity in Indian politics." Yadav, however, declined to answer questions on the need for this "experiment". He also denied any conflict within the party over dropping of several party veterans including ex-deputy chief minister Nitin Patel. Earlier on Wednesday, the party had to cancel the oath-taking ceremony of the new cabinet following dissent. Later on Thursday, Patel announced that he would contest 2022 polls from Mehsana at any cost. Later in the day, Chief Minister Patel allocated portfolios to the new ministers. General Administration, Home, Urban Development, ports and policies among others have been kept with the chief minister, while Rajendra Trivedi, the former speaker, has been allocated Revenue, Law and justice, and parliamentary affairs. Jitu Vaghani is the new education minister, Purnesh Modi, who is known for filing a couple of defamation cases against Congress ex-president Rahul Gandhi, is the road and building, civil aviation and tourism minister, Raghavji Patel is the agriculture minister. In the new cabinet, maximum of seven ministers including the chief minister, are from the influential Patidar community, six from Other Backward Caste (OBC), 3 tribals, two dalits and one minister from Jain community have been handpicked by the party high command. The party has picked up a record seven ministers from Saurashtra region, a traditionally BJP bastion, which had sort of drifted away from it in 2017. The region has 54 Assembly seats, of which Congress had bagged a whopping 32 seats in the last polls, a key factor that limited the BJP to 99 seats in the state polls then. South Gujarat, especially Surat, which has been BJP's fortress over the last two decades, has got prominence in the new Cabinet. It was Surat, which had saved the saffron party from the near defeat in 2017 polls. However, the Aam Aadmi Party's rise in the municipality elections in February this year has given the BJP its biggest scare. The Delhi-based party won 27 seats with the help of Patidar votes. The party has picked up four ministers from Surat alone, the biggest numbers for a city. Besides, three other ministers have been inducted from the region. Two women MLAs from central Gujarat - Manisha Vakil and Nimisha Suthar - have also been inducted into the Cabinet. Vakil is the new women and child development, social Justice and empowerment minister, while Suthar is tribal development, health and family welfare minister. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-drops-all-ministers-of-previous-gujarat-government-24-fresh-faces-sworn-in-new-cms-team-1030945.html
16-09-2021||West||Income Tax dept searches places linked to Sonu Sood for second day||The Income Tax department searches on actor, model and philanthropist Sonu Sood continued for the second day on Thursday even as several political parties came out in his support and targeted the BJP-led Centre.  A day after AAP founder and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned the I-T action and said that “millions of Indian families are with Sonu Sood”, several political parties backed him. “It is selective targeting and Talibani mindset,” Shiv Sena MLC Manisha Kayande was quoted saying.  “This is nothing but a witch hunt by an insecure government against a giant philanthropist considered a 'messiah' by millions. His only crime is that he worked for the welfare of the downtrodden when they were orphaned by the state," AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha tweeted. The investigation being carried out at his Mumbai home is based on allegations of tax evasion and the property deal coming under the I-T scanner.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/income-tax-dept-searches-places-linked-to-sonu-sood-for-second-day-1031022.html
16-09-2021||West||Goa Congress demands justice from PM Modi on Mahadayi issue||Two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with Goan politicians, health workers and members of the public via video conference, Congress in Goa has demanded justice from the PM over the Mahadayi issue. Addressing a press conference in Panaji on Thursday, state Congress president Girish Chodankar also said that the Prime Minister should scrap the three road, rail and power projects along the Goa-Karnataka border, which the Congress official said were being carried out in order to develop the state into a corridor to transport coal to Karnataka's steel mills.  "BJP leaders have compromised our mother Mahadayi and sold it to Karnataka for political purposes. The damage to Goa because of this compromise is irreversible. It will cause immeasurable hardship to Goans in the years to come. PM should give justice to Goa on this issue," Chodankar said. The Opposition in Goa has accused successive ruling the state BJP of colluding with Karnataka and "selling the interests of the state" over the long-standing inter-state dispute over the waters of the Mahadayi river.   "We urge the Prime Minister when you interact with the people of Goa, announce that Goa will not be a coal hub and Goa will be rid of coal dust," Chodankar said, adding that the projects were not beneficial to Goa or the state's local residents in any manner.  Modi's virtual interaction has been scheduled after Chief Minister Pramod Sawant claimed that the state had achieved 102 per cent coverage of the first dose of Covid vaccination. Modi is expected to laud the efforts of the health care workers, the state's administrative machinery, local politicians and the members of the public for achieving the feat.    "Goa is being turned into a coal hub for Modi's friends in Delhi and Gujarat. Goans have no takeaway or benefit from these projects. Coal is already getting seeped into the health of Goans making them sicker," the state Congress president also said.  The three projects include rail track expansion by the South Western Railway from Castlerock railway station in Karnataka to Tinaighat railway station in Goa, the National Highway - 4 four-laning and drawing of a power line. All three projects run through the protected forest areas in both Goa and Karnataka territories which are a part of the UNESCO-endorsed Western Ghat region. 50,000 trees in and around Mollem, a village located along the Goa-Karnataka border, have been slotted for felling to make way for the three government projects, which have been cleared by the state and the central government's Ministry for Environment and Forests.   Activists, as well as opposition politicians in Goa, have been demanding a review of the three projects, claiming that they were hurriedly granted permission during the pandemic, without due diligence. Opponents of the projects had alleged that the doubling tracking of railway tracks and expansion of the National Highway 4 would lead to increased transportation of coal imported to the Mormugao Port Trust in South Goa to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary region. Congress has already announced that if the party comes to power in the 2022 state assembly polls, it would scrap the three projects immediately.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-demands-justice-from-pm-modi-on-mahadayi-issue-1031105.html
