17-09-2021||Comment||I speak Kannada, and I'm no less Indian||“Hindi is our national language!” it is often asserted, especially around Hindi Diwas, September 14, every year. Well, I too believed that throughout my student life. After all, that’s what we were told in our schools, weren’t we? Willy-nilly, Hindi, despite nowhere in our Constitution being accorded the national language status, is officially being shoved down the throats of the entire Indian populace as such. Constitutionally, it only enjoys the status of being one of the official languages of the Indian Union, along with English. Back in the days of the lone Doordarshan channel, growing up as a kid in a Kannada household, in Bengaluru, ironically, I had very limited access to entertainment on TV in my mother tongue. I guess, an hour’s Kannada fare, including the news, is all we could get during the weekdays. So, I had little option but to consume the entertainment content that was available in Hindi. In a matter of a few years, by the time I was in Class V, the fact that Hindi was also being taught at school by then helped me get a grip on the language, and I could understand Hindi completely. A normal Kannada kid in Bengaluru grew up in a Hindi environment — thanks to our three-language education policy and Doordarshan! On TV, Shaktimaan, Chandrakanta, Alif Laila, Jungle Book and many other Hindi shows had cast a spell on me. I was in complete awe of the language, which was not my mother tongue. And my cricket madness made me learn the Hindi numbers till 100 — listening to Hindi commentary. Let me tell you, the joy when I was able to decipher a score like: “ek so thihattar per char,” and tell my friends the same, “It means 173/4,” while listening to radio commentary, was out of this world. I had started reaping the benefits of knowing the numbers in Hindi. After all, we were living in a Hindi nation, weren’t we? Even during my engineering college days, I made sure that I always spoke in Hindi with my classmates from North India. They would praise me for my impeccable Hindi despite being a Kannadiga. Oh yes, I was a proud Hindi-speaking Indian then, though Kannada was my mother tongue! After all, we had to speak Hindi to be called Indian, in the Hindi nation, didn’t we? “Hindi hain hum?” It was only after my graduation that I realised that Hindi is not the “national language” of India. In fact, even now, India doesn’t have one national language. When I looked around, it dawned on me gradually that my mother tongue, Kannada, was being pushed to a corner in its own abode. Why should a bank challan in Karnataka be in Hindi? Why on earth should the railway reservation charts for a journey between two cities in Karnataka be in Hindi and English? Even practically, in a Kannada-speaking state, these languages do not serve the purpose for a large number of people. These instances started to bother me. It was plain injustice to Kannadigas. Agonisingly, aberrations like these could be found in every nook and corner of Karnataka. The Union government conspicuously seems to be bent on imposing Hindi, rather than serving its citizens in their respective languages. To add insult to injury, the preliminary exams of the Union government, the banking exams and various other competitive exams are only offered in English and Hindi, giving the Hindi populace an unfair advantage and a head-start over the rest. Lo and behold, come the September of every year, the Hindi hegemony reaches its zenith. All Union government institutions celebrate Hindi Diwas, Pakwada, with tremendous zeal. Also, a lot of perks are on offer for Union government employees to promote Hindi. When the system itself is designed in such a way that it gives Hindi preferential status, can we expect justice for our mother tongues? Still, there is light at the end of the tunnel. Of late, there’s a growing awareness among people about Hindi imposition and its perils. On a positive note, we’ve also seen a few MPs voicing their opinion on the matter in Parliament. But unless Articles 343-351 of the Constitution, which have made Hindi hegemony possible, are amended, there may be no hope for other languages. It was only after I got to understand India and the idea of India that I realised that I don’t need Hindi to prove my Indianness. Even now, Hindi is the only other Indian language, apart from my mother tongue Kannada, I’m proficient enough to speak, read and write in. But it’s not a badge of honour as I once thought it was. My Hindi proficiency is a result of the relentless imposition that I went through as a kid. Actually, it’s absolutely okay for a Kannadiga to not know Hindi. It doesn’t make him a lesser Indian. This needs to be echoed time and again. Only then can we build a plural India. Well, from being a dumb teenager who thought Hindi is a must for an Indian to calling myself a proud Kannada-speaking Indian now, my journey over the last decade took me over much-uncharted territory and educated me on the linguistic diversity of India. It’s high time we implemented a two-language education policy in Karnataka to save our children from the excessive burden of learning Hindi. That would be the first right step in the right direction. Let’s hope no Kannada child in Karnataka, in the future, spends his childhood in a Hindi environment and starts looking down on his own language! Sirigannadam Gelge! Sirigannadam Balge! (The writer is a Bengaluru-based IT professional and blogger)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/i-speak-kannada-and-im-no-less-indian-1031567.html
17-09-2021||First Edit||Karnataka: Callous financial management||Over the years, Karnataka has been lauded for maintaining fiscal discipline, although there were concerns about indiscipline in budgetary spending by successive governments, but during the last three years, the state has failed on both counts. The state always took pride in the fact that it had always limited its borrowing to less than 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), as mandated by the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002. The Act was amended some time ago to permit the state to borrow up to 5% in view of the Covid situation, which is understandable. But such has been the mismanagement of finances in recent years that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has in its finance and audit report pointed out that the state had actually borrowed more than its requirement in 2019-20, with open market borrowing amounting to 59% of the total fiscal liability. This excess borrowing led to an increase in the cash balance of the state by 57% compared to the previous year. In other words, the government resorted to borrowing more than necessary, on which interest has to be paid, and then let the money remain idle, without putting it to any use. The CAG has rightly noted that maintaining idle cash balance is not prudent financial management and that the state should limit its market borrowing to its requirements. The debt sustainability analysis also shows that the growth in public debt was higher than GSDP growth. Even more shocking is that though funds were available, budget allocations remained unutilised year after year during the past three years, indicating non-achievement of projected financial outlays. The budget-making exercise, it seems, was so casual that allocations were made without even considering the expenditure of the previous years. Even as large amounts remained unspent, the government sought supplementary grants and appropriations without justification. Noting that 11% of the total provisions made in 2019-20 remained unutilised, the CAG has urged the government to be more practical in its budget. This is also a sad commentary on the lack of oversight by the legislature, which blindly approves the supplementary grants sought by the government periodically. The CAG report has put Karnataka, which had till recently boasted of being one of the better-managed states financially, to shame. Excessive borrowing, failure to utilise available funds and then holding cash in hand without earning anything on it, point to a callous bureaucracy and political leadership. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds the finance portfolio, should ensure strict budgetary control and compliance with established financial practices to save the state from financial doom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-callous-financial-management-1031571.html
17-09-2021||In Perspective||Taliban’s nightmare: Fearless women||Every repressive regime, however mighty and powerful, has its nightmares. For the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, the worst nightmare has proven to be the country’s women who are articulate, aware of their rights, dream of building careers or women who have displayed unmatched resilience and have marched boldly on the streets to reclaim their right to freedom, despite knowing that they are fighting a regime that is regressive, patriarchal and anti-democratic in orientation.  Women have been flocking the streets in the major cities of Afghanistan and protesting to demand basic rights such as those to education, work and political participation. These women have been putting up a brave front to tell the world that they are not ready to live in the dark ages or silently bow down before a regime that looks at them as insignificant.  The Taliban’s utterly regressive outlook towards women has been made clear through its actions over the last couple of weeks, from openly telling women that they have no place in the new order to banning women from holding senior positions in Afghanistan’s new government, denying them the right to work, apart from in vocations like nursing or teaching. But women across important cities in Afghanistan have shown a brave front, only to be met with violent reactions from the Taliban ‘security forces.’ They have been threatened, beaten up, brutally assaulted.  Afghan women are asking, if Afghanistan is obliged to respect the international human rights law and allow people to conduct peaceful protests, then why are other governments not building enough pressure on the Taliban to stop the open assault on women’s right to an egalitarian and dignified existence? Why has the Taliban been allowed to openly demonstrate its unwillingness to allow women freedom of life and choice, to deny them the right to education and employment, and to assault them when they protest?  The Taliban initially banned the women’s cricket team, saying that it’s better for women to concentrate on traditional domestic roles. In an interview with the Australian channel SBS, the deputy head of the Taliban’s ‘cultural commission’ Ahmadullah Wasiq said, “I don’t think women will be allowed to play cricket, because in cricket they might face a situation where their face or body will not be covered. Islam does not allow women to be seen like this. Islam and the Islamic Emirate do not allow women to play cricket or play the kind of sports where they get exposed.”  The Taliban has shown a clear intent to limit women’s access to public life, curtail their fundamental rights and confine them to domestic life, denying them any right to make their own choices or live on their own terms. It has successfully crushed all possibilities of women being included in governance, and this has become even more clear by a recent administrative statement stating, “A woman can’t be a minister, they should only give birth.”  Women in Afghanistan are living amid fear and anxiety. What if this regime takes them back to the dark ages and takes away everything they have struggled for -- civil rights, representation in public life, etc? Who can forget the horrors that Afghanistan saw when the Taliban ruled the country 1996-2001, particularly so for its women who couldn’t attend schools, had to cover themselves from head to toe at all times of the day, were not allowed to venture outside without a male relative, could not pursue a career, and could not choose a partner for marriage, let alone participate in protests or hold public posts.  A report by CNN reminds us that this coming to power of Taliban hasn’t been easy for women as they have been brutally attacked across major cities by an all-male interim government in Kabul. Videos and photographs of women holding placards and chanting slogans have shown how, despite the brutality, women aren’t ready to sacrifice hard earned rights.  Protesting women and journalists are being brutally attacked and being told to go back or face execution. What is promising and inspiring is that despite all this, women across Afghanistan have been presenting a brave front and recently a record number of Hijab-clad women joined the largest protest in Afghanistan since the Taliban takeover. Several smaller protests have been reported from various cities.  This makes at least one thing very clear: that the women of Afghanistan are ready to fight back, they seek equal access to public life, administrative participation, equality of access to education and career opportunities, and a life of dignity and respect. The women of Afghanistan are an inspiration for women across the world as they speak against a regressive, undemocratic and patriarchal outlook that looks at awakened and empowered women as its worst nightmare.  (The writer is Founding Editor, The New Leam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/taliban-s-nightmare-fearless-women-1031565.html
17-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Schools in Dakshina Kannada reopen for Classes 8 to 10||Schools for classes 8 to 10 reopened in Dakshina Kannada nearly six months after forced closures due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  The district administration decided to reopen schools after Covid positivity rate in the district declined.   Teachers at Government High School at Bengre Kasaba in Mangaluru welcomed students by offering them roses, only after checking their body temperature through thermal scanning. Uniform-clad students were visibly overjoyed on their first day back to school, meeting friends and attending classes after a long break. All the schools were cleaned and sanitised ahead of the reopening of the schools. Some schools were also decorated. The classes for students from class IX and X were held in the morning while that of Class 8 were held in the noon to avoid crowding in the schools. Further, only two students were allowed to sit on a bench in the classrooms. The classes for Class VI and VII will commence from September 20. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/schools-in-dakshina-kannada-reopen-for-classes-8-to-10-1031374.html
17-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bhadrakali idol goes missing at Nanjangud temple, draws flak||The idol of goddess Bhadrakali, seen along with the idol of Veerabhadreshwara, on the premises of Srikanteshwara temple, in Nanjangud has been missing and has raised concern among the devotees. The idol has been shifted elsewhere as it was damaged, officials claimed. The idol of Veerabhadreshwara, accompanied by Bhadrakali and Dakshabrahma on either side, is on the premises of the Srikanteshwara temple, in Nanjangud. The temple authorities are unwilling to give the details on the place where the damaged idol has been kept. This has raised suspicions and has received criticisms from the devotees and also the netizens. There are also allegations that the idols on the premises have been left neglected though it was shaking. Temple Executive Officer Ravindra was not available for comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bhadrakali-idol-goes-missing-at-nanjangud-temple-draws-flak-1031377.html
17-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mega vaccination drive in Dakshina Kannada receives good response||The mega vaccination drive which aims at administering 1.50 lakh vaccines in Dakshina Kannada received good response on Friday. By 1:30 pm, out of a target of 1.5 lakh, 67,254 were vaccinated thus achieving 45 percent of the target. Nearly 600 vaccination centres were set up for the mega drive by involving even the private hospitals in the district. The target was to administer 40,000 vaccines in Mangaluru city, 10,000 in Moodbidri, 10,000 in Mulki, 20,000 in Ullal, 20,000 in Bantwal, 20,000 in Belthangady, 20,000 in Puttur, and 10,000 in Sullia. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that 80 per cent of the targeted population have already been administered with vaccines in the district. “We have a challenge the cover the remaining target. The officials from various departments are being utilised for the success of the drive.” The Covid-19 positivity rate in the district has declined 1.3 per cent in the last 10 days. The positivity rate was more than 4 per cent in the first week of August. The case fatality rate is a concern in the district. During the death audit, the experts have concluded that delay in hospitalisation is one of the reasons. In addition, failure to get vaccinated is also another reason for severe Covid-19 symptoms. The DC said that the drive has been taken up in malls as well. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mega-vaccination-drive-in-dakshina-kannada-receives-good-response-1031381.html
17-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||One held for raping deaf-mute woman in Holalkere||Police on Friday nabbed a man on charges of raping a woman, who is deaf and mute, in a village in the taluk on Thursday night The arrested has been identified as Nagesh, resident of Lakshmisagar, Chitradurga taluk. The woman, who had gone to her parents home in Davangere, returned to the village in the last bus and got down from it at night on September 16th. The man, who came from behind while she was heading towards home from bus stand, which is at a distance of 200 metres, raped her. She sustained injuries on her body as she reportedly resisted the sexual assault. Later, she was taken to taluk general hospital in the town. After learning about the incident, people thronged the hospital and demanded stringent punishment to the rapist. People attempted to assault the accused when police were taking him to station, but police resorted to light caning to disperse the mob. Holalkere town police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-held-for-raping-deaf-mute-woman-in-holalkere-1031406.html
17-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mild tremors felt in Halebeedu||Mild tremors were felt at Adaguru, Ganguru, Lingappanakoppalu and surrounding areas, in Halebeedu hobli, Belur taluk, Hassan district, on Friday evening. The residents of Dyavappanahalli, Chatachattihalli, Kempagodnahalli, felt mild tremors at around 5.20 pm, and ran out of their houses due to panic. L Shivappa of Lingappanakoppal said a loud noise was heard and mild tremors were felt. Tahsildar Mohan Kumar said reports of mild tremors have been reported at several villages in Halebeedu hobli. Information has been sought from the Mines and Geology department, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mild-tremors-felt-in-halebeedu-1031451.html
17-09-2021||National||Modi govt in touch with Taliban govt in Kabul after kidnapping of Indian national in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi has been in touch with the new Taliban government in Kabul after a citizen of India was kidnapped in the capital city of Afghanistan. “We are in touch with all concerned. We have seen reports about local authorities undertaking investigations into this matter. We will continue to monitor the situation," Arindam Bagchi, a spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi. Bansri Lal Arendeh was purportedly kidnapped at gunpoint in Kabul on Tuesday. Bagchi said that he was “given to understand” that Arendeh was a citizen of India but the government was in the process of checking his citizenship status. Arendeh’s family lives at Faridabad in Haryana. He has been engaged in business in Kabul for the last two decades. The Taliban has announced a government in Kabul after taking over Afghanistan through a military offensive across the country – taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. New Delhi’s envoy to Doha, Deepak Mittal, had a meeting with Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s political office in the capital of Qatar, on August 31. It was New Delhi’s first publicly-acknowledged contact with the Taliban in 22 years. New Delhi did not make it clear if it would recognize the new Taliban Government in Kabul, but the kidnapping of Arendeh apparently prompted it to acknowledge that it was in touch with the authorities in the capital of Afghanistan. Though India could evacuate most of its citizens willing to leave Afghanistan, some are still left in the country. "Till now operations at Kabul airport is not resumed, it is difficult to say how to bring them back. Our focus is that operations at Kabul airport resume. Then, it will be easier for us to bring back the people," Bagchi said. New Delhi had evacuated its envoy to Kabul, Rudrendra Tandon, and 175 other officials posted in the Embassy of India in Kabul on August 17.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-in-touch-with-taliban-govt-in-kabul-after-kidnapping-of-indian-national-in-afghanistan-1031171.html
17-09-2021||National||India rejects reports relating to over-the-horizon strikes by US in Afghanistan||India on Thursday rejected media reports suggesting that the US was in touch with it to explore the option of carrying out 'over-the-horizon' counter-terror strikes in Afghanistan. While responding to a question on the issue at a press briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that the conversation in the US Congressional hearing on Afghanistan is "slightly different" from the media reports. "I would not like to respond to media reports on this issue. I would request you to go through the actual conversation in the US Congress' foreign affairs committee hearings which is slightly different from the media reports. I do not have any further information to share on this," he said. Asked whether the US can use the provisions of the three foundational defence agreements signed between the two sides to seek such an option from India, Bagchi said "no". The MEA spokesperson added that nobody can force India. He said the military pacts, COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement), LEMOA (Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement) and BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) are intended to increase interoperability and deepen overall defence cooperation. Certain media reports suggested that Washington was in talks with New Delhi for carrying out the "over-the-horizon strikes" in Afghanistan from India. In the briefing, Bagchi said India continues to be engaged with the US and other partners over the developments in Afghanistan. Republican Congressman Mark Green sought to explore the possibility of over-the-horizon capabilities in northwest India for counter-terrorism capabilities in Afghanistan during a Congressional hearing on Monday. The Biden Administration, in response, preferred not to make specific comments on the issue. "Generally, Congressman, we're deeply engaged with India across the board. With regard, though, to any specifics about over the rise in capabilities and the plans that we put in place and will continue to put in place, I'd rather take that up in a different setting," Secretary of State Antony Blinken said during the Congressional hearing.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-reports-relating-to-over-the-horizon-strikes-by-us-in-afghanistan-1031182.html
17-09-2021||National||Ready to partner with interested countries for tech transfer, manufacture of Covid vaccines: India||India on Thursday said that while the issue of temporarily waiving patents on Covid-19 vaccines is being deliberated in the WTO, it stands ready to partner with interested countries for the transfer of technology and manufacture of its indigenously developed jabs. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, participating in the Commonwealth Foreign Affairs Ministers’ Meeting on behalf of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, said that in order to address vaccine inequity and promote the interests of the developing world, several of whom are members of the Commonwealth, India, along with South Africa, has proposed the TRIPS waiver for vaccine production in developing countries. "While this issue is being deliberated in the WTO, we stand ready to partner with interested countries for the transfer of technology and manufacture of Covid-19 vaccines indigenously developed in India," Shringla said in his statement. Under the Quad framework, India is also partnering with Australia, Japan and the United States to expand the vaccine manufacturing capacity in India, to assist countries in the Indo-Pacific region, again several of whom are small island states and members of the Commonwealth, he said. "We are proactively considering cooperation in critical areas of genomic surveillance and clinical trials," Shringla said. He said India has taken the initiative to conduct customized Covid-19 specific training programmes for several countries, including Commonwealth member states, to build the capacity of healthcare professionals and administrators. "We are also making available Covid-19 mitigation technologies, solutions and products, including cost-effective test kits, indigenously developed in India for supply to the rest of the world," Shringla said. "On the domestic front, we are implementing our vaccination programme successfully, having administered an overwhelming 750 million doses so far, with a record-breaking 10 million doses in a single day," he said. Shringla asserted that for the Commonwealth to be an effective stakeholder in navigating contemporary global challenges, it needs to adopt an approach that is inclusive, transparent and anchored in reformed multilateralism. "The re-imagined post-pandemic world will make profoundly different demands from the Commonwealth, which must evolve accordingly so as to be fit for purpose and capable of inspiring confidence in its ability to effectively meet those demands," the foreign secretary said. "We look forward to the early convening of the Commonwealth Leaders’ Summit in Kigali. We wish Rwanda all success in this endeavour," he said. Lord Tariq Ahmed, Minister of State in the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office of the United Kingdom hosted Thursday's meeting. In his remarks, Shringla said more than 18 months into this unprecedented disruption, "we are still grappling with the unknown and the unexpected". The pandemic and its fallout pose the most serious challenge to policymakers in a generation and more, and governance structures, national and international, have been and are being subjected to unprecedented stress, he noted. The events of the past year have clearly demonstrated how imperative it is for all countries to coordinate responses to the various challenges that the pandemic has brought to the fore, Shringla said. "In this context, the significance of the Commonwealth, home to 2.4 billion people, and representing 54 countries, which include both advanced economies and developing countries, cannot be overemphasised," he said. Shringla said that India, for its part, has risen to the challenge and in the spirit of global solidarity, has provided Covid-19 related support, including pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and vaccines, to more than 150 countries across the world over the last year. "We appreciate the support extended to us by several other countries to battle the second wave of the pandemic in India, in the same spirit of solidarity," he said. The foreign secretary said India will continue to extend Covid-19 related assistance to countries in its neighbourhood and beyond, particularly those that have seen a surge in coronavirus cases recently. "I am also pleased to announce that at the recently held CoWIN Global Conclave, in which more than 140 countries participated, India offered to make its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccination digital platform CoWIN an open source platform, a global public good available to all countries," he said. He also said that addressing climate change too deserves focussed attention and much like the pandemic, climate change does not respect either physical or political boundaries, thereby necessitating a globally coordinated response. "I am pleased to convey that India is not only meeting its Paris Agreement targets, but also exceeding them and has pioneered initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, both of which bring several Commonwealth members within their fold," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-partner-with-interested-countries-for-tech-transfer-manufacture-of-covid-vaccines-india-1031184.html
17-09-2021||National||Even parents can't interfere in relationship of two adults: Allahabad HC||In a significant judgement, the Allahabad high court has said that two adults have the right to choose their partners irrespective of their religious affiliations and no one, not even their parents, can 'interfere' in their relationship. A division bench comprising justice Deepak Verma and justice Manoj Kumar Gupta made the observations on a petition filed by a Muslim woman and her Hindu partner seeking security as they apprehended a threat to their life from their respective families. "Two adults have the right of choice of their matrimonial partner irrespective of the religion professed by them.....nobody, not even their parents, could object to their relationship," the court said in its order. The couple said in their petition that they were in love with each other and had been living together "out of their will". They also said that since they hailed from different religions their relationship was not approved by their families and that they apprehended a threat to their life. The woman had also said in the petition that she had applied for converting to Hinduism. The court also directed the police to ensure that the couple was not harassed by their families. In the past, inter-faith couples have faced threats to their lives and approached the courts for protection. The Uttar Pradesh government had recently enacted a law to prevent religious conversions and 'love jihad'. There have also been incidents of attacks on inter-faith couples, especially in cases where the girl hailed from the Hindu community, by saffron outfits. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/even-parents-cant-interfere-in-relationship-of-two-adults-allahabad-hc-1031188.html
17-09-2021||National||AAP to observe Sept 17 as 'black day' on completion of one year of farm laws||Punjab's main opposition party AAP will observe September 17 as “black day" on the completion of one year of the enactment of the Centre's three farm laws, it said on Thursday. The Aam Aadmi Party will also hold candle marches across the state to pay tribute to the farmers who died during the ongoing agitation against the farm legislations. In a statement here, AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said there was “resentment” among farmers across the country against the “black farm laws” enacted by the Narendra Modi-led central government. The farmers have been protesting against these laws for the last several months, he said. On September 17, 2020, the three “black” agriculture Bills were passed in Parliament, he said. Hence, September 17 will be observed as a “black day', said Sandhwan. Notably, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will also observe September 17 as “black day.” Besides, the SAD workers have planned to take out a protest march in Delhi from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament demanding repeal of the agriculture-related laws. SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema on Thursday said the Delhi police have denied them permission to take out a protest march on Friday. Cheema described it as an “undemocratic step” to stop anyone from holding peaceful protests. However, he said the protest march will surely be taken out. A large number of SAD activists from different parts of Punjab on Thursday went to Delhi to participate in the protest march.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-to-observe-sept-17-as-black-day-on-completion-of-one-year-of-farm-laws-1031192.html
17-09-2021||National||Communal, religious rioting cases nearly doubled in 2020: NCRB||Cases of communal or religious rioting in 2020 nearly doubled from 2019 even as the country witnessed "very limited" outdoor activities due to Covid-19 pandemic during the past year, according to latest government data. In its annual report, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) which functions under the Union Home Ministry, stated that 857 cases of communal or religious rioting were reported in the country in 2020. In 2019, India had logged 438 such cases across states and Union Territories while the figure was 512 in 2018, it added. In the report the NRCB stated that the country remained under complete lockdown from March 25, 2020 till May 31, 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic (first wave), during which the movement in public space was "very limited". The year 2020 witnessed several protests and demonstrations on citizenship laws and communal riots in northeast Delhi during January and February while the pandemic outbreak started in March. There were 736 cases of 'caste conflict' in 2020, up from 492 in 2019 and 656 in 2018. Another 167 cases were lodged under the 'sectarian' conflict category in 2020, up from 118 the previous year and down from 209 in 2018, the data showed. The NCRB report stated that a total of 71,107 cases of 'offences against public tranquillity' were lodged across the country in 2020, an increase of 12.4 per cent over 63,262 such cases in 2019. As many as 2,188 cases of such offences were lodged under the 'agrarian' category while 1,905 for 'rioting during protests or demonstrations', the data revealed. Of the total offences against public tranquility recorded under various sections of the Indian Penal Code in 2020, rioting (51,606 cases) accounted for 72.6 per cent of total such cases, the data showed. "The cases registered under crimes against women, children and senior citizens, theft, burglary, robbery and dacoity have therefore declined, whereas Covid-related enforcement has resulted in increase of cases registered under 'disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Section 188 IPC)', under 'Other IPC Crimes' and under 'Other State Local Acts',” it added in the report Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/communal-religious-rioting-cases-nearly-doubled-in-2020-ncrb-1031210.html
17-09-2021||National||Telangana Congress chief apologises after his reported derogatory remarks on Tharoor irk party leaders||After outrage by some Congress leaders over a media report quoting party's Telangana unit chief Revanth Reddy making a derogatory reference to senior leader Shashi Tharoor, Reddy withdrew the remarks on Thursday and regretted any hurt that may have been caused to the MP from Kerala. "I spoke to shri @ShashiTharoor ji to convey that I hereby withdraw the remarks and reiterate that I hold my senior colleague in the highest regard," Reddy tweeted. He regretted any hurt that may have been caused to Tharoor by his words, and said "we share our faith in the values and policies of the Congress Party". Responding to the tweet, Tharoor said on Twitter, "I received a gracious call from @revanth_anumula to apologise for what was said. I accept his expression of regret & am happy to put this unfortunate episode behind us." "We must work together to strengthen @INCIndia in Telengana & across the country," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. Tagging AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore, Reddy also said that he knows Tharoor joins him in wanting the Congress to win the support of the public to form the next government in Telangana.  Tharoor responded by saying, "Absolutely. Onward & upward!" Reddy asserted that every congress soldier will strive towards reaching this goal in Telangana. Following the media report which quoted Reddy as making a derogatory reference to Tharoor and criticising him and Telangana minister K T Rama Rao, the Congress' state chief tweeted, "Born liar and looter @KTRTRS can't get away with hiding behind @ShashiTharoor ji and Fake news." "It's clear that you are trying to mislead current issues of child molestation and corruption charges against your family," Reddy said. Taking strong objection to Reddy's reported remarks, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari addressed Reddy on Twitter and said Tharoor "is a valued colleague of yours & mine". "It would have been better if you (Reddy) would have spoken to him if you had some misgivings about a purported statement of his. Grace & Propriety demands you withdraw your words," Tewari said. Another Congress leader Salman Anees Soz agreed with Tewari's remarks and tweeted, "Dear Mr @revanth_anumula I couldn't agree more. @ShashiTharoor is a terrific leader who isn't about to join a race to the bottom." "He is one of the foremost critics of the RSS & BJP. He fights for India & INC everyday. Party leaders must be careful not to alienate our own," Soz said and tagged former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi. Reddy's reported criticism of Tharoor had come after the latter's recent visit to Hyderabad.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-congress-chief-apologises-after-his-reported-derogatory-remarks-on-tharoor-irk-party-leaders-1031212.html
17-09-2021||National||Delhi boy bags second position in US National Science Bee competition||Eight-year-old Delhi boy Advay Misra, who was named one of the 'brightest students in the world' by the John Hopkins University earlier this year, has now bagged the second position in the US National Science Bee 2021 competition. The National Science Bee is a buzzer-based science competition for individual students, with questions ranging from biology, chemistry, physics, earth science, astronomy, mathematics, and other scientific fields. It includes a written qualifying exam and buzzer-based regional and national championships. A science enthusiast and a vociferous reader, Advay is now focused on the International Geography Bee World Championships and International History Bee to be held in Quebec in August next year he has qualified. Landing in the US at the age of five due to his parents’ occupation commitment in 2018, Misra has now returned home and would now continue his education in one of Delhi’s schools. "Organic chemistry is my favourite subject. Because it is exciting to see the reactions of compounds. Mysteries and realistic fiction are my favourite as well," Misra said. Misra has also been admitted to Johns Hopkins University's prestigious Center for Talented Youth (CTY) which counts as its alumni Mark Zuckerberg, Lady Gaga, the founders of Google, Rhodes Scholars and MacArthur Fellows, among others.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-boy-bags-second-position-in-us-national-science-bee-competition-1031216.html
17-09-2021||National||Jaishankar meets Chinese counterpart Wang in Dushanbe||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that progress in the disengagement process in eastern Ladakh was essential for restoration of peace and tranquillity and that it is the basis for the development of overall ties. At a meeting on the sidelines of the annual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe, the two foreign ministers exchanged views on global developments. It is understood that the developments in Afghanistan figured in the talks. "Met Chinese FM Wang Yi on the sidelines of SCO Summit in Dushanbe. Discussed disengagement in our border areas. Underlined that progress in this regard is essential for restoration of peace and tranquillity, which is the basis for development of bilateral ties," Jaishankar tweeted. Met Chinese FM Wang Yi on the sidelines of SCO Summit in Dushanbe. After the meeting, Jaishankar said India does not subscribe to any clash of civilisations theory. "Also exchanged views on global developments. Emphasized that India does not subscribe to any clash of civilisations theory. It is also essential that China does not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country," he said. "As for Asian solidarity, it is for China and India to set an example," the external affairs minister said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.         As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month, in a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-chinese-counterpart-wang-in-dushanbe-1031220.html
17-09-2021||National||Jaishankar meets his counterparts from Iran, Armenia and Uzbekistan at SCO||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday met with his counterparts from Iran, Armenia and Uzbekistan and exchanged views on the recent developments in Afghanistan, confronting regional challenges and the ways to boost bilateral ties. Jaishankar, who is in the Tajik capital to attend a key meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on the situation in Afghanistan after its takeover by the Taliban last month, in a tweet said he was “glad to meet” Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian on the sidelines of the SCO meet in Dushanbe. "Discussed strengthening our bilateral relations and working together on regional challenges,” he said. In his meeting with Armenian Foreign Minister Ararat Mirzoyan, Jaishankar said the two leaders “positively reviewed” the bilateral cooperation and agreed to work together to expand it further. “Good to meet FM Abdulaziz Kamilov of Uzbekistan. Our conversation focused on the Afghanistan situation. As countries combating terrorism and fundamentalism, our close cooperation is in mutual interest,” he tweeted after his meeting with the foreign minister of Uzbekistan. Actor Prachee Paandya and her group enthralled the audience with their exquisite performance in the gala concert at the SCO Summit. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to virtually participate in the annual SCO summit on September 17 that is expected to deliberate extensively on the developments in Afghanistan as well as the overall regional security scenario. Jaishankar will attend a meeting on Afghanistan with the heads of state of SCO and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, the Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India has shown keen interest in deepening its security-related cooperation with the SCO and its Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (RATS), which specifically deals with issues relating to security and defence. India was made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-his-counterparts-from-iran-armenia-and-uzbekistan-at-sco-1031225.html
17-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Sansad TV' logo that wasn't||'Sansad TV', which merges the Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV after deliberations of over two years, was officially launched on Wednesday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi reminding that "content" is king while Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu warned that the current media scene is confronted with the challenge of "fake news and sensationalism" due to the 'breaking news' syndrome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-sansad-tv-logo-that-wasnt-1031229.html
17-09-2021||National||Vaccination push, health camps: BJP's plans for PM Modi's 71st birthday||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi turns 71 today, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is eyeing a major vaccination push and various health camps to celebrate the day.  The party has planned a mega 20-day public outreach from Friday that will continue till October 7 to commemorate his 20 years in public life, including as Gujarat chief minister.  Since Modi became prime minister in 2014, the BJP has been celebrating his birthday as 'Seva Diwas' (Service Day) and organises welfare activities across the country for a week but this time it has been extended to 20 days. Here are some of BJP's plans for the day: 1. The BJP has asked its workers across the country to facilitate the Covid-19 vaccination drive on the birthday as part of its "Seva and Samarpan" campaign. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya called for a major push to the vaccination drive saying it would be the perfect gift for Modi on his birthday. 2. BJP president J P Nadda has issued a set of instructions to party workers for organising health and blood donation camps and distributing rations to the poor as part of the campaign. The party youth wing will organise this. 3. The OBC Morcha workers will distribute fruits in orphanages and old-age homes. BJP's Mahila Morcha will felicitate 71 women Covid warriors who worked during the pandemic. 4. The Kisan Morcha of the party will celebrate PM's birthday as ‘Kisan Samman Diwas’ and honour 71 farmers and 71 youngsters on the day. 5. Health check-up camps will also be organised from September 17 to September 20. 6. As part of the campaign, the BJP workers will carry out a large-scale cleanliness drive on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and people will be encouraged to use Khadi and local products. 7. Over 14 crore ration bags printed with Modi's pictures will also be distributed among the needy as part of the campaign. 8. The BJP has said that five crore postcards will be sent from the BJP booth workers to Modi across the country highlighting that they are committing themselves to public service. 9. As part of the 20-day plan, the BJP will organise functions at the booth level on the eve of Deendayal Upadhyay's birth anniversary on September 25. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-push-health-camps-bjps-plans-for-pm-modis-71st-birthday-1031233.html
17-09-2021||National||PM Modi gets a three-week birthday bash as popularity dips||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is having a difficult year. The economy is struggling after a brutal second wave of Covid-19, his popularity has dipped and a crucial state election looms. Now his ruling party has planned a mega birthday bash for him in “service of the nation.” Starting Friday, when the prime minister turns 71, some 5 crore postcards will be mailed to him from citizens saying “thank you” for his concern for India’s poor, Om Prakash Dhurve, a secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said. There will be film screenings and exhibitions on his life, blood donation camps, cleanliness and vaccination drives, as part of the celebration billed as the “Service and Dedication Campaign” by the party’s youth wing.  Environmental campaigns will clean 71 spots in various states. Local units of the BJP will organise prayer ceremonies and fairs in their areas with stalls set up to encourage people to download the NaMoApp, “which will help them communicate with the Hon’ble Prime Minister directly,” the party’s youth wing said. “BJP is observing this as service and dedication campaign,” said Dhurve. “We want Modi to be become glorious and continuously serve the nation.” While Modi’s birthday is celebrated by the party every year, the scale of the extravaganza this time is a first. A spokesman of the prime minister office refused to comment. The grand events come as Modi’s popularity has dipped to 24 per cent from 66 per cent a year ago, the lowest point since he came to power seven years ago, according to a Mood of the Nation survey published by the India Today media group in August. A sweeping second wave of coronavirus infections in April and May overwhelmed burial grounds and crematoriums and shuttered the economy. His party lost a key state election in May and is looking to retain power in the politically significant state of Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls early next year. His home state of Gujarat will also have elections in late 2022. “This is chiefly a strategy to mollify people’s anger on mismanagement of the Covid pandemic and winning assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh -- and restore Modi as a charismatic, dynamic leader,” said Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay, a political analyst who has written a Modi biography. “The whole campaign is a blatant copy of the individualized-authoritarian model and also a great PR exercise.” The celebrations are in stark contrast to the everyday reality of millions of Indians left jobless by the pandemic.  More than a year after the first Covid-19 lockdown, the unemployment rate is still above pre-pandemic levels, with the manufacturing sector seen to have shed about 10 million jobs permanently and most new opportunities in services turning out to be low-paying gigs. That’s hardly a reason for cheer in an economy where private consumption makes up some 60% of gross domestic product. Many economists see this as a recipe for a bumpy recovery. Although the latest quarterly headline growth numbers look good, GDP when adjusted for base effect, is much weaker than it was before the pandemic. Congress panned the birthday events, with plans to mark September 17 as #NationalUnemploymentDay, the president of the party’s youth wing Srinivas B V said on Twitter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-gets-a-three-week-birthday-bash-as-popularity-dips-1031249.html
17-09-2021||National||Amit Shah greets people on Hyderabad liberation day||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday greeted people of Telangana and the Marathwada region on the occasion of Hyderabad liberation day and said the country will forever remain indebted to those who laid down their lives for the unity of the country. On September 17, 1948, the then Hyderabad state was merged with the Indian Union following military action, initiated by the then home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. "Greetings to the people of Telangana and the Marathwada region on #HyderabadLiberationDay. On this historic day, I bow to the brave martyrs who fought against the cruelties of Razakars and Nizams. Nation will always remain indebted for their supreme sacrifices," Shah tweeted. On this historic day, I bow to the brave martyrs who fought against the cruelties of Razakars and Nizams. He also posted a picture of Patel along with his tweet. Shah is scheduled to visit Telangana on Friday and address a public meeting in Nirmal district to coincide with 'Telangana liberation day'. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-greets-people-on-hyderabad-liberation-day-1031271.html
17-09-2021||National||India reports 34,403 new Covid-19 cases, 320 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 34,403 new Covid-19 infections while the active cases have further declined to 3,39,056, according to Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The active cases now comprise 1.02 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.65 per cent, it said. The ministry said that a reduction of 8,164 cases has been recorded in active cases in a span of 24 hours.  Also, 15,27,420 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 54,92,29,149, it said The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 2.25 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 18 days, according to the data. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.97 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 84 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 3,25,60,474, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said.    The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the vaccination drive has exceeded 77.24 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India recorded two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-34403-new-covid-19-cases-320-deaths-1031274.html
17-09-2021||National||Dollar stays near 3-week high after retail sales boost||The dollar held near three-week highs against a basket of major currencies on Friday after a raft of strong US economic data rekindled expectations of an earlier policy tightening by the US Federal Reserve. US retail sales unexpectedly increased in August, rising 0.7 per cent from the previous month despite expectations of a 0.8 per cent fall, while a business sentiment survey by the Philadelphia Fed also showed a big improvement. "Yesterday's data were pretty strong across the board," said Yujiro Goto, chief currency strategist at Nomura Securities. "The markets had been worried that consumption would be weak in August because of the Delta variant. But retail sales were surprisingly strong." The figures helped to curb cautious views on the US economy after a tame consumer inflation reading and soft job growth data earlier this month, and revived expectations for an early Fed tapering. The more bullish mood faces another test later on Friday with the release of University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index, which surprised many investors last month by tumbling to a decade-low due to smaller income gains and higher inflation. The dollar index stood at 92.865, near Thursday's three-week high of 92.965. The euro hit a three-week low of $1.17505 overnight and last traded at $1.1769. The common currency also hit a three-week low of 128.61 yen and one-month low of 0.8501 British pound, before recovering some losses. The dollar's strength was most pronounced against other safe-haven assets, such as the Swiss franc and precious metals. The Swiss franc hit a five-month low of 0.92805 to the dollar, after falling 0.89 per cent on Thursday. Gold edged up a tad to $1,759.3 per ounce after a 2.3 per cent fall in the previous session, while silver changed hands at $22.92 per ounce. Silver lost 3.7 per cent on Thursday, take it towards eight-month lows touched in August. The dollar bounced back to 109.84 yen, having gained 0.34 per cent on Thursday to rise off Wednesday's six-week low of 109.11. The yen has so far shown only a limited reaction to the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's (LDP) leadership race, which will formally kick off on Friday ahead of a Sept. 29 vote. The LDP's parliamentary dominance means the party's new leader will become prime minister. Many investors see vaccine minister Taro Kono as a front-runner, followed by former foreign minister Fumio Kishida and former internal affairs minister Sanae Takaichi. "The world's major macro players are not expecting big policy shifts. A lack of moves in the yen is a testament to that," said Hiromichi Shirakawa, vice chairman and chief economist for Credit Suisse in Japan. Still, former internal affairs minister Seiko Noda's decision to join the race on Thursday increased uncertainties as it means no single candidate may win on the first round, taking the election to a run-off that could work against Kono. Elsewhere, sterling eased to $1.3795 while the Australian dollar traded at $0.7294 after touching a three-week low of $0.7274 in the previous session. The Chinese yuan licked its wounds after Thursday's 0.4 per cent fall. The offshore yuan last traded at 6.4545 to the dollar, pressured by growing worries about China's real estate sector as investors fear property giant China Evergrande could default on its coupon payment next week. Still, on a trade-weighted basis, the yuan stood near its highest level in five years, both in the onshore and offshore market. "It is hard to tell how big the impact will be. So far only Chinese shares appeared to be affected but whether this will lead to a risk-off trade, we will have to see," said Hiroshi Morimatsu, director of forex at MUFG Bank. Cryptocurrencies stepped back from this week's high with bitcoin traded at $47,774 and ether at $3,558. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dollar-stays-near-3-week-high-after-retail-sales-boost-1031275.html
17-09-2021||National||India-China ties to determine fate of solidarity in Asia: EAM Jaishankar||India had never subscribed to any "clash of civilisations" theory, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, stressing that the example set by the relations between the two neighbouring nations would determine the fate of solidarity in Asia. Jaishankar’s remarks during his meeting with Wang was in sharp contrast with what the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Thursday. Gen Rawat referred to eminent political scientist Samuel Huntington’s "clash of civilisation" theory at an event in New Delhi and said that Chinese and Islamic civilisations were coming closer to jointly take on the western civilisation. The External Affairs Minister had a meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister in Dushanbe on the sideline of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) late on Thursday. He told Wang that China should avoid viewing its bilateral relations with India from the perspective of its ties with third countries, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. His comment apparently came amid continuing concerns in New Delhi over China’s “all-weather friendship” with India’s arch-rival Pakistan. China’s growing belligerence along its disputed boundary with India, particularly the continuing military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since April-May 2020, brought the relations to a new low. It prompted India to drift closer to China’s strategic rival, the United States. China too said that it agreed with what India said about avoiding viewing bilateral relations through the lens of a third country. “Both China and India are important countries in Asia. The development of China-India relations has its own logic. China-India relations have never targeted any third party,” a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government said in Beijing on Friday. Jaishankar’s call to China to avoid viewing its relations with India from the perspective of its ties with other countries also came just ahead of the first in-person summit of the Quad in Washington DC on September 24. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the summit, which will be hosted by US President Joe Biden. The ‘Quad’ is a coalition India, Japan, Australia and the US forged to counter China in the Indo-Pacific region. New Delhi resisted pressure from Washington DC to turn the Quad into a NATO-like military alliance for Asia, but the Biden Administration earlier this week announced a new and separate trilateral coalition of the US, Australia and the United Kingdom focussing on security cooperation against China. Jaishankar told Wang that the two sides should work towards completely resolving the stand-off along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols. India and China earlier this year mutually pulled out troops from the face-off points on the northern and southern bank of Pangong Tso (lake) as well as on Gogra Post. The soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, however, are still engaged in a stand-off in other areas along the LAC. Jaishankar told Wang that it was necessary to ensure progress in the resolution of the remaining issues so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. He noted that peace and tranquillity in the border areas had been an essential basis for progress in bilateral relations. The two sides agreed that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should meet again and continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues at the earliest. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-ties-to-determine-fate-of-solidarity-in-asia-eam-jaishankar-1031277.html
17-09-2021||National||PM Modi gave dignified life to those deprived of their rights for decades: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday, and said he not only gave the country the idea to think ahead of time and fulfil its resolve with hardwork but also made it a reality. In Modi, he said, the country has got a strong and decisive leader who gave a dignified life to those who were deprived of their rights for decades. The prime minister turned 71 on Friday. "Modi ji not only gave the country the idea of thinking ahead of time and fulfil its resolve with hardwork, but also made it a reality," Shah said in a series of tweets in Hindi. The home minister said Modi brought those who were deprived of their rights in the mainstream of development.  The prime minister has shown the world what people-loving leadership is like, he said. Shah said Modi has presented a unique example of parallel coordination of security, welfare of poor, development and historical reforms. The determination and dedication of the prime minister has created a new energy and confidence in the countrymen, due to which the country is moving towards self-reliance by setting new records, he said. The home minister said every moment of the life of Modi is dedicated to the service of the poor, farmers and the underprivileged. Shah also appealed to all BJP workers to participate in the service of the nation on Modi's birthday and also take the welfare schemes of the BJP government to the people. "A very happy birthday to the most beloved leader of the country, Prime Minister @narendramodi ji. I pray to God for your good health and long life," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-gave-dignified-life-to-those-deprived-of-their-rights-for-decades-amit-shah-1031280.html
17-09-2021||National||Dalai Lama greets PM Modi on his birthday||The Dalai Lama on Friday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday and congratulated him on the growing confidence he had brought among the people, despite challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic. In his letter to the prime minster, the Dalai Lama also said that as the most populous democratic nation in the world, India's success benefits not only the people of the country, but also contributes to the development of the world as a whole. "I offer my heartfelt greetings to you on your birthday. May you continue to live a long and healthy life," he wished Modi. He said that as someone who cares deeply about this country, "I congratulate you on the growing confidence you have brought about, despite challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic that has affected people around the globe". The Dalai Lama said, "I am convinced that the age-old Indian traditions of doing no harm — ahimsa, backed by a compassionate motivation — karuna, are not only relevant but are necessary in today's world." He also said that he believes these principles can be readily combined with modern education for the wider benefit of humanity. "Whenever I have the occasion to do so, I regularly commend India for its robust democracy, its deeply rooted religious pluralism and for its remarkable harmony and stability," he said. "For us Tibetans living in exile, India is not only our spiritual refuge, but for more than 62 years has also been our physical home. May I again take the opportunity to offer our deep gratitude to the government and people of India for the warm and generous hospitality we have received," he said in his letter to the prime minister. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lama-greets-pm-modi-on-his-birthday-1031286.html
17-09-2021||National||Gallbladder gangrene reported in patients after recovering from Covid: Report||Delhi's Sri Ganga Ram Hospital reported five patients who have contracted gallbladder gangrene after recovering from Covid-19.  The symptoms seen in the patients were fever, pain in the upper right abdomen, and vomiting. As for other diseases, two patients were diagnosed with diabetes, and one had suffered from heart disease. Of the five, three had also received steroids for their Covid treatment. The inflammation of the gallbladder without any gallstones or cystic duct obstruction is known as "acalculous cholecystitis''. The duration between Covid-19 symptoms and diagnosis of "acalculous cholecystitis" was two months.  Dr Anil Arora, Chairman of the Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences at the hospital, told the publication, “We recently successfully treated five patients for gallbladder gangrene between June to August 2021, who had recovered from Covid-19 infection and presented with severe inflammation of gallbladder without gallstones (acalculous cholecystitis) resulting in gangrene of gallbladder requiring urgent surgery. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of a series of five cases from India in which gallbladder gangrene had occurred in patients after recovery from Covid-19 infection.” He also added that “acalculous cholecystitis” with gangrenous gallbladder had high morbidity of up to 30-60 per cent.  This disease is common in patients who suffer from diabetes, HIV, vascular disease, or those who go on prolonged fasting. But, it was observed that all five patients who had recovered from Covid did not have any of the above. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gallbladder-gangrene-reported-in-patients-after-recovering-from-covid-report-1031288.html
17-09-2021||National||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor wishes PM Modi on birthday||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday, and said his efforts towards development of the country have been a source of inspiration. "Warm Birthday wishes to Hon'ble PM Shri @narendramodi Ji.I pray for his long  & healthy life.Your exceptional, tireless efforts towards development of New India have been a source of inspiration for all of us. May the nation continue to progress under your dynamic leadership & vision," Sinha tweeted.  The Kashmir unit of the BJP also wished the prime minister but said there would not be any gala celebrations or cake cutting.  "BJP is a party of poor. On the 71st birthday of PM Narendra Modi, no cake cutting, or gala celebrations, but to distribute food, fruit and edibles among needy, poor and destitute in Kashmir," party spokesman Altaf Thakur said. He said 25,000 postcards filled with colourful birthday wishes from Kashmir have already been sent to the prime minister Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-lieutenant-governor-wishes-pm-modi-on-birthday-1031292.html
17-09-2021||National||4 oxygen plants installed in UP's Muzaffarnagar, operations to start soon||Four oxygen plants have been installed in the district and they will be operationalised soon, a senior health official said on Friday. These plants will ensure there is no shortage of oxygen and the district is ready to face a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, if it occurs, Chief Medical Officer Dr M S Faujdar said. The plants have been installed at the district hospital, women district hospital, and at community health centres at Budhana and Khatoli, he said. The plants will be started "very soon", the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-oxygen-plants-installed-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-operations-to-start-soon-1031300.html
17-09-2021||National||PM Modi bats for fighting radicalisation, extremism at SCO Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday pitched for developing a common template by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to fight radicalisation, saying it is a challenge to peace, security and trust deficit in the region as reflected by recent developments in Afghanistan. In a virtual address at the annual SCO summit, Modi also called for enhancing connectivity between the landlocked Central Asian countries and India but at the same time noted that connectivity projects should be consultative, transparent and they should be implemented while respecting the territorial integrity of all countries. The prime minister talked about Sufism and the cultural heritage of Central Asia, and said on the basis of this historical heritage, the SCO should develop a common template to fight radicalisation and extremism. "The 20th anniversary of the SCO is also a suitable occasion to think about the future of the SCO. I believe that the biggest challenges in this area are related to peace, security and trust deficit and the root cause of these problems is increasing radicalisation," the prime minister said. He said the recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge more apparent and the SCO should take an initiative on this issue. "If we look at history, we will find that the region of Central Asia has been a bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values. Traditions like Sufism have flourished here over the centuries and spread throughout the region and the world," the prime minister said. "We can still see their influence in the cultural heritage of this region. On the basis of this historical heritage of Central Asia, SCO should develop a common template to fight radicalisation and extremism," he said. Modi said the SCO should work to develop a strong network among moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam. "In India, and almost in all SCO countries, there are moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam. SCO should work to develop a strong network between them," he said. "In this context, I appreciate the useful work being done by SCO-RATS. We expect our SCO partners to actively participate in the calendar of activities that has been built for India's Presidency of SCO-RATS," he added. India has shown keen interest in deepening its security-related cooperation with the SCO and its Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (RATS), which specifically deals with issues relating to security and defence. The prime minister said that one of the main reasons for the success of SCO is that its core focus has been on the priorities of the region. "My suggestions on radicalisation, connectivity and people-to-people relations will further strengthen this role of SCO," he said. The prime minister said fighting radicalisation is not only necessary for regional security and mutual trust, but it is also necessary for the bright future of our younger generations. "To compete with the developed world, our region has to become a stakeholder in emerging technologies. For this we have to encourage our talented youth towards science and rational thinking," he said. The prime minister said the vast economic potential of the region has also remained untapped due to radicalisation and insecurity. He said, to take full advantage of the potential, there was a need to enhance connectivity and that India is committed to increasing its connectivity with Central Asia. "We believe that landlocked Central Asian countries can benefit immensely by connecting with India's vast market. Unfortunately, many connectivity options are not open to them today due to lack of mutual trust," Modi said. "Our investment in Iran's Chabahar port and our efforts towards the International North-South Corridor are driven by this reality," he said. The prime minister said that any initiative on connectivity cannot be a one-way street and that connectivity projects should be consultative, transparent and participatory to ensure mutual trust. His comments came in the backdrop of increasing criticism of China's Belt and Road Initiative. "In this regard, respect for the territorial integrity of all countries should be implicit. Based on these principles, the SCO should develop suitable norms for connectivity projects in the region," Modi said. "With this, we will be able to restore the traditional connectivity of this region and only then connectivity projects will work to connect us, not to increase the distance between us. For this effort, India is ready to make any contribution from its side," he said. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, the Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-bats-for-fighting-radicalisation-extremism-at-sco-summit-1031303.html
17-09-2021||National||Focus should be on maintenance practices, robust physical and cyber security: IAF chief||Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has said there is a need for critical analysis to enhance operational preparedness and focus should be on maintenance practices as well as robust physical and cyber security. Addressing the annual commanders' conference of the Indian Air Force's Central Air Command in Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, he also directed that readiness of all platforms, weapon systems and assets be kept at the highest level, according to an IAF statement. Urging the commanders to continue their efforts in ensuring a safe operational flying environment, he stressed the need to augment the combat capability of the IAF through innovation, self-reliance and indigenisation, the statement issued on Friday said. Bhadauria emphasised the need for critical analysis to enhance operational preparedness, focus on maintenance practices, robust physical and cyber security, it said. He appreciated the role of the Central Air Command in the recent flood relief efforts and aid to civil administration. Last month, Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior-Chambal region of was hit by floods after heavy rainfall, and the IAF had assisted the civil administration in rescuing people and providing relief material to the affected. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-should-be-on-maintenance-practices-robust-physical-and-cyber-security-iaf-chief-1031305.html
17-09-2021||National||PM Modi turns 71; President, ministers extend wishes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned 71 on Friday and birthday greetings poured in from President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and various leaders across parties while BJP leaders hailed his leadership.  To mark the day, the BJP has asked its workers to facilitate the Covid-19 vaccination drive as it eyes record-breaking numbers on Friday. BJP president J P Nadda launched a mega 20-day public outreach, Seva aur Samarpan, to mark the prime minister's birthday and it will continue till October 7 to also commemorate his 20 years in public life, including the period when he served as Gujarat chief minister.  Wishing him a long and healthy life, President Kovind hoped that Modi may continue to serve the nation with his spirit of relentless service. Vice President Naidu said Modi's exceptional vision, exemplary leadership and dedicated service have led to an all-around growth of the nation. He also said amid challenges in the last one year, his efforts to encourage the spirit of self-reliance has borne fruits. Home Minister Amit Shah lauded Modi, saying he not only gave the country the idea to think ahead of time and fulfil its resolve with hardwork but also made it a reality.  In Modi, the country has got a strong and decisive leader who gave a dignified life to those who were deprived of their rights for decades, he said.  Modi brought them in the mainstream of development, Shah added.  The prime minister has shown the world what people-loving leadership is like, he said.  A number of opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi of the Congress, Sharad Pawar of the NCP and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, also extended wishes to Modi.  Pawar tweeted, "Warm Birthday Wishes to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji. I wish him good health and happiness." Gandhi said, "Happy birthday, Modi ji." Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Modi has written many new chapters in development and good governance in his tenure so far and wished that he fulfil his dream of making India a strong, prosperous and proud country. Born in Gujarat in 1950, Modi joined Hindutva organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) at an early age and was later drafted into the BJP.  Made Gujarat chief minister in 2001, Modi has never suffered an electoral setback when votes were cast on his leadership, leading the BJP to power in the state for three consecutive terms and then at the Centre back to back in 2014 and 2019. The BJP will also be distributing over 14 crore ration kits and holding blood camps besides organising other welfare activities during the 20-day campaign.  In his greetings, Nadda hailed Modi as the most popular leader of the world, and said he is dedicated to the progress of the most deprived person in society and symbolises foresighted and decisive leadership besides tireless efforts. The Dalai Lama also wished the prime minister and congratulated him on the growing confidence he had brought among the people, despite challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic. In his letter to the prime minster, the Dalai Lama also said that as the most populous democratic nation in the world, India's success benefits not only the people of the country, but also contributes to the development of the world as a whole. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-turns-71-president-ministers-extend-wishes-1031307.html
17-09-2021||National||SC notice to govt on plea to quash OBC, EWS reservation in all India quota seats in PG medical courses||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a fresh plea challenging the decision to grant 27% OBC and 10% EWS reservation in the all India quota category of seats in NEET admissions for Post Graduate medical courses. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna sought a response from the Union government, Medical Counselling Committee and National Board of Examination on a petition filed by Madhura Kavishwar and others. The court said since it has already on September 6 decided to consider a similar plea filed by Neil Aurelio Nunes and 26 others, the instant petition would be tagged along with the previous one. Notably, the top court had already on last date of hearing has put the matter for consideration on September 20. The petitioners asked the court to quash the July 29 notification by Medical Counselling Committee for granting reservations in all India quota seats from the current academic session 2021-22. As many as 15% seats in MBBS and 50% seats in MS and MD courses in medical colleges are filled through all India quota from the candidates selected the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. The petitioners claimed the issue has to be examined whether there should be vertical or horizontal reservations and whether annual income of Rs 8 lakh should be criteria for considering EWS category. They also contended the application of reservation in the current academic year is completely arbitrary and cannot be interdicted at this stage. The selection process which has commenced for the current academic year cannot be disturbed, at a belated stage, they said, adding the policy was a "sheer afterthought", causing "grave injustice" to them. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-govt-on-plea-to-quash-obc-ews-reservation-in-all-india-quota-seats-in-pg-medical-courses-1031308.html
17-09-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi greets PM Modi on 71st birthday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday on Friday. As Prime Minister Modi turned 71 several dignitaries and politicians greeted him. "Happy birthday, Modi ji," Gandhi tweeted. Happy birthday, Modi ji. Born in Gujarat in 1950, Modi joined Hindutva organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) at an early age and was later drafted into the BJP.  Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-greets-pm-modi-on-71st-birthday-1031309.html
17-09-2021||National||Two metro stations on Delhi-Haryana border closed||Two Delhi Metro stations near Tikri border with Haryana, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers' protests, were on Friday closed owing to security reasons, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said. The two stations in Haryana -- Pandit Shree Ram Sharma and Bahadurgarh City -- fall on the Green Line of the network. The DMRC tweeted to alert commuters: "Security Update Entry/exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma and Bahadurgarh City have been closed". Farmers from various states have been protesting at Singhu and Tikri on the Delhi-Haryana border and Ghazipur along the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, where they have camped since November 25 last year, seeking repeal of the three new agricultural laws. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-metro-stations-on-delhi-haryana-border-closed-1031312.html
17-09-2021||National||Telangana Governor, KCR greet Modi on birthday||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday on Friday. "Happy Birthday to visionary leader who made self reliant India: Reformative India: Resilient India: Resurgent India: Glorious India:Super strong leader who Made Mother India Proud Globally," the Governor tweeted on Thursday night. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister in a letter to Modi said, "On behalf of the government and people of Telangana, I wish you a very happy birthday. May god bless you with good health and long life for serving the nation for many more years." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-governor-kcr-greet-modi-on-birthday-1031313.html
17-09-2021||National||Kerala CM extends birthday wishes to PM Modi||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday and wished him 'good health and happiness'. "Heartfelt birthday greetings to Hon'ble PM @narendramodi ji. Wish you good health and happiness," Vijayan tweeted. Born in Gujarat in 1950, Modi joined Hindutva organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) at an early age and was later drafted into the BJP. Made Gujarat chief minister in 2001, Modi has never suffered an electoral setback when votes were cast on his leadership, leading the BJP to power in the state for three consecutive terms and then at the Centre back to back in 2014 and 2019.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cm-extends-birthday-wishes-to-pm-modi-1031316.html
17-09-2021||National||SC dismisses plea challenging Kerala govt's decision to hold physical exam for Class 11||The Supreme Court on Friday approved the Kerala government's decision to conduct offline exam for Class XI after expressing satisfaction over the explanations given by the state authorities and also noting that the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic does not seem to be in offing immediately. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said we hope and trust the authorities would take necessary precautions for Covid-19 pandemic. "We are convinced by the explanation offered by the state and trust authorities will take all precautions and necessary steps so that no untoward situation is faced by students who are of tender age and appearing for the proposed examination," the bench said. The court modified its order of stay passed on September 3 and dismissed a petition by Rasoolshan A, represented by advocate Prashant Padmanabhan, challenging Kerala High Court order declining to interfere with the state government decision to conduct offline exams. The bench pointed out over one lakh students appeared in physical exams of A P J Abdul Kalam University in August and several lakhs participated in NEET last week. The bench further said we intervened in the matter earlier on the basis of reports of third wave of Covid-19 pandemic in third week of September but now it did not seem to be in the offing immediately. The state government, in its affidavit, has claimed online examinations would prejudice students belonging to backward classes having no access to computer and mobile phone, besides disrupting academic cycle and affecting future of students. Further, the Class XI marks are added to Class XII scores for the purposes of higher education, making it imperative to hold offline exams, it said. On September 3, the top court had stayed the decision to conduct Class XI examinations in offline mode from September 6, saying children of tender age can't be exposed to risk in view of alarming situation in state. "There is an alarming situation in Kerala. It accounts for nearly 70 % cases of the country, with more than 30,000 daily cases. Children of tender age can't be exposed to risk," the court had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-challenging-kerala-govts-decision-to-hold-physical-exam-for-class-11-1031318.html
17-09-2021||National||GST Council meet under way; to review rates, extend tax concession to 11 Covid-19 drugs||The crucial meeting of the GST Council to decide on extending tax concession to 11 Covid-19 drugs and review tax rates of over 4-dozen items, like oncology medicine and coconut oil, began on Friday. The 45th meeting of the GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state finance ministers, is the first physical meeting since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. The last such meeting took place 20 months ago on December 18, 2019. Since then the council has been meeting via video-conferencing. Friday's meeting does not have the provision of video conferencing and almost all state finance ministers, except Gujarat, are attending the meeting. The council would also discuss the modalities of compensation payable to states from July 1, 2022. Also, taxing petrol and diesel under the single national GST tax. It will deliberate on the proposal of extending the existing concessional tax rate structure on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab, Remdesivir and anti-coagulants like Heparin, till December 31, 2021, from the present September 30. Tax rate on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab was cut to 'Nil', while Remdesivir and Heparin was reduced to 5 per cent in June 2021. The council will on Friday also discuss the proposal of reducing GST from 12 per cent to 5 per cent to the seven more drugs till December 31, 2021. These are Itolizumab, Posaconazole, Infliximab, Bamlanivimab and Etesevimab, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose and Favipiravir. To curb tax evasion, the proposal to make the food delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato liable to pay the Goods and Services Tax on restaurant services supplied through them would also be considered by the Council. Once approved by the GST Council, food delivery apps will have to collect and deposit GST with the government, in place of restaurants, for deliveries made by them. There would be no extra tax burden on the end consumer. As per estimates, tax loss to exchequer due to alleged underreporting by food delivery aggregators is Rs 2,000 over the past two years. In light of the Kerala High Court order, the council will also discuss taxing petrol and diesel under the GST, a move that may require huge compromises by both central and state governments on the revenues they collect from taxing these products. In June, the Kerala High Court, based on a writ petition, had asked the GST Council to decide on bringing petrol and diesel within the GST ambit. Also the interim report of a state-ministerial panel on capacity based taxation on pan masala and composition scheme for brick kilns and stone crushers would come up for discussion. The panel, which has sought a three-month extension of its term to examine remaining issues, has recommended a special Composition Scheme in the brick kiln sector with effect from April 1, 2022, prescribing a GST rate of 6 per cent, without ITC (input tax credit), similar to the rate in the services sector. It has also suggested hiking GST rate on supply of bricks from 5 per cent to 12 per cent (with ITC), with effect from April 1. The council will review and also clarify regarding GST rates 32 goods and 29 services. The items under review are Zolgensma and Viltepso medicines for personal use, solar PV modules, copper concentrate, carbonated beverage with fruit juice, coconut oil, scented sweet supari, oncology medicine, and diesel-electric locomotives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-council-meet-under-way-to-review-rates-extend-tax-concession-to-11-covid-19-drugs-1031321.html
17-09-2021||National||'Tiranga Yatra' taken out in Delhi to celebrate PM Modi's birthday||A 'Tiranga Yatra' was taken out by social organisations from ITO to Red Fort in the national capital marking the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. Participants carried the national flag and placards bearing names of various schemes and programmes of the Modi government and marched from Feroz Shah Kotla near ITO to the iconic Red Fort, under the leadership of former Union minister Vijay Goel. "The 20 years of public life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he has spent capably in governance and social development is an inspiration for the people of the country," Goel said on the occassion. Former Union minister Satyanarayan Jatiya, and members of various social organisations also took part in the event.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiranga-yatra-taken-out-in-delhi-to-celebrate-pm-modis-birthday-1031323.html
17-09-2021||National||Daily Covid-19 vaccination crosses 1-crore mark for fourth time||The number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far on Friday has already crossed the 1-crore mark, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Twitter. At the time of writing, 1,03,95,404 doses of the vaccine had been administered. As a gift to PM Modi, who celebrates his 71sth birthday today, the government aims to vaccinate a record number of people.  The daily Covid-19 vaccination in the country on September 6, August 31 and August 27 was over 1 crore. Mandaviya on Thursday had called for a major push to the Covid-19 vaccination drive during Prime Minister Modi's birthday on Friday, saying it would be the perfect gift for him. The BJP has asked its units across the country to help get a large number of people vaccinated on the occasion of prime minister's birthday. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30 crore, according to the ministry.  The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on Sep 7, the ministry said. The total number of doses administered crossed 75 crore on September 13, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-covid-19-vaccination-crosses-1-crore-mark-for-fourth-time-1031326.html
17-09-2021||National||Bharat Biotech awaits feedback from WHO for Covaxin EUL||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has submitted all the data pertaining to its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to the World Health Organization for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. The WHO is currently reviewing the data submitted by the vaccine maker and the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed," according to the update available on WHO website. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled & available in June 2021. All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech tweeted. As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for its other vaccines, the company said it would not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on the approval process and its timelines, it further said. "We are continuing to work diligently on obtaining WHO EUL at the earliest,” the vaccine maker added in a series of tweets. In an update on its website, the WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech recently had earlier said the EUL process is a step closer to the final decision on Covaxin's 'global acceptance.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-awaits-feedback-from-who-for-covaxin-eul-1031339.html
17-09-2021||National||President Kovind addresses special Himachal Pradesh Assembly session; salutes state's soldiers||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday hailed Himachal Pradesh's contribution to armed forces, saying he "salutes the brave soldiers from the state" who are serving the nation. He also said that Major Somnath Sharma from the state was the first recipient of the prestigious Param Vir Chakra. The president was addressing a special one-hour session of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly here to mark the golden jubilee of its statehood. The hill state attained golden jubilee of its statehood on January 25, 2021, but the special session was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The celebrations will now continue throughout the year. Kovind noted that as many as 1.20 lakh soldiers from Himachal Pradesh are presently serving the nation. “Being the head of the defence forces, I salute all the brave soldiers of Himachal Pradesh for serving the nation,” he said. In his 18-minute address, the president also said that the entire state should become 'Sirmaur' in terms of development in the entire country. ‘Sirmaur’, meaning crown, is one of the districts of Himachal Pradesh. He urged the farmers of the state to adopt natural farming to preserve the beauty of the state. The president said he had been attracted to the natural beauty of Himachal Pradesh for the last 45 years. He visited the state for the first time in 1974, and at that time, he came to Kullu-Manali and since then, he kept on visiting the state every now and then. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi also extended his wishes for the hill state. He noted that all successive governments led by Yashwant Singh Parmar, Thakur Ram Lal, Virbhadra Singh, Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal played vital roles in bringing Himachal Pradesh where it is now. He said the hill state also set an example for other states as the state assembly became the first paperless Vidhan Sabha in the country in 2014. He also congratulated the hill state with regard to NITI Ayog 2020-21 report, whereby Himachal Pradesh is on second number in the entire country. Meanwhile, Kovind also recited a Sanskrit ‘shloka’ on how the state is considered to be connected with “Mahadev Shankar and Parvati”. He also expressed condolences for the kin of those who had lost their lives during recent calamities in the state. Kovind is the third president to address the Himachal Pradesh Assembly after A P J Abdul Kalam in 2003 and Pranab Mukherjee in 2013. Union minister Anurag Thakur and former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal also attended the special session. However, former Union minister Sukh Ram and former chief minister Shanta Kumar could not attend the session. Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania was also not present as he isolated himself after his PSA recently tested positive for Covid-19, an official said. Sitting and former MLAs and MPs from Himachal Pradesh participated in the special session. Earlier, Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar expressed their views. The governor released the 'Who's Who' book and submitted a copy to the president on the occasion. On Saturday, Kovind will attend the valedictory ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts, Shimla. He will leave for Delhi on Sunday. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-addresses-special-himachal-pradesh-assembly-session-salutes-states-soldiers-1031341.html
17-09-2021||National||Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple facing difficult times, offerings insufficient to meet expenses: Admin to SC||The Administrative Committee of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Kerala told the Supreme Court on Friday that the temple is passing through very difficult times and the offerings are not sufficient to meet the expenses, while seeking an audit of the Trust. All Kerala temples are closed, Senior advocate R Basant, appearing for the Committee, told a bench headed by Justice U U Lalit. "Rs 1.25 crore is the monthly expense we are able to hardly get 60-70 lakh rupees therefore we have sought certain directions," he added. There is a trust constituted as per court's order and it must contribute to the temple, Basant told the bench, also comprising Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the Trust, argued that it is a public trust made by the Royal family, has no role in administration, and is not there in the petition. The trust was just mentioned by the Amicus Curiae in the case, he said. "The Trust was constituted only to oversee the pujas and rituals of the Temple involving the family, with no role in the administration. It came into picture only before the Supreme Court after the amicus curiae demanded that the accounts of the trust also should be audited," he said, adding that it need not be audited as it is separate from the temple. The top court, after hearing the submissions, reserved its order on the application filed by the Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple Trust to exempt it from the audit of 25 years ordered by the court last year. The top court had earlier set aside the 2011 verdict of the Kerala High Court which had directed the state government to set up a trust to take control of management and assets of the historict temple. The apex court upheld the rights of the Travancore royal family in the administration of the temple, considered one of the richest temples in the country. It had directed the Administrative Committee to order an audit of the temple's income and expenses for the past 25 years, as suggested by amicus curiae senior advocate Gopal Subramanium. The sprawling temple, an architectural splendour in granite, was rebuilt in its present form in the 18th century by the Travancore Royal House, which had ruled southern Kerala and some adjoining parts of Tamil Nadu before integration of the princely state with the Indian Union in 1947.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sree-padmanabhaswamy-temple-facing-difficult-times-offerings-insufficient-to-meet-expenses-admin-to-sc-1031343.html
17-09-2021||National||Need trainers in huge numbers to impart skill to 50 crore people: Skill Development Secretary||About 50 crore people need to be skilled in the next few years and for that there is a need of lakhs of trainers, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Secretary Ravi Mital said in Friday. He said that role of trainers is key in promoting skills. "About 50 crore people needs to be skilled in next few years... and if we have to take India to the next level, skilling our people is absolutely essential and in this regard the role of our trainers becomes more important... We have to create an army of hundreds and thousands and lakhs of trainers because they will be needed to train 50 crore people," he said. He was speaking during announcement of Kaushalacharya Awards 2021, honouring skill trainers. Speaking at the occassion, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Minister Dharmendra Pradhan called for focusing on standardisation of trainers and finding of demands in both domestic and world markets for skilled people. In schools, there are 26 crore seats, and 10 crore teachers, "so if we have to train 50 crore, imagine how many trainers and master trainers we need," he said. Training should be in local language and trainers should explain things in mother tongue to student to enhance the scope of skilling, he suggested. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-trainers-in-huge-numbers-to-impart-skill-to-50-crore-people-skill-development-secretary-1031344.html
17-09-2021||National||Delhi HC seeks I-T dept stand on Newslaundry's plea concerning leakage of seized material||The Delhi High Court Friday sought Income Tax Department's stand on a plea by online news portal Newslaundry and its co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri to restrain any leakage of the material seized during a survey operation held earlier this month. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla granted time to the department's counsel to seek instructions on giving an undertaking against any leak and asked that the concerned officer join the proceedings on the next date of hearing i.e. September 21. “Ask your client (to join proceedings) so that we can close it then and there. Let him be by your side..If he gives a statement, we can put a quietus to the matter,” said the bench to the lawyer who asserted that the fear of leak was a “bald apprehension”. Data of thousands of assessees is in safe custody of the department and it can be used only in accordance with law, said counsel for the department Ajit Shamra. During the course of the hearing, the bench orally observed, “Normally, no one's data should be leaked” as it is “ethically, morally and legally” wrong. “We have seen it on channels, people's data that has been seized is being displayed... It should not happen,” it remarked. Senior counsel Siddharth Dave, appearing for the petitioners, said that four notices under the Income Tax Act were issued to his client and a survey was held in the news portal's premises on September 10, during which several devices, including a mobile phone and a laptop belonging to the petitioner co-founder, were seized by the I-T authorities, which contained several information which were of no relevance to any income tax proceedings. The data may contain personal photos and information pertaining to investigative stories, he said. The senior lawyer argued that any data breach would be in violation of right to privacy and therefore a direction should be passed to the I-T authorities to not leak any data and delete whatever is of no relevance to the proceedings. It was also contended that any seizure during a survey operation was beyond the scope of survey and that no “hash value” of the seized data was given. “Please direct them not to leak seized data collected in this purported garb of a survey and allow me to delete (non I-T related) data,” the senior lawyer submitted. In the petition filed through advocate Nipun Katyal, the petitioners have said that the income tax officers and authorities do not have any power to interrupt the ordinary peaceful citizens of the country in any manner they like by utilizing the large powers given to them, without keeping strictly within the four corners of those large powers. “The Petitioners are heading a news organization, the Petitioners herein have sources, contacts and other information on the digital machines. It is the fiduciary duty of the Petitioners to protect them and keep it confidential. "It is further submitted that the legal communication regarding existing cases is present in the personal laptop and phone of the Petitioners. If in any circumstances, the leaks are committed, it shall be a clear breach of the attorney client privilege as well as whistleblowers confidentiality,” the plea says. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-i-t-dept-stand-on-newslaundrys-plea-concerning-leakage-of-seized-material-1031348.html
17-09-2021||National||At e-auction of PM's mementos, sports gear of Olympians, paralympians grab eyeballs||Badminton rackets used by the Paralympic gold medallist, the javelin which brought India its first gold in the Olympics and gloves worn by the bronze medal winning athlete are among Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mementos which are drawing the highest bids currently on the Culture Ministry website which is e-auctioning them.  The highest quoted bids for the badminton racquets of Krishna Nagar, the badminton gold medallist and that of Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj, who won the gold and silver medals at the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic games respectively have gone up to Rs 10 crore.  The base price of Nagar's racket is Rs 80 lakh while that of Yathiraj is set at Rs 50 lakh. The fence used by CA Bhavani Devi in fencing at the Olympics 2020 also received a highest bid of Rs 10 crore while its base price is Rs 60 lakh. Devi is the first Indian fencer to ever qualify for the Tokyo Olympics after qualifying for the 2020 Summer Olympics.  The boxing gloves worn by boxer Lovlina Borgohain, who won a bronze decoration in the welterweight (64-69kg) classification semi-final for women at the Tokyo Olympics, becoming the third Indian boxer to win at Tokyo Olympics has received a bid of Rs 1.80 crore. The base price for the gloves is Rs 80 lakh. The highest bids for the javelin which gave India its first gold in the 2020 Olympics is over Rs 1.20 crore while its base price is Rs 1 crore.  The sharp-shooting glasses worn by Manish Narwal, who bagged a gold medal in the mixed 50m pistol SH1 final at Tokyo 2020 Paralympic games has so far received a highest bid of Rs 95.94 lakh. The shooting glasses were presented by him to the prime minister The proceeds from the e-auction will go to the Namami Gange Mission aimed at conserving and rejuvenating the Ganga River. The memorabilia include sports gear and equipment of the medal-winning Olympians and Paralympians, a replica of the Ayodhya Ram Mandir, Chardham, sculptures and paintings among others. The wooden model of the Ram Mandir placed inside a glass box has received the highest quoted of Rs 3 lakh so far. Another interesting memento which has grabbed eyeballs is the replica of the Rudraksha Convention Centre in Varanasi which has got the highest bid of Rs 40 lakh. Individuals and organisations can participate through the website pmmementos.gov.in between September 17 and October 7. After the auction ends, the ministry will notify the highest bidders through email. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-e-auction-of-pms-mementos-sports-gear-of-olympians-paralympians-grab-eyeballs-1031349.html
17-09-2021||National||Modi was first CM to recognise seriousness of climate change: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said that Narendra Modi was the first chief minister in the country to understand the seriousness of the climate change phenomenon and institutionalise its management. He was speaking after planting a sapling at the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) training ground at Mudkhed in Nanded district of Maharashtra, which made the security agency achieve the target of one crore sapling plantations in the country. "When Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, he was the first to understand the seriousness of climate change and ensure its institutionalised management. Many chief ministers focus on building roads, ensuring education facilities and drinking water schemes. But Modi also worked on climate change and worked for planting saplings," he said. Describing global warming and climate change as enemies, Shah said, "We have to protect environment and natural resources." He added that the CRPF has achieved the target of planting one crore saplings on Modi's birthday, which is also the Marathwada Multi Sangram Din (Marathwada Liberation Day). Shah paid tributes to the country's first home minister Sardar Patel and the martyrs of the Marathwada liberation movement on the occasion. "Without the CRPF, the country's internal security is impossible," he said while hailing the achievements of the 3.25-lakh strong force for meeting every expectation. He said one crore saplings have been planted by the CRPF in 170 districts across the country. "The government can plant saplings, but CRPF should protect it. I urge every CRPF jawan to get associated with one sapling," the minister said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-was-first-cm-to-recognise-seriousness-of-climate-change-amit-shah-1031350.html
17-09-2021||National||Delhi police chief Rakesh Asthana alleges 'personal vendetta' against him||Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana has claimed before the Delhi High Court that the plea challenging his appointment as Delhi police Commissioner is either personal vendetta or a proxy war under the cloak of public interest litigation. He claimed that there is a sustained social media campaign against him which justifies his apprehension that the challenge to his appointment is the result of some vendetta being conducted at the behest of some undisclosed individual or rival interest to derail his career. He accused two organisations 'Common Cause' and 'Centre for Public Interest Litigations' of spearheading a malicious campaign against him regularly since he was appointed as Special Director in Central Bureau of Investigation. “This personal vendetta or a proxy war is projected under the cloak of public interest litigation. This court may not allow such attempts using the august forum,” an affidavit filed him stated. Earlier, the Centre also told the court that appointment of Asthana was made in public interest in view of special and specific requirements of the national capital. Both Centre and Asthana filed their response to a PIL by advocate Sadre Alam and NGO CPIL which sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police chief and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him just before his superannuation on July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-chief-rakesh-asthana-alleges-personal-vendetta-against-him-1031352.html
17-09-2021||National||Leaders of Lanka, Nepal wish PM Modi on his 71st birthday||Sri Lanka's top leadership and Nepal's Premier Sher Bahadur Deuba on Friday extended their greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday, wishing him good health and success in leading the country. Wishes poured in from several dignitaries and politicians from across India for Prime Minister Modi on his birthday. "My heartfelt wishes to Indian Prime Minister @narendramodi on his birthday! May good health & strength accompany you in the journey through these difficult times," Sri Lanka's President Gotabaya Rajapaksa tweeted. The President's brother and Sri Lanka's Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa too extended his greetings to Modi. "Warm wishes to my good friend, Prime Minister @narendramodi, as you step into another year of your life. I wish you strength, success and the best of health as you steer #India out of these difficult times," Mahinda tweeted. Nepal's Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba also expressed his good wishes to Modi. "Wishing Sri @narendramodi a happy 71st birthday! May it bring good health and further success," Deuba tweeted. To mark the day, the BJP has asked its workers to facilitate the Covid-19 vaccination drive as it eyes record-breaking numbers on Friday. Born in Gujarat in 1950, Modi joined Hindutva organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) at an early age and was later drafted into the BJP. Made Gujarat chief minister in 2001, Modi has never suffered an electoral setback when votes were cast on his leadership, leading the BJP to power in the state for three consecutive terms and then at the Centre back to back in 2014 and 2019. The BJP will also be distributing over 14 crore ration kits and holding blood camps besides organising other welfare activities during the 20-day campaign. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaders-of-lanka-nepal-wish-pm-modi-on-his-71st-birthday-1031358.html
17-09-2021||National||Applied math to be treated at par with mathematics for admission to UG courses in humanities, commerce||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has directed all varsities to treat the Academic Mathematics subject for class 12 students at par with Mathematics while calculating aggregate marks for admission to undergraduate courses for humanities and commerce. The directive by the UGC came following a request by the CBSE that noted that some universities make it mandatory for students to have studied mathematics as a subject at the senior secondary level to take admission in undergraduate courses in economics, commerce and social sciences. "The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has introduced a course Applied Mathematics for students of classes 11 and 12. The subject involves 80 per cent marks for theory and 20 per cent marks for practical work in the board examination. This subject is offered under academic stream and has curriculum specifications that are compatible with the other major subjects," UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said in a letter to vice chancellors. This subject is a regular academic subject, he said. “The marks obtained by the candidates in this subject may be included for calculating the aggregate marks for deciding the eligibility for admission. Hence, Applied Mathematics may be considered at par with Mathematics while calculating aggregate marks for admission in courses of humanities and commerce, other than pure sciences," Jain said. The commission has asked universities to take appropriate action for recognition of the new subject — Applied Mathematics — for admission of students in degree programmes. The CBSE had introduced Applied Mathematics as an academic elective which is in addition to the existing Mathematics subject offered by the board. The course was introduced primarily to increase the mathematical skills and knowledge required even in social science, humanities, commerce, accountancy and other aligned fields. The board had noted that the subject shall be beneficial to students, who want to pursue higher education in social sciences, commerce, fine arts and biological sciences. "It has been observed that some universities make it mandatory for the students to offer Mathematics at the senior secondary level to take admission in undergraduate courses in economics, commerce and social sciences etc,” the CBSE had said in a communication to the UGC “ln view of this, you are requested to consider the new Applied Mathematics course at par with the existing Mathematics course of CBSE for admission to higher studies in courses other than engineering, mathematics and physical sciences," the board has told the commission recently. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/applied-math-to-be-treated-at-par-with-mathematics-for-admission-to-ug-courses-in-humanities-commerce-1031366.html
17-09-2021||National||'No other work': Chichordi villagers cling to coal despite damaged farms and homes||The reopening of a coal mine this year near the central Indian village of Chichordi rekindled farmer Dilip Madre's hopes he would finally be compensated for the ruin of his once-bountiful turmeric field and be able to buy a bigger farm further away. A decade after mining began in his part of western Maharashtra state, Madre and 200 villagers are seeking financial recompense for the losses they say the industry has caused them. Their land is no longer productive, they argue, covered in rubble, soot, dust and waste sand from the mine, as groundwater levels recede and trucks pass by, dropping coal and debris. It has been a long wait for the farmers, stretched by the mine's closure in 2015 after a court ruled India's mining blocks were allocated illegally and had to be re-examined. Soon after, the mine was handed back to its owner, state-run Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd (KPCL), but operations only began again this year after outstanding litigation was resolved, company officials said. The delay has dashed villagers' hopes of jobs and cash payments for their barren fields - echoing bitter experiences in other Indian coal hubs, energy experts said. "I thought we would benefit from mining but there have been only losses and uncertainty. My land is infertile now," said Madre, 52, recalling how he used to earn about 500,000 rupees ($6,788) a year from his turmeric crop. He once hoped to set up a turmeric processing factory and export the spice, but is still waiting for KPCL to buy his farm. "I want to give (them) this land and get my freedom," Madre told the Thomson Reuters Foundation, standing outside a small grocery shop he runs to make ends meet. "We are in the coal belt. They need our land and we should get something." Energy transition experts and locals said many communities in coal-producing areas still believe their future hinges on the carbon-heavy fuel, despite the losses they blame on mining. Often hopes for jobs and land sales are thwarted, while mining companies reap most of the benefits, they added, suggesting it would be better to break the dependence on coal. A 2020 study looking at 22 coal-rich districts, by the International Forum for Environment, Sustainability and Technology (iFOREST), showed about half their population was impoverished, with poor health, education and living standards. "Coal mining didn't bring in the benefits local communities assumed it would - but even if they are unhappy, they will be the first to resist the closure of coal mines as a coal-centric economy has limited growth and investment in other sectors," said Srestha Banerjee of iFOREST, a New Delhi-based think-tank. "Whatever they are getting, or hope to get, is dependent on coal," she added. Stop and start In 2014, when India's top court scrapped all but four of 218 coal blocks allocated by the government over the past two decades, ruling that its practice of selective allocation was illegal and arbitrary, silence engulfed Baranj village. Located on the opencast mine's edge, a couple of miles from Chichordi, Baranj had earlier been identified as affected by the mine, meaning its residents were compensated for the farmland acquired for mining and about 150 given work. "We were at a loss when the mine shut. Even though only a few people had found work in the mine, their families were dependent on their earnings," said Sandeep Jiwane, 42, who runs a Baranj tea-shop. The mine has now reopened but local people said their losses outweighed the benefits from its activities so far. "Entire families worked on farms, and now one among them has been offered a job. Many sit at home all day because they don't have farms to work on anymore," said Jiwane. "But then, the only money we are able to make is because of coal. There is no other work here," he said. Among those who have found a job is Sadhna Subhash Balpane, 40, who waves green and red flags to manage the movement of trucks and dumpers on a broken road leading to the coal mine. "I earn 5,000 rupees monthly for an eight-hour shift. I used to work as a farm labourer earlier, but there are no farmlands any more in this village," said Balpane, whose husband is a tailor in a nearby town. Another local, Gautam Punwalkar, 44, counts the trucks going in and out of the mine each day - but he had to seek low-paid daily wage work for five years when the mine was shut. "I am happy I got this work back when the mine reopened," he said. Compensation Houses in Baranj and Chichordi villages have massive cracks running through the walls, and inhabitants tell stories of collapsing houses and utensils crashing down when mine blasting happens, as often as three times a day. Yet the villagers stay, adamant they will not leave their homes, which now resemble a bombed-out hamlet, as they continue to negotiate rehabilitation or a price for their land. Baranj locals are due to have their battered homes restored, after living in them for about a decade. KPCL officials said they were working on options for the housing, all wages owed had been paid and compensation for loss of land to mining in Chichordi was being processed. Houses in Chichordi, however, fall outside the officially designated mining area, said V. Ponnuraj, KPCL's managing director, making it harder for occupants to access support. 'Sitting on Gold' Campaigners called for efforts to create alternative jobs in coal hubs, given the twin challenges for residents: rising poverty due to mining and cutting of the feeble coal lifeline in a couple of decades as India transitions to green energy. "We have to target the next employable generation and try and bring them away from coal," said Samrat Sengupta, programme director for climate change and renewable energy with the Centre for Science and Environment, a Delhi-based advocacy group. Vocational training to service electric vehicles or repair electric stoves would help prepare locals for the growing clean industries of the future, he added. But Chichordi locals said they would not give up on coal yet. "We know we are sitting on gold and we will get the benefit," said Abdul Jamel Shaikh, a restaurant owner who wants to sell his farmland for mining. "I want them to take my land, my house and compensate me. We have suffered for years." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-other-work-chichordi-villagers-cling-to-coal-despite-damaged-farms-and-homes-1031368.html
17-09-2021||National||A day after SC hearing, Justice Cheema resumes office as NCLAT Acting Chairperson||NCLAT Chairperson Justice A I S Cheema resumed office on Friday, a day after the government conceded before the Supreme Court that Cheema, who was prematurely superannuated, will be permitted to continue to chair the appellate tribunal till September 20. The cause list of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal has listed a matter in the Court of Chairperson before a two-member bench headed by Justice Cheema. As per the current protocol, the hearing is to be conducted virtually by the bench. Technical Member V P Singh is the other member of the bench. Justice Cheema was appointed as a Judicial Member of NCLAT on September 11, 2017, and he became its Officiating Chairperson from April 19, 2021. His tenure, which was to end on September 20, was abruptly terminated on September 10, and Justice M Venugopal was made the Acting Chairperson of the appellate tribunal with effect from September 11. The move was challenged by Justice Cheema before the apex court. The government, on Thursday, before the Supreme Court conceded and said he would be permitted to continue in office till September 20 to pronounce verdicts. During the hearing, the Supreme Court also warned the government that the Tribunal Reforms Act of 2021 would be stayed suo motu. NCLAT website is still showing Justice M Venugopal as the Acting Chairperson and Justice Cheema as former Acting Chairperson. Justice Cheema started his career as a practising advocate at Akola District, Maharashtra in September 1977, and then joined state judicial services and served in different capacities. He was Registrar General of the High Court of Bombay and also served as a Registrar of the Supreme Court from November 1999 to April 2007. Later, he was elevated as Judge of the High Court of Bombay in May 2013 and superannuated in September 2016. NCLAT continues to be without a permanent head for more than one-and-a-half years. Justice M Venugopal is a former judge of the High Court of Madras. He had joined as a Sub-Judge in Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service on June 5, 1997 and later was elevated to high court in November 2007, where he had served for eleven-and-a-half years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-day-after-sc-hearing-justice-cheema-resumes-office-as-nclat-acting-chairperson-1031375.html
17-09-2021||National||SC Collegium recommends appointment of Chief Justices of 8 HCs and transfer of CJs of 5 HCs||In a major decision, the Supreme Court Collegium has recommended appointment of regular Chief Justices in eight High Courts and transfer of Chief Justices in five other High Courts. According to sources, Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, a senior judge of the Allahabad High Court's Lucknow bench has been recommended for appointment as Karnataka High Court Chief Justice. Born in 1960, Justice Awasthi got himself enrolled as advocate in 1987 after graduating from Lucknow University. He practiced in Civil, Service, Educational matters at Lucknow Bench, Allahabad High Court. He also worked as Assistant Solicitor General of India at Lucknow before elevation as Additional Judge on April 13, 2009. He took oath as permanent Judge on December 24, 2010. Justice Rajesh Bindal, acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, will be appointed as Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court. Justice Bindal was appointed as the acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court on April 29, after the Assembly polls in West Bengal. He was caught in the standoff between the Trinamool Congress and the Centre after elections in West Bengal. Justice Akil Kureshi, who is currently Chief Justice of the Tripura High Court, would be  recommended to head Rajasthan High Court, while Rajasthan High Court Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty will go to Tripura High Court as Chief Justice. Justice Kureshi originally belonged to the Gujarat High Court. Earlier, the Collegium could not reach to consensus on his elevation to the top court. The deadlock on appointment of judges in the top court ended after retirement of Justice R F Nariman on August 12. Sources said Justice Prakash Srivastava has been recommended for appointment as Chief Justice of Calcutta, Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra as Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh HC, Justice S C Sharma as Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, Justice Ranjit V More as Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court, Justice Aravind Kumar as Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court and Justice R V Malimath as Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court. They said the Collegium also approved transfer of Chief Justice of AP HC, Arup Kumar Goswami to Chhattisgarh HC in the same capacity, Justice Mohd Rafiq, Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh HC to Himachal Pradesh HC as Chief Justice and Justice Biswanath Somadder from Meghalaya to Sikkim High Court as Chief Justice there. In other developments, the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has also decided on transfers of 28 judges from various High Courts. At present, eight High Courts --Allahabad, Calcutta, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Sikkim and Telangana -- have acting Chief Justices. The Collegium, which took the decisions on Thursday evening, is yet to make formal announcements in this regard. On September 3, as many as 68 recommendations including 10 women, were made for appointment as High Court judges. However, the decisions are still pending with the Centre. Ending 22-month hiatus, the Collegium had on August 18 recommended for appointment of nine judges to the top court, which were cleared by the Centre within two weeks. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-recommends-appointment-of-chief-justices-of-8-hcs-and-transfer-of-cjs-of-5-hcs-1031376.html
17-09-2021||National||Jaishankar holds informal discussions with Russian counterpart, Iranian President at SCO summit||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday held a "useful discussion" with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov on contemporary issues, including Afghanistan and shared perspectives on global affairs with Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi, as he held separate informal meetings with the two leaders here. Jaishankar met the two leaders in the Tajik capital on the sidelines of a key summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on the situation in Afghanistan after its takeover by the Taliban last month. "Always good to meet Russian FM Sergey Lavrov. A useful discussion on contemporary issues, including Afghanistan, before the commencement of the SCO Summit," Jaishankar tweeted after the informal meeting. The two leaders had last met in Moscow in July. The two leaders also represented their countries at the SCO foreign ministers' meeting here in July. Jaishankar also exchanged courtesies and perspectives with Iranian President Raisi. "An exchange of courtesies- and perspectives- with President Raisi of Iran before the start of the SCO Summit," Jaishankar tweeted. Jaishnakar had met President Raisi twice in July and August. He had represented India at the swearing-in ceremony of Raisi. The annual SCO summit is expected to deliberate extensively on the developments in Afghanistan as well as the overall regional security scenario. Jaishankar will attend a meeting on Afghanistan with the heads of state of the SCO and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. "Warmly received at the 21st Meeting of SCO Council of Heads of State by Tajik leadership. Honoured to represent PM @narendramodi in Dushanbe who addressed the plenary session of the Summit via video-link," Jaishankar tweeted. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, the Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India was made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-holds-informal-discussions-with-russian-counterpart-iranian-president-at-sco-summit-1031386.html
17-09-2021||National||SC miffed over 78 adjournments by Dehradun court, orders completion of trial in 6 months||Miffed over 78 adjournments granted by a lower court in Dehradun, the Supreme Court has directed it to complete the trial within six months in a 2014 case of cheating and forgery against three persons. Noting that the trial court has not moved an inch despite having taken cognisance of case almost seven years back, a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar directed the Investigating Officer to ensure that the witnesses are made available on the scheduled dates for being examined by the trial court. "We direct the trial court to ensure that the trial is concluded not later than six months from the date of receipt of the copy of this order.  "We are required to issue this direction as we have noticed that the trial court, despite having taken cognizance almost seven years back, has not moved in the matter even an inch thereafter, including to frame charges, as may be necessary, despite 78 adjournments in the case," the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, said. The bench also enlarged the accused -- Manish Verma, Sanjeev Verma and Neetu Verma -- on bail on terms and conditions which were imposed by the trial court and directed them to extend full cooperation in the case for early disposal of the matter.   "In case, the trial court is of the opinion that the private respondents are not cooperating in the progress of the trial or are taking unnecessary adjournments, it must record that opinion in the roznamcha (diary) and if that is a persistent approach of the private respondents, it will be open to the trial court to consider cancellation of bail in accordance with law," the bench said. Needless to observe that the order of cancellation of bail of the private respondents will not come in their way and the trial must proceed on its own merits and in accordance with law, it said. The apex court's order, dated September 15, came on an appeal filed by Dr Atul Krishna against the Uttarakhand High Court order dismissing his plea seeking early disposal of the case. As per the appeal, an FIR was registered in 2012 by the petitioner at police station Jaani in Meerut district against the respondents for commission of offence under section 420 (cheating), 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust), 467 (Forgery of valuable security, will), 468 and 470 ( Forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code at Meerut with regard to a land deal. Subsequently, on account of the fact that the major properties and documents, which were subject matter of the complaint in the said FIR are and all the documents pertaining to the commission of the said offence, since were falling within the domain of district Dehradun,  the matter was transferred there. The appeal filed through advocate Vivek Singh submitted that a perusal of the order sheet of the trial court from June 28, 2014 to October 15, 2020 will show that from the date of taking cognizance that is June 28, 2014 as many as 78 dates had been fixed by it for hearing of the said case till October 15, 2020 but even the charges have not been framed against the respondents in these years. "The High Court gravely erred in holding that the writ petition of 2020 for the relief of time bound dispose it of the trial case cannot be invoked as the petitioner earlier in 2015 had approached the High Court for the same relief and it had requested the trial court in 2015 to make an endeavour to decide the case as early as possible," the plea said. The appeal contended that the private respondents had deliberately abuse the process of law by taking adjournments on one ground or the other and had been successful in protecting the criminal proceedings. "It is beyond imagination that despite the passing of more than six years from the date of filing of charge sheet and taking of cognizance, even the charges could not be framed till date.  "It is submitted that the conduct of respondents are apparent from the fact that they are initially did not appear before the trial court till the time bail was granted and after securing bail the respondents kept in finding exemption application on one pretext or the other in order to delay the trial of the criminal case," the appeal stated.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-miffed-over-78-adjournments-by-dehradun-court-orders-completion-of-trial-in-6-months-1031392.html
17-09-2021||National||China says it agrees with Jaishankar; says Sino-India ties have their own 'intrinsic logic'||China on Friday said it agrees with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's assertion that Beijing should not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country, saying that Sino-India relations have their own "intrinsic logic". Jaishankar, who met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe, conveyed that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. He also told the Chinese Foreign Minister that the two countries need to establish a relationship based on mutual respect for which it was necessary that China avoid viewing the ties with India from the perspective of its relations with third countries. On Twitter, Jaishankar said: "It is also essential that China does not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country." Earlier, a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement on the Wang-Jaishankar talks in the capital of Tajikistan quoted the Chinese Foreign Minister as saying that “China has always been positive to seek a proper solution to the China-India border issue”.  Asked for his reaction to Jaishankar’s remarks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here that “we agree with the remarks from the Indian side”. “China and India are both important Asian countries. For the two countries to develop relations there is an inherent necessary logic. China-India relations never target any third party,” Zhao said. To a follow-up question, Zhao said, “the development of India-China relations follow its own intrinsic logic. China-India relations do not target any third party and are not based on any third party”, he said. In the statement issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Wang noted that the recent communication between the two sides through the foreign and military departments was earnest and effective, and the overall situation in the border area was “gradually de-escalated”. The Chinese Foreign Minister hoped that “India will meet China halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control.” “Both sides need to consolidate the disengagement results of the front-line troops, and strictly abide by the protocols and agreements and the consensus reached between the two countries, to jointly safeguard the peace and tranquility of the border area and prevent the recurrence of border-related issues”, he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong Lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Wang and Jaishankar had held a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of another conclave of the SCO in TajikistanDushanbe on July 14. “As two major emerging economies, China and India must continue to uphold the strategic consensus of being opportunities of development to each other rather than threats, push the bilateral relationship and practical cooperation onto a healthy and stable track”, Wang said during Thursday's meeting. “It serves the common interests of the two countries and benefits regional and world peace and development,” the Chinese foreign minister said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-says-it-agrees-with-jaishankar-says-sino-india-ties-have-their-own-intrinsic-logic-1031400.html
17-09-2021||National||Country paying price for your failures: Congress leaders 'wish' Modi on his birthday||The Congress on Friday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday but said the country is paying the price for his "failures" on several fronts and so the day is being observed as "unemployment day", "anti-farmer day" and "high prices day". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi extended his wishes to the prime minister on Twitter. "Happy Birthday, Modi ji," he said. Happy birthday, Modi ji. For the Indian Youth Congress and the NSUI, it was "national unemployment day". Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said birthdays of former prime ministers are celebrated as different days, with Jawaharlal Nehru's birthday as "Children's Day", Indira Gandhi's as "National Integration Day", Rajiv Gandhi's as "Sadbhavna Day" and Atal Bihari Vajpayee's as "Good Governance Day". But Modi's birthday is being observed as "unemployment day", she added. She said she prays that God gives the prime minister the wisdom to realise what he has led the country to. "It is the prime minister's birthday and from this platform, we wish him a happy birthday. We pray for his well being, but we do believe that this day is being celebrated in many parts of the country as unemployment day, anti-farmer day, high prices day, crippled economy day, as winning over your crony capitalists friends day, as ED, IT, CBI raid day, and the corona mismanagement day," Shrinate told reporters. "We do believe that in the last seven years, you have failed on several fronts and we hope and pray that God gives you the wisdom to realise that this is what you have led the country to. This is where, you have failed and today as a result, India is paying a heavy price for it," she also said. She claimed India has the maximum number of unemployed people despite Modi's tall promises. She said every month, jobs are being lost and asked, "where are those two crore annual jobs, one would want to ask? Why are 61 lakh government jobs lying vacant?". Noting that farmers are protesting for nine long months without a solution in sight, Shrinate said high prices in gas, diesel, petrol, edible oil, pulses, daily essential items are making lives of people difficult. She claimed demonetisation and GST have crippled the economy and there has been shutdown of MSMEs and small businesses as a result, as investment in the consumption chain is completely broken. "Still, you have put India on sale for a few friends of yours and which is why, it is important that we are calling it the 'punjipati poojan divas' (crony capitalist friends day)," she said. Shrinate also alleged that during Covid crisis, the country faced shortage of vaccines, oxygen, essential drugs as the prime minister was too busy electioneering and the "red flags were being manipulated to suit his image". She accused the prime minister of misuse of ED, IT, CBI, as frontal organisations. "The PM has broken the very framework of our Constitution and they have hurt the very foundation of our democracy and which is why, the 'ED, IT, CBI raid divas' is perhaps an apt coinage here," she said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-paying-price-for-your-failures-congress-leaders-wish-modi-on-his-birthday-1031405.html
17-09-2021||National||WTO Agreement on Agriculture tilted against developing countries: Piyush Goyal||The Agreement on Agriculture at the WTO was riddled with deep imbalances, which favour the developed countries and have tilted the rules against many developing countries, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said. He said that historical asymmetries and imbalances must be corrected to ensure a rule-based, fair and equitable order. Goyal said this while addressing the G-33 Virtual Informal Ministerial Meeting. It was organised by Indonesia on Thursday to discuss the agricultural priority issues of G-33 and the way forward for the 12th Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), scheduled to be held from November 30 to December 3 this year, an official statement said on Friday. Out of a total of 47 G-33 members, representatives from 21 countries, including India, took the floor to make the brief intervention. In his intervention, Goyal said G-33 must strive for positive outcomes on a permanent solution to public stockholding for food security purposes, which is of utmost importance, finalisation of a special safeguard mechanism (SSM) quickly and a balanced outcome on domestic support. He urged the members to work collectively to retain the cohesion of the G-33 coalition and strengthen it further by reaching out to other like-minded developing groups to secure their support for a fair, balanced and development-centric outcome on agriculture at the 12th conference in Geneva. The meeting concluded with the adoption of the G-33 joint ministerial statement reaffirming commitment for expeditious resolution of the WTO's mandated issues in agriculture. The minister "highlighted that Agreement on Agriculture at the WTO was riddled with deep imbalances, which favour the developed countries and have tilted the rules against many developing countries", the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wto-agreement-on-agriculture-tilted-against-developing-countries-piyush-goyal-1031410.html
17-09-2021||National||Indian Railways to train 50,000 youths under the Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana||The Indian Railways will provide skill development training to 50,000 youths in the age group of 18 to 35 years over the next three years as part of the Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana. Under the scheme, youths will be provided training in industry-relevant skills in Railway Training Institutes, the railways said in a statement. Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw launched the scheme on Friday. The Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana (RKVY) will contribute to the mission towards Atmanirbhar Bharat and is also a part of the series of initiatives in the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, it said. Training programmes will be conducted in four trades like electrician, welder, machinist and fitter, and participants shall be provided 100 hours of training in 75 Railway Training Institutes, which have been shortlisted around the country. "Applications will be invited by these institutes from interested candidates periodically and participants will be selected following a transparent mechanism such as marks obtained in matriculation. However, participants shall have no claim to seek employment in the Railways on the basis of such training," the transporter said. The curriculum for the programme has been developed by Banaras Locomotive Works, the nodal production unit for this scheme, which will also standardise assessments and maintain a centralised database of participants. The scheme is being launched for 1,000 participants initially and will cover 50,000 candidates over a period of three years, the ministry said. "Trainees shall be required to undergo a standardized assessment and will be awarded certificate in the allotted trade by Railways/ National Rail & Transportation Institute on conclusion of the programme," it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-train-50000-youths-under-the-rail-kaushal-vikas-yojana-1031412.html
17-09-2021||National||India administers record 2.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in a day on PM Modi's birthday||India on Friday set a new Covid-19 vaccination record with over 2.5 crore jabs on a single day coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday, bringing the country within a touching distance of 80 crore vaccination milestone. The mega spike eclipsed the Chinese record of 2.43 crore vaccinations in a single day. Buoyed by the success, the Union Health Ministry hopes to reach the landmark of 100 crore vaccination by the first week of October, coinciding again with Modi's 20th year at public office. At the end of the day, over 2.5 crore doses were administered, pushing the total vaccination count to 79.3 crore. More than 59 crore vaccines or 75% of the shots have been given as the first dose whereas 25% of the Indian adults (19.75 crore) are now fully vaccinated. With Dasara-Diwali-Chhath coming up within a month, the Centre sought to complete the first dose of the vaccination to the target audience of 94.47 crore individuals before the festival mingling of people, health ministry sources said. Special care is also being taken to ensure full vaccination in the five poll-bound states including the populous Uttar Pradesh. The ministry took nearly two weeks to prepare for the Friday spike, which involved several logistical challenges, said an official advising the government on Covid-19 vaccination. The government ensured adequate doses at the jab sites, the presence of the vaccination staff and helped mobilise people to come forward to take the shot.  Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the manufacturer of Covishield, would supply 20 crore doses in September while another 3.5 crore would come from Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. Zydus Cadila too is expected to supply one crore doses either by September end or in early October. In August, the two suppliers provided 19 crore doses. “Under Prime Minister Modi's remarkable leadership the country has again achieved a new vaccination milestone. We have done it,” Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, reacting to the landmark. The minister was visiting Delhi's Safdarjung hospital when the milestone was reached. Lauding the health workers, he said, “Due to your efforts, India was able to achieve this milestone.”  Due to the supply crunch, India's Covid-19 vaccination was at a low in May but has improved since then. The average daily vaccination dipped to 19.69 lakh in May after the April high of nearly 30 lakh, but rose subsequently to nearly 40 lakh in June, 60 lakh in August and more than 74 lakh by mid-September. India administered nearly 12 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in June and surpassed it by the third week of September as supply from the two manufacturers improved. Ministry sources said the government didn't have any plan to restart the export of Covid-19 vaccines as the goal was to fully vaccinate the entire adult population. Also, no decision has been taken on inoculating the 12-18 crore age group. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-record-25-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-on-pm-modis-birthday-1031413.html
17-09-2021||National||Centre directs states to form district-level committees to oversee progress of power sector schemes||The Centre has directed states and union territories (UTs) to form a committee in all districts to oversee the progress of various power sector schemes of the Government of India, according to an official statement. The Ministry of Power said it has issued an order for the setting up of district level committees which shall exercise oversight over all power-related schemes of the Centre, as also its impact on the provision of services to the people. This is being done in order to ensure the involvement and oversight of the people in the process of power sector reforms and their implementation, in the country, it said. The order -- which has been addressed to the Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary/ Secretary (Power/Energy) of all states/UTs, requests them to notify and ensure establishment of these district electricity committees, under intimation to the Ministry of Power. The order also states that it will be the responsibility of the convenor and member secretary to conduct the meetings on a regular basis, the statement said. "The senior most Member of Parliament in the district will be the chairperson of the committee, other MPs in the district will be co-chairpersons. The district collector will be member secretary. Chairperson/President of the District Panchayat will be member, MLAs of the district will be members. Most senior representatives of CPSUs of Ministry Members of Power and NRE located in the concerned district, or their nominated officials for the district," the statement added. The committee would see progress and quality issues of power related schemes of the Centre. It will look into development of sub-transmission and distribution networks including regular operations and maintenance of the network. The committee will also assess the impact of the works on quality and reliability of power supply, besides standards of performance and consumer services quality of supply. The Union Government has been providing funds under different schemes for strengthening the distribution systems in the country. According to the statement, in the past five years about Rs 2 lakh crore was provided under Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY), Integrated Power Development Scheme (lPDS), Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (SAUBHAGYA), etc to ensure universal access by electrifying each village and hamlet, and household. The fund was also spent for setting up more substations, upgrading existing substations, for high tension/low tension lines, transformers etc, for strengthening the distribution systems. Recently, the government approved a new scheme of Rs 3 lakh crore for further strengthening the distribution systems wherever necessary, and modernising it to meet emerging challenges.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-directs-states-to-form-district-level-committees-to-oversee-progress-of-power-sector-schemes-1031421.html
17-09-2021||National||NIA appeals to public to provide information about IS recruitment||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has appealed to the public to provide information about radicalisation and recruitment attempts on behalf of the Islamic State (IS), saying gullible youth are targeted on social media platforms. It said investigations by the NIA has shown that the IS is trying to spread its tentacles in India through continuous propaganda online. Those who have any information about IS activities in India should contact the NIA on 011-24368800, the NIA said. "Gullible youth are targeted on open social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Once a person shows interest, he or she is then enticed to communicate with online handlers based abroad using encrypted social media platforms," it said. "Depending on the gullibility of the person, the handlers then use the person for uploading online content, translation of IS texts to local language, conspiracy, preparation of a module, collection of arms and ammunition, preparation of IEDs, terror funding and even attacks," it said. So far, the NIA has investigated 37 cases of terror attacks, conspiracy and funding which have been inspired by the IS ideology. The most recent case was registered by the NIA in June 2021. A total of 168 accused have been arrested in these cases and charge sheets have been filed in 31 cases. Twenty-seven accused have been convicted after trial.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-appeals-to-public-to-provide-information-about-is-recruitment-1031428.html
17-09-2021||National||'Vaccinating eligible people in poll-bound UP, Punjab with at least one dose govt's priority'||Administering at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the eligible population in states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab where assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year is on the priority list of the government, according to official sources. Also, the target of a landmark 100 crore Covid vaccination doses is likely to be completed by the second week of October, Union health ministry sources said on Friday. "Inoculating eligible people in states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab where assembly elections are to be held next year with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine is on the priority list of the government," a source said. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 78 crore on Friday. The government said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Of all the vaccines used, around 87.8 per cent are Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute, around 12.11 per cent are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and less than one per cent Sputnik V. At least 50 per cent of the beneficiaries have been administered the first dose in Uttar Pradesh. The target is to cover the 100 per cent eligible population with at least one shot before the polls, the sources said. Commenting about the delay of Pfizer and Moderna's Covid vaccines in India, the sources said change in the demands of the manufacturers from time to time is leading to delay in making these vaccines available in the country and as to why they have not been given indemnity.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinating-eligible-people-in-poll-bound-up-punjab-with-at-least-one-dose-govts-priority-1031432.html
17-09-2021||National||Continuing instability in Afghanistan will embolden terrorism: PM Modi||India on Friday for the first time categorically stated that the Taliban’s new regime in Afghanistan was not inclusive and hence its legitimacy had come into question. Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged the global community to tread cautiously on recognizing the new regime in Afghanistan. He also warned about the advanced weaponry the United States and its NATO allies had left behind in Afghanistan and the possibility of such military hardware posing a threat to the stability in the entire region. “If fundamentalism continues to thrive and instability perpetuates in Afghanistan, it will keep encouraging the menaces of extremism and terrorism around the world,” the Prime Minister said. He was virtually participating in a conclave of the leaders of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) on Afghanistan. The conclave was held on the sideline of the SCO summit hosted by Tajikistan’s President Emomali Rahmon in Dushanbe on Friday. The Taliban returned to power in Kabul last month through a swift military campaign across Afghanistan, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the US and its NATO allies. The militant organization on September 8 announced an interim government in Afghanistan, with hardly any representation of the ethnic communities other than the Pashtun. It also had no representation of women or religious minorities of Afghanistan. The Prime Minister on Friday said that the new regime in Afghanistan was not inclusive and it had not been installed through negotiation. This is the first time India publicly and categorically called out the Taliban Government in Afghanistan for lack of inclusivity. New Delhi earlier signalled that it might recognize the Taliban’s new regime in Kabul if it was an “inclusive dispensation” with the representation of all communities of Afghanistan, respected the aspirations of the children and voices and rights of women and promised not to allow anyone to use the country to export terror to other countries in the region and beyond. But the Prime Minister on Friday virtually ruled out the possibility of New Delhi recognizing the Taliban Government in Kabul in near future. New Delhi has been over the past few months having informal back-channel talks with a section of the Taliban because it anticipated that the militant organization might return to power after the US and its NATO allies would complete withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and that Pakistan might exploit the situation to gain a strategic edge against India. The Prime Minister on Friday virtually participated in the SCO summit too. “I believe that the biggest challenges in this area are related to peace, security and trust-deficit and the root cause of these problems is increasing radicalization. Recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge more apparent,” he said, urging the nine-member-bloc led by Russia and China to collectively fight the menace of radicalization. The summit ended with the SCO member states expressing support for Afghanistan as “an independent, neutral, united, democratic and peaceful state, free of terrorism, war and drugs”. “(The) Member states believe that it is critical to have an inclusive Government in Afghanistan, with representatives from all ethnic, religious and political groups of Afghan society,” the SCO stated in the Dushanbe Declaration adopted during the summit. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/continuing-instability-in-afghanistan-will-embolden-terrorism-pm-modi-1031434.html
17-09-2021||National||SC notice to Karnataka govt on plea against disciplinary proceedings for corruption in recruitment of prosecutors||The Supreme Court on Friday issued to the Karnataka government, Lokayukta and others on a plea by a woman assistant public prosecutor and others against disciplinary proceedings initiated against them by Upalokayukta for alleged corrupt practices adopted in the recruitment process in 2013 on the basis of a report prepared by it. A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao decided to examine the special leave petition filed by Sarojini Veerappa Batakurki and others challenging the Karnataka High Court's orders of May 14, 2020, and June 28, 2021, dismissing their plea. The petitioners, led by senior advocate Basava Prabhu Patil and advocates Chinmay Deshpande and Anirudh Sanganeria, contended that the power under the Karnataka Lokayukta Act cannot be exercised against them as they were not public servants at the time of the alleged act. Their plea also said the High Court failed to appreciate that summons issued against them by a trial court on the basis of a supplementary charge sheet was stayed, though the case was registered on the basis of Upalokayukta report of June 28, 2018. It also submitted the disciplinary proceedings by Upalokayukta at the behest its own report would be farcical in nature and cause grave injustice to her. The Upalokayukta ought not to have taken suo motu cognizance in the matter due to the absence of specific allegations or complaint against the selected candidates, it added. The proceedings in the matter were initiated following a private complaint filed by H T Ravi, an unsuccessful candidate in 2014 alleging Chandrashekar Hiremath, then director of prosecution and another staff were involved in corruption in recruitment of assistant public prosecutors.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-plea-against-disciplinary-proceedings-for-corruption-in-recruitment-of-prosecutors-1031441.html
17-09-2021||National||UK hopes to complete FTA talks with India soon||The UK on Friday expressed hope that it will be able to soon complete the negotiations for the proposed Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with India, a move aimed at further enhancing trade and investment ties between the two countries. "I can confidently predict that we will complete the India-UK FTA before we see an India-EU (European Union) FTA completed," UK Investment Minister Lord Gerry Grimstone said. Speaking at industry body CII's India-UK Annual Conference, he said there have been productive discussions on how the trade pact can act as a means to connect the two economies and to double bilateral trade over the next decade. India and the UK are aiming to start negotiations for the proposed bilateral FTA by November 1. Recently, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said the two countries are moving towards an early harvest trade agreement, with a comprehensive FTA as the next step. In a FTA, two or more trading partners significantly reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them besides liberalising norms to promote trade in services and investments. In an interim trade pact, customs duties are removed on a limited number of goods. The bilateral trade between the two nations stood at $13.11 billion in 2020-21 as against $15.45 billion in 2019-20. Trade balance is in favour of India, according to the data from the Indian commerce ministry. Grimstone also said that "our focus is on boosting investments, exports, addressing market access issues, removing trade barriers that are hindering growth and unleashing the potential for economic growth". India is working on creating a robust FTA with the UK, Gaitri Issar Kumar, High Commissioner of India to the UK, said. India is the second largest FDI contributor in the UK and 850 Indian companies contributed a net revenue of over GBP 50 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-hopes-to-complete-fta-talks-with-india-soon-1031445.html
17-09-2021||National||Centre very keen towards welfare of Kashmiri migrants: Sarbananda Sonowal||Kashmiri migrants constitute part and parcel of Kashmir's composite culture and the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is very keen towards their welfare, Union AYUSH Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said in Baramulla on Friday. The Union minister made these remarks after laying the foundation stone of a transit accommodation camp at Khawjabagh in the north Kashmir district. Asserting that Kashmiri migrants constitute part and parcel of Kashmir's composite culture, the Union Minister of AYUSH, and Ports, Shipping and Waterways said the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is very keen towards their welfare, according to a government release. "Several concrete measures have been taken in order to ensure their rehabilitation so that they live in their homeland with peace and harmony," he said. The minister said time has come when the people of different faiths and beliefs live with peace and prosperity. The unity in diversity as envisaged in 'Azadi ka Amrut Mohatsav', the celebration of India's 75th year of independence, initiative is the only unifying factor for a strong nation, he said. The Union minister, accompanied by top functionaries, was on a two-day visit to Baramulla district as part of Union government's special public outreach programme which also aims to collect feedbacks of different stakeholders after listening to their developmental aspirations and other concerns. Sonowal met scores of delegations who apprised him about their demands and grievances. Representatives of different political parties called on the minister and highlighted several demands and grievances pertaining to socioeconomic development of the society including the upgradation of basic infrastructure in AYUSH institutions, development of waterways wherever possible, amongst others. Sonowal gave a patient hearing and expressed happiness over the meeting held with the delegations. He said the Union government has a good dream for development of Jammu and Kashmir, adding that the present outreach programme has been initiated by the government to know the basic problems of the people at the ground. He assured that the demands and grievances projected by the delegations have been taken note of and the same would be put up with government at Union level as well as with Lieutenant Governor for their timely redressal. Impressed with the positive and cooperative attitude of the cross-sections of people, the minister said everyone has to play their part for boosting the development tempo. He congratulated the Panchayati Raj Institutions for the successful establishment of three-tier system of governance. He said the three-tier system of government was available to the people of Jammu and Kashmir first time in the history of independence. The transit camp, having the accommodation facility for about 337 families, shall be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 4,032 lakh with a cost of Rs 12 lakh on each flat. About 50 kanals of land has been acquired for the purpose. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-very-keen-towards-welfare-of-kashmiri-migrants-sarbananda-sonowal-1031469.html
17-09-2021||National||PM Modi did what his predecessors did not dare to do: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership on his birthday and cited decisions such as the nullification of Article 370 and banning of instant triple talaq to assert that he did what was considered impossible. Nadda also launched his party's 20-day "Seva aur Samarpan" campaign during which the party will undertake a number of welfare measures to mark Modi's birthday and his 20 years as head of a government, including as Gujarat chief minister.  "Abolition of Article 370, ban on triple talaq, paving the way for the construction of grand Ram Temple, surgical strikes and air strikes on terrorists, implementation of One Rank One Pension, Ayushman Bharat medical insurance cards to over 55 crore citizens... All these are some of the works which Modi has done in seven years which were considered impossible and none of his predecessors dared to do," he said. In this context, Nadda also referred to programmes like getting every house electrified, free gas connections for poor households, Rs 6,000 annual financial assistance for over 10 crore farmers, providing free rations to over 80 crore poor people during the pandemic, free house for the poor to laud Modi.  He asked BJP members to draw inspiration from Modi. "It is a matter of great privilege and honour for the country and the party that today we are being led and guided by a great personality whose entire life is devoted towards the preservation and promotion of India's rich cultural diversity and heritage. Our prime minister's life is devoted to making India a strong, powerful and prosperous nation," he said in a statement. He claimed that Modi has changed India's political culture as it was earlier plagued with casteism, appeasement and nepotism but the prime minister had proved that politics is about serving people and the country without any fear or favour. "All political parties have been forced to change tack and work for the development of the country and welfare of its people," Nadda said. Noting Modi's humble background, he said the prime minister has always felt very strongly for the welfare of poor and worked to make their lives better and happy. Check out the latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-did-what-his-predecessors-did-not-dare-to-do-nadda-1031476.html
17-09-2021||National||Key takeaways from 45th GST Council meeting||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday announced key decisions taken in the 45th meeting of the GST Council. Here are the key takeaways from the meeting: * GST Council extended concessional GST rates on these drugs used in Covid treatment till December 31: Amphotericin B -nil, Remdesivir – 5%, Tocilizumab -nil, Anti-coagulants like Heparin – 5% * Reduction of GST rate to 5% on seven more Covid-19 treatment drugs, till December 31, 2021. * GST rate on biodiesel for blending with diesel cut from 12% to 5%. * GST Council exempts national permit fee charged by states for operation of goods carriage. * GST Council felt it isn't time to bring petroleum products under GST regime. More to follow... Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-45th-gst-council-meeting-1031490.html
17-09-2021||National||Cong slams CM Sawant for discrepancies in Goa's Covid death toll||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant should come clear on the discrepancies in the Covid-19 death toll, the Congress legislative party said on Friday.  The state Directorate of Health Services on Thursday attributed 68 more deaths to the overall Covid fatality tally which has now risen to 3,290. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, who addressed reporters after a meeting of the five-member Congress legislature party (CLP), also expressed concern about the rising number of crimes against women in the coastal state.   "The members also discussed the discrepancies’ and ambiguities in the Covid deaths reported by the government. The CLP members expressed shock over the late reporting of almost 68 Covid deaths and urged the Chief Minister to issue detailed clarification on the lapses and goof-ups and place before the public the corrective actions taken by the government," Kamat told reporters.  Referring to the latest report published by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) which has underlined an increase in the crime rate in the state, Kamat said: "The CLP discussed on the prevailing law and order situation in the state and raised serious concerns over the steep rise in crimes in Goa." "The NCRB report of 2020 has shown a rise of almost 73 per cent in crimes in Goa. The report has also stated that the average rate of rapes is 7.8 per cent rapes in Goa as against the national average of 4.3 per cent," Kamat said, slamming the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led government for its failure to "maintain law and order in Goa".  The CLP also condemned the police lathicharge and the arrest of the National President of Indian Youth Congress B Srinivas and other Youth Congress leaders in the state earlier this week, during an agitation against rising inflation in the country.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-slams-cm-sawant-for-discrepancies-in-goas-covid-death-toll-1031499.html
17-09-2021||National||GST Council extends concessional tax rates on Covid drugs till December 31, 5% GST levied on food delivery apps||The all-powerful GST Council on Friday decided to charge food delivery platforms such as Swiggy and Zomato a tax even as it extended concessional tax rates on certain Covid-19 drugs by three months till December 31. The Council, which comprises the Union finance minister and her state counterparts, decided to continue keeping petrol and diesel out of the GST purview as subsuming the current excise duty and VAT into one national rate would impact revenues. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the Council at a meeting here, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said GST has been exempted on muscular atrophy drugs like Zolgensma and Viltepso, which cost crores of rupees. It extended the period of concessional GST rates on certain Covid-related drugs by three months till December 31 but decided not to give the same benefit to medical equipment. The concessional regime for certain medical equipment will end on September 30. Sitharaman said 5 per cent GST will be levied at the point where the delivery is made by Swiggy and Zomato. Also, the Council cut GST rate from 12 per cent to 5 per cent on cancer-related rugs and on fortified rice kernels to 5 per cent from 18 per cent. GST rate on bio-diesel for blending in diesel was reduced to 5 per cent from 12 per cent, while the national permit fee for goods carriage has been exempt from GST. Import of leased aircraft have also been exempted from payment of I-GST, the finance minister said. "GST Council felt it was not the right time to include petroleum products in GST," she said. The panel decided to levy 18 per cent GST on all sorts of pens. Specified renewable sector devices will be charged 12 per cent tax. GST Council also recommended new footwear and textile rates from January 1.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-council-extends-concessional-tax-rates-on-covid-drugs-till-december-31-5-gst-levied-on-food-delivery-apps-1031510.html
17-09-2021||National||If there is no new variant, third Covid wave will not be as devastating as second, says Gagandeep Kang||There will not be a third wave of Covid of the size and consequence the country witnessed during the second wave unless there is a new variant of coronavirus, top vaccinologist Gagandeep Kang said Friday. She stressed the need to develop better vaccines that can deal with new variants, and strengthening of the regulatory mechanisms. "Unless there is a new variant there will not be a third wave of the size and consequences that we saw in the second wave. What we will see is local flare-ups where there are unprotected populations and where the virus has not been before," Kang said. The second wave of coronavirus in the country between March and May killed thousands and infected lakhs, overwhelming the health infrastructure. "Are we done with Covid? No we are not. Are we going to be done with Covid? Not anytime in the near future," she added. Kang, a professor with Christian Medical College, Vellore, was speaking virtually at the CII Lifesciences Conclave. Last month, Manindra Agrawal, a scientist with IIT-Kanpur who is in the three-member team of experts tasked to project the surge in cases, had said the country may see a third wave peaking between October-November if a more virulent mutant of coronavirus emerges by September. Kang said the Indian vaccine industry has been “absolutely phenomenal” in dealing with the pandemic, but it still has a long way to go. "I can't say the same thing (about the regulatory system) as people know about our regulatory systems. But it is something we should use as a lesson for the future because we really really need informed, strong regulators that work with industries to show what is required," she said. Kang also stressed the need for a translational research ecosystem of clinical researchers that are willing to take risk, and are supported by the government and academia. She said new technologies carry risks and there is a need for a regulatory system that is prepared for clinical risks. "We need the academic medical environments that work with the industry to make sure that we can safely test these interventions in people. We do not have this at this time so strengthening regulation is key." She said surveillance diagnostics is still dependent very heavily on imports. The routine PCR kits are being made by many companies in the country but the best laboratories are not yet using those tests, she observed. "We have to recognise that we need to be thinking about the quality of what we use so that we use what we make in diagnostics just as we do in vaccines and in drugs and in terms of sequencing," she said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-there-is-no-new-variant-third-covid-wave-will-not-be-as-devastating-as-second-says-gagandeep-kang-1031513.html
17-09-2021||National||Tender system adopted for transparency but no tender remains unchallenged: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the enlarged role of the Government in economic activity and its corresponding ability to give economic ‘largesse’ was the bedrock of creating a tender system with an objective to have greater transparency but the ground reality is that almost no tender remains unchallenged. Observing "mindless appeals should not be the rule", the top court in a first of its kind devised a methodology for imposing cost on commercial entities indulging in such litigations and said “The tender jurisdiction was created for scrutiny of commercial matters and, thus, where continuously parties seek to challenge award of tenders, we are of the view that the succeeding party must get costs and the party which loses must pay costs”. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrisikesh Roy, while deciding commercial dispute between corporate entities over the dispute on terms and conditions of tender issued by Tamil Nadu government, said that the judicial review of such contractual matters has its own limitations. “The enlarged role of the Government in economic activity and its corresponding ability to give economic ‘largesse’ was the bedrock of creating what is commonly called the ‘tender jurisdiction’. The objective was to have greater transparency and the consequent right of an aggrieved party to invoke the jurisdiction of the High Court…, beyond the issue of strict enforcement of contractual rights under the civil jurisdiction. However, the ground reality today is that almost no tender remains unchallenged”, the bench said. It said that the “burgeoning litigation” in this field and the same being carried to this Court has made the top court make observations in the catena of verdicts over the period of time. The top court passed the order on an appeal filed by Uflex Ltd against the Madras High Court order of April 29, giving Tamil Nadu government four months’ time to float a fresh tender for production and supply of polyester based hologram stickers to be pasted across the caps of bottles of liquor sold by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC). The High Court had passed the order on a plea filed by two other competing firms, who were not selected in the tender process. The bench said that the unsuccessful parties or parties not even participating in the tender process seek to invoke the jurisdiction of the courts and even the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) jurisdiction is also invoked, an aspect which is normally deterred by the Court because this causes proxy litigation in purely contractual matters. “The judicial review of such contractual matters has its own limitations. It is in this context of judicial review of administrative actions that this Court has opined that it is intended to prevent arbitrariness, irrationality, unreasonableness, bias and mala fide,” the bench said. Referring to an earlier verdict, the bench said this court has held that “attempts by unsuccessful tenderers with imaginary grievances, wounded pride and business rivalry, to make mountains out of molehills of some technical/ procedural violation or some prejudice to self, and persuade courts to interfere by exercising power of judicial review, should be resisted.” It said that in commercial tender matters there is obviously an aspect of commercial competitiveness and for every succeeding party who gets a tender there may be a couple or more parties who are not awarded the tender as there can be only one L-1. “The objective is not to make the Court an appellate authority for scrutinizing as to whom the tender should be awarded. Economics must be permitted to play its role for which the tendering authority knows best as to what is suited in terms of technology and price for them,” the bench said. Terming the dispute between the parties in question as having history of many prior endeavours, the bench said it does appear that rival parties M/s Kumbhat Holographics and M/s. Alpha Lasertek India LLP in a competitive market they have not been as successful as they would like to be. “Merely because a company (referring to Uflex Limited) is more efficient, obtains better technology, makes more competitive bids and, thus, succeeds more cannot be a factor to deprive that company of commercial success on that pretext”, it said, adding that it does appear that the rival firms are endeavouring to continuously create impediments in the way of the succeeding party merely because they themselves had not so succeeded. The bench in its 48-page verdict said, “it is thus our view that the Division Bench has fallen into an error in almost sitting as an appellate authority on technology and commercial expediency which is not the role which a Court ought to play”. It said, “We are thus unequivocally of the view that the impugned order cannot be sustained for all the aforesaid reasons and must be set aside and the appeals are accordingly allowed”. The top court awarded over Rs 23.25 lakh to Uflex Limited and even awarded Rs 7.58 lakh to the state government as compensation payable by the two rival firms for defending the litigation.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tender-system-adopted-for-transparency-but-no-tender-remains-unchallenged-sc-1031522.html
17-09-2021||National||CBI takes over 2 more cases related to WB post-poll violence||The CBI has taken over the probe of two more cases related to post-poll violence in West Bengal, one of rape of a minor girl and the other an alleged murder, taking the total number of such cases it is handling to 37, officials said on Friday. The case of alleged rape was reported on June 5 at Manikchack police station in Malda district, they said. The agency refused to share more details of the case as it pertains to sexual assault on a minor girl. The second case was reported on July 2 nearly two months after the assembly results were announced. It was alleged in the case reported at Nodakhali police station, South 24 Parganas that the 19 accused severely beat Swaroop Haldar and crushed his head. His wife Chandana was also beaten up while trying to save him, the FIR registered on the complaint of Swaroop's brother alleged. CBI spokesperson RC Joshi in a statement said Chandana received blows including on her head with bamboo and brickbat when she tried to save her husband. The doctor at Muchisa Hospital referred them to Kolkata but Chandana died on the way, while her husband was still admitted in the P.G. hospital in serious condition, the statement said. The agency has taken over the investigation into post-poll violence on the orders of Calcutta High Court. The high court directives came after an NHRC committee submitted a report on the violence in the state after results announced on May 2 declaring a thumping victory of Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress over the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase electoral battle. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-takes-over-2-more-cases-related-to-wb-post-poll-violence-1031537.html
17-09-2021||National||PMLA case: TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, wife move Delhi HC challenging ED summons||TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Friday approached the Delhi High Court seeking quashing of summons issued to them by the Enforcement Directorate for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal, saying they are residents of Kolkata and should not be compelled to join the probe in the national capital. The plea was mentioned before the high court for urgent listing and is likely to come up for hearing on September 21, the day when he and his wife Rujira Banerjee have been asked to personally appear before the agency in Delhi along with a voluminous set of documents. Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and his wife have challenged the September 10 summons and also sought to direct the ED not to summon them for their appearance in Delhi and thereby not compelling them to join the investigation in the instant case here. The 33-year-old MP represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The plea also said that a greater degree of protection is granted to a woman under Section 160 of the CrPC, which mandates that she shall not be required to attend any place other than where she resides. It said the repeated issuance of summons to Rujira Banerjee to appear before the ED is ex-facie illegal and mala fide and sought court’s intervention before any coercive measures are resorted to by the agency. The ED lodged a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges. Abhishek Banerjee said ED has repeatedly summoned him and his wife for examination in person in Delhi without supplying a copy of the ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) and without specifying whether they are being summoned as witnesses or accused, nor indicating the scope of the investigation being carried out. He said their examination may take place in Kolkata where ED has a functional and fully equipped zonal office.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmla-case-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-wife-move-delhi-hc-challenging-ed-summons-1031539.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||BJP once praised Sonu Sood, but now considers him a tax evader: Shiv Sena on I-T action against actor||The Shiv Sena on Friday slammed the BJP over the Income Tax Department's action against actor Sonu Sood, saying that although the party earlier praised him for his work during the lockdown, it now considers him a "tax evader" after the Delhi and Punjab governments tried to join hands with him in his social work. In an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena said the action against Sood was a foul play, which would boomerang the BJP, and said that the party that claims to have the highest number of members in the world, should also have a large heart. The I-T officials had descended on the premises linked to Sood in Mumbai and some other places on Wednesday in connection with an alleged tax evasion probe, official sources had said. "Filing false cases against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers, pressuring the state governor to withhold 12 members for their nomination to the state Legislative Council and raiding actor like Sonu Sood were signs of a small and narrow mind. This is foul play and it is sure to boomerang one day" the Sena said. During the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Sood came into limelight when he emerged as the 'messiah' of the poor migrant labourers, helping them return to their home states during the national lockdown and providing shelter and food to them, it added. "The BJP then praised him and asked why the MVA government can't do what Sood has been doing. The BJP projected him as their own. But when Sood became the brand ambassador of the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government's educational programme, the I-T raided him," the party alleged. The ruling party in Maharashtra further said that BJP leaders had earlier remained present at all his programmes like setting up oxygen plants in 16 cities, his scholarship programmes. Even Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari called him to Raj Bhavan and praised his efforts. But when Delhi and Punjab governments tried to join hands with him in his social work, the actor became a tax evader, the Sena added. "It has become a norm to trouble people not linked to the BJP through investigating agencies," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-once-praised-sonu-sood-but-now-considers-him-a-tax-evader-shiv-sena-on-i-t-action-against-actor-1031351.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||SP, BSP, Congress have no mass base in UP, fighting to become 'landlord without land': Naqvi||The SP, BSP and the Congress are competing for power in Uttar Pradesh without any base among the masses, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Friday, asserting that the opposition parties were fighting to become a "landlord without land". He said the mafias that were flourishing under the previous governments in Uttar Pradesh have been put behind bars during the Yogi Adityanath dispensation, and asserted that there was a sense of security in the state. While participating in various programmes on 'Seva Diwas' in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur, Naqvi told reporters that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was taking “stringent action against goons and mafias" due to which "their political protectors are being hurt the most”. For the people of the state it is a choice between "apradhiyon ki hirasat (detention for criminals)" versus "apradhiyon ki hifazat (protection for criminals)". The people of Uttar Pradesh are living with a sense of security under the Adityanath government, but this has made those people restless who had been "reaching the throne of power by sitting on the shoulders of these goons and mafias", Naqvi was quoted as saying by a statement from his office. The Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress are in a competition for power without any base among the masses, he said, adding that they are fighting to become a “landlord without land”. Indian politics has taken a positive turn due to the “politics of commitment to performance, good governance and integrity” being practised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Naqvi said. But those political parties who are confined to the "family nest" can neither understand nor accept this positive change in politics, Naqvi said. Prime Minister Modi is synonymous with determination, dedication and development without discrimination, the minister said. Naqvi said that Prime Minister Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have played the role of “trouble-shooters” during the coronavirus pandemic and led the fight against the pandemic from the front. Modi's commitment to the health and well-being of the people has ensured that India, despite having a huge population, is strongly coming out of the coronavirus pandemic. Naqvi said that the world's largest coronavirus vaccination drive is going on in India where more than 77 crore doses have been administered till now. Naqvi participated in various programmes in Rampur as part of 'Seva Diwas' organised to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. He also visited a vaccination centre at Dhamora in Rampur where he encouraged people to get inoculated and contribute in the campaign to make India coronavirus-free. The minister felicitated farmers and retired army personnel at Zila Sahakari Bank in Rampur. He also felicitated women for exceptional work during the pandemic.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-bsp-congress-have-no-mass-base-in-up-fighting-to-become-landlord-without-land-naqvi-1031390.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||SAD takes out protest march against farm laws in Delhi; Sukhbir, Harsimrat, others detained||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal were detained by the Delhi Police on Friday as they led a protest march in the national capital to mark the first anniversary of the passage of three contentious farm laws. The SAD, which walked out of the ruling coalition at the Centre last year over the farm laws, is observing September 17 as Black Day. The protest march was taken out from Gurudwara Rakab Ganj to the Parliament House. "The protest march today not only symbolises the farmers' dissent but will also be remembered as a historic event that struck at the root of tyranny. Let's unite to mark this day as the beginning of a renewed revolt to bring justice for farmers," the SAD president tweeted. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal along with 15 other party leaders have been detained at Parliament Street police station. According to the police, the leaders were detained for taking out the protest march in violation of Covid-19 guidelines. They were subsequently released. The protest march led to massive traffic snarls in several parts of the national capital, including Lutyens' Delhi and ITO. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who resigned from the government last year over the farm laws, said in a tweet that the massive participation in the protest march shows the public anger. "Farmers have been protesting at the Delhi border for a year, but the Centre is keen on quashing them. We are proud to have quit the NDA. Akali Dal will continue to resist despotism," she added. Alleging that the Delhi Police tried to stop their protest march, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said, "It is an undeclared emergency in New Delhi." A section of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, has been protesting at Delhi border points against the Centre's three farm laws for over nine months now. The protesting farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they feel will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has insisted that these laws have given farmers a new opportunity to sell their produce and rejected claims that they are aimed at doing away with the minimum support price regime and farm mandis. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-takes-out-protest-march-against-farm-laws-in-delhi-sukhbir-harsimrat-others-detained-1031391.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||Cornered BJP polishes its trump card, 'Brand Modi', as he turns 71||Facing flak for its Covid-19 response and a flagging economy, the BJP has turned to its trump card Prime Minister Narendra Modi by launching three-week celebrations to mark his 71st birthday on Friday. The burnishing of ‘Brand Modi’ comes ahead of the elections in five states – Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur – early next year and amid a backlash faced by the BJP over the farmers’ protests over the three farm laws. Modi, through a highly personalised campaign, rode to power with a clear majority in 2014 and won a larger mandate in 2019. The BJP came to power in several states post 2014 on the back of campaigns revolving around the Prime Minister’s personal charisma. However, of late the sheen around Modi appears to be fading with electoral setbacks in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and a slender victory in Bihar. The upcoming elections are crucial for the BJP, if it has to retain power at the Centre in 2024. BJP workers marked the occasion by encouraging people to get vaccinated against Covid-19, distributing free food grains to the poor, and blood donation camps under the ‘Seva aur Samarpan Abhiyan’ from September 17 to October 7 – the day Modi became chief minister of Gujarat in 2001. BJP President J P Nadda hailed Modi as a ‘social reformer’ whose single call united a nation to achieve tough goals. “It has been the belief of our prime minister that the benefits of development should reach the last person of the society. Under Prime Minister Modi's leadership, politics of casteism and appeasement has been replaced by politics of development,” Nadda said. Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the BJP, launched the ‘Nav Bharat Mela’ that include blood donation drives, cleanliness campaigns at temples, lakes and rivers and symposia on the national transformation under the leadership of Modi. Various BJP-ruled governments had announced mega vaccination drives and the impact was visible as the number of jabs administered had crossed the 2.22 crore mark at 7:30 p.m. An exhibition on Modi’s journey as an administrator – 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat and seven years as prime minister – was inaugurated at the BJP headquarters here. The government also commenced an auction of mementos received by the Prime Minister, including the javelin of Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra, badminton racquets of P V Sindhu, boxing gloves of Lovlina Borgohain among others. The proceeds from the auction will go to the Namami Gange Mission. Earlier, greetings poured in for Modi from across the country with President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, senior ministers, chief ministers and opposition leaders wishing him on his 71st birthday. “527 vaccinations per second today. Breathtaking...,” B L Santhosh, BJP national general secretary (organisation), said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cornered-bjp-polishes-its-trump-card-brand-modi-as-he-turns-71-1031423.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||With Rahul Gandhi’s failure, Mamata Banerjee is the only alternative to Modi: TMC mouthpiece||In a move that may result into cracks in the proposed anti-BJP opposition alliance, the Trinamool Congress’s (TMC) official mouthpiece stated in an article that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has failed to become a credible alternative to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country wants Mamata Banerjee to be the alternative. Quoting several senior TMC leaders, the article further stated that the ruling party in West Bengal will campaign for the 2024 Lok Sabha election projecting Mamata as the face of the opposition unity. “We are never saying that the anti-BJP alternative should be formed without the Congress. But Rahul Gandhi is yet to succeed in becoming a credible alternative to Narendra Modi. We will campaign projecting our party supremo as the alternative,” the article quoted TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy as saying at a recent TMC workers' meeting. The article published on Friday also quoted Leader of the TMC in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay that the country wants Mamata to become Modi’s alternative. He also said that the TMC will campaign projecting Mamata as the face of the anti-BJP alternative after holding discussions with other opposition parties. “The country needs an alternative. I have known Rahul Gandhi for a long time. But I must say that he is yet to become an alternative to Narendra Modi. The country wants Mamata. We will campaign projecting her as the face of the anti-BJP alternative after discussing the issue with other opposition parties.” said Bandyopadhyay. He also said that during his visits to Gujarat and Goa for work related to the Parliamentary Committee several have told him that they were looking forward to the results of the West Bengal Assembly election and were happy that the BJP was defeated in the state. “They told me that Mamata Banerjee has to lead the country,” said Bandyopadhay. The article further stated that the people were not considering Gandhi as an alternative to Modi and despite getting repeated opportunities Gandhi failed to establish himself as Modi’s alternative. The article also stated that the party was yet to take a final decision on the issue. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-rahul-gandhi-s-failure-mamata-banerjee-is-the-only-alternative-to-modi-tmc-mouthpiece-1031427.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||Congress forms screening committee for UP Assembly polls||Days after the BJP announced in-charges for Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the Congress on Friday set up a screening committee for the elections in the state with AICC General Secretary Jitendra Singh as its chairman. Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda and Maharashtra MLA Varsha Gaikwad have also been appointed as members of the panel, which also has the party general secretary in-charge for Uttar Pradesh as its ex-official member. State Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress Legislature Party leader in Uttar Pradesh Aradhna Misra AICC secretaries for Uttar Pradesh have been nominated as ex-officio members of the committee. The panel will soon start preparing a shortlist of Congress candidates for the Assembly polls. Last week, the BJP announced Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan as the party poll in-charge and assisted by seven co-in charges, including Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur, Ministers of State Sobha Karandlaje, Arjunram Meghwal and Annapurna Devi, Rajya Sabha MPs Saroj Pande and Vivek Thakur and former Haryana Minister Captain Abhimanyu. The saffron party also announced six region-wise in-charges. A recent survey by ABP-CVoter claimed that BJP is likely to win UP, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur while its prospects in Punjab appeared to be dim. In UP, it is predicted to lose some 50-60 seats from 312 while it is likely to improve its tally and have a comfortable majority in Goa and Manipur. BJP may also lose some seats in Uttarkhand but would not have trouble in forming a government, the survey has claimed, adding that Congress could lose Punjab, which it is ruling at present.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-forms-screening-committee-for-up-assembly-polls-1031430.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||Sidhu attacks SAD, AAP over farm laws, AAP calls him 'Rakhi Sawant'||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday slammed the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party over the Centre’s contentious farm laws, accusing them of staging a drama over the issue. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) hit back at Sidhu, calling him "Rakhi Sawant", an actor. Sidhu on Wednesday too had attacked the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal, accusing them of laying the foundation of the Centre's farm laws over which farmers are protesting for the past several months. The SAD led by its president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal held a protest march against the laws in Delhi on Friday to mark the first anniversary of the passage of the laws, prompting police to detain both leaders. Attacking the SAD, Sidhu once again alleged that they were "creators and defenders" of the "black laws". "The creators and defenders of the black laws are shedding crocodile tears today!!. Your drama stands exposed..#Black Day," Sidhu tweeted. Sidhu also attacked the Aam Aadmi Party, alleging that the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi had last year notified one of the farm laws even when farmers were sitting at the borders of national capital protesting against the legislations. In a video message on his Twitter handle, Sidhu said the AAP staged a drama of tearing copies of the central farm laws in the Delhi Assembly. "Exploitation of farmers and decreasing prices even on crops where MSP is announced--@Arvind Kejriwal Ji you notified the Private Mandi's central black law! Has it been de-notified or the masquerading is still going on..?" Sidhu said in another tweet. Hitting back, AAP leader Raghav Chadha said, "The Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics--Navjot Singh Sidhu--has received a scolding from the Congress high command for non-stop rant against Capt (Amarinder)." "Therefore today, for a change, he went after Arvind Kejriwal. Wait till tomorrow for he shall resume his diatribe against Capt with vehemence," Chadha tweeted. Earlier on Wednesday, Sidhu had alleged that one of the Centre's laws is a "photostat copy" of the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013 enacted during the previous SAD-BJP government led by Parkash Singh Badal. The Amritsar MLA had also claimed that the Badals initially supported the central laws and then took a U-turn after facing heat from farmers. His remarks had drawn a sharp reaction from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which asked if Sidhu ever objected to the state Act as a minister in the Congress government or later. The SAD in a statement earlier said Sidhu is trying to "befool" people by raking up old issues to cover up his party's failures. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhu-attacks-sad-aap-over-farm-laws-aap-calls-him-rakhi-sawant-1031449.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||Raghav Chadha kicks up row after calling Navjot Sidhu ‘Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics’||AAP MLA Raghav Chadha on Friday called Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu “Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics” over his criticism of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, drawing the ire of netizens who slammed him for his "misogynist" comment. “The Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics -Navjot Singh Sidhu- has received a scolding from Congress high command for a nonstop rant against Capt. Therefore today, for a change, he went after Arvind Kejriwal. Wait till tomorrow for he shall resume his diatribe against Capt with vehemence,” Chadha tweeted, tagging a video of Sidhu criticising the Delhi government for “notifying the Centre’s farm laws”. Sidhu had in the video said, "Exploitation of farmers and decreasing prices even on crops where MSP is announced--Arvind Kejriwal you notified the Private Mandi's central black law! Has it been de-notified or the masquerading is still going on?" Soon after Chadha's tweet, actor Rakhi Swant started trending on the microblogging site as netizens came out in her support and slammed the AAP MLA for the comparison. Alka Lamba, former AAP member and now with the Congress, said Chadha's comments showed the mentality of the ruling AAP in Delhi towards women as she equated it with RSS's thinking. A netizen reacted, "Rakhi Sawant- the most hard working who gives her hundred percent loyalty and effort to each project she takes, turning a dull flop show into an entertaining one, she is a compliment compared to the hateful fake counter parts!” "What's wrong in being a Rakhi Sawant that you are using it as an insult? No matter how hard these seasoned sanghis try to cover their reality, it does slip occasionally,” another user wrote. Another Twitter user asked, "Why to drag a woman's name in your political battle?" "Misogyny continues to dominate Indian politics. Criticism of a rival cannot be done without dragging a woman's name. Shame on you Raghav,” another one tweeted. Meanwhile, Sidhu hit back at Chadha, saying the AAP leader had not yet answered his question. “They say man descended from the apes and the monkeys, Looking at your mind @raghav_chadha, I believe you are still descending! You still haven’t answered my question about notifying the Farm Laws by your Government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raghav-chadha-kicks-up-row-after-calling-navjot-sidhu-rakhi-sawant-of-punjab-politics-1031482.html
17-09-2021||National Politics||SKM says 'Bharat Bandh' will be peaceful, will ensure public faces minimal inconvenience||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday issued guidelines for the September 27 'Bharat Bandh' against the Centre's three farm laws and said it would be peaceful and farmers will ensure that the public faces minimal inconvenience. In a statement, the SKM said the bandh will start at 6 am and it will remain in force till 4 pm. During this time, central and state government offices, markets, shops, factories, schools, colleges and other educational institutions will not be allowed to function. Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply on roads. No public functions will be allowed, it said. Only emergency services, including ambulances and fire services, will be allowed to function during the bandh, it added. "The SKM has asked constituent organisations to appeal to all sections of society to join hands with farmers and publicise the bandh beforehand so that inconvenience to the public may be reduced. "The bandh will be peaceful as well as voluntary and would exempt emergency services. The main banners or themes for the day would be 'Bharat Bandh against Anti-Farmer Modi Government', 'Modi Brings in Mandi Bandh', 'Farmers take up Bharat Bandh' and so on," the statement said. The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, said that a "state-level preparatory meeting" will be held in Mumbai on September 20 for further planning regarding the bandh. On the same day, a 'Kisan Mazdoor Mahapanchayat' will be organised in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur, followed by a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Uttarakhand's Roorkee on September 22. Additionally, the protesting farmers will also host a five-day Kabaddi League starting September 22 at Tikri and Singhu border protest sites. "Teams from different states are expected to participate and play for cash rewards," the statement said. The SKM said that the farmers have continued their protest for over nine months now because the government has been "adamant" on not repealing the contentious farm laws. It said lakhs of farmers are protesting at Delhi borders not of their "own volition". They have been forced to stay there by police of different states and the Union home ministry. Farmers have faced "great hardship" living on the highways amid heavy rains, harsh summer and chilly winter months, it added. The SKM said the farmers' protest is a matter of "protecting their livelihoods, basic productive resources and the future of the next generation". Farmers from different parts of the country have been protesting against the three farm laws since November last year. While the government has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms, the farmers fear that they will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks between the government and farmer leaders have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/skm-says-bharat-bandh-will-be-peaceful-will-ensure-public-faces-minimal-inconvenience-1031484.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Why should Dushyant Chautala resign, did he frame farm laws? asks JJP chief Ajay Chautala||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) chief Ajay Chautala on Thursday hit out at the opposition parties and farmer outfits demanding Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala's resignation, and ruled it out saying he neither framed the farm laws nor was a signatory to them. Addressing his party workers in Panipat, the JJP chief said if they have to seek resignations over the laws brought by the Centre, they should do so from the 10 Lok Sabha MPs and five Rajya Sabha MPs from Haryana. A group of farmers protesting against the farm laws held a protest and showed black flags to the JJP leaders when they were travelling in their vehicles to reach the venue. Ajay Chautala also said that if resignations help solve the farmers' issue, then resignations of all the 10 JJP MLAs including Dushyant Chautala were lying in his pocket and anybody who can get the issue resolved can take these from him. The JJP leader was addressing the party meeting called to chalk out programmes for the birth anniversary of former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal on September 25. The JJP chief said that farmer union leaders and JJP's political opponents have been demanding that Dushyant Chautala should resign. "I want to ask for what should Dushyant Chautala resign? Did he frame these (farm) laws? Are his signatures there?" he said. "If anybody from in Haryana had participation in this (legislation of the laws), they are 10 Lok Sabha MPs and five Rajya Sabha MPs from the state. If they have to seek resignation, they should do so from them.... But they don't ask for their resignations and only say Dushyant should resign,” he said. All 10 Lok Sabha members from Haryana belong to the BJP. The party also has three Rajya Sabha members, while the opposition Congress has two. Opposition parties, including the Congress, and the farm outfits spearheading the stir against the farm laws have in the past sought that Dushyant Chautala should resign and his party JJP should withdraw support from the government led by the BJP which brought the farm laws.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-should-dushyant-chautala-resign-did-he-frame-farm-laws-asks-jjp-chief-ajay-chautala-1031181.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||1 dead, 6 injured in unexplained blast in residential house in Kupwara||A 17-year old girl died and six others were injured in a blast in a residential house in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir, with officials saying the exact nature of the explosion was not immediately clear. The explosion took place in the house of Ghulam Ahmad Wani at Taratpora in Handwara area of the district around 8.45 pm, the officials said. They said Shabnum Wani (17) died in the incident, while six others, all believed to be the family members of the house-owner, sustained injuries. The injured have been rushed to a hospital and the police have started investigation into the nature of the blast, the officials said. They said police suspect the explosion was due to an LPG cylinder blast, but the exact cause will be known in due course. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-dead-6-injured-in-unexplained-blast-in-residential-house-in-kupwara-1031201.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||J&K admin requires employees to maintain absolute integrity, honesty, allegiance to India||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday issued a slew of instructions to officials while carrying out periodic character and antecedents verification of government employees including failure to report any immediate family member who is associated with any foreign entity hostile to India. According to a circular issued by the General Administration Department (GAD), every government employee is mandatorily required to maintain absolute integrity, honesty and allegiance to the Union of India and its Constitution and do nothing which is unbecoming of a government servant. The GAD said during periodic verification of character and antecedents of government employees, the officials should report involvement of an employee in any act of sabotage, espionage, treason, terrorism, subversion, sedition/secession, facilitating foreign interference, incitement to violence or any other unconstitutional act. The authorities have been asked also to report association or sympathy of any employee with persons who are attempting to commit any of the above acts or involved in aiding or abetting or advocating the above acts. The other facets to be looked at include involvement of an individual's immediate family, persons sharing residential space with the employee to whom he or she may be bound by affection, influence, or obligation or involved in any of the acts, directly or indirectly, having potential of subjecting the individual to duress, thereby posing a grave security risk, as per the circular. "Failure to report relatives, persons sharing residential space or associates who are connected with any foreign government, associations, foreign nationals known to be directly or indirectly hostile to India's national and security interests," it read. The directions also include the failure to report unauthorised association with a suspected or known collaborator or employee of a foreign intelligence service among the criteria to be followed. "Reports indicating that representatives or nationals from a foreign country are acting to increase the vulnerability of the individual to possible future exploitation, coercion or report contacts with citizens of other countries or financial interests in other countries which make an individual potentially vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or pressure by a foreign Government," the circular said. The GAD said on the basis of discrete verifications on the above parameters, a list of adversely reported employees received by the government from time to time shall be taken into cognisance by the administrative departments concerned which shall then immediately report it to the General Administration Department. "In the event, such employee(s) are due for promotion, their cases shall be put on hold immediately. Further, such cases shall be submitted to the UT Level Screening Committee constituted for the purpose, for a decision. "On confirmation of the adverse report by the UT Level Screening Committee, further action shall be taken against the adversely reported employee(s), which may include termination from Government services," it added. The decision of the UT Level Screening Committee can be reviewed by the Review Committee, on reference to it by the UT Level Screening Committee or on the representation of any aggrieved employee, the GAD said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-requires-employees-to-maintain-absolute-integrity-honesty-allegiance-to-india-1031213.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Long traffic jams in parts of Delhi amid Akali Dal's anti-farm laws protest march||Massive traffic jams hit parts of the national capital, including Lutyens' Delhi and ITO, on Friday amid a protest march organised by members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) against the Centre's farm laws. The Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about closure of specific roads and suggested diversions to avoid any inconvenience. It said most of the calls regarding traffic jam came from New Delhi, Dhaula Kuan, ITO, Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate, and Karol Bagh areas. ITO stretch is heavily choked by the vehicles. There was also traffic at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital roundabout. Thirty-year-old advocate Rohit Tomar said it took him more than two hours to cover a distance of 12 kilometres. "I left my home around 8.45 am for Patiala House court, but got stuck in traffic. The whole section of Vikas Marg from Laxmi Nagar to ITO was jammed. The vehicles were crawling on that particular section. The area of Geeta Colony was also jammed. I somehow managed to reached Patiala House around 11 am,” Tomar said. Many commuters took to Twitter to complain about the traffic. One of the commuters mentioned that there was heavy traffic from Laxmi Nagar to ITO and it took him one hour to cover a distance of four kilometres. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police informed about closure of roads at Jharoda Kalan border and suggested commuters to refrain from using these routes in view of the farmers' movement. "Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, RML Hospital, GPO, Ashoka Road, Baba Kharak Singh Marg will be full due to the farmers' movement. Please refrain from using these routes," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted in Hindi. "Jharoda Kalan border both the roads have been closed by barricading dye to the farmers movement, please refrain from using this route,” another tweet mentioned. "The traffic coming from Gurgaon to Sadar Patel Marg and the traffic coming from Narayan to loop has also been diverted towards Ring Road Moti Bagh, the traffic will remain heavy," the traffic police said in another tweet. Traffic going from Pusa roundabout towards Shankar Road has also been diverted towards Pusa Road, the traffic police said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/long-traffic-jams-in-parts-of-delhi-amid-akali-dals-anti-farm-laws-protest-march-1031297.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi protest: Centre indifferent to farmers' plight, says SAD's Harsimrat Kaur Badal||As farmers protest a year of the contentious farm laws, Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the Centre is indifferent to the farmers' needs. "A number of farmers have died and many are still sitting at the state borders but this government (Centre) is indifferent. We will continue our fight until the three farm laws are repealed," he said. The Delhi Traffic Police on Friday alerted commuters about the closure of specific roads and suggested diversions to avoid any inconvenience due to the protests. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police informed about closure of roads at Jharoda Kalan border and suggested commuters to refrain from using these routes in view of the farmers' movement. A senior police officer said, "Members of Shiromani Akali Dal have gathered at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj on Friday morning in view of a protest march organised by them against the farm laws." The SAD under the leadership of its President Sukhbir Singh Badal had given a call to take out a march starting from Gurdwara Talab Ganj Sahib to Parliament House against the "anti-farmer" laws passed by the Central government. Due to a demonstration call by farmers to assemble at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj, police pickets have been placed in precaution at different areas in the national capital while traffic is being released after vehicles have been checked, a senior traffic police officer said. More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-protest-centre-indifferent-to-farmers-plight-says-sads-harsimrat-kaur-badal-1031315.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Bank fraud: UP govt to recover Rs 7.86 crore from dismissed social welfare department clerk||The Uttar Pradesh government has directed authorities here to recover Rs 7.86 crore from a dismissed clerk in connection with a bank fraud in the district social welfare department, an official said on Friday. According to district Social Welfare Officer G R Prajapati, the state social welfare department in Lucknow has sent a letter to the district magistrate to recover the amount from dismissed clerk Anil Verma. Verma had allegedly swindled funds from his department by opening fake bank accounts in the name of a senior officer from 2004-05 to 2008-09. A special investigating team (SIT) was formed by the state government to look into the matter. The SIT, led by Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma, had visited Muzaffarnagar from Lucknow to investigate the case recently Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bank-fraud-up-govt-to-recover-rs-786-crore-from-dismissed-social-welfare-department-clerk-1031332.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Rs 40-cr transit camp for Kashmiri Pandits in J&K's Baramulla||A Rs 40-crore transit camp will be constructed for accommodation of 336 Kashmiri Pandit migrant families here as part of efforts to rehabilitate them in the Kashmir Valley, Union Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Friday. After laying the foundation stone for the transit camp, he said that it was a very significant step taken by the central government for Kashmiri Pandit migrant families who want to return and live in Kashmir peacefully. "For the rehabilitation of the Kashmiri Pandits, a transit camp will be constructed at a cost of Rs 40 crore. A total of 336 families will be accommodated here," Sonowal told reporters here. He said that people in Kashmir also want Kashmiri Pandits to return so that they can live peacefully together, and the transit camp is being set up as per the wishes of the people. The union minister of ports, shipping, waterways and ayush expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the decision to set up the transit camp for Kashmiri Pandits. "I am also thankful to the people of Baramulla and Kashmir for their cooperation in executing this project," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-40-cr-transit-camp-for-kashmiri-pandits-in-jks-baramulla-1031340.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out in Delhi CBI building basement||A fire broke out inside the basement of the CBI building the CGO complex here, officials said on Friday. The information about the fire at the Central Bureau of Investigation office was received at 1.40 pm following which eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire broke out in the panel board, a senior fire official said. The blaze was doused at 2.30 pm and no one was injured in the incident, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-delhi-cbi-building-basement-1031347.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Breath analyser test allowed, why not reconsider order banning hookah in public places, HC asks Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the AAP government why its order prohibiting use of herbal hookah in public places to contain spread of Covid-19 be not re-considered when breath analyser test is being allowed now. The high court issued notice and sought response of the Delhi government on five separate pleas by restaurants and bars seeking to direct the state and police not to interfere with the sale of herbal flavoured hookahs or take coercive steps against them. “Issue notice. Delhi government counsel seeks time to get instructions as to why August 3, 2020 order is not reconsidered when breath analyser test is being allowed now. It is expected that DDMA will consider this aspect urgently,” Justice Rekha Palli said while listing the matter for further hearing on September 30. The court said why should this order relating to the ban on hookah be not reconsidered when Delhi Police has also started breath analyser test. Separate petitions were filed by Breath Fine Lounge and Bar, TOS, R High Speedbar and Lounge, Verandah Moonshine and Sixth Empirica Lounge in West Punjabi Bagh, challenging the order of Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing Unit) prohibiting and excluding the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs in restaurant/ bar being run by them. The pleas said the petitioners are serving herbal hookahs for which no licence is required as they are totally without tobacco but the police is still conducting raids, seizing equipments and issuing challans. The petitioners’ counsel submitted that in their restaurants they are providing single hookah and not the shared one and only about 5 to 10 per cent of guests visiting there are desirous of using hookah. The counsel said they have much more quantity of hookah than the requirement and since the authorities have re-commenced breath analyser test, there is no reason why this activity be not allowed. The counsel named another lounge and bar and claimed that hookah service is going on there and the petitioners cannot be discriminated with. The pleas were opposed by Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi who said for a single mistake, the entire Delhi would have to pay a heavy price and allowing hookah consumption in public places may spread Covid-19 since people would be sharing it. He further said, “herbal or non-herbal, we are not allowing any type of hookah. We are wearing mask even when we are driving car alone. How can we allow hookah to be shared from one person to another. Hookah is not that important, our lives are more important.” When the petitioners’ counsel said she was giving an undertaking that each person will be using single hookah in the restaurant, the Delhi government counsel said not even single hookah can be allowed. The Delhi government has said use of hookah, be it with or without tobacco, in all public places including hotels, restaurants, eatery houses, bars, pubs and discotheques, in the national capital is strictly prohibited as use or sharing of hookah may further increase spread of Covid-19. The petitioners’ counsel had earlier said as long as the restaurants undertake not to use nicotine in hookah, they cannot be prohibited from carrying out their businesses. The pleas have sought to declare that definition of "smoking" under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA), does not cover herbal flavoured hookahs and to direct the authorities not to take any extreme step of suspension or cancellation of registration certificate of the petitioners. Delhi government counsel had referred to the August 3, 2020 order passed by the Health Department which observed that in public places, use and sharing of hookah with and without tobacco (herbal hookah) may further increase spread of coronavirus. “Now, therefore, in exercise of powers conferred by the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19, Regulations, 2020 under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the use of hookah (with or without tobacco, that is, herbal hookah, water pipes and other hookah like devices) in all public places including hotels, restaurants, eatery houses, bars, pubs, discotheques, etc, of the NCT of Delhi is strictly prohibited with immediate effect, for the purpose of prevention and control of the outbreak of epidemic disease namely Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi,” the Delhi government order said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/breath-analyser-test-allowed-why-not-reconsider-order-banning-hookah-in-public-places-hc-asks-delhi-govt-1031354.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Uphaar fire tragedy: Delhi HC dismisses Ansal’s plea to cross examine IO in evidence tampering case||The Delhi High Court has dismissed a plea by real estate baron Sushil Ansal, who is facing prosecution in case of tampering with evidence in the main Uphaar cinema fire tragedy matter, seeking to cross examine the investigating officer following change of counsel representing him. The high court said a mere change of counsel would not suffice to recall the witness to put certain suggestion in the manner the new advocate desires. Ansal’s plea is devoid of merits, it said. “The petitioner (Ansal) had engaged earlier counsel of his choice. He made a decision not to cross-examine, not one but 18 witnesses, probably, because the petitioner is facing charge of conspiracy only, and hence such decision viz not to cross-examine 18 witnesses cannot be said to an inadvertent act but may be a part of his strategy,” Justice Yogesh Khanna said. Since a considerable delay has taken place, the plight of victims cannot be ignored, the court said. The evidence tampering case is at the stage of final arguments before the trial court. The high court said it needs to see the intention to file such an application under section 311 (power to summon material witness or examine a person present) of the CrPC at a “deeply belated stage”. Ansal’s counsel submitted before the high court that the trial court has disposed of his plea under section 311 of the CrPC and said he was seeking one more opportunity to cross examine the investigating officer. The plea was opposed by Delhi Police which said the trial is at its final stage as the prosecution and defence evidence has already been closed and the lower court is presently hearing final arguments on behalf of the accused. The Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) also opposed the plea saying it was a deliberate attempt to delay the trial and the application was completely frivolous and vague. The high court, in its order, discussed some of the relevant dates of the case including that the prosecution evidence was closed on April 6 and defence evidence was concluded on August 25 and final arguments started from August 27. It was when the final arguments had started, this application was moved by Ansal before the trial court. It said admittedly, prosecution witness DCP Amit Roy who had filed the second charge sheet in the case and to whom Ansal wants to cross examine, on the basis of documents filed/seized by him never considered the petitioner an accused and probably for this reason, the erstwhile counsel did not prefer to cross examine him. “It appeared to be a conscious decision of the counsel for the petitioner, considering the nature of evidence against him,” the high court said. Earlier, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing AVUT chairperson Neelam Krishnamoorthy, had argued that the new counsel of the accused has strategically filed an application under section 311 CrPC during final arguments to recall a witness who has already been cross examined extensively. He had said that due to the delay caused in the trial, the victims of the tragedy had to approach the Delhi High Court several times, to get the charges framed against the accused in 2013 and even to expedite the trial in 2018 so that it is conducted in a time bound manner. “Considering that the Uphaar tragedy happened in 1997, a delay has already been caused and the victims still await justice today in 2021 after 24 years of the incident,” Pahwa had submitted. The high court on September 9 had refused to stay the trial in the tampering of witness case. The case relates to tampering with the evidence of the main case in which Sushil and Gopal Ansal were convicted and sentenced to two-year jail term by the Supreme Court. However, the apex court had released them on the period already undergone in the jail on the condition that they pay Rs 30 crore fine each to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital. The Ansal brothers along with a court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma, and other individuals -- P P Batra, Har Swaroop Panwar, Anoop Singh and Dharamvir Malhotra -- were booked in the present case of allegedly tampering with the evidence. Panwar and Malhotra died during the course of the trial. According to the charge sheet, the documents alleged to have been tampered with included a police memo giving details of recoveries immediately after the incident, Delhi Fire Service records pertaining to repair of transformer installed inside Uphaar, minutes of Managing Director's meetings and four cheques. Out of the six set of documents, a cheque of Rs 50 lakh, issued by Sushil Ansal to self, and minutes of the MD's meetings, proved beyond doubt that the two brothers were handling the day-to-day affairs of the theatre at the relevant time, the charge sheet had said. The fire had broken out at the Uphaar cinema during the screening of Hindi film ''Border'' on June 13, 1997 claiming 59 lives. The case was lodged on the direction of the Delhi High Court while hearing a petition by Krishnamoorthy. The accused are charged with offences under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 109 (abetment), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 409 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uphaar-fire-tragedy-delhi-hc-dismisses-ansal-s-plea-to-cross-examine-io-in-evidence-tampering-case-1031357.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Scrap farm laws, talk to farmers to find the way forward: Amarinder to Centre||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday demanded immediate scrapping of the Centre's new farm laws, calling for detailed discussions with farmers to find a way forward. Pointing out that many farmers had died in the protests against these laws, which were passed by the parliament a year ago, he said the Centre should withdraw the legislations in the interests of farmers and the nation. Singh was speaking after inaugurating the third state-level virtual Kisan Mela organised by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana. “It is high time the central government realised its blunder and withdraw the legislations in the interest of farmers and the nation,” he said. The chief minister, who wore a ‘no farmers, no food’ badge, said, “Till date, the Constitution of India has been amended as many as 127 times, so why can it not be amended once again to scrap the farm laws and resolve the imbroglio resulting from them? “What is the problem in doing it a 128th time?” he sought to know from the BJP-led central government. He also alleged that the Centre was out to “ruin the farmers”. The senior Congress leader further said what was happening with the farmers today was “extremely sad”, given the immense contribution made by them to India's development and progress. The two-day Kisan mela is centred on the theme “Karie Parali Di Sambhal, Dharti Maa Hove Khushal” in line with the state government's focus on eliminating stubble burning, an official statement said. Recalling that he was asked by the Centre to stop Punjab's farmers from going to Delhi last November, Singh said he had outright refused to do so as protest is the democratic right of farmers. He made it clear that he continues to stand with the farmers in their fight against the “draconian legislations”, with his government continuing to give compensation and jobs to families of deceased farmers. Noting the contribution of Punjab and its farmers to the country's growth, the chief minister said the state, with only 1.53 per cent of total geographical area of India, produces about 18 per cent of the country's wheat, 11 per cent paddy, 4.4 per cent cotton and 10 per cent milk. For the past many decades, Punjab has been contributing about 35-40 per cent of wheat and 25-30 per cent of rice to the central pool, he said, expressing pride in the achievements of the state's farmers. The CM also pointed out that the state had attained a record wheat productivity (5,188 kg/hectare) and production (182.6 lakh tons) during 2018-19. It also achieved record rice productivity (4,366 kg/hectare) and production (133.8 lakh tons) during 2017-18. Record cotton productivity was also achieved during 2019-20, he added. Singh urged farmers to take full advantage of PAU's advancements in technologies, seeds, among others. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scrap-farm-laws-talk-to-farmers-to-find-the-way-forward-amarinder-to-centre-1031385.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||J&K administration should reconsider order on terminating govt officials with 'terror links': CPI(M) leader Tarigami||CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami on Friday said the latest orders of the Jammu and Kashmir administration regarding termination of a government employee's service for alleged involvement in terrorism and subversion and mandating vigilance clearance for getting passports were arbitrary decisions that are not good in a democracy. "A government employee is a tool to implement policies of the government. If the same employee is made a suspect by doubting him and putting him in the basket of suspicion repeatedly, it will adversely affect his working and in turn affect overall functioning of the government," Tarigami said in a statement. He said there was already a procedure laid down to deal with any employee involved in anti-national subversive activities and issuing new orders only created an atmosphere of suspicion. "It seems, because of some ill advice, the J&K administration is resorting to such an unwarranted course and to targeting its employees and thereby putting them under constant fear. If an employee is violating the law, he must be dealt with according to the already laid down procedures, but this type of an arbitrary approach is not good in a democracy," the former MLA added. Tarigami said denying anyone a passport based on a vigilance case cannot be a substitute for being found guilty in a court of law. "One of the most sacred principles of the justice system is that a person is innocent until proven guilty. How can the government deny a passport to an employee on mere registration of a case by vigilance?" he asked. "The authoritarian orders issued by the administration are against the interests of the people of all the regions and communities. Instead of issuing such orders, the government must ensure that the rights of the people and their livelihood are protected," the Communist leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-administration-should-reconsider-order-on-terminating-govt-officials-with-terror-links-cpim-leader-tarigami-1031411.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Railway cop shot dead by militants in Kashmir's Kulgam||A railway policeman was shot dead by militants in the Wanpoh area of south Kashmir's Kulgam district on Friday. A police official said that unidentified militants fired upon a railway constable identified as Bantu Sharma near Shamford School, Kulgam.  He was immediately shifted to a nearby hospital in critical condition, where doctors declared him brought dead, he said.  Reports said soon after the attack the area was cordoned off to nab the attackers. There has been a spurt in attacks by militants against police in the last few months.  On Sunday a police officer was shot dead by militants in the old city Khanyar area of Srinagar. Prior to that on June 22, militants had shot dead an inspector of J&K police's Criminal Investigation Department (CID) at Kanipora area of Nowgam on the outskirts of Srinagar city in similar circumstances. According to official figures, nearly 1700 policemen, including 508 personal security officers (PSOs) protecting VIPs, have been killed in the line of duty in Jammu and Kashmir since the beginning of the insurgency in the union territory in 1989. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-cop-shot-dead-by-militants-in-kashmirs-kulgam-1031494.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||BSF DG reviews security situation, area domination along IB in Jammu||Border Security Force Director General Pankaj Kumar Singh on Friday visited forward areas along the Indo-Pak border here and reviewed the security situation and area domination by the troops, officials said. This is Singh’s first visit to the Jammu frontier after taking over as the chief of the BSF on August 25. Singh arrived at the frontier headquarters here on Thursday on a two-day visit to the International Border (IB). On Thursday, he visited forward areas of Samba and Kathua sectors and took stock of the security situation. "Today, DG BSF visited R S Pura and Arnia Sectors of the International Border area and took stock of the situation," a BSF spokesman said. The BSF DG was accompanied by IG BSF of Jammu Frontier N S Jamwal and other officers. Jamwal briefed the BSF chief about the complexities of management of R S Pura and Arnia border areas under the prevailing security scenario, the spokesman said. The DG reviewed the overall deployment of the BSF troops and also the domination plan of the force, he said. Singh also visited the critical areas of Aik Nallah, Phalku Nallah and other areas of R S Pura and Arnia border areas and held discussions with sector and unit commanders on the ground and reviewed the security situation, the spokesman said. During his two-day visit, the DG visited the entire area of the International Border (IB) of the BSF Jammu frontier and concluded the tour in a cordial atmosphere, he said. The DG also interacted with jawans through ‘sainik samelan’ and was full of praise for their dedication towards safeguarding the borders.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-dg-reviews-security-situation-area-domination-along-ib-in-jammu-1031504.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand chief secy visits Kedarnath to review Chardham Yatra preparations||A day after the Uttarakhand High Court vacated its stay on the annual Chardham Yatra, Chief Secretary S S Sandhu visited Kedarnath Friday and directed officials to make adequate arrangements for a safe pilgrimage to the Himalayan shrine. The High Court had Thursday lifted its stay on the yatra but directed the state government to conduct the pilgrimage with strict adherence to Covid-19 norms. Sandhu, who also reviewed the progress of the reconstruction exercise at Kedarpuri, directed the officials to expedite the work without compromising on quality. He advised them to set a weekly target and examine whether they achieved it. The chief secretary asked forest officials to carry out attractive plantation on either side of the temple on the hills. He also spoke to labourers at work in Kedarpuri and asked officials to address their problems. He also directed them to speed up efforts to get forest clearance for developing the Chorabari trek route, and restoring the old road from Garurdchatti to Rambada.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-chief-secy-visits-kedarnath-to-review-chardham-yatra-preparations-1031532.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||BJP's wrong policies have converted peaceful Haryana into crime hub: Randeep Surjewala||Citing National Crime Records Bureau data, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Friday alleged that the wrong policies of the BJP-led Haryana government have converted the peaceful state into a crime hub where three murders, four rapes and eight kidnappings take place every day. In cognisable crime rate under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Special and Local Laws (SLL), Haryana stands fourth in the country, which should be a matter of shame for the government, he said. Citing the latest NCRB data, Surjewala questioned Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Home Minister Anil Vij over the state's poor rate of filing charge sheets against IPC and SLL offenders. The national average rate of filing charge sheets is 82.5 per cent, but why is Haryana a laggard at only 39.7 per cent, he asked. The wrong policies of the government have converted the peaceful state of Haryana into a crime hub, he alleged. The Congress leader said that due to the laxity in filing charge sheets against criminals and the casual attitude of the government, crime in Haryana has been increasing continuously for the last seven years. Surjewala said that the people of the state are suffering but the government doesn't seem to care about them. "In the year 2020, 1,165 murders, 163 gangrapes, 1,373 rapes and 2,949 kidnappings occurred in Haryana despite the lockdown and the pandemic," he said Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-wrong-policies-have-converted-peaceful-haryana-into-crime-hub-randeep-surjewala-1031544.html
17-09-2021||North and Central||Kundli-Singhu blockade: Haryana govt panel to talk to farmers on Sunday||A Haryana government high-powered committee will on Sunday hold talks with protesting farm union leaders over clearing of the blockade on National Highway-44 on Kundli-Singhu border, an official statement said here. The meeting will take place in Murthal in Sonipat district, it said. “The members of the state-level high-powered committee would hold talks with various farmer organisations. Office bearers of 43 farmer organisations have been invited to attend this meeting,” the statement said. The Haryana government had formed the committee on Wednesday, a day after Sonipat Deputy Commissioner Lalit Siwach held a meeting with farmers' representatives over the blockade. An official statement on Tuesday had said while taking up a writ petition, the Supreme Court has asked the Sonipat district administration to provide a way to the common people in the public interest. In compliance with these orders, Siwach had held a meeting with farmers' representatives in Sonipat on Tuesday. On Wednesday evening, a high-level meeting was held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister M L Khattar here, which, Home Minister Anil Vij said, had been convened in the wake of the apex court's orders last month. “To comply with the apex court's orders, a state-level high-powered panel has been formed under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora,” Vij, who was also present in the meeting, had told reporters later. “Keeping in view the Supreme Court orders and the fact that common people are facing inconvenience due to the blockade, the committee will hold talks with Samyukt Kisan Morcha on the opening of the way,” he had said. The committee has the Director General of Police and Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) amongst its members. On Tuesday, the Sonipat DC had told farmers that while taking up a writ petition filed by Noida resident Monica Agarwal, the apex court has ordered that the farmers protesting on the Kundli-Singhu border in Sonipat district should give way to common people and shift to one side of the road. The court had last month said the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to the road blockades on the national capital's borders. The farmers are protesting against the passage of three laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers'' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kundli-singhu-blockade-haryana-govt-panel-to-talk-to-farmers-on-sunday-1031549.html
17-09-2021||Opinion||Starvation is as much a threat to Afghan women as the Taliban||By Ruth Pollard and David Fickling,   One of the Taliban's first acts after they swept to power in Afghanistan a month ago was to force most working women out of their jobs and into their homes. That’s going to add to the risk of starvation facing the country after years of crop failures and the collapse of this year’s wheat harvest. In an aid-dependent economy already in deep trouble, the sudden removal of tens of thousands of wage earners, many supporting large, extended families, only adds to the numbers facing hunger in a country where 47.3 per cent live below the poverty line. What happens outside the cities could be even more devastating. Women make up nearly a third of the rural labor force. Without them, the problems of a country that’s barely able to feed itself will only be compounded. Afghan women's number one fear is not being able to work, and losing access to education is a close second, says Heather Barr, the associate director of women's rights at Human Rights Watch. With so many men killed in the conflict, or fleeing the country, a significant number of women have been left as both single parents and sole breadwinners supporting their parents and other relatives. “The Taliban cutting off women’s ability to work is not about their feelings of empowerment — though this is important — it is about losing any ability to feed themselves and their family,” Barr notes. As the Afghanistan Analysts Network, an independent research group, wrote on Sept. 6, the price of essential items, from flour to cooking oil, has risen while the value of the afghani, the currency, is depreciating. In a second-hand market in Kabul, desperate families are selling household goods to buy food. Even before this year’s crisis, Afghanistan was stalked by hunger because of a devastating drought in 2018 and 2019. Only North Korea and six nations in sub-Saharan Africa were making do with fewer daily calories, according to the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization.  The Taliban’s takeover will make all these problems more acute, because poverty, undernourishment and gender inequality go hand-in-hand. Although women and girls tend to be more resilient in the face of malnutrition,in patriarchal societies they also suffer the worst deprivation and long-term side-effects, as more food is allocated to the males of the household. Living on the edge of hunger can be both a cause and effect of women’s reduced status. Economic empowerment typically begins with control over at least some part of the household finances. Even in patriarchal societies, there’s evidence that relinquishing men’s grip over money can lead to a virtuous circle of increasing equality, earnings and well-being. The effects can be significant: Malnutrition among children falls about 43 per cent when women are in control of any rise in incomes, and the improvement is even greater when they have better access to education. For that advancement to happen, though, there must first be surplus income. With the Taliban removing women’s ability to earn money and food prices surging, the chances of that are diminishing fast. About 53 per cent of household spending in rural Afghan households goes to food alone, according to one 2014 study, and likely hasn't gotten better in the last seven years. With expenditure largely going to raw commodities such as wheat flour or rice, it’s also much more exposed to movements in the market. US futures prices for wheat, the mainstay of the Afghan diet, last month hit their highest level in eight years. Thanks to the long-term effects of that drought and coronavirus, wheat flour prices in Kabul have been about 20 per cent above historical averages for most of the past year. That’s only likely to get worse as a result of the current turmoil: If you think supply chain problems in rich countries are leading to shortages and inflation, it’s nothing next to the sort of civil chaos and uncertainty that’s descended on Afghanistan. Add to that a banking sector in crisis, with long queues of citizens waiting for what little cash is left in the country. The US and international bodies including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have blocked foreign reserves and stopped their regular money transfers.  A United Nations conference in Geneva on Monday pledged more than $1 billion in emergency aid. But the question for donors is how to provide assistance quickly, before another harsh winter approaches, without inadvertently funding the Taliban’s vicious crackdown on women, the media, religious minorities and other key parts of civil society. Behind the scenes, there’s an ugly disagreement playing out among aid organizations including the United Nations, Barr notes. Some agencies are saying if the Taliban won’t allow female relief workers they should go on and deliver the aid regardless, given the need is so great. Others say having female workers is the only way of ensuring aid reaches women — an assertion proven time and again. Whatever happens, it needs to happen fast. As much as 97 per cent of the population may sink below the poverty line by the middle of next year without an urgent response to the twin political and economic crises, the United Nations Development Programme warned last week. Hunger may prove as devastating to Afghanistan’s women as the Taliban itself. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/starvation-is-as-much-a-threat-to-afghan-women-as-the-taliban-1031235.html
17-09-2021||Opinion||Abba Jaan! A desperate cry from Yogi||How do we understand Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's outrageously communal accusations against those who use "Abba Jaan" as a form of address?  He rages against Muslims for unfairly cornering free ration under previous governments. Not only have they "digested" their ill-gotten gains, but he also accuses them of smuggling food-grain subsidised by the Indian state across the borders to adjacent Nepal (the Nepalese Terai abutting UP has a Muslim population) and Bangladesh, should anyone miss the communal metaphor. His rhetoric invoked Hindutva's trope of the Muslim being undeserving of state largesse and engaged in criminal activities against the nation. It is not just another instance of communal speech by Adityanath. This time the focus is on the disbursement of sops that have become crucial for his re-election.  Western UP is slipping out of his hands because of the ongoing farmers' agitation. Eastern UP has seen far too many Covid-19 deaths to feel positive about his administration, and the change of leadership in other election going states must have shaken him. However, the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has spared him for the moment. A desperate Adityanath is using the state's public relations budget to bolster his developmental successes and welfare initiatives. The Central government has put its shoulder to giving momentum to the distribution of freebies before the state Assembly elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chose to launch the Ujjwala-2 scheme of distributing free LPG cylinders from UP, which is expected to benefit about 20 lakh households in the state. The state is already distributing free food grains – 3 kg of wheat and 2 kg of rice – to about 14.81 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Kalyan Yojna. This will continue till November this year. In passing a supplementary budget on August 19 this year, the state government announced a Rs 3,000 crore scheme to provide tablets or smartphones to students and a '"preparatory allowance" for students preparing for competitive exams for a maximum of three such exams. Here, Yogi took a leaf out of the Samajwadi Party's book, which had promised free laptops to attract young voters in the 2012 Assembly elections. The details of the schemes are to be announced later, no doubt nearer to the Assembly polls. The state government has also announced its intention to increase the honorarium of Anganwadi workers and helpers. As the elections come nearer, the state in tandem with the Centre is likely to announce many more welfare schemes. But the latest exercise of name-calling gives state patronage a communal twist. Adityanath's suggestion is that his government distributes subsidies more fairly to poor and marginalised Hindus than earlier regimes. It suggests that welfare measures will be peddled in a way that will consolidate their support, papering over internal caste cleavages. However, it has been pointed out that Adityanath's claim of free food grains being cornered by Muslims are not factually correct. At the fag end of the previous supposedly pro-Muslim regime under the Samajwadi Party, four months before Adityanath became the chief minister, the total ration beneficiaries stood at 14.01 crore. Today the total number of ration cards issued in the state stands at 3.59 crore, covering 14.86 crore beneficiaries. By no logic could the majority of these beneficiaries have been Muslim, as according to the 2011 Census, there were 15.9 crore Hindus in the state and only 3.84 crore Muslims. The census numbers do not support Adityanath's claims. Even if it is factually untrue, the communal rhetoric in which he wraps state patronage could rally the majority community behind him, including those castes that have been the support base of the Samajwadi Party. This kind of communalisation, it is assumed, would coax them to stand with the larger Hindu community against "undeserving" Muslims. Adityanath, in effect, has turned out to be a good student of Prime Minister Modi. He has picked up all the latter's stratagems in the run-up to the 2014 general elections mobilising the electorate by talking of a "development model" while making egregiously communal remarks in the same breath. Will this latest attempt to create a horizontal consolidation around state welfare measures amongst Hindus as a community, which pits them against wily, "pampered" and "undeserving" Muslims, work? Will this bring in the rest of the Hindu vote over and above the "core vote" of the BJP? Adityanath surely hopes that "Abba Jaan" will save him. For the moment, Prime Minister Modi will ensure the largesse of the Centre to promote Adityanath's promises of freebies because he needs a win in the UP Assembly to set the momentum for the 2024 general election. But his cutting Adityanath to size after he wins the UP election would be very much on the cards. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/abba-jaan-a-desperate-cry-from-yogi-1031262.html
17-09-2021||Opinion||Modi's personality cult diminishing BJP-RSS||It isn't a first in the history of independent India for followers to celebrate a political leader's birthday. Breathtaking, however, was the scale at which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the governments it runs at the Centre and in states indulged in paroxysms of activity to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday on Friday.  The BJP and its leaders spent resources from party coffers and probably their own pockets and much public money to celebrate the PM's birthday. It is, therefore, a suitable day to remind ourselves of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat's frequent enough cautionings in the last seven years against personality cults. We should also heed LK Advani's left-handed compliment in April 2014, when the veteran leader described Modi as a "brilliant events manager". It was indeed an eventful day where the BJP leaders, the Centre and state governments paid obeisance to the personality cult of the prime minister. BJP leaders filled editorial pages of Hindi newspapers eulogising Modi. In his essay, BJP chief JP Nadda extolled Modi as a great social reformer. Nadda was probably unmindful that September 17 was the birth anniversary of Periyar, one of the greatest social reformers of India. The BJP's Madhya Pradesh government issued full-page advertisements with Modi and Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's visages. The ad announced the MP government's "jan kalyan aur suraj abhiyan", or social welfare and good governance campaign, from September 17 to October 7. The Uttar Pradesh government's full-page advertisements had the beaming faces of the PM and UP CM Yogi Adityanath, announcing the state government's "vikas utsav", or a festival of development, from September 17 to October 7. The 20-days are to mark the 20-years of Modi helming governments, first in Gujarat and now at the Centre. He took the oath of Gujarat CM on October 7, 2001. As the day progressed, it was challenging to decipher the BJP sponsored events, like blood donation camps and Tiranga Yatras, from those the Centre and state governments undertook - vaccination drives and e-auction of gifts that the PM has received, to name a couple. All India Radio broadcasted news bulletins covering these events and also programmes on Modi's journey. The BJP, and its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), claim that they believe in nation first and self last. So, adhinayakvaad, or personality cult, is an anathema for the Sangh Parivar. While the BJP appropriates leaders of the Congress party – Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Subhas Bose and Lal Bahadur Shastri – it has over the years criticised Indira Gandhi for her efforts at building a personality cult around her. Opposing her "Indira-is-India", which eventually had her impose the Emergency, remains the leitmotif of the BJP's criticism of the present day Congress party since her descendants continue to lead it. The BJP had come in for criticism for encouraging a personality cult around Modi even as he was its prime ministerial candidate in the run-up to the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. In March 2014, Jaswant Singh, who had left the BJP and contested as an independent from Barmer, said the "Namo Namo" chant buoyed a personality cult.  Arun Jaitley and others in the party slammed Jaswant Singh, but soon enough, the BJP course corrected to speak of a more collective leadership, or the party's "Jodi number 1" of Modi and Rajnath Singh. The latter was then the party chief and also its most influential leader in Uttar Pradesh.  It all changed when the BJP crossed the simple majority mark on May 16, 2014. Months later, with Rajnath Singh quitting as the party chief to join the government and Amit Shah succeeding him as BJP president, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat warned of a putative personality cult. In August 2014, Bhagwat countered those who credited Modi with delivering the Lok Sabha win. He said an individual could not have ensured the victory if common people did not want the change. A year later, with months to go for the Bihar Assembly polls, Bhagwat warned of the dangers of "adhinayakvaad". Earlier that year, Organiser, the English weekly linked to the RSS, bemoaned the BJP's defeat in the Delhi Assembly polls (in February 2015). It criticised those who believed only Modi and Shah could win BJP the elections, hinting that RSS alone could. A couple of years back, RSS's Suresh "Bhaiyyaji" Joshi said the BJP was not "synonymous" with the Hindu community; his subtext was that this was the ambit solely of the RSS. In its study circles, the RSS teaches its young volunteers that the individual is dispensable, and the organisation is supreme. As BJP leaders queued up to celebrate Modi's birthday, and since most trace their training to RSS shakhas or its ideology, the Sangh Parivar confronts an uncertain political future. It indicates the marginalisation of the RSS leadership within the Sangh Parivar. It also runs the risk that people's disenchantment from individuals could impact the entire organisation's standing. The more perceptive among the RSS leaders are alert to such an eventuality. But they find themselves helpless given the force of the personality cult among its rank and file. The RSS prides itself in its belief in the organisation before self. The BJP has, over the years, preened itself as a rare party on the Indian political scene with functional inner-party democracy. Both claims have started looking feeble.  Probably, the unpopularity of the BJP's state-level leaders and reverses in Assembly polls has forced it to boost the prime minister's image to ensure success in the forthcoming Assembly polls. It should, however, not forget that the decline of the Congress party began with the personality cult of Indira Gandhi, and the party continues to suffer for it.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modis-personality-cult-diminishing-bjp-rss-1031452.html
17-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Ass-ass-I-nation of English||"Boss wants to meet all of you," the peon informed us as he entered the newsroom of a prominent English daily, and left quickly. In the early 90s, when there were no computers and the editing was done manually, the Editor would meticulously mark each and every editing or spelling mistake with the black sketch-pen and send it to the desk, with a note to the Chief Sub-Editor. "If you are working for an English newspaper and don’t know the spelling of ‘harassment’ and ‘embarrassment’, then you should start looking for some other job," the furious Editor gave a piece of his mind to the sub-editors. “Always remember, there is single 'r' and double 's' in harassment and double 'r' and double 's' in embarrassment," he added after calming down a bit. Before we could leave, he pointed towards the third colleague, “And you, next time consult the dictionary before writing ‘lensman’. There is no 'e' after 's'." "We are constantly under the ‘lens’, no matter how careful we are. I was quite ‘embarrassed’,” said one of the colleagues after coming out of the Editor’s room. “And I feel ‘harassed’ after being constantly admonished,” the other colleague added, in a lighter vein. After some time, the Editor walked into the newsroom and told a colleague. “From tomorrow, you come in the morning shift at 11 am. Remember two things: Since the agency news in the morning carries one-day-old news, change ‘today’ as ‘yesterday’. And don’t use ‘Sri’. Write Mr Vajpayee, instead of Sri Vajpayee. Or, Mr Rao, instead of Sri PV Narasimha Rao.” The colleague, however, was quite lax, despite three decades of experience. He continued to make blunders. He changed ‘India Today’ to ‘India Yesterday’, because, remember, the Editor had asked him to change ‘today’ to ‘yesterday’. In yet another instance, he changed ‘Sri Lanka’ to ‘Mr Lanka’. "You foolish guys have no sense... Neither common sense nor editing... And you people do nothing other than dotting the ‘i’s and crossing the ‘t’s,” the Bengali Editor, in his mid-40s, went on lambasting the sub-editor. But not all bosses were so aggressive. The News Editor was also a Bengali, but he was a gentleman. An intellectual, he had a good command of English and was a benevolent team leader for those working on the desk. “When in doubt, cut it out,” he would often say to those who would often look for the dictionary to find out the correct usage of a phrase. So, one day when someone misspelt ‘assassination’, he said in Bengali how to rectify it: “Gadha upar gadha, tad pore aami. Aamar upar nation”, which translated to “Ass on ass. Then I. And then nation... Ass-ass-i-nation.” Nobody, thereafter, misspelt ‘assassination’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/ass-ass-i-nation-of-english-1031568.html
17-09-2021||Second Edit||Rural indebtedness is cause for concern||The data about the indebtedness of the country’s agricultural households, provided in the National Statistical Office’s (NSO) latest Situation Assessment Survey, should cause concern as they show that the financial status of most of them is perilous. According to the survey, about 50.2 per cent of agricultural households were in debt at the end of 2019, with an average outstanding of Rs 74,121. Though this is slightly less than the percentage of households in debt in the previous survey in 2013, there was a 57 per cent jump in the average debt. Andhra Pradesh has the highest average outstanding debt of Rs 2.45 lakh, and Karnataka, with Rs 1.26 lakh, is among the 11 states where the average is above Rs 1 lakh. The average income of households increased from Rs 6,426 to Rs 10,218 after the previous survey, but this had no impact on indebtedness, which increased by about 57 per cent from Rs 47,000.   The composition of the income, whose highest share was from wages, also shows how precarious the state of finances of agricultural households is. When the average farmer with a large family earned only Rs 27 per day from cultivation, it was only natural that indebtedness would rise. It is also seen that unskilled manual labour under MGNREGS was more paying than farm work. When farming is not paying, farmers cannot reduce the debt burden and it only rises in most cases. For most, it is subsistence farming, and debts are a part of that economy. The vagaries of the weather and other natural disasters caused by climate change have added another dimension to farmers’ problems.   The NSO data represents the situation that existed before the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. Agriculture was not affected, as other sectors of the economy were, by the lockdown and related problems and it even registered some growth. But it is unlikely that rural households would benefit much from the growth because the return of migrant workers to villages from cities has added to their burden. Households lost the income from the migrant workers and now had to support them, too. Amidst all this, the promise of doubling farmers’ income has been lost altogether. Any increase in farm income would not help if the debt burden is not reduced. Cash transfers of small amounts do not go beyond token support. Writing off the debts would create problems for the banks, and in any case, a one-time waiver will not help if the underlying problem is not addressed. Indebtedness is the biggest single cause of farmer suicides. It needs to be tackled as part of the bigger crisis that agriculture and the rural economy are facing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rural-indebtedness-is-cause-for-concern-1031569.html
17-09-2021||South||Will submit Jayalalithaa death report within a month, probe panel tells SC||The Commission of Inquiry probing the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that it has examined 154 witnesses so far and only four witnesses are remaining, and it will be able to submit a report within a month in the matter. The top court on April 26, 2019, had stayed the commission's proceedings on a plea by Apollo Hospital questioning the scope of inquiry. In September 2017, the Tamil Nadu government had set up the commission headed by Justice A. Arumughaswamy (retd). A bench of Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari, dealing with the application by the Tamil Nadu government seeking it vacate the stay on the proceedings of the commission, agreed to hear the case next Thursday. Counsel appearing for the commission submitted it has examined over 154 witnesses and only four witnesses remain, and it will be in a position to submit its report within a month. The 154 witnesses, included 56 doctors attached to Apollo hospital, five doctors from AIIMS, 12 government doctors including the medical board of five doctors constituted by the Tamil Nadu government, 22 paramedical staff and other witnesses. The commission is probing the circumstances leading to the former chief minister's hospitalisation at Chennai's Apollo Hospital, and the 75 days of treatment, which culminated in her death on December 5, 2016. The Tamil Nadu government counsel urged the bench to hear its submissions, at the earliest, in connection with the application to vacate the stay and allow the commission to complete the probe. The state government in its application claimed that it would be in the interest of justice if the commission is permitted to conclude its reference and submit a final report to the government. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-submit-jayalalithaa-death-report-within-a-month-probe-panel-tells-sc-1031250.html
17-09-2021||South||Congress withdraws suspension of former MLA Sivadasan Nair||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Friday withdrew the suspension of its senior leader and former MLA K Sivadasan Nair for publicly expressing displeasure over the selection of the party's district chiefs in the state by the AICC. Announcing the decision to withdraw his suspension, KPCC chief K Sudhakaran said the explanation given by Nair was satisfactory and his service was required for giving strength to the party. Nair and former KPCC general secretary K P Anil Kumar were "temporarily suspended" from the party on August 29 by KPCC chief Sudhakaran alleging "lack of discipline". Kumar quit the Congress on September 14 and joined the CPI(M), alleging that Sudhakaran wrested the party state unit's leadership just like the Taliban had captured Afghanistan. Both Nair and Kumar had made scathing criticism against the state leadership over the selection of District Congress Committee (DCC) chiefs. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) had last month published the list of 14 DCC chiefs in the state, following which the disgruntled leaders had made the remarks on TV talk shows. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-withdraws-suspension-of-former-mla-sivadasan-nair-1031329.html
17-09-2021||South||CM Stalin leads Tamil Nadu in observing Social Justice Day||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday led the state in observing the 143rd birth anniversary of rationalist leader E V Ramasamy, popularly known as Periyar, as Social Justice Day. Paying rich tributes to the reformer, the Chief Minister said the rationalist sowed the seeds of social justice in the minds of the people around. Tamil Nadu was resurrected only after his birth. "I took the pledge of social justice on such a glorious birthday. Entire Tamil Nadu undertook the pledge. We will set up an egalitarian society on your path," he tweeted. The Chief Minister said in another tweet, "Today, on his birthday, we pay homage to Periyar, the rationalist who sowed social justice in the minds of the people in all walks of life. Tamil Nadu was resurrected only after his birth. It became a society of dignity and knowledge." Earlier this month, Stalin told the Assembly that the birth anniversary of E V Ramasamy falling on September 17, will be observed as Social Justice Day every year. Recalling the services of Periyar (September 17, 1879 - December 24, 1973) to the Tamil society, the Chief Minister said he was instrumental in the enactment of the first Constitutional Amendment Act (that safeguarded reservation for backward classes). Periyar's ideology was all about social justice, self-respect, rationalism and equality, which laid the foundation for Tamil society's growth during the last century and it would also pave the way for the future, Stalin had said. The Chief Minister paid floral tributes to the statue of Periyar at Anna Salai here accompanied by his Cabinet colleagues and MPs T R Baalu and Kanimozhi. Later, he administered the pledge to the officials and staff at the Secretariat, affirming that they will follow the social activist’s ideology based on social justice, self-respect, rationalism and equality. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-stalin-leads-tamil-nadu-in-observing-social-justice-day-1031359.html
17-09-2021||South||Kerala government hails SC verdict, says Class XI exams will be held adhering to Covid protocol||Welcoming the Supreme Court verdict allowing the Kerala government to hold physical exam for Class XI, the state government on Friday said it was prepared to hold the exam adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Reacting to the verdict, state General Education Minister V Sivankutty said a majority of students wanted to write the examination offline and it will be held without creating any difficulties for them. He said once the details of the apex court verdict are available, the examination date will be fixed in consultation with the Chief Minister and other departments. He said a new timetable will be prepared for conducting the examination. The minister also sought cooperation of all local bodies, political parties, youth organisations and people's representatives in carrying out disinfectant activities in schools across the state. Dismissing a plea challenging the Kerala government's decision to hold physical exam for Class XI, a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar today said holistic approach has to be taken in the matter and the authorities are conscious of their duties. "We are convinced by the explanation offered by the state and trust authorities will take all precautions and necessary steps so that no untoward situation is faced by students who are of tender age and appearing for the proposed examination. Dismissed," the bench said. The Kerala government in an affidavit had told the top court that online examinations will be a disadvantage for students with no access to laptops and mobile phones. "The conduct of examination through online mode will prejudice a large number of students who have no access to laptops, desktops or even mobile phones. The students belonging to the lower strata of society are depending on mobile phones or tablets for attending online classes. In many areas, internet connection or mobile data are not available. These students will never be able to write online examinations," the state government said. The apex court on September 3 stayed for a week the state government's decision to conduct offline exams for Class XI commencing from September 6 amid rising Covid cases, saying "there is an alarming situation in the state".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-hails-sc-verdict-says-class-xi-exams-will-be-held-adhering-to-covid-protocol-1031394.html
17-09-2021||South||Amid 'narcotic & love jihad' row, ruling CPI(M) cautions against luring educated women to terrorism||At a time when Kerala is witnessing a raging debate on religious extremism and concerns about the radicalisation of youth, the ruling CPI(M) has cautioned against the deliberate attempt by a section to lure educated women studying in professional colleges to the path of communalism and terrorism. Stating that extremist forces were infiltrating mainstream Muslim outfits and trying to create issues in the southern state, it also said the actions of Sangh Parivar forces had instilled a sense of insecurity among the minority groups. The Marxist party also asked its cadres to be vigilant about the issues. The significant remarks were made in an in-house note prepared by the ruling party in connection with the inauguration of the upcoming party conventions in the state. Under the sub-title "Minority Communalism", the note said it should be viewed seriously that even debates, supporting terrorist outfits like the Taliban, which was denounced by the democratic world and majority in the Muslim community, were happening in the state.  "Deliberate attempts are being made to lure youth into communalism and extremist ideologies. Conscious efforts are on to make educated young women in professional colleges to think that way. Both the student union and youth organisation (of CPI-M) should pay special attention to the issue," it said. Though the Christians in the state generally do not comply with the communal ideologies, the radical influence growing among a small section in the community in recent times should be viewed seriously, it noted. Deliberate attempts were being made to turn the Christian community against the Muslims in the state, the party note said, adding that such moves would help the majority communalism to thrive in the state. However, the opposition Congress urged the CPI(M) to show the proof for the allegation as it was a "serious" charge raised by the party which rules the state. "The CPI(M) leadership should reveal whether any cases had been registered in this regard or whether they have any data to prove their charges. The party and its government have the moral responsibility to reveal them," V D Satheesan told reporters here. Attacking the ruling party over the issue, the BJP accused it of allegedly turning the southern state into a "fertile soil" for extremist forces. "The extremist forces would not have gained foothold in the state if they have reacted strongly against them. What sincerity do they have to say now that vigil should be stepped up against terrorism?" BJP veteran Kummanam Rajasekharan asked. The in-house note of the CPI(M) assumes significance in the wake of ongoing debates over the recent 'narcotic and love jihad' remark by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt, which was widely criticised by various political parties including the ruling party. The CPI(M) and the opposition Congress had objected to the controversial remark, while the BJP came out supporting the Catholic Bishop saying that 'love and narcotic jihad' is a reality. Kallarangatt had said recently that Christian girls were falling prey to the alleged love and narcotic jihad in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-narcotic-love-jihad-row-ruling-cpim-cautions-against-luring-educated-women-to-terrorism-1031396.html
17-09-2021||South||Prathidhwani organises virtual job fair for IT sector in Kerala||Prathidhwani, a collective for the welfare of IT employees, which has a presence in all IT parks in Kerala, has organised a first of its kind free virtual job fair through its portal. IT companies have joined hands with Prathidhwani for the virtual job fair through jobs.prathidhwani.org and the candidate registration is open from Friday. "The registration is absolutely free of cost for the candidates and continues till September 21. Through an automated system, the profiles are matched with the job description and the matching profiles will be forwarded to companies. Interview timeline is likely to be from 22nd September to 30th September," Prathidhwani said in a release. Over 100 companies from Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram, Infopark in Kochi and Cyberpark in Kozhikode have already posted more than 2,000 job openings in the portal, the release said, adding that multinational companies such as UST, Allianz, HnR Block, Quest Global and Tata Elxsi are also part of the hiring drive. "In the last few months there has been a huge surge of IT jobs in Kerala. Keralites working in Bangalore, Chennai, Pune and Hyderabad are looking for opportunities back home. The job fair also aims to present the vast number of opportunities at Kerala to those working outside the state," Raneesh A R, president of Prathidhwani said. The virtual job fair is exclusively for the IT sector jobs and openings include Devops Engineer, Technical Architect, Automation Tester, DB developer, Big Data Analyst, Full Stack Developer, UI/UX, Java Developer, .NET Developer, Sales Executives, Technical Writers etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prathidhwani-organises-virtual-job-fair-for-it-sector-in-kerala-1031397.html
17-09-2021||South||Kerala HC dismisses plea against administrative reforms in Lakshadweep||The Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed a plea against administrative reforms being implemented in Lakshadweep. A Bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly dismissed the plea filed by Save Lakshadweep Forum against the closure of dairy farms and changes in the food menu of school children. Expressing solidarity with the people of the island, the Kerala Legislative Assembly unanimously passed a resolution demanding the recall of island administrator Praful Khoda Patel and requesting the Central government's immediate intervention to protect the lives and livelihood of the islanders. An archipelago located in the Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep has been witnessing protests by locals over the recent actions and administrative reforms being implemented by Patel. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-dismisses-plea-against-administrative-reforms-in-lakshadweep-1031408.html
17-09-2021||South||LDF witnessing internal tussle over performance in Kerala Assembly elections||Despite the thumping victory in the Assembly elections with 99 seats and retaining power for the second consecutive term, the CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala is witnessing an internal tussle over the performance in elections. While CPI, which is a long term ally with the CPM, and Kerala Congress (M), which is a new entrant to the Front, were accusing each other for the poor performance of the LDF in some of the constituencies, the CPM is initiating action against many of its prominent local leaders for alleged lapses in the electioneering. CPI's evaluation of LDF's performance in the Assembly elections also reportedly concluded that Kerala Congress (M)'s entry to the LDF did not give many advantages to the LDF, especially in parts of Central Kerala. The defeat of Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani at the party's home turf Pala in Kottayam district was pointed out by CPI to state that he was not having mass support. Kerala Congress (M) termed the evaluations and baseless and specifically pointed out certain constituencies claiming that the LDF candidates won with the help of Kerala Congress (M)'s influence. Sources in the LDF said that the CPI was quite apprehensive about whether its significance in the LDF may be affected by the entry of the Kerala Congress (M). The CPI was even opposed to the entry of the Kerala Congress (M) to the LDF especially highlighting the protest the LDF unleashed against Kerala Congress (M) founder leader K M Mani over corruption allegations while he was serving as Finance Minister in the Congress-led government. With regard to the number of MLAs, at present, the CPI is having 62 MLAs followed by CPI with 17 MLAs and Kerala Congress (M) with five MLAs. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan preferred not to make any direct comments on the issue maintaining that those were only media reports. Meanwhile, the CPM has already taken actions like demotion and warnings against many prominent leaders in various districts on charges of being inactive in electioneering. In Ernakulam district, several leaders faced action after the party's prominent candidates like sitting MLA M Swaraj lost. Actions were also taken against prominent leaders in Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta districts. Former minister G Sudhakaran, who is from Alappuzha, was also likely to face action. The actions were being initiated on the basis of evaluation by the party into the election performance. LDF sources said that it could be for the first time that the party was taking swift actions against the local leaders for deliberate lapses in electioneering, which were mainly due to differences over candidate selection. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-witnessing-internal-tussle-over-performance-in-kerala-assembly-elections-1031446.html
17-09-2021||South||Judicial probe ordered into death of Hyderabad rape-murder accused||The Telangana High Court has ordered a judicial probe into the death by suicide of Pallakonda Raju, the accused in the rape and murder of a 6-year-old girl in Hyderabad. Raju, who was elusive for a week despite a massive manhunt by the state police was found dead on a railway track, near the station Ghanpur, about 130 km northeast of the city on Thursday morning. His wife Mounika and mother Eeramma alleged that the police would have caught and killed him but are projecting it as a case of suicide. A petition was filed in the High Court by civil rights activists alleging that Raju was executed by the police.  The court which heard the arguments from the petitioner and the state representative has directed the Warangal III metropolitan magistrate to probe the death and submit a report in a sealed cover within four weeks. The high court has ordered that the video recordings of the seven witness statements, post-mortem etc should be handed over to the magistrate within a day. The heinous rape and murder of the girl child took place on September 9 in the Singareni Colony, under the Saidabad police station limits in the city. Raju (about 30), a daily wage earner and neighbour of the girl's family, allegedly abducted her and resorted to sexual molestation. The girl's body, with bite marks, was reportedly found at Raju's dwelling and he was found to be missing since the crime came to light. In the days after the crime, opposition parties attacked the K Chandrasekhar Rao government, alleging law and order failure. While the public was outraged, there was a growing chorus especially on social media to “kill the culprit in an encounter.” The popular reference was to the “encounter killing” of the four accused in the rape and murder of a young veterinarian “Disha” in Hyderabad in December 2019. Echoing such views, TRS minister Malla Reddy had said that the perpetrator “would be caught and killed in an encounter.” The media focus added to the police search and statements like "encounter killing" is believed to have pushed the suspect to take the extreme step. According to the witnesses at the spot, Raju threw himself before the fast-approaching Konark Express and was killed instantly. Earlier on Friday, state DGP Mahender Reddy stated that there should be no doubts about Raju's death, as there are seven eye-witnesses, including the two drivers of the train and farmers in the adjoining fields, of him jumping before the train and run over by it. “This is 100 per cent a case of suicide. All the direct witness statements are recorded, what more evidence would one need? There is no need for anyone to tell lies here and it is not correct to spread canards, creating baseless doubts in the people's minds,” Reddy told reporters.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/judicial-probe-ordered-into-death-of-hyderabad-rape-murder-accused-1031454.html
17-09-2021||South||NIA conducts searches in Tamil Nadu; 1 held over social media posts promoting extremism||The NIA conducted searches at two locations in Tamil Nadu and arrested an accused in connection with a case relating to incriminating Facebook posts by an extremist advocating the ideology of the Islamic State and fundamentalist organisation Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, an official said on Friday. Bava Bahrudeen of Thiruvarur district was arrested by the NIA on Thursday, the official of the premier investigation agency said. The case, registered in Madurai, pertains to Mohammed Iqbal using his Facebook account “Thoonga Vizhigal Rendu is in Kazimar Street” to upload posts that denigrated a particular community and fomented communal disharmony among different religions in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, he said. Iqbal conspired with others including Bahrudeen, in the name of Hizb-ut-Tahrir, to re-establish the Islamic State and implement Sharia globally including in India, the official said. In furtherance of this conspiracy, they had participated in closed-door ‘bayans’ (meetings) and created multiple accounts on various social media applications to upload posts intended to disclaim and disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India, he said. The conspiracy meetings/closed door bayans were helmed by Bahrudeen and conducted in Madurai, Erode, Salem and Tanjore districts in Tamil Nadu, the official added. In the searches conducted on Thursday in Mannargudi of Thiruvarur district and in Mansur Ali Thaikal area of Tanjore district, 30 books and handwritten documents containing incriminating literature related to Hizb-ut-Tahrir and establishment of the Islamic State/Khilafat and three digital devices were seized, he said, adding further investigation is on.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-conducts-searches-in-tamil-nadu-1-held-over-social-media-posts-promoting-extremism-1031472.html
17-09-2021||South||Directive to review literary works of Kerala government employees withdrawn following row||A directive of the Kerala government insisting on the education department's review of literary works of employees was withdrawn following widespread criticism. The circular issued by the general education department on September 9 said that literary works by employees should be published only after the education department reviews them and give consent. The circular was issued as a clarification to the existing restrictions for government employees in carrying out cultural and literary works. The circular invited widespread criticism from various quarters with many alleging it as an attempt to impose censorship on literary freedom. Known poet and literary critic K Satchidanandan sarcastically commented on social media that it was better the local police did the review of the literary works of government employees. As the criticisms mounted, the general education minister V Sivankutty directed the department to withdraw the circular. The minister's office informed that the circular was aimed only at ensuring that government employees do not flout the existing norms. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/directive-to-review-literary-works-of-kerala-government-employees-withdrawn-following-row-1031486.html
17-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu opposes bringing fuels under GST ambit||Tamil Nadu on Friday opposed the idea of bringing fuels under the goods and services tax (GST) by saying the petrol and diesel remain one of the last vestiges of a State's right to manage its own revenue, according to Finance Minister of the State P T Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. Addressing the GST Council led by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Rajan raised concerns that the Centre has been increasing tax on petrol and diesel between 500 per cent and 1,000 per cent since 2014. "We are of the general opinion that the State taxation of petrol and diesel remains one of the last vestiges of any State's right to manage their own revenues, since the advent of GST stripped away most of the small range of rights originally written to the Constitution. We are reluctant to give up any of these few remaining rights and so are fundamentally opposed to bringing these products into the ambit of GST," Rajan said. The Union government, changing the mix of taxation from over 90 per cent excise and less than 10 per cent cess and surcharge to about four per cent of total Union taxation of these products as excise today, have deprived the States of huge amounts of revenue while increasing the Centre's revenue from the products by trillions of rupees (lakhs of crores) annually, he said. "Under these circumstances, we feel it will be a grave, potentially fatal, injustice to shift State taxation of petrol and diesel away from levels determined solely by each State to the ambit of GST," he said. Rajan, however, said the State government would reconsider its decision if the Centre were to completely drop the levy of all cess and surcharge on such products. The Minister described the Fitment Committee's recommendation of attracting a 18 per cent GST on coconut oil when packed and sold in a unit container less than 1 litre was in bad faith, and was against the interest of Tamil Nadu which was one of the largest producers of coconuts and coconut oil. The Fitment Committee has recommended that the coconut oil when packed and sold in a unit container of less than 1,000 millilitres may be classified as hair oil attracting a GST rate of 18 per cent irrespective of its actual end-use," he said. "We find this recommendation lacking in either logic or fairness. We will go so far as to consider this decision to have been made with bad faith intent against the interest of Tamil Nadu," he said. "How can you classify something which is clearly edible as effectively non-edible for the sake of levying GST? How do you decide on one whole litre as the cut-off for even considering whether something is intended for edible use or not. It is an arbitrary cut-off point, bereft of human compassion and basic logic," he said. Holding that not many poor families buy cooking oil in units more than one litre, he asked "Why should coconut oil only be singled out to other edible oils with multiple uses, such as mustard oil or gingelly oil?" "Are they not considered because their origin is not largely contained to the southern states like Tamil Nadu," he said and asked why South Indian oil is being discriminated against while oil imported gets a five per cent rate. "We find this proposal to be anti-poor, anti-southern states," he said. Lakhs of coconut farmers of Tamil Nadu and other States would never forget this outcome were this GST Council to perpetrate such gross injustice against them, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-opposes-bringing-fuels-under-gst-ambit-1031547.html
17-09-2021||South||BJP not afraid of AIMIM; will officially celebrate 'Telangana Liberation Day' after coming to power: Amit Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah said that BJP would officially celebrate the 'Hyderabad Liberation Day', once it comes to power in Telangana. Annexation of the Hyderabad state with the Indian union took place on September 17, 1948, over a year after the nation's independence, and following a “police action” named Operation Polo monitored by the then union home minister Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. The Niza-ruled Hyderabad state included the entire Telangana, and the areas adjoining it -- the present day Karnataka and Maharashtra. The annexation was preceded by the famous Telangana armed struggle against the Nizam rule and the atrocities of his militia, the Razaakars. The BJP has been demanding the K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) government to observe the Telangana vimochana divas officially. The party alleges that Chief Minister Rao is disinclined as he fears alienating his ally the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) of Asaduddin Owaisi. On Friday, Shah addressed a BJP rally in Nirmal in north Telangana, organised to commemorate the day. “Today is Telangana's independence day... What happened to KCR's promises during the statehood agitation to officially observe the vimochana diwas? Who are you afraid of now? The BJP is not afraid of the Majlis,” Shah questioned. “The car (TRS party symbol) is of KCR, but its steering is in the hands of Owaisi,” Shah further said. Shah expressed confidence that they would form the next government in Telangana. He appealed to the public to vote for the victory of former TRS minister Eatala Rajender in the Huzurabad bye-elections. “The TRS thinks it can win any election with money power. Let us prove them wrong,” Shah said while charging that the ruling party is managed by the KCR family. Shah appealed to the party cadres to make the ongoing Praja Sangrama padayatra of Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay a success. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-not-afraid-of-aimim-will-officially-celebrate-telangana-liberation-day-after-coming-to-power-amit-shah-1031552.html
17-09-2021||State||Teacher marries courage with conviction in fight for connectivity||Dejected over the rejection of marriage proposals in view of the poor state of the road to her village, a teacher with double post-graduate degrees from the taluk has resorted to a unique protest.  She has vowed not to enter wedlock till a road is constructed to her village.  R D Bindu of H Rampura in the taluk, who works as a high school teacher at Kudalasangama in Bagalkot district, told DH that she had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi a year ago seeking the construction of a five-km road from H Rampura to Hedne village in the taluk.  Officials in the prime minister’s office responded to the letter and said that the officials concerned would be directed to execute the work. Two km of the road was built, but the work came to a standstill due to dearth of funds. Bindu has now written to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in this regard. In response to the letter, the chief secretary has promised that steps would be taken for completing the road work. Bindu told DH that the village was on the outskirts of the taluk and it was surrounded by hills. “The absence of a road has worsened the woes of residents. The mud road turns slushy during rainy season and motorists have a nightmare every day. There is no bus service to the village. So, students have to walk for about five km to go to schools in Huchchavanahalli, Mayakonda and Basavapura as the school at H Rampura teaches only up to class 5. Students, women and senior citizens are the worst affected,” she said. She said men in the village struggle to get brides as parents are not keen to marry off their daughters to the village, citing the poor road. The fate of unmarried women here is no different.  Bindu said Rampura, which houses over 50 families, is deprived of basic amenities. “My family stands by me on my decision and say I must do something for the village. I am firm on my decision,” the teacher said.  Mayakonda MLA N Linganna said work on the remainder of the road would be completed after receiving grants from the government. Deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi visited the village and promised necessary action. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/teacher-marries-courage-with-conviction-in-fight-for-connectivity-1031166.html
17-09-2021||State||No Centre guidelines on deporting Rohingyas: Araga Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that the Central government was yet to issue clear guidelines on deporting Rohingyas settling in different parts of the country. “There are 190 Rohingyas in six camps of the state,” he told the Legislative Council. The Internal Security Division is also carrying out a special campaign to identify illegal migrants from Bangladesh and their residences are being verified, he said. He was responding to a question by BJP MLC Munirajugowda P M. All police stations are directed to maintain accurate details of foreign nationals staying in their limits. The department is assessing whether they are students or employed professionals, and is monitoring them, Jnanendra said. “The government will not allow any illegal activity by foreign nationals. Police has carried out a special campaign to identify foreigners who are overstaying beyond their Visa period,” the minister said. In a written reply, he said that two cases were filed against those allegedly sheltering such immigrants. While one case was filed in Bengaluru, the other was registered in KGF. A Special Task Force is also formed at the district-level to keep a check on such incidents, he said. On whether foreigners with serious cases against them were allowed to flee the country, Jnanendra replied in the negative, saying that no such instances were reported. “We can’t deport until the prosecution is complete,” he said. ‘27 lockup deaths’ Karnataka reported 27 lockup deaths in the state since 2018, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told the Council. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-centre-guidelines-on-deporting-rohingyas-araga-jnanendra-1031167.html
17-09-2021||State||Pandemic, pressure telling on IISc researchers||With two students taking their lives and another attempting it in a span of 72 hours, there is concern about a simmering mental health crisis at the prestigious Indian Institute of Science (IISc). Students and administrative sources said the matter has been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic but added that IISc’s inability to address the root causes of the problem, such as insufficient mental support, means that some of the country’s best and brightest students are taking the extreme step.  Since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, the police said six students have taken their own lives, four of whom died this year. “From January 2018 to December 2019, two students took their own lives,” IISc said in a statement. The latest casualty was Rishabhraj Mesharam, 21, a third-year undergraduate student, who died by suicide in his hostel room on Tuesday. While friends say this was the result of depression prompted by a long-standing personal dispute with his parents, they also say he could have been saved had he had access to effective mental support at the institute.  Hours later on Tuesday, a woman PhD student also tried to hang herself but was saved. These incidents follow the death of another PhD student on Sunday.  “The academic environment is not easy on students at the best of times,” IISc director Govindan Rangarajan acknowledged in a condolence note. “It has been made even more difficult because of the constraints imposed upon us, especially our students, by the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic...we look forward to supporting you all in every way possible. We are there for you.”  IISc also insisted that its administration and its Wellness Centre, which was started about a year ago, have been proactive in setting up helpful resources for students, including a 24x7 emergency call service, 24x7 online counselling, outreach programmes and support via the YourDost platform, and recruiting counsellors. However, students said they have little trust in the campus doctors. “That lack of trust led to Rishabhraj’s death,” said Aakash (name changed), a friend of the deceased. “The last time he tried to consult doctors, he was just sent home. He lost faith in them after that.” IISc reimburses up to eight visitations of students per year to external, private psychologists. But Rishabhraj had already used up this quota.  However, medical professionals disagree. Students don’t seek help because of deep-rooted stigma on campus over issues of mental health. This must change, a staffer said. “An April 2021 survey to determine the mental well-being of the student body drew less than 1,000 students out of over 4,500 students enrolled. Out of this, 10% to 15% were shortlisted for support. The three biggest causes were: academic-pressures, personal problems or interpersonal problems. Every single person shortlisted was contacted and reached out. Those who need help are given it,” the staffer said. When asked about the four deaths this year, the staffer said that increased isolation is to blame as only about 2,600 students are currently on campus. “There has always been a sense of social disconnect at IISc - even before the pandemic. With the onset of Covid-19, even that little human interaction has been lost,” the staffer said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pandemic-pressure-telling-on-iisc-researchers-1031170.html
17-09-2021||State||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to attend Kuvempu University's 31st convocation||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will deliver the convocation address at the 31st annual convocation of Kuvempu University in Jnana Sahyadri campus, Shankaraghatta near Shivamogga. Sources stated that a four-member delegation of the University authorities led by Vice-Chancellor B P Veerabhadrappa met her in New Delhi, on Thursday, and appealed to her to take part in the convocation. She said to have consented to it and told the authorities that she would finalise the date next month. The convocation is likely to be held in the last week of October. Kuvempu University Registrar (Evaluation) CM Tygaraja, Directorate of Distance Education Director S N Yogish, Kuvempu University's Delhi representative Rajashekhar Savanur were part of the delegation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-attend-kuvempu-universitys-31st-convocation-1031172.html
17-09-2021||State||Man injured in bear attack in Davangere district||A 47-year old man sustained injuries after he was attacked by a wild bear at Anaburu Gollarahatti village in the taluk on Wednesday night. According to police, the injured has been identified as Ajjappa (47), resident of Anaburu Gollarahatti village.  Three wild bears pounced on him while he was taking a flock of sheep to the shed on September 15th night. He sustained injuries on chest, head and he is undergoing treatment in general hospital in the town. Villagers complained that such incidents are being reported on regular basis. But the officials of forest department have not taken steps to end the wild bears menace. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-injured-in-bear-attack-in-davangere-district-1031175.html
17-09-2021||State||Nanjundappa report on redressal of regional imbalances to be revised: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that the report of High-Power Committee for Redressal of Regional Imbalances headed by late D M Nanjundappa will be revised for the next five years. Speaking after unfurling the national flag at DAR ground here, he said, "The Nanjundappa report will be revised and it will be brought out in the new form with new indicators and goals on the basis of the report of Niti Ayog, Human Development Index and World Organisation." Seeking some time from the people of the Kalyana Karnataka region for the government for inclusive development of the region, he opined that development should "revolve" around the people instead of citizens running after the development. "We will bring about changes in our thinking, action plans and implementation. The government will evaluate work done in the region and will also bring about changes as per the present demands for the comprehensive development," the CM said.  Bommai assured of allocating Rs 3,000 crore to Kalyana Karnataka Development Board (KKRDB) instead of the present Rs 1,500 core, from the next budget on a condition that the board should spend the remaining Rs 2,000 crore by March-end. Out of Rs 8,000 crore released so far, around Rs 6,000 crore have been spent, he stated.  The Article 371(J) Implementation Cell which has been functioning from Bengaluru will be shifted to Kalaburagi to enable recruitment of the vacant posts and oversee the developmental works. Besides appointing a permanent secretary to KKRDB, steps will be taken to recruit the staff to the board. He will personally review once in three months the developmental works to be taken by the KKRDB and as per the Nanjundappa committee report, he promised.  Basavaraj Bommai equated former chief minister B S Yediyurappa with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the man behind the liberation of Hyderabad Karnataka. Yediyurappa has emerged as another iron man by rechristening the region as Kalyana Karnataka. Speaking after garlanding Patel's statue, he said we will continue all programmes announced by Yediyurappa for the region. He repeatedly recalled his predecessor while delivering a speech after hoisting the national flag. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nanjundappa-report-on-redressal-of-regional-imbalances-to-be-revised-cm-bommai-1031415.html
17-09-2021||State||Muslim-cooperation vital for removal of loudspeakers from mosques: Davangere MP||Davangere MP G M Siddeshwar stated that the co-operation of Muslims is vital with regard to removal of loudspeakers from mosques in the name of Supreme Court's order. He was reacting to a query on why loudspeakers have not been removed from mosques despite the order issued by Supreme Court during an interaction with media persons, here on Friday. He said India is a country where majority of people are Hindus and Muslims are minority. The religious issue of people belonging to minority group must be discussed. Their co-operation is also essential in this regard. The government has to handle the sensitive issue carefully. If loudspeakers are removed from mosques in the name of Supreme Court, media will term BJP as anti-minority, he added. He also claimed that BJP leaders and workers are not fake Hindus, but the Congress is making negative comments on these lines for political gains. BJP has become a major political party in Karnataka on the basis of Hindutva ideology and so it would remain as pro-Hindu party. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/muslim-cooperation-vital-for-removal-of-loudspeakers-from-mosques-davangere-mp-1031442.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ADGP Bhaskar Rao seeks voluntary retirement||Serving the Karnataka police force for 31 years in various positions, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP, Railways) Bhaskar Rao on Thursday reportedly submitted an application to the state government seeking voluntary retirement from the service. Rao, who had previously served as Commissioner of Bengaluru City Police, met DG&IGP Praveen Sood and also Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar and requested them to relieve him of duties at the earliest. According to sources in the government, Rao has reportedly said in his application, “I am seeking voluntary retirement from service due to personal reasons and I request you to consider my application.” DH tried reaching out to Rao on his plans of retirement. However, the officer did not respond to the messages. Rao’s application seeking voluntary retirement, three years ahead of his superannuation in 2024, has created a buzz in the bureaucratic circles. Speculations have been doing rounds that Rao is likely to join politics and contest the forthcoming polls to Assembly from Basavanagudi constituency either from the Congress or Aam Aadmi Party(AAP). A graduate in Economics, Rao belongs to the 1990 batch of IPS officers and batchmate of the present commissioner of Bengaluru City Police Kamal Pant. Serving as the commissioner of Bengaluru during the outbreak of the Covid pandemic, Rao had initiated several measures to safeguard the livelihood of migrant labourers and the poor by involving citizen volunteers. During the peak of Covid-19 cases, Rao had ordered work from home to senior police personnel keeping in mind their healthcondition.  Rao tweeted English poet Alfred Tennyson’s famous character Ulysses about his new voyage, “One equal temper of heroic hearts, made weak by time and fate, strong is will to strive, to seek, to find and not yield”. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/adgp-bhaskar-rao-seeks-voluntary-retirement-1031173.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Give Rs 25,000 to Covid-hit families, HDK tells Karnataka govt||The state government must declare 2021 as “Covid year” and announce financial relief packages to those from vulnerable sections of the society impacted by Covid-19, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Thursday.  Kumaraswamy was speaking on price rise in the Assembly. “Such vulnerable families across the state could add up to about 55 lakh. The government must declare a one-time financial package of at least Rs 25,000 for each family. The government can definitely afford it and it will not be a burden on the state exchequer,” he said. If needed, the government must suspend big ticket infrastructure projects, including any airport constructions at this juncture, all of which can wait until the crisis passes, he said. He also urged the government to suspend all “Amrith schemes” for a year and focus on Covid relief. The situation today is that the government is fleecing the common man with taxes and is then imposing the financial burden of price hikes on them, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, he stated. In the course of his debate, Kumaraswamy also recalled that during his tenure as the chief minister, he was put in a fix by Congress leaders. “For election purposes, Siddaramaiah announced the free rice under Anna Bhagya would be increased to 7 kg from 5 kg. However, when the budget was presented, money was allocated only for 5 kg, putting me in a fix,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/give-rs-25000-to-covid-hit-families-hdk-tells-karnataka-govt-1031174.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bill on teacher transfers tabled in Karnataka assembly||Providing a relief to primary and high school teachers in the state, the Karnataka State Civil Services (Regulation of Transfer of Teachers) Amendment Bill, 2021, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. As per the amendment, primary school teachers transferred outside the taluk and high school teachers transferred outside the district in 2019-20, will be allowed to opt for transfer within the taluk or district they were serving before the transfer in 2019-20, as a one-time measure.  The amendment was necessitated as, during 2019-20, the teachers were transferred according to the Karnataka State Civil Services (Regulation of Transfer of Teachers) Rules, 2017, in which no exemption was provided to teachers with specially-abled children, those above 50 years, single parents or pregnant teachers. Providing a relief in such cases, the government has now introduced the amendment as a one-time measure. The government had earlier promulgated an ordinance in this regard. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bill-on-teacher-transfers-tabled-in-karnataka-assembly-1031177.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rahul bids farewell to ‘friend & true soldier of Congress’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday paid his final respects to senior party leader Oscar Fernandes.  Rahul said Oscar was "a friend, a guide and a true soldier."  Rahul arrived in Bengaluru on Thursday afternoon and met Fernandes' family members - his wife Blossom, son and daughter at their Rest House Road apartment. He also attended a prayer organized at the St Patrick's Church on Brigade Road.  "Spent some time with the family of Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji and paid last respects to him - a friend, a guide and a true soldier of the Congress Party," Rahul said in a tweet. Condoling Fernandes' death, Rahul had earlier said, "It is a personal loss for me. He was a guide and mentor for many of us in the Congress. He will be missed and fondly remembered for his contributions." Fernandes' body was brought to Bengaluru from Mangaluru and it was kept at the KPCC office for party leaders and workers to pay their respects. Both in Mangaluru and Bengaluru, Shivakumar personally supervised all arrangements.  Rahul was joined by senior party leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, Randeep Singh Surjewala, K C Venugopal, Margaret Alva, Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar and others.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rahul-bids-farewell-to-friend-true-soldier-of-congress-1031178.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes Bill on prison reform||The Karnataka Assembly on Friday passed a Bill to set up a Prison Development Board to take up reforms in the state’s penitentiaries, following a serious debate on the current state-of-affairs.  The Karnataka Prison Development Board Bill envisages skill improvement and welfare of both prisoners and prison staff. It also talks about the development of modern prison industries, job-oriented skill programmes for prisoners including technical programmes specific to different trades, through the Board. Piloting the Bill, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the Board would enable prisoners to walk out of prison as "productive individuals who can fend for their families".  Karnataka has 107 prisons of which nine are central prisons, 21 district prisons, 1 open prison, 29 taluk prisons (under the Prisons Department) and 47 taluk prisons (under Revenue Department). Their authorised accommodation is 14,080, but the number of inmates in 2019-20 was 14,423 and most of them were undertrials.  The Board will have a separate prison development fund, which will include money raised by manufacturing activities taken up by prisoners, funds generated by sale of property if any, donations from NGOs and through CSR initiatives, among other sources. The Bill was passed amid scepticism that some MLAs expressed on the prison system having become corrupt with many illegal activities going unchecked.  Former Speaker KR Ramesh Kumar said jails had themselves become a hub of illegal activities, an opinion backed by several other legislators including UT Khader, Ramalinga Reddy and K Annadani. "Instead of being a deterrent to crime, jail has become an attractive place for youth with all facilities. A culprit walks out with a bigger network that he has gained from the prison," he said. Some legislators also pointed out that prisoners were unauthorisedly accessing mobile phones from the jail. Prisons have also turned dens for alcohol, drugs and other illegal activities, they alleged. "In Mangaluru, the jammer affects phones outside the prison, not inside," Khader said.  Along with passing the Bill, the government must ensure a clean prison system, Reddy urged.  Minister remembers jail time Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said his personal experience in the prison strengthened his desire to bring reforms. He was imprisoned for close to six months during the emergency period, the minister recalled, stating that he had to pay about Rs 8,000 to the jailer for his release. In this context, he also assured that he would issue strict directions to ensure the release of prisoners immediately after their acquittal.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-on-prison-reform-1031437.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KIOCL Ltd to commence captive mining operations at Devadari by 2023||KIOCL Limited Chairman-cum-Managing Director T Saminathan said that the captive mining operations at Devadari in Sandur taluk in Ballari district is likely to begin by March 2023. The company, which recently received stage-1 approval from Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for iron ore and manganese ore mining, is expecting to get the stage-2 clearance by March 2022. By all means, the mining operations will begin by 2023, he told mediapersons at Patrika Bhavan. The Devadari will have a mine capacity of 2 MTPA iron ore and 500 TPA Managanese ore with 2 MTPA wet beneficiation plant, he added. "We are in the middle of executing both backward and forward integration plans at Blast Furnace Unit at Mangaluru. The tendering process was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic, subsequent travel restrictions and changes in public procurement policy, GFR and mandatory registration with Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) GoI by foreign bidders, sharing the country border. The company is investing all its efforts to bring the project at the earliest with the company planning to set up a coke oven plant as part of backward integration. As part of a forward integration plan, we are looking at setting up a ductile iron spun pipe plant and the project is likely to be completed in the two years,” he added. Further, he stated that the mineral exploration works assigned by National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET), Ministry of Mines of Government of India and Department of Mines and Geology of Government of Karnataka are under different stages of execution. The KIOCL completed G4 level exploration works for four blocks and submitted the report to the NMET which includes minerals such as Nickel, Limestone and Dolomite. In addition, 10 blocks of iron and Managanese ore allotted by Government of Karnata for G2 and G3 level of exploration works are in progress, he explained. Considering the huge opportunities in both domestic and global markets for its product - high-grade iron ore pellets - KIOCL is planning to explore new business opportunities in India and overseas markets. Consistent efforts are on to expand the markets in Brazil, Oman, Malaysia, MENA countries in addition to Chinese markets. The share of Chinese market is 44 per cent, MENA countries 33 per cent and the remaining is Brazil and Malaysia. Tolling arrangement As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharath, the KIOCL Ltd is looking to enter into tolling arrangement with various oversea suppliers of high grade iron ore. It will be a buy-back agreement after conversion of pellets, it will be supplied to the suppliers of iron ore. This will in turn help to increase the capacity utilization of Pellet plant. The company is in talks with JSPL-Jindal Sadeed, Oman and with Posco of South Korea through Glencore. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kiocl-ltd-to-commence-captive-mining-operations-at-devadari-by-2023-1031488.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Private school bodies welcome fee cut order||The private schools in the state have hailed the the Karnataka High Court’s order to reduce fee by 15 per cent. The private schools associations had challenged the 2020-21 order by the state government reducing the school fee by 30 per cent during the academic year. “We respect the court order and ask our member-schools to comply with the order,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. However, he requested the parents to follow the order. “The department of public instruction has to issue an order directing parents to follow the court order,” he added. According to sources in the industry, several private school managements have already given 15 per cent and some even more than that. “We have given a 20 per cent discount to all students considering the pandemic situation,” said a representative of a private unaided school in Bengaluru. The private school managements claim that the court order won’t affect collection of fees for the 2021-22 academic year.  “It was very clear in our petition to the court. We were challenging the 30 per cent fee reduction ordered by the government for the 2020-21 academic year and the court order will be applicable only for the said academic year,” said Shashi Kumar. If, in case, the schools collected 100 per cent fees during the 2020-21 academic year, they can adjust the same this year or during the next academic year by giving 15 per cent discount. The schools that have complied with the government order by reducing the fee by 30 per cent are in a fix now. “We have followed the order and given 30 per cent discounts. Now, we cannot ask parents to pay back or to recover the same in this year’s fees,” said a principal of a school affiliated with CBSE. Lokesh Talikatte, president of Registered Unaided Private Schools Association Karnataka, said, “The high court has finally resolved the 2020-21 fee row and we will honour the court order and also request all our member-institutions to follow the same.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/private-school-bodies-welcome-fee-cut-order-1031514.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD case: AG seeks permission to file final report||The High Court on Friday said it would consider the request for conditional permission to submit the final report in the sex CD case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The hearing has been adjourned to September 27. Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi informed the court that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) has already completed the investigation. He requested the permission of the court to file the report before the concerned court. A division bench had earlier passed an order directing the SIT not to file the final report without the leave of the court. Senior advocate Indira Jai Singh, appearing for the victim girl, objected to the submission made by the AG. She said that the victim has challenged the very constitution of the SIT. The victim had contended that the SIT, formed based on a letter by the then Home Minister and a subsequent order of the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner, cannot be construed as an investigating agency under the provisions of CrPC. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma adjourned the hearing and said that it would consider the issue on the request placed by the AG on September 27. The victim has sought for a direction to transfer the investigation to some other agency. She contended that the SIT has not carried out the investigation in a fairmanner. The SIT was constituted by the City Police Commissioner on March 11, 2021, pursuant to a note dated March 10, 2021, signed by the then Home Minister along with the representation by Ramesh Jarkiholi. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-case-ag-seeks-permission-to-file-final-report-1031516.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||High Court directs 15% cut in private schools fee for 2020-21||The High Court has directed the private unaided school managements to slash school fees by 15 per cent for the 2020-21 academic year on the fee fixed for the year 2019-20. The court disposed of a batch of petitions filed by associations of school managements and others with several directions, including asking the schools not to debar any student from attending online classes or attending the exams on account of non-payment of fees. The petitions were filed by Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), Karnataka State Minorities Educational Institutions Managements Federation and others. The petitions challenged the January 29, 2021 directive of the state government asking private schools to collect only 70 per cent of the fees collected in the academic year 2019-20. Justice R Devdas said the order passed by the apex court in the case of Indian School, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) in May 2021, is binding on the petitioner-institutions in the state. While the apex court concluded that the state government (Rajasthan) was not vested with powers to deduct school fees under the provisions of law, it directed deduction of 15 per cent on the fees in view of unutilised facilities by the students during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The petitioner-institution (school management of the concerned private unaided school) shall collect annual school fees from their students as fixed under the Act of 1995 (Karnataka Education Act and Rules) for the academic year 2019-20, but by providing deduction of 15 per cent on that amount in lieu of unutilised facilities by the students during the relevant period of academic year 2020-21,” the court said adding that it will be open to the petitioners to further provide concession to their students or to evolve a different pattern of concession over and above 15 per cent. The court has further directed the school managements to consider individual requests by the parent/ward expressing difficulty in paying the annual fees, sympathetically on a case-to-case basis. The court also directed the school management not to withhold the name of any student/candidate for the ensuing board examinations for classes 10 and 12 on the ground of non-payment of fees/arrears for 2020-21. The court has clarified that the arrangement will not affect collection of fees for the academic year 2021-22. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/high-court-directs-15-cut-in-private-schools-fee-for-2020-21-1031517.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC directs Karnataka govt to provide textbooks in braille||The High Court on Friday directed the state government to provide textbooks in Braille within 15 days to all visually challenged students in the state. A division bench passed this order observing that an assurance was given last year to provide the textbooks from the present academic year. The PIL is filed by National Federation of the Blind (NFB), Karnataka. The petition sought direction to ensure that all children with visual disabilities have access to free textbooks, reference books and other learning /educational material in Braille. The petitioner contended that the central government had issued directions to all state governments on November 29, 2016. The bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, noted that the state government had assured that textbooks of Kannada medium will be made available. The bench directed the government to submit a compliance report in two weeks. The matter has been posted to October 7. Meanwhile, the state government informed the court that 107 books have been uploaded on the website for the benefit of specially-abled children.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-directs-karnataka-govt-to-provide-textbooks-in-braille-1031518.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bill to collect blood, DNA of convicts gets Assembly nod||The Legislative Assembly on Friday passed the Identification of Prisoners (Karnataka Amendment) Bill to collect blood, DNA and other forensic samples of convicts. At present, only photographs, fingerprints and footprints of convicts are collected. The government seeks to add blood samples, DNA samples, voice and iris scans as part of the prisoner identification system.  The Bill empowers the Superintendent of Police (SP) or the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) to collect the samples, in addition to a magistrate. This change has been brought in to save time and reduce the workload on the Judiciary, according to the Bill. "Earlier, the samples were collected from those who were sentenced to jail time of over one year. Now, samples will be collected from those sentenced to imprisonment for more than a month," Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said.   The plan to collect Iris and blood samples drew criticism from some MLAs who raised concerns about privacy of prisoners. "The government must specify whether or not under trials will be included in this. There is no reason for the government to collection so many details for undertrials. It is a violation of privacy," Congress MLA Priyank Kharge said. The government must ensure that all these samples are taken only of habitual offenders, Hoskote MLA Sharath Bachegowda said.  Jnanendra specified that this system will be used only for convicts who have received more than a month's sentence. "The samples collected will be stored in the Criminal Tracking System that's in Bengaluru," he said.  The Assembly also passed the Code of Criminal Procedure (Karnataka Amendment) Bill. This amendment will allow witness presentation through audio or video recording, in the presence of the advocate of the accused. "With this, the video conference facility will also be allowed in sessions court. For instance, a forensics expert will not have to travel from Bengaluru to some other place and it will save a lot of time," Jnanendra said, adding that this was a necessity in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bill-to-collect-blood-dna-of-convicts-gets-assembly-nod-1031521.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai promises to double the allocation for KKRDB, albeit with a rider||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday promised to double the allocation for Kalyana Karnataka Development Board (KKRDB) to Rs 3,000 albeit with a rider - the board has spend Rs 1,500 crore allocated this fiscal by March-end.  Addressing the gathering at Kalyana Karnataka Utsav at DAR Grounds here, Bommai said, "Of the Rs 8,000 crore released for the development of the region, so far, only Rs 6,000 crore has been spent. I will earmark Rs 3,000 crore for the KKRDB if it spends the remaining funds for over 13,000 pending works by March-end."  "The Article 371(J) implementation cell will soon be shifted to Kalaburagi from Bengaluru. This will ensure the cell to effectively monitor the recruitment of vacant Groups A, B C and D posts. We will accord priority on filling the sanctioned posts which are lying vacant and to the KKRDB," the chief minister said. On the demand for a separate secretariat and holding a Cabinet meeting in Kalaburagi, the chief minister said, It won't be possible since the government is out to drastically cut down on administrative expenditure." On Nanjundappa Committee report, the CM said, "As per the Nanjundappa Committee recommendations, huge amounts of money is being spent for the development of backward taluks. Based on the indicators and sustanable development goals of Niti Aayog, UNDP and Human Development Index, the Nanjundappa report will be revised," Bommai added. The government will take necessary measures to address the malnutrition among children and school dropout in Yadgir and Raichur districts - identified as Aspirational Districts, he said.  BSY another Iron Man, says Bommai Saying that former chief minister B S Yediyurappa's contribution to Kalyana Karnataka is on a par with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, India's first Home Minister who liberated the region from Nizam rule, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai called his predecessor another Iron Man. After garlanding Patel's statue during Kalyana Karnataka Utsav, Bommai said that he would continue all programmes announced for the region by Yediyurappa. During his address, Bommai repeatedly recalled Yediyurappa's 'commendable work' for the development of the region.     Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-promises-to-double-the-allocation-for-kkrdb-albeit-with-a-rider-1031527.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka assembly passes Bill for setting up prison development board||The Assembly on Friday passed a Bill to set up a Prison Development Board to take up reforms in the state’s penitentiaries, following a serious debate on the current state-of-affairs.  The Karnataka Prison Development Board Bill envisages skill improvement and welfare of both prisoners and prison staff. That apart, it also talks about development of modern prison industries, job-oriented skill programmes for prisoners including technical programmes specific to different trades, through the Board. Piloting the Bill, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the Board would enable prisoners to walk out of prison as “productive individuals who can fend for their families.” Karnataka has 107 prisons of which nine are central prisons, 21 district prisons, 1 open prison, 29 taluk prisons (under the Prisons Department) and 47 taluk prisons (under Revenue Department). Their authorized accommodation is 14,080, but the number of inmates in 2019-20 was 14,423 and most of them were undertrials.  The Board will have a separate prison development fund, which will include money raised by manufacturing activities taken up by prisoners, funds generated by sale of property if any, donations from NGOs and through CSR initiatives, among other sources. The Bill was passed amid scepticism that some MLAs expressed on the prison system having become corrupt with many illegal activities going unchecked.  Former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar said jails had themselves become a hub of illegal activities, an opinion backed by several other legislators, including U T Khader, Ramalinga Reddy and K Annadani. “Instead of being a deterrent to crime, jail has become an attractive place for youth with all facilities. A culprit walks out with a bigger network that he’s gained from the prison,” he said. Some legislators also pointed out that prisoners were unauthorisedly accessing mobile phones from the jail. Prisons have also turned dens for alcohol, drugs and other illegal activities, they alleged. “In Mangaluru, the jammer affects phones outside the prison, not inside,” Khader said.  Along with passing the Bill, the government must ensure a clean prison system, Reddy urged. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-for-setting-up-prison-development-board-1031528.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Council passes Delimitation Commission Bill||The Legislative Council on Friday passed the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill that will empower the state government to form a Delimitation Commission for rural local bodies.  As in the Legislative Assembly, Congress legislators staged a walkout in protest.  The proposed Delimitation Commission will redraw panchayat boundaries and fix reservation for seats, potentially delaying elections to taluk and zilla panchayats that are due.  During a discussion on the Bill, Congress and some JD(S) members accused the government of proposing a new delimitation commission only to delay elections for the local bodies. "We oppose the Bill 100%," Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council S R Patil said. JD(S) MLC KA Thippeswamy suggested that discussion on the Bill be kept on hold until the High Court issued an order on petitions challenging the delimitation and reservation done by the State Election Commission (SEC). He said that the house should hold the discussion after the Court delivers a judgement. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy defended the state government's move to form a delimitation commission. "Nowhere is it said that SEC has to be entrusted with delimitation," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/council-passes-delimitation-commission-bill-1031529.html
17-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt sets up task force to implement NEP||The state government is setting the stage ready for the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) in the school education. As a first step, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has constituted a task force headed by Madan Gopal, retired IAS officer. According to a government order, the responsibilities of the task force include preparing and finalising draft implementation framework and working out details of draft implementation framework in consultation with stakeholders. The task force comprises 20 experts as members. In the order, the government has suggested revision of the entire curriculum of the state syllabus from grade 1 to 12 and has sought the guidance of the task force in this regard. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-sets-up-task-force-to-implement-nep-1031530.html
17-09-2021||West||Deshmukh asked me to collect money from bars, gave instructions in high-profile cases: Vaze to ED||Dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze has alleged in his statement to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had asked him to collect money from bar and hotel owners, and used to give instructions in high-profile investigations. Earlier, former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had accused Deshmukh of asking Vaze to collect money from bar owners in Mumbai, an allegation which Deshmukh, who later resigned, denied. Vaze's statement is part of a charge-sheet recently filed by the ED against Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde in an alleged money laundering case. Vaze, an assistant inspector of Mumbai Police, was arrested in March this year in a case of SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence. Vaze told the ED that on June 16, 2020, he met Deshmukh at the state guest house Sahyadri where the then state home minister told him that together "they will do good cases". Thereafter, Deshmukh used to call him frequently to take updates on various cases directly and at times for personal work such as arranging vehicles, the statement said. Among other matters, he got instructions from Deshmukh on the TRP rigging case where some TV channels were accused of manipulating TRP to inflate viewership, and the abetment to suicide case regarding the death of architect Anvay Naik in which journalist Arnab Goswami was arrested, as per Vaze's statement. To another query, Vaze alleged that at a meeting held in October, 2020 at Deshmukh's residence “Dyneshwari” the NCP leader gave him a list of 1,750 bars and restaurants and asked him to collect Rs 3 lakh each from these establishments for granting various favours. The charge-sheet has not named Deshmukh or his family members as accused, but says that Vaze collected money from bars and restaurants at the behest and instructions of Deshmukh and the amount was handed over to Deshmukh's aides Palande and Shinde. Deshmukh received approximately Rs 4.70 crore, collected from orchestra bar owners, and this money was routed to the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha Trust, managed by the Deshmukh family, as donations, the ED charge sheet alleged. The ED launched a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed an FIR against the senior Nationalist Congress Party leader on April 21 following allegations made by Param Bir Singh.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deshmukh-asked-me-to-collect-money-from-bars-gave-instructions-in-high-profile-cases-vaze-to-ed-1031218.html
17-09-2021||West||14 injured as under-construction flyover collapses in Mumbai's Bandra||At least 14 workers were injured after a girder of an under-construction flyover at MTNL junction in suburban Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) here collapsed early on Friday, civic officials said. The mishap occurred at 4.41 am, they said. The injured workers were taken to the Vile Parle-based V N Desai Hospital, where the doctors said that the condition of all of them was stable, the officials said. After being informed about the incident, police and fire brigade personnel along with other authorities rushed to the spot.   As per the preliminary report, the workers, who are in the age group of 21 to 49 years, were carrying out some work on the girder when it fell down, they added. Further details related to the incident are awaited. The flyover is being constructed on Santacruz-Chembur Link Road (SCLR) to reduce traffic snarls on the east-west link, besides for decongesting the BKC area, one of the biggest business districts of Mumbai. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/14-injured-as-under-construction-flyover-collapses-in-mumbais-bandra-1031256.html
17-09-2021||West||Mumbai health workers take Covid booster dose to replenish antibodies: Report||A group of health workers, some politicians and their staff have received a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine over the past few weeks amid a debate about the requirement of booster doses in India.  “The list includes doctors mainly who finished taking both their doses by February and found depletion in their antibody levels on checking,” a senior doctor is quoted as saying by the publication.  The doctor added that there is a volley of breakthrough infections among healthcare workers during and after the second wave, which has worried doctors. Booster dose receivers preferred the Covishield vaccine, the report said. One hospital head told the publication that the third dose was taken from a vial that had some doses left at the end of the day of an inoculation drive. While many western countries have started offering booster doses, the Centre said on Thursday that booster doses are not the central theme of the government’s scientific discussion as of now. Getting the first two doses is still a priority for the government as it scrambles to vaccinate all adults by December. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-health-workers-take-covid-booster-dose-to-replenish-antibodies-report-1031268.html
17-09-2021||West||AIMIM workers hold protest against Maharastra CM; 'thank' him for 'resolving' woes of Marathwada||The All India Majalis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Friday held an agitation here against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray before his arrival for an event, wherein the protesters sarcastically thanked him for resolving various problems faced by the city and the Marathwada region of the state. This unique protest was held near Baba Petrol Pump in the city. Thackeray arrived in Aurangabad for a flag-hoisting ceremony on the occasion of the Marathwada Mukti Sangram Din (Marathwada Liberation Day) at a memorial located in Siddharth Garden. The AIMIM workers stood at the square carrying placards in hands, which read "Thank you chief minister for resolving the drought-related woes, clearing the irrigation backlog and for resolving other issues". Former AIMIM corporator Naser Siddiqui said, "Aurangabad is now known as the city of potholes. Shiv Sena says that the party has given 14 mayors to the city. But the chief minister should assess what work they have done for the city." "So we are standing here to thank the chief minister," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aimim-workers-hold-protest-against-maharastra-cm-thank-him-for-resolving-woes-of-marathwada-1031283.html
17-09-2021||West||Maharashtra govt suspends Anil Deshmukh's ex-personal secy months after arrest in corruption case||Nearly three months after his arrest, the Maharashtra government has suspended Sanjeev Palande, an additional collector-rank officer who was personal secretary to former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, in connection with a corruption case. Palande was arrested on June 26 this year and is being investigated under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). A government order issued on September 16 said that Palande was sent to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody on July 7 and then to judicial custody. He has spent more than 48 hours in custody and as per the Maharashtra Civil Services Rules, he stands suspended since the time of his arrest on June 26 till further orders. Palande 's headquarters during his suspension period will be at Mumbai city district collectorate and he will not be able to leave Mumbai city district without prior permission of the collector, it said. The order said the ED has informed the state government about Palande's arrest and custody through a letter on August 31. He was arrested in connection with money laundering charges against Deshmukh, an NCP leader. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked police officer Sachin Waze top collec Rs 100 crore from city bars and hotels every month, a charge which the former minister has denied. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-suspends-anil-deshmukhs-ex-personal-secy-months-after-arrest-in-corruption-case-1031299.html
17-09-2021||West||Major fire breaks out at scrap market in Mumbai's Mankhurd, no casualties reported||A major fire broke out at Mandala scrap market in Mumbai's eastern suburb of Mankhurd early on Friday, but there was no report of any injury, civic officials said. The blaze erupted around 4.15 am at the scrap market located on Veer Jijamata Bhosale Marg, they said. At least 10 fire engines and water takers were sent to the spot, the officials said. Thick black smoke billowing into the sky was visible. A fire brigade official said that the blaze is confined to seven to eight shops in the market, where different types of scrap material, including empty chemical drums, was stored. "The fire has been covered from all the sides after more than three hours of efforts and the firefighting operation is still on," he said. More information about the incident is awaited. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-fire-breaks-out-at-scrap-market-in-mumbais-mankhurd-no-casualties-reported-1031324.html
17-09-2021||West||I-T Department conducts raids against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Income Tax Department on Friday conducted searches at multiple premises linked to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with a tax evasion investigation, official sources said. The raids are being carried out in Mumbai and Nagpur (Maharashtra) as well as Jaipur in Rajasthan, they said. The 71-year-old former minister is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) too on charges of alleged money laundering and payment of purported kickbacks in the police establishment of Maharashtra. The ED case against Deshmukh, who was earlier the home minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, and others came after the CBI booked him in the corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribe made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh had said that Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner. He has refused to comply with at least five summons sent by the ED for questioning in the case and has instead suggested for the agency to interact with him over an online link saying he was a "law abiding citizen." Deshmukh resigned as Maharashtra home minister in April after the allegations surfaced following the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV parked near the residence of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, a case in which suspended Maharashtra policeman Sachin Waze was arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-t-department-conducts-raids-against-ex-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-1031334.html
17-09-2021||West||Work on Navi Mumbai airport should be completed by 2024: Ajit Pawar||The construction of the Navi Mumbai International Airport Ltd (NMIAL), which is now under the management of Adani group, should be completed by 2024, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has said. Pawar said that the group developing the airport at Panvel is financially sound. "I do not see that they will face any problem. We have been given the target of 2024 for airport completion. We will be reviewing the work periodically," Pawar told media personnel on Thursday. Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) is a greenfield international airport being built on the National Highway (NH) 4B near Panvel, approximately 35 km from Mumbai's existing Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport. The airport is a Public-Private Partnership venture in which Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) has a 74 per cent stake with CIDCO, the nodal agency of the Maharashtra government, holding the remaining 26 per cent. Adani Group recently took over the management of both Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) and NMIAL. Pawar said CIDCO needs to provide facilities for charging electric vehicles in upcoming projects. Besides, it should also look at housing and other projects keeping in mind the 25-year horizon. While allotting houses CIDCO should ensure that the common man can pay maintenance charges, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/work-on-navi-mumbai-airport-should-be-completed-by-2024-ajit-pawar-1031336.html
17-09-2021||West||In Maharashtra, pothole kills mother-son duo on way home after Lord Ganesh 'darshan' at kin's place||A pothole-ridden road at Bhiwandi in Maharashtra's Thane district has claimed the lives of a woman and her 26-year-old son, who were returning home on a two-wheeler after having 'darshan' of Lord Ganesh idol at their relative's place, police said on Friday. The incident took place at Mankoli junction in Bhiwandi town on Mumbai-Nashik highway on Thursday afternoon, they said. The deceased were identified as Devikabai Balaram Kakade (48) and her son Nitin, police said. "They were returning home to Ambepada on a two-wheeler after having darshan of the Lord Ganesh idol installed at the house of the woman's daughter in nearby Purna village. When they reached Mankoli junction, their two-wheeler skidded off the road after hitting a pothole and both of them fell down. They came under a speeding vehicle that was coming from behind," an official said. The victims were rushed to a hospital, where the doctors declared them brought dead, he said, adding that the bodies were later sent for post-mortem. A case has been registered against an unidentified driver of the vehicle under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Motor Vehicles Act at Narpoli police station and further investigation is on, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maharashtra-pothole-kills-mother-son-duo-on-way-home-after-lord-ganesh-darshan-at-kins-place-1031361.html
17-09-2021||West||Prof Thanu Padmanabhan no more||Extraordinary scientist, scholar and science communicator Prof Thanu Padmanabhan passed away on Friday. Hailing from Kerala and recipient of the coveted Padma Shree, Prof Padmanabhan, a theoretical physicist and cosmologist, was the Dean of the Academic Department at Pune Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA). He was 64. He is survived by his wife Vasanthi Padmanabhan and daughter Hamsa Padmanabhan. Prof Padmanabhan suffered a heart attack at his residence and passed away.  IUCAA director Somak Raychaudhury informed about his death. “This is one of the saddest days in the history of the IUCAA and the Indian scientific community today. Prof Thanu Padmanabhan passed away this morning as a result of a cardiac arrest,” he said.  K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, tweeted: “Shocked to hear of the passing of Prof Thanu Padmanabhan. His research linking general relativity and thermodynamics in new ways, and in other areas, has been widely recognized. Scholar, communicator, extraordinary scientist, friend to many. He will be much missed.” Born on 10 March 1957, Prof Padmanabhan was known for his research on dark energy and gravity. He completed primary education at Karamana High School. He joined the Government Arts College for pre-degree. He did his undergraduate and post-graduate in Physics from the University College, Thiruvananthapuram.  Later, he joined the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) for his PhD in Quantum Cosmology.  He also spent a year in the Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge.  Prof Padmanabhan has authored over 300 research papers and several books. Prof Padmanabhan served also as Adjunct Faculty of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (Mumbai), the Harish-Chandra Research Institute(Allahabad), the Raman Research Institute (Bangalore) and the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER, Pune) at different periods in his career. He was an adjunct faculty of IISER, Mohali. Prof Padmanabhan served as the Chairman (2006–09) of the Time Allocation Committee of the Giant Meterwave Radio Telescope of NCRA. He was the Chairman (2008–11) of the Indian National Science Academy's National Committee which interfaces with the activities of the International Astronomical Union. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prof-thanu-padmanabhan-no-more-1031379.html
17-09-2021||West||CM Thackeray unveils plans to boost infrastructure, tourism in Marathwada||In a major move, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an over two-dozen point plan for Marathwada to boost infrastructure, tourism and education sectors in the region.  “We are committed to developing Marathwada,” the chief minister said addressing the Marathwada Liberation Day celebrations in Aurangabad.  Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray had a “special relationship” with Marathwada and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is working towards the region's development and putting it on the international map, he said. The Marathwada Mukti Sangram Din, celebrated on September 17 annually, marks the anniversary of Marathwada’s integration with India in 1948, 13 months after Independence.  The Marathwada region -- comprising eight districts of Aurangabad, Beed, Hingoli, Jalna, Latur, Nanded, Osmanabad and Parbhani -- is spread over a vast 64,590 sq km.  In fact, Aurangabad is the tourism capital of Maharashtra.  Thackeray said the state government is working on three key projects to enhance connectivity between Shirdi and Aurangabad.  This includes railway connectivity between Aurangabad and Ahmedabad, looking at feasibility of opening Shirdi-Aurangabad flights and widening of the Shirdi-Aurangabad road.  “A lot of people visit Shirdi for darshan of Sai Baba... we want these people to also visit Marathwada... there is a lot in the region and people of the country must visit it,” he said. The chief minister said that 144 schools of the Nizam-era would be redeveloped.  A Saint-peeth course on the illustrious saint culture of the state would be started in Paithan and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University in Aurangabad must shoulder the responsibility. He informed that the government has approved a highway between Jalna and Nanded cities in the Marathwada region which will connect to the under-construction Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Corridor.  Thackeray also said that the government would look at the feasibility of linking Aurangabad and Marathwada to the bullet train route. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-thackeray-unveils-plans-to-boost-infrastructure-tourism-in-marathwada-1031384.html
17-09-2021||West||HC asks Narayan Rane to file separate pleas for six FIRs against him over his 'slap CM' remarks||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed Union minister Narayan Rane to file separate petitions instead of only one that seeks to quash the FIRs registered against him at six police stations across the state over his controversial remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Rane had filed a petition seeking to quash the cases lodged against him at Mahad, Nashik, Pune, Thane, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar. On Friday when the plea came up for hearing before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar, the court said it would be better if separate petitions are filed for each of the FIR. "The FIRs are of different police stations. Let the challenge to each of the FIR be in separate petitions. Then it will become easier for the prosecution also to take instructions from each police station," the court said. Rane's counsel Ashok Mundargi and advocate Aniket Nikam agreed and said they would file separate petitions. They sought interim protection in all the cases. "The prosecution had earlier said they would not take any coercive action against Rane in the FIR registered by the Nashik cyber police. Similar protection should be given in the other cases too," Mundargi said. The court said it would first hear the pleas and then decide. It said the police's earlier statement of no coercive action in the Nashik police station case shall continue till the next date of hearing. The court posted the matter for further hearing on September 30. Additional public prosecutor Jayesh Yagnik, appearing for the prosecution, said Rane had assured that he would cooperate with the investigation being carried out by the Nashik police and has to appear before it on September 25 to record his statement. Mundargi said Rane would cooperate and appear via video-conferencing. Rane faces these FIRs over his remark that he would have slapped Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray over the latter's "ignorance" of the year of India's independence. The remarks made last month, had triggered a political row and protests.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-asks-narayan-rane-to-file-separate-pleas-for-six-firs-against-him-over-his-slap-cm-remarks-1031404.html
17-09-2021||West||India’s top politicians to be present at Bharatiya Chhatra Sansad||Four top ministers of the Narendra Modi government including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari, two former Chief Ministers M Veerappa Moily from Karnataka and Devendra Fadnavis from Maharashtra will feature at the Bharatiya Chhatra Sansad (BCS), India’s only national conclave for politically-inclined students. Besides Singh and Gadkari, other ministers are health, family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya, education and skill development and entrepreneurship minister Dharmendra Pradhan, former Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bias will address students.  The Pune-based MIT School of Government will host the 11th edition of the flagship event from 23 September, which will run for six days till 28 September.  Nearly 20,000 student leaders from all states of India will participate. The conclave will also conduct two Youth to Youth Connect Programs to enable students to lead the discourse on the most pressing topics around nation-building. In its 11th year, BCS, which is the country’s largest platform that encourages and empowers the youth of the country to participate actively in politics, will be held virtually for the first time to make it accessible to youth from all parts of the country. MIT School of Government is the first school of its kind to create future political leaders, with active support from the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, Government of India, Association of Indian Universities (AIU), and the UNESCO Chair of Human Rights, Democracy & Peace, Pune.  The BCS began its arduous journey in 2011 under the visionary leadership of young educationist Rahul V. Karad, founder of Bharatiya Chhatra Sansad and chief initiator of MIT School of Government.  Through the last decade, BCS has been inspiring the youth of the country to raise their voice, get a better understanding of politics and engage with the most sought-after political and thought leaders through this unique platform.  Karad, Managing Trustee & Executive President, MAEER’s MIT Group of Institutions and Executive President, MIT World Peace University (MIT-WPU), Ravikumar Chitnis, Vice-Chancellor, MIT World Peace University (MIT-WPU) and  Ravindranath Patil, former IPS officer Senior Director, MIT World Peace University (MIT-WPU) and several student leaders from across the country were present at the online announcement on Friday. The last 10 annual conclaves witnessed the participation of 80,000-plus politically and socially inclined students from 450 universities from various states of India, and other countries. Over 500 eminent political leaders, thinkers, business leaders, and youth icons of national and international eminence from all spectrums of ideologies have engaged them in absorbing and thought-provoking sessions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-s-top-politicians-to-be-present-at-bharatiya-chhatra-sansad-1031414.html
17-09-2021||West||Covid-19: Sero-survey paints a positive picture for Mumbai||In what displays the positive scenario vis-a-vis the Covid-19 pandemic and the importance of inoculation, the sero-prevalence among partially and fully vaccinated citizens is 90.26 per cent, according to the fifth sero-survey conducted in Mumbai. Sero-prevalence among unvaccinated people is around 79.86 per cent.  The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation conducted the sero-survey between 12 August-8 September with the help of the Public Health Department, Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College, ATE Chandra Foundation and IDFC Institute, during which a total of 8,674 samples were collected and tested.  According to the findings released on Friday, the overall sero-prevalence in the city was 86.64 per cent. The study estimates around 87.02 per cent prevalence in slums and 86.22 per cent in non-slum areas spread across 24 wards.  The sero-prevalence among females was 88.29 per cent, higher than 85.07 reported in males.  The report points out that almost 65 per cent of the study subjects received the Covid-19 vaccine. Of the samples, 20 per cent were collected from healthcare workers who have reported 87.14 per cent sero-prevalence.  “The overall sero-positivity to the extent of 86 per cent is based on qualitative test results and does not indicate protective levels of IgG,” the BMC stated, pointing out that it is, therefore, necessary to follow Covid-appropriate-behaviour - correct use of mask, frequent washing of hands with soap and water as well as sanitiser and maintaining social distancing. The BMC stated that since the seroprevalence amongst those who are vaccinated is higher than unvaccinated participants, it is essential to strengthen the vaccination programme. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-sero-survey-paints-a-positive-picture-for-mumbai-1031463.html
17-09-2021||West||CM Thackeray calls BJP minister 'future colleague'; sparks speculation about Sena-BJP alliance||Statements by senior Shiv Sena and BJP leaders over the last couple of days seem to signal that something might be brewing up in Maharashtra’s political landscape.  The bonhomie between Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and minister of state for railways Raosaheb Patil Danve at a function in Aurangabad triggered the speculations.  With all smiles, Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president, addressing the Marathwada Mukti Sangram Din, said: “...Present here is also my former and if we (Sena and BJP) come together, a future colleague...” The statement of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s head came in presence of state revenue minister and veteran Congressman Balasaheb Thorat.  Amid speculations, Danve told TV channels that the two parties shared the same ideology and BJP was always willing to renew ties with the Sena. Danve’s statement came hours after state BJP president Chandrakant Patil said in Pune that he would not remain a “former minister” for long.  However, Leader of Opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said: “It's good that he (Thackeray) has realised... in politics anything can happen... but today I do not see any such thing... we are not eyeing for power and playing the role of an effective opposition.”  Fadnavis also described the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress tie-up as an “unnatural alliance”. Asked about Patil’s statement, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said that he has information that Patil was being made the Nagaland governor and hence he has asked not to refer to him as “former minister”. “I wish him all the best. I have sent him a message that he will have to remain a former minister for another 25 years since our government will run for another 25 years,” he said.  On Danve’s statement, Raut said: “Danve is friend of all... when he was state BJP president, all was well... there is nothing earthshaking in the comment. All state governments need to have good relations with the Centre." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-thackeray-calls-bjp-minister-future-colleague-sparks-speculation-about-sena-bjp-alliance-1031466.html
