18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Schools reopen for classes 8 to 10 in Dakshina Kannada||The schools, after remaining closed for nearly six months, reopened for students from Classes VIII to X in Dakshina Kannada district on Friday. With the decline in Covid-19 positivity rate, the district administration had decided to conduct physical classes for students from standard VIII to standard X. The teachers of Government High School at Bengre Kasaba greeted students by offering roses. The teachers also checked the body temperature of the students using thermal scanning. The corridors that had fallen silent after Covid had forced schools in the district to shutdown in April, reverberated with the sounds of footsteps and laughter as students returned to their classrooms. The uniform-clad students were visibly overjoyed on their first day back to school — meeting their friends and teachers, while attending classes. All the schools were cleaned and sanitised ahead of the reopening of schools. Some schools were also decked up to the hilt. The classes for students of ninth and tenth standards were held in the morning while classes for students of standard eighth were conducted in the noon to avoid crowding in the schools. Further, only two students were allowed to sit on a bench in the classrooms. The classes for students of standard VI and standard VII will begin from September 20. About 50% of the students attended on the first day. A total of 170 government high schools, 114 aided high schools and 251 unaided high schools reopened on Friday. The number of students will increase in the coming days, said DDPI Malleswamy. Also, the on campus classes for students of second, fourth and sixth semesters of undergraduate and second, fourth and sixth semesters (MCA) of PG programmes of Mangalore University also resumed. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/schools-reopen-for-classes-8-to-10-in-dakshina-kannada-1031586.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||KDEM aims to create employment at tier-2 cities in Karnataka||E V Ramana Reddy, Additional Chief Secretary to department of Electronics, Information Technology, Diotechnology and Science and technology, said the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM) - Beyond Bengaluru initiative is a harbinger to ushering dividends from IT, IT enabled services sector along with employment creation in tier-2 cities of Karnataka. Delivering a virtual talk on IT Policy 2020-25 organised as part of the KEDM – Beyond Bengaluru initiative in Mangaluru cluster, he said that Mangaluru, which has access to port, rail, and airport is a unique selling proposition in the state of Karnataka. “Collaboration between academia and industry will be triggering growth in the cluster and making it the second largest in IT and BT in Karnataka,” he added. KDEM Chairman B V Naidu said that three clusters of Mysuru, Mangaluru, and Hubballi will spearhead the Beyond Bengaluru initiative by attracting global companies to establish their offices and operate from these cities. KDEM is a unique structure of the state government with a mission of taking industries beyond Bengaluru through the three clusters. This sets momentum for Mangaluru, with the cluster being projected as a fintech hub. As per the envisioned statement for Mangaluru, three large, 30 medium, and 120 mid-sized companies will be added in the next five years, Naidu said. Department of IT, BT Director Meena Nagaraj explained the incentives under which entrepreneurs can avail benefits from the state. She encouraged the IT companies to develop quality certification ecosystem in the similar manner as ESDM industries have come up with. Even colleges and universities can create infrastructure and avail benefits under the IT Policy, she added. KCCI President Isaac Vas, Arkieva Asia Pacific MD Ashith Hegde and CII Chairman Jeevan Saldana were also present. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kdem-aims-to-create-employment-at-tier-2-cities-in-karnataka-1031697.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi placed second among cities with 2.57 lakh vaccinations on Friday||Belagavi district has stood second in country by administering 2,57,604 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine during the mega vaccination campaign held on Friday. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath informed on Saturday that the mega vaccination campaign was across held the district at 1,208 vaccination centres and district stood second by inoculating 2,57,604 persons. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) stood first with 4,09,977 persons being vaccinated. A target of vaccinating three lakh persons had been set for the district. Though district fell short of the three-lakh mark, it has stood second in the country and it was matter or pride, he said. Hiremath expressed gratitude to the Revenue, Health, Rural Development, Women and Child Welfare Department and urban local bodies staff for making the mega vaccination campaign a success. He also expressed gratitude to the elected representatives, various organisations and people who joined hands to make it a success. Watch latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-placed-second-among-cities-with-257-lakh-vaccinations-on-friday-1031711.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada achieves 94.54% success in mega Covid vaccination drive||Dakshina Kannada district achieved 94.54 per cent of the Covid-19 vaccination target during the mega drive held on Friday. Out of 1.50 lakh vaccine doses, a total of 1,41,816 doses of vaccines were administered in the district. A total of 620 vaccination sites were opened for the mega drive in the district, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. Of 1,41,816 doses, a total of 69,684 availed the first dose of vaccine, while 72,132 availed the second dose of vaccines in the district, said DHO Dr Kishore Kumar. A total of 70,560 doses of vaccines were administered in Mangaluru taluk, 20431 doses in Bantwal. 17,530 in Belthangady, 23,135 in Puttur and 10,160 in Sullia taluk. The district administration had even arranged to administer vaccinations in private hospitals for free of cost as a part of the drive.  Currently, the district’s Covid-19 positivity rate is around 1.3 per cent, and the focus is to reduce the percentage further. The case fatality rate also has reduced in the district, said the DC.  Udupi district administered 50,369 doses of vaccine out of 80,000 target, thus, achieving 63 per cent of the target. Chikkamagaluru district administered 63,338 doses of vaccines and achieved 106 per cent target. The target was to administer 60,000 doses. In Kodagu, 18,452 doses of vaccines were administered out of the target of 20,000, thus, achieving 92 per cent success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-achieves-9454-success-in-mega-covid-vaccination-drive-1031721.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Volunteers clean Mangaluru beaches in UN drive||The Coast Guard Karnataka conducted International Coastal Cleanup (ICC)-2021 at Panambur beach with 120 volunteers from Coast Guard, Coastal Security Police, New Mangalore Port Trust, Central Industrial Security Force, Customs and Central Excise on Saturday. The participants cleared the plastic waste and non-biodegradable materials littered at Panambur and Tannirbavi beaches. The ICC, the world’s largest one-day volunteer effort to clean up the marine environment under the aegis of the UN, is celebrated on the third Saturday of every September. The cleanliness drive created awareness amongst people and helped them inculcate habits to keep the beaches and coastal environment neat and clean for the years to come, Coast Guard Karnataka Commander DIG Venkatesh said. The event was supported by MRPL, Dakshina Kannada Milk Producers Union and State Bank of India. Mangalore City Corporation Commissioner Akshay Sridhar was the chief guest. The Indian Coast Guard has been coordinating ICC Day in India, conducted under the direction of the United National Environment Programme (UNEP) and South Asian Cooperative Environment Programme (SACEP) in the South Asian Region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/volunteers-clean-mangaluru-beaches-in-un-drive-1031738.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt to reconstruct demolished Mysuru temple: Kateel||State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel promised that the Karnataka government would take steps towards reconstructing the temple, which had been demolished in Nanjangud taluk in Mysuru district, within the legal framework. Speaking to media persons, in Davangere on Saturday, he said that the temple demolition issue would be discussed in the state committee meeting and executive committee meeting in Davangere. Coming down heavily on Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah's remark that BJP leaders are fake Hindus, he said, "BJP does not need to learn the lessons on Hindu religion from Congress party, which celebrated Jayanti, in the name of Tipu Sultan who had demolished temples in Karnataka when he was the ruler of the Kingdom of Mysore." Besides, Siddaramaiah had attempted to divide the Lingayat community as Veerashaiva-Lingayat for political gains. So, there is no need to learn the lessons from an atheist. When questioned on the rise in fuel prices, he said, "It is not something new or emerged after Modi became prime minister. Besides, Modi is planning to implement a law that would benefit the farming community." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-to-reconstruct-demolished-mysuru-temple-kateel-1031772.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Missing toddler found dead in borewell in Belagavi||A two-year-old boy from Alaknur village in Raibag taluk who had been missing since Friday evening was found dead in an abandoned borewell in sugarcane fields about 100 metres from his house on Saturday. His body was recovered by Fire and Emergency Services personnel. Sharad Siddappa Hasare (2) had been missing since Friday and kidnapping complaint had been filed with the police and search was being conducted. The Missing toddler was noticed in the abandoned borewell in the agriculture lands of the family and police was informed. A team of officials led by Tahsildar Riyazuddin Bagwan, police and personnel from Fire and Emergency Services Department commenced rescue operations. Toddler’s body was recovered from the borewell pit on Saturday night and it has been sent to the government hospital for post mortem. Body was found in depth of about 10 feet in the borewell. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi told DH that the toddler Sharad was missing from Friday and kidnap complaint had been filed. Today, the body was found in the abandoned borewell pit and has been sent for post mortem. "A kidnapping complaint had been filed and we shall investigate the angle. There were also other allegations regarding the incident that have come to the fore and we shall look into all angles," he said. The toddler's maternal grandmother Saraswati alleged that Siddappa Hasare murdered the child as he had been suspecting his wife Rajashree’s fidelity since the child's birth. Harugeri police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/missing-toddler-found-dead-in-borewell-in-belagavi-1031840.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Isha Foundation launches project to plant lakhs of saplings at Nandi Hills||Isha Outreach, the social arm of Isha Foundation, on Saturday said it will facilitate the planting of lakhs of saplings, bushes, seedlings, grasses, and fruit varieties that are popular with native fauna in Nandi Hills and other adjoining hills, as it launched the 'Namma Nandi' project. The project’s goal is to nurture the birds and animals and turn the area into a wonderful ecological site, it said in a release. "We’ll start an educational programme on how to own this hill. What we own, we should protect. Nurturing has become necessary because there has been exploitation," Sadhguru, Founder-Isha Foundation, said, addressing around 200 volunteers gathered at the site for the Namma Nandi plantation drive. Sharing the plan of action, he said, "We want to activate a membership programme for the Namma Nandi movement. At least 10,000 youths should enroll. As youths, you should not smoke, drink, throw things around and go. We must change this perception about the youth and say that Bangalore city youths are not like that." The ecological initiative is being undertaken with the support and guidance of the district forest department and administration of Chikkaballapura district. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/isha-foundation-launches-project-to-plant-lakhs-of-saplings-at-nandi-hills-1031844.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bodies of Bengaluru couple found in Bhatkal taluk||The bodies of a Bengaluru couple were found under mysterious circumstances near boulders off Huyeelumudi coast in the taluk on Saturday. Based on the ID cards found at the site, the police identified the deceased as Aditya B N (45), his wife Lakshmi A B (35), residents of JP Park in Muthyala Nagar, Bengaluru. Police said, prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide. But since they are from Bengaluru and their bodies were found here, it gives rise to suspicion. The couple had arrived in Murudeshwar on Sept 14 and stayed overnight at a private hotel there. They vacated the lodge on Sept 15 only to be found dead three days later in the taluk. The body of Aditya was found hanging near a boulder while his wife's body, bearing injuries, was found on it. The jurisdictional police have registered a case of unnatural deaths and investigations are underway. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bodies-of-bengaluru-couple-found-in-bhatkal-taluk-1031875.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kolar JD(S) MLA to join Congress||Janata Dal (Secular) MLA from Kolar has declared that he would quit the party and join Congress. "JD(S) supremo Deve Gowda and his sons are very big people. They have expelled me from the party. I have won elections from four different parties," Srinivasa Gowda told reporters here on Saturday. Gowda said he had discussed with KPCC president D K Shivakumar about joining Congress and the latter had given him green signal. "Ramesh Kumar and Krishnabyregowda did a commendable job by bringing water to Kolar district through KC Valley project. I appreciated them for their effort and Kumaraswamy cannot digest it. He said sewage is supplied under the project. He (Kumaraswamy) was chief minister twice and he could have made attempts to supply clean water," Gowda said. He said that Kumaraswamy had no concern for the farmers of other districts.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kolar-jds-mla-to-join-congress-1031876.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Weekend restrictions at Dharmasthala, Kukke Subrahmanya temples withdrawn||With the decline in Covid-19 positivity rate, the DK district administration has withdrawn weekend restrictions at Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala and Kukke Subrahmanya Temples. Deputy commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that the temple managements should ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is strictly adhered to in both the temples. All the staff including priests in the temples should produce RT-PCR negative certificates once in 15 days. All the devotees who take part in various sevas should produce RT-PCR negative certificates not older than 72 hours regardless of their vaccination credentials. Awareness boards should be placed at various locations in the temples on the measures to be taken to check the spread of Covid-19. If the devotees arriving in the temples had not been vaccinated, awareness should be created on the need for vaccination. Both the temples should make arrangements for their vaccination by coordinating with the taluk administration. A vaccination centre should be set up. There should be daily restrictions on the number of main sevas like Ashlesha bali, sarpa samskara, Panchamritha mahabhisheka and Nagaprathishte, to check large gatherings in the temples, added the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/weekend-restrictions-at-dharmasthala-kukke-subrahmanya-temples-withdrawn-1031886.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard spotted at Raj Nagar KV playground||The Forest Department officials on Saturday spotted an ‘elusive’ leopard at Raj Nagar Kendriya Vidyalaya, confirming the presence of the big cat in the Nrupatunga Betta vicinity. A walker had sighted the leopard in Nrupatunga Betta and informed the police officials on Wednesday night. Since then the forest department officials have been making all-out efforts to trace the leopard. The leopard, which had given a slip to the officials for the last three days was sighted at the School’s playground at around 7:30 pm. The forest guards, who were on duty recorded the movement of the leopard on their mobile phones. Speaking to DH, Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Kshirsagar said, "Till Saturday afternoon the forest guards were unable to find any trace of the big cat. However, at around 7:30 pm, they had a direct sighting of the big cat." Requesting citizens of Raj Nagar and surrounding areas not to panic, he said the forest department has made all the preparations to capture the leopard and release it in the nearby forest. Yashpal said two cages have been set up in strategic locations with stray dogs, one of the favourite food of ‘urban’ leopards, as bait. Camera traps have been also set up in the vicinity to capture the movement of the big cat. Anil, veterinary and tranquillising dart specialists from Gadag zoo has been deputed to tranquillise the animal. Yashpal said people’s co-operation is most important in capturing the leopard, one of the shy animals that avoid human presence. “Leopards are highly adaptive animals and can survive on anything,” he said and added that people should avoid gathering at school and ensure that they do not walk alone in the night or early morning. He asked people to take care of their children as leopards attack small prey. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-spotted-at-raj-nagar-kv-playground-1031891.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY's Karnataka tour will benefit BJP: Arun Singh||BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh on Saturday said former chief minister B S Yediyurappa's proposed state-wide tour would benefit the party. He does not need anybody's permission to go ahead with his plan, he said. Speaking to media persons, in Davangere, the in-charge of party affairs in Karnataka, said, "Yediyurappa is one of the tallest leaders of BJP in Karnataka. If he tours the state, it would strengthen the party at the grass-root level. Singh, who is in Davangere to attend a two-day state BJP meeting, lauded Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's "good governance" and said he is focusing on the welfare of people of all communities. Referring to Congress leader Siddaramaiah's call for the government to protect temples from demolition, he said, the former chief minister is an anti-Hindu and Congress leaders used to speak about mosques earlier. "But now, they are speaking in favour of temples. When did they learn to speak of temples?" he questioned and said BJP constructs temples and it would safeguard them. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsys-karnataka-tour-will-benefit-bjp-arun-singh-1031752.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||I have started state-wide tour from Mysuru: Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa stated that he has already started his state-wide tour from Mysuru and he would carry on his tour after the completion of the Assembly session. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, he said opposition parties have discussed the price rise issue in detail in the session and the chief minister has replied to them during the session. The chief minister has stated that price rise was inevitable to bring the economy back on track. The prices of essential commodities will come down in the coming days. He exuded confidence that the Centre would take suitable steps on reducing the price of fuel. Referring to the two-day state BJP meeting in Davangere, he said the issues related to strengthening the party would be discussed. He promised that he would strive to implement the suggestions given by leaders without fail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-have-started-state-wide-tour-from-mysuru-yediyurappa-1031784.html
18-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM Bommai to discuss political strategies to win polls on Sept 19||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the political strategies to win the forthcoming polls including legislative council, Zilla panchayat and Assembly polls would be discussed in the state executive committee meeting slated to be held on September 19 in Davangere city. Speaking to media persons after inaugurating Trishul Kala Bhavan depicting various schemes of the Centre and the state government, in the city on Saturday evening, he said, "We would discuss current political affairs and how the party has to be strengthened from the grass-root level to state-level in the state executive committee meeting. "Besides, the party's strategies to win the upcoming polls would be discussed." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-bommai-to-discuss-political-strategies-to-win-polls-on-sept-19-1031894.html
18-09-2021||National||Justice Awasthi to be Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court?||In a major overhaul, the Supreme Court Collegium has recommended the appointment of regular Chief Justices to eight High Courts and transfer of Chief Justices in five others.  According to sources, Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, a senior judge of the Allahabad High Court's Lucknow Bench, has been recommended for appointment as Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court. Born in 1960, Justice Awasthi worked as Assistant Solicitor General of India at Lucknow before his elevation as additional judge on April 13, 2009. He took oath as a permanent judge on December 24, 2010. Justice Rajesh Bindal, acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, will be appointed as the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court. Justice Bindal was caught in the standoff between the Trinamool Congress and the Centre after the Assembly polls in the state.  Justice Akil Kureshi, who is currently Chief Justice of the Tripura High Court, will be  recommended to head Rajasthan High Court, while the current Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty will go to Tripura High Court in the same capacity. Justice Kureshi originally belonged to the Gujarat High Court. Earlier, the Collegium could not reach a consensus on his elevation to the top court.   Sources said Justice Prakash Srivastava has been recommended for appointment as Chief Justice of Calcutta, Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra as Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh HC, Justice S C Sharma as Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, Justice Ranjit V More as Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court, Justice Aravind Kumar as Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court and Justice R V Malimath as Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court. They said the Collegium also approved transfer of Chief Justice of AP HC Arup Kumar Goswami to Chhattisgarh HC in the same capacity. Similarly, Justice Mohd Rafiq, Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh HC, will be the new Chief Justice of Himachal Pradesh HC and Justice Biswanath Somadder from Meghalaya will be the Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court. In other developments, the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has also decided on transferring 28 judges from various High Courts.  The Collegium, which took the decisions on Thursday evening, is yet to make formal announcements in this regard. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-awasthi-to-be-chief-justice-of-karnataka-high-court-1031593.html
18-09-2021||National||No other leader of Modi's stature in country, Sena says while wishing him on birthday||The Shiv Sena on Friday greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday, saying he provided political stability to the country and no other leader can match his stature. "Modi is a very popular leader. We wish him good health and extend greetings on his birthday," Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut said. "Earlier the BJP formed governments at the centre stitching up alliances with various parties. But under Modi, the party has got absolute majority. This is because of his leadership," Raut said. After Atal Bihari Vajpayee, it was Modi who took the BJP to the peak of success, Raut said, adding that there could be differences over his style of functioning and policies, "but there is no other leader of Modi's stature in the country today".  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-other-leader-of-modis-stature-in-country-sena-says-while-wishing-him-on-birthday-1031610.html
18-09-2021||National||Only thing required is to free vaccination drive from event management mode: RJD leader||Some Opposition leaders took a dig at the government over the record vaccination figures on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on Friday, with the RJD's Manoj Kumar Jha asserting only thing required was to free the inoculation drive from "event management mode". India on Friday administered a record number of over 2.26 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses taking the cumulative figure to over 79 crore, giving a major push to the inoculation drive on the occasion of Prime Minister Modi's birthday. "The scale of vaccination reached today underlines that we indeed have the capacity to increase the daily vaccination targets. Only thing required is to free the 'drive' from 'Event-Management' mode. Jai Hind," Rajya Sabha MP Jha tweeted. The scale of vaccination reached today underlines that we indeed have the capacity to increase the daily vaccination targets.Only thing required is to free the 'drive' from 'Event-Management' mode. Jai Hind Congress' deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi also took a jibe at the government, saying PM Modi should have a benchmark for comparing our performance on vaccination.  "If it is only scale then the BJP should refer to China. Its vaccination numbers are 5 times more than us. Unfortunately from the start of Covid all the BJP has done is blow its own trumpet," he tweeted. Attacking the government, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that while the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) "pats" itself, it must reflect on why the Union government didn't order vaccines well in advance and why it followed a "flawed procurement policy for months". "So many more lives could have been saved," Ramesh added.  The vaccination numbers went up steadily through the day with the cumulative number of doses administered in the country crossing 79.25 crore at 10 pm, according to data on the Co-WIN portal. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-thing-required-is-to-free-vaccination-drive-from-event-management-mode-rjd-leader-1031612.html
18-09-2021||National||PAN-Aadhaar linkage deadline extended till March 2022||The government on Friday extended by six months till March 2022 the deadline to link PAN with biometric ID Aadhaar. In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said to address the hardship being faced by various stakeholders on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the timeline has been extended which will ease compliance. "Time limit for intimation of Aadhaar number to the Income tax Department for linking of PAN with Aadhaar has been extended from 30th September, 2021 to 31st March, 2022," it said. Also, the due date for completion of penalty proceedings under the I-T Act has been extended from September 30, 2021 to March 31, 2022. Further, the time limit for issuance of notice and passing of order by the Adjudicating Authority under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 has been extended to March 2022.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pan-aadhaar-linkage-deadline-extended-till-march-2022-1031614.html
18-09-2021||National||NCLAT chairperson treated worse than daily wage earner: Chidambaram||A day after the Centre permitted acting NCLAT chairperson Justice Ashok Iqbal Singh Cheema to continue in office till September 20, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday attacked the government, saying he was treated "worse than a daily wage earner". "Consider the shabby manner in which the central government treated Mr Justice Cheema, Acting Chairperson of NCLAT. Appointed Acting Chairperson, prematurely terminated on Sep 10, re-instated today, and will serve until Sep. 20!" Chidambaram tweeted. "The Chairperson of NCLAT is treated worse than a daily wage earner," he said. The former Union minister asked why anyone should accept a judicial office in any tribunal under this government. The row over Cheema's premature retirement ended in the Supreme Court on Thursday as the Centre conceded and permitted him to continue in office till September 20 to pronounce verdicts, following the court's warning that the new law on tribunals would be stayed "suo motu". Justice Cheema was to superannuate on September 20, but Justice M Venugopal was appointed as the acting head of the tribunal with effect from September 11, creating a peculiar situation. Justice Cheema had approached the top court. However, Attorney General K K Venugopal, on instruction from the Centre, apprised the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, of the changed stand of the government leading to the closure of the row.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nclat-chairperson-treated-worse-than-daily-wage-earner-chidambaram-1031620.html
18-09-2021||National||Centre launches Phase II of Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme||Union Communication Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday launched Phase II of Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme to promote research in 42 emerging technologies in Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) and Information Technology (IT)/ IT Enabled Services(ITES). The results of the first phase of the scheme have been encouraging with 63 global patents and the publication of thousands of research papers in reputed international journals. The minister said that time has now come to scale up the scheme massively, with the advent of high-tech industries especially semiconductor manufacturing and telecom manufacturing. India will soon have its own 4G core network and 5G core network, he said. Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme was initiated by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) in 2014 with the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) with an aim to enhance the number of PhDs in ESDM and IT/ITES sectors. PhD seats were allocated to 97 institutions (IITs, NITs, Central and State Universities) in 25 states and 4 Union Territories, a separate statement said. "At present 492 full-time and 268 part-time PhD fellows are pursuing while 422 full time and 43 part-time PhD have submitted thesis or completed PhD," the statement said. Phase II of the scheme aims to support 1000 full-time PhD candidates, 150 part-time PhD candidates, 50 young faculty research fellowships, and 225 post-doctoral fellowships. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-phase-ii-of-visvesvaraya-phd-scheme-1031623.html
18-09-2021||National||Sitaram Yechury indicates Left-Congress-ISF alliance is over||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Friday indicated that the alliance of the Left Front with the Congress and the Indian Secular Front in West Bengal was over. Speaking at a party program in Kolkata Yechury said that the Sangyukt Morcha --  as the Left-Congress-ISF-was known -- was formed for the West Bengal Assembly election and now that the polls were over, so was the Morcha. “The Morcha was there because of the elections. Now that the election is over, the Morcha is also over,” said Yechury. He also said that the “Janata Party was formed to defeat Indira Gandhi. After she was defeated the Janata Party was also over. A front is set up for an immediate purpose. The front is dissolved after the event is over.” There were several indications that all was not well in the Left-Congress-ISF alliance. There was severe disagreement between the CPI(M) and Congress over fielding candidates in the Bhabanipur Assembly by-election. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance only won one seat in the last Assembly election with the ISF bagging the lone seat. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitaram-yechury-indicates-left-congress-isf-alliance-is-over-1031627.html
18-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Many happy returns of the day, PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned 71 on Friday and birthday greetings poured in from President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and various leaders across parties while BJP leaders hailed his leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-many-happy-returns-of-the-day-pm-modi-1031636.html
18-09-2021||National||PM Modi ties Chabahar port to Central Asia's fortunes at SCO meet||By Archana Chaudhary Central Asian countries could unlock their vast economic potential by connecting with the India-backed Chabahar port in Iran, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, making a case for his country to push for stronger trade links in a region that has seen investments pouring in from China.  The Chabahar port, which took years to build, was supposed to open up an important route to connect Afghanistan to Central Asia while bypassing India’s main rival, Pakistan. With the Taliban in power, the port could face a more difficult operating environment although the militant group has said it wanted continue economic and political ties with India. Modi, who was addressing the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, or SCO, — a meeting of leaders from countries who are mostly neighbors of Afghanistan, said Central Asian countries would benefit from connecting with India’s vast market.  “Central Asia’s vast economic potential has remained untapped because of radicalisation and extremism,” Modi said in a speech delivered via video link at the SCO meeting in Tajikistan. “If the region wants to benefit from fossil fuels or intra-SCO trade, we will need to lay more emphasis on connectivity.” Afghanistan was among the issues discussed by the SCO leaders on Thursday and Friday at Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe. The eight-member bloc includes India, China and Pakistan while Afghanistan is not a member. Keeping Chabahar port going has been a concern for India as it faces competition from China for influence in the region. Beijing has invested heavily in the port of Gwadar in Pakistan, some 100 kilometers (62 miles) to the east across Iran’s border with Pakistan. The Taliban declined to join talks with India, Iran and Uzbekistan on the Chabahar port and the North-South Transport Corridor, according to news reports, fueling some uncertainty over its future as Afghanistan is a crucial link in the 7,200-kilometre route.  India has backed the North-South corridor, which includes highways and railways connecting Chabahar in Iran with Russia that will cut time taken by shipments between Europe and central Asian markets. Earlier this year, New Delhi proposed the India-Uzbekistan-Iran-Afghanistan Quadrilateral Working Group to discuss shared use of the Chabahar port. These projects now face delays and may have a part to play in India missing its target to boost overall merchandise exports by $400 billion in the 2021-2022 calender year. India’s trade with the entire Central Asia region including Russia was just $16.1 billion in 2020, just 2 per cent of of its its total annual volumes. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-ties-chabahar-port-to-central-asias-fortunes-at-sco-meet-1031653.html
18-09-2021||National||India logs 35,662 new Covid-19 cases and 281 deaths a day after record vaccination||India saw a single-day rise of 35,662 new Covid-19 infections, while the active cases increased to 3,40,639, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases now comprise 1.02 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.65 per cent, it said. Also, 14,48,833 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far to 55,07,80,273, it said. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 2.46 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 19 days, according to the data. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.02 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 85 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 3,26,32,222, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the vaccination drive has exceeded 79.42 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India recorded two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-35662-new-covid-19-cases-and-281-deaths-a-day-after-record-vaccination-1031665.html
18-09-2021||National||Gadkari gets Rs 4 lakh royalty per month from YouTube for lecture videos||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said he gets Rs 4 lakh every month as royalty from YouTube, as viewership of his lecture videos posted on the platform has increased during the pandemic period. While reviewing the progress of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway (DME) in Bharuch, Gadkari further said his ministry has started rating road construction contractors and consultants. During Covid-19 times, the road transport and highways minister said, he did two things. "I became a chef and started cooking at home and giving lectures through video conference. I delivered more than 950 lectures online, including lectures to foreign universities students, which were uploaded on YouTube. "Viewership of my YouTube channel increased and YouTube now pays me Rs 4 lakh per month as royalty," he said. Gadkari, who is known for his frank views, said that in India, those who do good work, don't get appreciation. The minister also emphasised on the importance of network of modern- and high-quality roads for economic development and creating employment opportunities. He said that in Gujarat, 423 km of road is being constructed at Rs 35,100 crore. Gadkari added that under this expressway, 60 major bridges, 17 interchanges, 17 flyovers and eight road over bridges (ROBs) will be built in the state. The minister said 33 wayside amenities are also proposed to be built on this expressway to provide world-class transport facilities as well as create employment opportunities in the state. During this visit, Gadkari inspected the place where the world record for the fastest road construction in a day was set in February 2021. He also inspected an iconic bridge built across the Narmada river near Bharuch. The two-km-long extra-dosed cable span bridge will be India's first eight-lane bridge to be built across the expressway. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-gets-rs-4-lakh-royalty-per-month-from-youtube-for-lecture-videos-1031666.html
18-09-2021||National||5 things to know about India's first indigenous luxury cruise liner||India's first indigenous luxury cruise liner by IRCTC is set to start from today, September 18, 2021. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) is launching the cruise liner in a tie-up with Cordelia Cruises, a private company. Here are 5 things you need to know about the luxury travel experience: 1. Bookings can be made on the IRCTC web portal.  2. The cruise will sail to some of the best Indian and international destinations like Goa, Diu, Lakshadweep, Kochi, and Sri Lanka. Some of the popular tour itineraries of Cordelia Cruises are Mumbai-Goa-Mumbai, Mumbai-Diu-Mumbai, Mumbai-At sea-Mumbai, Kochi-Lakshadweep – At sea – Mumbai, Mumbai–At sea–Lakshadweep– At sea –Mumbai among others. 3. The cruise will set sail in two phases. The first one beginning from today will go to Indian destinations and its base will be in Mumbai. In the second phase, which begins in May 2022, it will set sail to Colombo, Galle, Trincomalee, and Jaffna with its base shifted to Chennai. 4. As per Covid-19 protocol, crew members are fully vaccinated and daily health checks for the crew members, hourly sanitisation of the facilities, air-filtration and social distancing norms would also be followed. 5. There is also a fully functional medical centre onboard the cruise equipped with all the required medical essential items. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-things-to-know-about-indias-first-indigenous-luxury-cruise-liner-1031669.html
18-09-2021||National||Aim of J&K govt is to take industrial revolution to next level, maximise economic benefits: LG||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said a flourishing innovation ecosystem where producers, service providers and users are on the same wavelength will immensely contribute to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of making India 'AtmaNirbhar'. He also asserted that the government's aim in the UT is to take industrial revolution to the next level by making investments today to maximise economic benefits in the future. Speaking at an event on Friday, the L-G noted that the power of new innovations combined with superior human capital is the perfect recipe to build a better tomorrow. "We are reforming government processes using technology, and transforming skill sets of youth through modern centres of Innovation, Incubation, Invention, and Training. “I believe the power of new innovations combined with superior human capital is the perfect recipe to build a better tomorrow. Innovations will not slow down and the administrative systems, governance will have to put in place a new mechanism for faster adaptability,” he added. Sinha said PM Narendra Modi's mission to make India a hub of innovation and promotion of exponential technologies has made an immense impact in every possible sector. “Graduation of India to the elite top 50 countries-club in the 2020 Global Innovation Index is a result of his vision,” he said. The Lt Governor said soon one would be sitting in the back seat of a car without the driver in the front seat as drivers-less cars loaded with software, connected through a cell phone with promise of zero accident may replace our old drivers and driving schools. “Similarly, the days are not far when there won't be any electricity cable or solar panel. Our windows, glass panels and roof itself would generate electricity. Maybe within few years, we will have to replace street lights in our cities because innovations in kinetic roads will generate their own energy to provide power,” he added. Sinha also observed that people are witnessing a transformation that could change the concept of a classroom and instead of a human teacher, there would be pre-programmed cell-phone teacher. He said the new education apps and modules with the help of artificial intelligence and robotics one fine day would make the teachers obsolete, wherever possible. The Lt Governor said though there is no doubt that technology is a great enabler, but the pace of change also brings challenges for the government. “We have to accelerate adoption of technologies that assist us in growth and enable us to serve more citizens with evolving safety tools. We cannot say no to innovations. We have to identify areas where it can be implemented for the better service delivery or to create a better life for the people living in far-flung areas,” he said. Recounting some of the major breakthroughs made in the governance front since he took over the charge of Jammu Kashmir last year in August, Sinha said with initiatives like e-Office, bringing transparency in execution of work, and completing projects hanging in for long in record time, the UT government has paved a solid foundation for the rapid growth of J&K. “We have implemented a software module called 'EMPOWER' which enables every citizen with a mobile phone to see the work taken up in a particular village, the progress made and the amount of money released by the government. Digitisation of government services has truly realized the PM’s dream of 'minimum government, maximum governance”, he added. Check out latest videos by DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aim-of-jk-govt-is-to-take-industrial-revolution-to-next-level-maximise-economic-benefits-lg-1031671.html
18-09-2021||National||Sonu Sood evaded Rs 20 crore in taxes, says I-T Department||Actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood, his entities and associates have evaded tax to the tune of Rs 20 crore, kept charity funds unutilised, engaged in bogus contracts and dubious circular transactions all totalling Rs 250 crore, according to the Income Tax department. The federal tax collection agency is carrying out an operation at two dozen locations linked to the celebrity, who emerged as the messiah of migrant workers during the Covid-19 triggered lockdown. Two infrastructure companies - based in Lucknow and Jaipur - have also come under the scanner of taxmen. The IT department on Saturday issued a statement on the search and seizure operation related to Sood, however, has not named him though the press statement mentions that it is related to a “prominent actor”. According to the initial estimates, Rs 20 crore tax evasion has been detected and “incriminating documents” were seized. A total of 28 premises spread over Mumbai, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jaipur, Delhi, and Gurgaon have been covered in the search operation, the IT department said. “During the course of search at the premises of the actor and his associates, incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion have been found. The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities,” the IT department said. Investigations so far have revealed use of 20 such entries, the providers of which on examination, have accepted on oath to have given bogus accommodation entries. “They have accepted to have issued cheques in lieu of cash. There have been instances where professional receipts have been camouflaged as loans in the books of accounts for the purpose of evasion of tax. It has also been revealed that these bogus loans have been used for making investments and acquiring properties,” the press statement said. The  Sood Charity Foundation incorporated by the actor on 21 July, 2020 has collected donations to the tune of Rs 18.94 crore from 01.04.2021 till date, out of which it has spent around Rs. 1.9 crore towards various relief work and the balance of Rs. 17 crore has been found lying unutilised in the bank account of the foundation till date. “It is seen that funds to the tune of Rs. 2.1 crore have also been raised by the foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform in violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) regulations,” the statement reads. The simultaneous search operations carried out at various premises of an Infrastructure group in Lucknow in which Sood  has entered into a joint venture real estate project and invested substantial funds, have resulted in unearthing of incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion and irregularities in the books of account. The search has revealed the group is involved in bogus billing of subcontracting expenses and siphoning off of funds. Evidence of such bogus contracts found so far are to the tune of over Rs. 65 crore. Evidence of unaccounted cash expenses, unaccounted sale of scrap and digital data evidencing unaccounted cash transactions has also been found. Further, it has been unearthed that the infrastructure group/company has entered into a dubious circular transaction to the tune of Rs. 175 crore with an infrastructure company based in Jaipur. Further investigations are being carried out to establish the full extent of tax evasion. Rs 1.8 crore in cash has been seized during the course of the search and 11 lockers have been placed under prohibitory orders. The search operation is still continuing and further investigations are in progress. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonu-sood-evaded-rs-20-crore-in-taxes-says-i-t-department-1031694.html
18-09-2021||National||'Thank You India': Emotional PM Modi thanks Indians for 2.5 crore vaccinations as birthday gift||An emotional Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday thanked the country for making his 71st birthday a memorable one -- with nearly 2.5 crore vaccinations on Friday -- while taking potshots at the Opposition, which he said appeared to have developed an "adverse reaction" on account of Friday's record vaccination feat. Modi, during a video interaction with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, health workers and senior citizens from Goa, also said that the coastal state, which has achieved 100 per cent coverage of the first Covid vaccine, would play a big role in the revival of the tourism sector in the country. "But due to all your efforts, yesterday was a special day for me. Birthdays will come and go, but I will never forget yesterday. I cannot thank enough," the Prime Minister said in his address. "Many birthdays have come and gone. But I have kept away from these things (birthday celebrations). But in all my years, yesterday was a very emotional day for me... "Because of your efforts, yesterday, India in one day, vaccinated 2.5 crore people, creating a record. Bigger and developed countries in the world have not been able to achieve this feat," Modi said. Offering a thorough breakdown of Friday's record breaking vaccination statistics, Modi said that 15 lakh vaccines were administered every hour, 26,000 every minute and 425 vaccine jabs were administered every second at the more than one lakh vaccination centres throughout India. Modi, during his live interaction with a government medical professional in Goa, also took potshots at the Opposition, which he suggested was not able to stomach the success of Friday's vaccination drive. “I am not a doctor or a medical expert, but we have heard of adverse side effects. Every few hundred vaccinations that are given one or two persons report vaccine side effects. "Yesterday we were able to administer 2.5 crore doses, possibly the highest in the world for a single day. But yesterday night after the figure was announced, a political party started showing some adverse reactions? Can you explain this,” Modi said, while interacting with a government nurse from Goa. Lauding Goa for completing 100 per cent coverage of the first Covid vaccine, Modi said that the state was poised to lead India's revival of tourism. "Goa's 100 per cent vaccination will become important to revive the tourism sector. If hotel industry workers, taxi drivers, hawkers, shopkeepers are vaccinated, it will give peace of mind to the visiting tourists. Goa is a part of a select group of tourist destinations where people are vaccinated," the Prime Minister said. While encouraging the revival of tourism, the Prime Minister however said that the Covid virus should not be taken lightly. "Domestic and international tourists can take pleasure in coming here... Numbers have come down, but we still cannot take this virus lightly. You will get as many tourists and travellers depending on how much importance you give to safety and hygiene," the he added. "The central government is taking steps to welcome foreign tourists back. The government has taken a decision to give five lakh tourists free visas. Travel and tourism stakeholders will be given loans up to Rs. 10 lakh with a 100 per cent guarantee by the government. Tourist guides are being given the facility of taking a loan of up to Rs 1 lakh... In the future too, the central government will be ready to help those to take up the tourism sector forward," Modi further said. The Prime Minister also said that the vaccination drive would not just keep Covid at bay, but would also act as a cover for livelihood. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thank-you-india-emotional-pm-modi-thanks-indians-for-25-crore-vaccinations-as-birthday-gift-1031701.html
18-09-2021||National||Covid-19 booster doses not needed in India at this stage, say experts||Will a booster shot provide the turbocharge for Covid immunity that India is looking for? Maybe in an ideal situation where most people are fully vaccinated but not when less than a quarter of the adult population has received both doses, say experts. As the global debate on booster shots gathers momentum, several scientists here said the priority must be to ensure that more people are inoculated with at least their first jab. Immunologist Satyajit Rath said that less than 15 per cent of Indian adults have been vaccinated with two doses, and this clearly means that all Indians “who are more vulnerable to infection” have not yet necessarily gotten two doses.   “I therefore think that it is ethically premature to begin planning a third dose to a fortunate category of people at this stage,” Rath, from New Delhi's National Institute of Immunology (NII), told PTI. “It is also pragmatically premature to do so, since we have no really clear idea of who is 'more vulnerable to infection'. We do know that some co-morbid categories are more vulnerable to serious illness, but two doses of the current vaccines currently protect quite well against that,” he explained.   Immunologist Vineeta Bal agreed, saying India should not think of providing booster doses at this stage when about 40 per cent of the eligible population is yet to receive the first dose.   In her view, vulnerable people, those with co-morbidities, may be considered for additional shots on a “case by case basis”. “… but it has to be remembered that additional shots do not cover specific variants, which are supposed to be more ‘dangerous’,” Bal, guest faculty at Pune's Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, told PTI. “Hence the utility of an additional shot will be limited, in terms of expanding immunity,” she argued.   Though India has not yet rolled out the third dose, there are reports some healthcare workers and politicians in Mumbai have taken a booster shot. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava said earlier this week that a booster dose is not the central theme at the moment and getting two doses remains the major priority. On Friday, India administered a record over 2.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, taking the cumulative number of doses administered in the country to 79.33 crore, according to data on the co-WIN portal. With this, an estimated 63 per cent of India’s adult population has received its first dose and 21 per cent are fully vaccinated, official sources said. According to Rath, all current Covid vaccines in use worldwide remain very effective for protection against serious illness or death from the infection, without any booster doses.   “While antibody levels are indeed going down after a few months, this is neither surprising nor does it necessarily indicate any substantial loss of this kind of protection. How much longer it will be before any such loss begins to be seen is an empirical question for which we will have to wait for data,” the scientist added.   Identifying population groups with an increased risk of infections within a fully vaccinated population is necessary to minimise the death rate, said researcher Naga Suresh Veerapu.   The reasons for booster doses may differ by population groups at risk, type of vaccine, waning immunity, variants of concern, and clinical and epidemiological settings, said the associate professor, Department of Life Sciences, School of Natural Sciences (SNS), Shiv Nadar University, Delhi-NCR.  There is an argument for booster shots if countries have the luxury to administer them. The need has been emphasised due to concerns over waning immunity provided by vaccines and also the rise of the Covid variants, especially the Delta strain.   A recent study by ICMR-regional medical research centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, found that the level of antibodies produced among Covaxin recipients starts to decline after two months, while the same for those who have been vaccinated with Covishield starts after three months.   Similar results have been found for many other vaccines internationally. Pfizer and Moderna earlier this week said protection from their vaccines can wane over time.   However, Bal said there is clear evidence from different parts of the world that complete vaccination provides protection from the serious form of the disease.   “Individuals who participated in the clinical trials are the earliest recipients of vaccines and their follow up seems to suggest that protection from serious disease persists at least for 8-10 months, possibly more,” she explained.   “In India vaccination began in January 2021 and hence the duration of protection observed is shorter. With time we will know how long this lasts,” she added.   An expert review in The Lancet this week concluded that vaccine efficacy against severe Covid-19, even for the Delta variant, is so high that booster doses for the general population are not appropriate at this stage in the pandemic.   Scientists this could be because protection against severe disease is mediated not only by antibody responses, which might be relatively short lived for some vaccines, but also by memory responses and cell-mediated immunity, which are generally longer-lived.   Globally, many countries have already rolled out Covid-19 boosters.   On July 30, Israel approved the administration of a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine for people who were 60 or older and who had received a second dose of vaccine at least five months earlier.   Britain’s Covid booster rollout kicked off on Thursday with the country dishing out the first extra doses to health workers ahead of winter.   In the US, a panel advising the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recommended boosters of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine for people 65 and over, and those at high risk, while voting against third shots for everyone.    Bal said the individual-centric approach versus public health approach is the major difference when some countries are recommending an additional shot of the same old vaccine for their own people.   “There are enough data to show that infection with Delta variant is also handled by vaccinated individuals better than the unvaccinated. And hence I see these moves as selfish moves. COVAX initiative should have been followed in earnest to cover the global population,” she said.   COVAX is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines directed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and the WHO.   Bal noted that immunity induced by current first-generation vaccines is pretty good against most variants, based on some publications, including the most prevalent variant Delta.   “Hence from the humanitarian perspective, the have-nots should be given priority for vaccination. We live in a global village and human beings can move across many kilometres easily — by trains, by flights etc,” she said.   “Thus aiming to attain a certain level of community immunity or herd immunity at a global level is more desirable than having pockets of people heavily immunised and pockets completely vulnerable. A virus can spread easily from high incidence areas to other areas,” Bal added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-booster-doses-not-needed-in-india-at-this-stage-say-experts-1031708.html
18-09-2021||National||Wish PM Narendra Modi celebrated his birthday everyday: Congress on 2.5 crore record vaccinations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should celebrate his birthday every day as some BJP-ruled states "performed" on the day and vaccinated many times the daily average, the Congress said on Saturday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said this is the pace of vaccination the country needs. "Looking forward to many more days of 2.1 crore vaccinations. This pace is what our country needs," he tweeted. Party leader P Chidambaram said he was happy and grateful that 2.5 crore vaccinations were administered on Friday. "But why did we have to wait until the PM's birthday," he asked. Suppose the prime minister's birthday was on December 31, would the 2.5 crore vaccinations have been done only on the last day of the year, Chidambaram also asked. खुश और आभारी हूं कि कल 2.5 करोड़ टीकाकरण किए गए। लेकिन हमें पीएम के जन्मदिन तक इंतजार क्यों करना पड़ा? मान लीजिए कि 31 दिसंबर को पीएम का जन्मदिन होता, तो क्या 2.5 करोड़ टीकाकरण साल के आखिरी दिन ही किए जाएंगे? "Vaccination is not like cutting a cake on a birthday. Vaccination is a programme, it is a process. It has to be accelerated every day, not scale a peak on a birthday," he said on Twitter. "BJP ruled states -- UP, MP, Gujarat and Karnataka -- 'perform' on the PM's birthday and vaccinate many times the daily average. On other days, they are 'non-performing' states. "I wish the PM celebrated his birthday every day," the former Union finance minister added. In another tweet, he said, one-third of the adult population was yet to receive its first dose and only 21 per cent had been fully vaccinated. Prime Minister Modi, in a swipe at the opposition, on Saturday said there is talk of fever as a vaccine side-effect, but a political party experienced fever after 2.5 crore vaccines were administered on his birthday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wish-pm-narendra-modi-celebrated-his-birthday-everyday-congress-on-25-crore-record-vaccinations-1031713.html
18-09-2021||National||Children fall prey to dengue as cases spike across India: Report||As the country witnessed a fall in Covid cases, several states have reported a rise in dengue cases and viral fever-related deaths in children in recent weeks. As UP suffers one of the worst outbreaks of dengue in years, families with children are seen outside hospitals crying for help and waiting for treatment. “His belly is swollen. Hospital officials say they are unable to admit more people and have advised us to take our child to Agra,” a 10-year-old’s aunt is quoted as saying in the report. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, and several districts of Haryana and Maharashtra are also witnessing a spike in dengue cases and viral fever-related deaths in children.  In Haryana’s Palwal district, several cases of fever and dengue have been reported among children. In Chilli village, six children died in the past fortnight who had fever with pneumonitis, loose motion and fever with stiffness of body. However, authorities ruled out dengue and Covid-19 infection being the reason behind these deaths. Cases of fever and respiratory tract illness are seen to be spreading in Bihar too. In the month of September, 14 children died in Patna due to respiratory pneumonia. As of now, there is no vaccine available for dengue in India. The treatment of dengue is symptom specific as there is no particular medicine available for it. (With inputs from agency) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-fall-prey-to-dengue-as-cases-spike-across-india-report-1031717.html
18-09-2021||National||Indianisation of our legal system is need of the hour, says Chief Justice of India||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday said Indianisation of the country's legal system is the need of the hour and it is crucial to make the justice delivery system more accessible and effective. He said Courts need to be litigant-centric, and the simplification of justice delivery should be the pressing concern. "Very often our justice delivery poses many barriers for the common people. The working and the style of courts do not sit well with the complexities of India. Our systems, practice, rules being colonial in origin, it may not be best suited to the needs of the Indian population," Justice Ramana said. Speaking at an event organised to pay tributes to late Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, he said the need of the hour is the "Indianisation of our legal system." "When I say Indianisation, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and to localise our justice delivery system. For example, parties from a rural place fighting a family dispute are usually made to feel out of place in the court; they do not understand arguments or pleadings which are mostly in English, a language alien to them," he added. Further noting that these days judgments have become lengthy, the Chief Justice said it further complicates the position of the litigants. "For parties to understand the implication of the judgment they are forced to spend more money. Courts need to be litigant-centric as they are the ultimate beneficiaries. The simplification of justice delivery should be our pressing concern. It is crucial to make justice delivery more transparent, accessible and effective," he said. Justice Ramana said procedural barriers often undermine access to justice. "A common man while approaching the court should not feel scared of judges and the courts; he should be able to speak the truth. It is the duty of lawyers and judges to create an environment which is comforting for litigants and other stakeholders," he said. "We must not forget that the focal point of any justice system is the litigant, the justice seeker," he said, adding that "usage of alternative dispute mechanisms such as mediation and conciliation would go a long way in reducing the friction between parties and would save resources. It also reduces the pendency and requirement of having lengthy arguments and judgments." Remembering Justice Shantanagoudar who died on April 25 at a private hospital in Gurugram, where he was admitted due to a lung infection, at the age of 62, as an "extraordinary judge", the Chief Justice said these are the topics he used to discuss with him everyday. Expressing "deep gratitude" to Shantanagoudar's contribution to Indian Judiciary and the country's jurisprudence and for his friendship, the Chief Justice said, "in losing him the country has lost a common man's Judge. I have personally lost a most cherished friend and a valuable colleague." Justice S Abdul Nazeer, Justice A S Bopanna, Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Justice B V Nagarathna, Acting Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court Satish Chandra Sharma, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, several present and former judges of Supreme Court and High Court, office-bearers and members of Bar Council, among others, were present. Late Justice Shantanagoudar's family was also present at the event. Recalling his long association with him since a young age, Chief Minister Bommai said Shantanagoudar was a down to earth personality and called him a "common man's judge". "He (Shantanagoudar) was a lively person, he made everyone around him lively. His simplicity, warmth and connection with the roots were really outstanding," he said. Bommai also recalled that Shantanagoudar wanted to join politics and wanted to contest Lok Sabha polls and had held discussion with his father, former Chief Minister, the late S R Bommai, in this regard. His father advised him to continue with his legal profession as he saw a bright future for him in it, Bommai said. Recalling his long association, Justice Nazeer said Shantanagoudar was called "Shantamurthy Shantanagoudar", and his intelligence and empathy were the guiding force behind his judgments. Paying tributes, Justice Bopanna said, "his achievements and good deeds will continue to inspire all of us." Whie Justice Oka remembered Shantanagoudar as a judge who spoke his mind and someone who upheld individual liberty, Justice B V Nagarathna said, as a Judge, he exhibited a great degree of compassion, statesmanship and leadership. "He truly believed that justice delayed is justice denied." Shantanagoudar was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He would have remained in office till May 5, 2023. Born on May, 5, 1958, in Karnataka, Shantanagoudar got himself enrolled as an advocate on September 5, 1980. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on May 12, 2003, and became a permanent judge in the court in September 2004. Later, Justice Shantanagoudar was transferred to the Kerala High Court, where he assumed charge as the acting chief justice on August 1, 2016. He became the chief justice of the Kerala High Court on September 22, 2016, before being elevated as an apex court judge.  Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indianisation-of-our-legal-system-is-need-of-the-hour-says-chief-justice-of-india-1031732.html
18-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Booster shot debate heats up||With several cases of breakthrough infections being reported globally, the debate on Covid-19 booster shots is heating up. Israel was the first country to recommend Covid-19 booster doses in July and several European nations have since followed, targeting high-risk groups.     Buoyed by the success, the Union Health Ministry hopes to reach the landmark of 100 crore vaccination by the first week of October, coinciding again with Modi's 20th year at public office. At the end of the day, over 2.5 crore doses were administered, pushing the total vaccination count to 79.3 crore. More than 59 crore vaccines or 75 per cent of the shots have been given as the first dose, whereas 25 per cent of the Indian adults (19.75 crore) are now fully vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-booster-shot-debate-heats-up-1031736.html
18-09-2021||National||Over 78 crore Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs: Govt||More than 78 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Further, over 33 lakh doses are in the pipeline. More than 6.02 crore balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs to be administered, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost, it said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-78-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-govt-1031737.html
18-09-2021||National||Govt introduces new regulations to make inter-country adoptions easier||The Central government has brought out regulations to ease inter-country adoptions under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (HAMA). According to the Adoption (Amendment) Regulations 2021, families adopting under the Act can receive a no-objection certificate from the government's nodal adoption body Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) to take the child abroad. Until now, the NOC was issued only by a court. Till now, there were no regulations for CARA regarding inter-country adoptions under HAMA, which covers Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains. The Act deals with the rules for adopting children as it gives an adopted child all the rights enjoyed by a biological child. In a notification issued late on Friday, the Women and Child Development Ministry said CARA shall issue a no-objection certificate for Hague-ratified countries. The Hague Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation is an international convention that has been signed and ratified by India in respect of inter-country adoptions. CARA will issue the NOC based upon a verification certificate from the district magistrate of the respective region in the country. In cases of countries outside the Hague Adoption Convention in respect of inter-country adoptions, a letter accepting the adoption from the government department concerned of the receiving country shall be sought by CARA in order to issue the final support letter by the agency, it said. A senior ministry official had earlier said the regulations are being brought in as there were many challenges under HAMA regarding relocation with an adopted child to another country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-introduces-new-regulations-to-make-inter-country-adoptions-easier-1031745.html
18-09-2021||National||Delhi has potential to be world-class city like London, New York, says Hardeep Puri||Nearly 740 km of metro lines are at present operational in various cities in India and the network span is steadily scheduled to rise to about 900 km by 2022, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday. He was speaking after inaugurating the nearly 1-km Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand corridor, an extension of the Grey Line of the Delhi Metro, via a video-conference link. "Nearly 740 km or so of metro lines are operational in various cities in India and the network span is "steadily scheduled to rise" to about 900 km by 2022," the minister said. Besides, another 1,000 km metro lines are under construction in various cities in the country, so the total span will be close to 2,000 km in the coming years, he said. Puri lauded the Delhi Metro for its various accomplishments despite the Covid-19 pandemic. With trailblazer transportation system like the metro, the national capital has the potential to become a world-class city like London and New York, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-has-potential-to-be-world-class-city-like-london-new-york-says-hardeep-puri-1031746.html
18-09-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi eyes revival of tourism in poll-bound Goa||Ahead of the Assembly elections next year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said faster Covid-19 vaccination will help tourism-dependent states such as Goa to reopen in time for the tourist season from November. Interacting with health workers in Goa, Modi said he has been assured by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant that the state will be fully vaccinated by October 31, well in time to receive tourists in winter, when foreign visitors flock the verdant beaches of the state. “States linked with the tourism sector have been given primacy in the vaccination drive. It is very important that our tourism destinations open as early as possible,” the prime minister said, noting that Uttarakhand too has started the Char Dham yatra from Saturday. “If people from the hotel industry, taxi drivers, street vendors, shopkeepers are vaccinated then tourists can come to Goa with a sense of assurance of safety. Now, Goa is a part of a select group of tourist destinations where people are equipped with the shield of vaccination,” he said. Assembly elections are due in Goa in February and a revival of tourism in winters could help lift the mood of gloom in the state due to a halt to tourism during the forced lockdowns due to Covid-19. “It is our wish that the state witnesses tourism activities just like before from the upcoming tourism season. But this will be possible only if we pay as much attention to Covid-appropriate behaviour as much as we have given to vaccination,” Modi said. The Prime Minister said India has decided to grant five lakh free tourist visas to encourage foreign tourists to visit the country besides facilitating easier loans to those associated with the tourism sector. Modi also did not lose the opportunity to recall the contribution of late chief minister Manohar Parrikar in the development of the state. In the same breath, the Prime Minister also wholeheartedly backed Sawant, the incumbent chief minister, who was “carrying forward Parrikar’s legacy in all earnest”. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-eyes-revival-of-tourism-in-poll-bound-goa-1031762.html
18-09-2021||National||CBSE to conduct Central Teacher Eligibility Test between December 16-January 13||The Central Board of Secondary Education will conduct the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) between December 16 and January 13, it said in a statement. The test will be conducted in 20 languages throughout the country in computer based test mode, the board said.   The information bulletin containing details of the examination, syllabus, languages, eligibility criteria, examination fee, examination cities and important dates will be available on the CTET's website from September 20, according to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Candidates have to apply online only through the CTET website. The online application-process will be start on September 20 and end on October 19. The fee can be paid up to October 20 before 3.30 pm. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-conduct-central-teacher-eligibility-test-between-december-16-january-13-1031765.html
18-09-2021||National||460 youth from J&K, Ladakh join elite JAK LI regiment||A total of 460 well-trained recruits on Saturday joined the army here as young soldiers after a successful attestation parade at Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry (JAK LI) centre, a defence spokesperson said. However, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the ceremony was conducted without the parents of the recruits following all the norms and advisors. The attestation parade of recruit course serial number 126, depicting graduation of a recruit and his transformation into a young soldier, was reviewed by Commandant Officers Training Academy, Chennai and Colonel of JAK LI regiment Lt Gen M K Das at recruitment training camp Dansal, the spokesperson said. He said the dauntless young soldiers of the regiment hailing from all regions and religions of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, marching in precise unison with a singular aim of devoting their lives in service of the nation, singing their regimental song 'Balidanam Veer Lakshanam', inspired one and all as their voice echoed in the entire region. Their salute to the tricolour with national anthem playing inspired patriotic fervour amongst all present during the parade, the spokesperson said. Lt Gen Das congratulated the young soldiers for their immaculate parade and impressed upon selfless service towards the nation. He praised their contribution towards encouraging more and more youth from Jammu and Kashmir to come forward to join the security forces and also highlighted the vital role played by their parents in motivating their wards to join this noble profession. The young soldiers who excelled themselves in varied facets of training were also felicitated by Lt Gen Das. Recruit Peer Sartaj Ahmed Wani was awarded the Sher-e-Kashmir Sword of Honour and Triveni Singh Medal for being adjudged 'Overall Best Recruit', while recruit Amandeep Singh Chib was awarded the Chewang Rinchen Medal for being 'Best in Firing'. Recruit Parmeet Sharma was awarded the Maqbool Sherwani Medal for being 'Best in Physical Training' and Recruit Mohd Asad was awarded the Bana Singh Medal for being 'Best in Drill', the spokesperson said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/460-youth-from-jk-ladakh-join-elite-jak-li-regiment-1031767.html
18-09-2021||National||Courts can't exercise power to summon as accused in 'casual, cavalier' manner: SC||The Supreme Court on Saturday said summoning a person without any crime having been registered against him and detaining him would be violative of basic principles laid down by the top court. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela Trivedi restored a single judge bench order of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, convicting a police officer of contempt of court for calling a man, Mohd Rafiq in police station at the instance of his wife following a matrimonial dispute. The court relied upon an inquiry report which stated that the man was forcibly taken away by the officer to Akiveedu Police station in West Godavari district at 10.30 pm on August 29, 2016, from Hyderabad and was illegally detained on August 30, 2016, and on August 31, 2016, till 11:00 pm. "The report indicates that the contempt petitioner was not only summoned to Akividu Police Station in the name of counselling but was also detained. In the circumstances, there was a clear violation of the directions issued by this court not only in Arnesh Kumar Vs State of Bihar (2014) but also in the case in D K Basu Vs State of West Bengal (1997) (regarding guidelines on arrest," the bench said. After hearing senior advocate Sidharth Luthra on behalf of the petitioner, the top court allowed his appeal against a division bench order of the High Court which set aside the conviction of the police officer.  The division bench had said since no crime was registered, the directions issued by the top court in the Arnesh Kumar case would not come into play.  "The mere fact that no crime was registered, could not be a defence, nor would it be an escape from the rigour of the decisions rendered by this court. As a matter of fact, summoning the person without there being any crime registered against him and detaining him would itself be violative of basic principles," the apex court said. The court, however, reduced the sentence of the police officer from three months to 15 days imprisonment. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-cant-exercise-power-to-summon-as-accused-in-casual-cavalier-manner-sc-1031779.html
18-09-2021||National||'Humiliated' Punjab CM Amarinder Singh resigns; says 'future options open'||Ending months-long suspense over the power tussle in Punjab, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday resigned from the top state post, saying he felt "humiliated" with developments in the last two months and asserting there are "options" for him in future politics, which he will exercise at right time. The Congress' decision to go in for the big bang shakeup in the state is akin to the BJP changing its Chief Minister and state cabinet lock stock and barrel in another poll-bound state Gujarat. However, elections in Punjab are just four months away and the internal divide in the state runs deep, raising questions on the impact of the desperate bid to beat the anti-incumbency. Congress' internal surveys had hinted that the party may find it difficult to win the polls under the incumbent Chief Minister but an angry former CM can make the matters worse for the party. Singh asserted that he had fulfilled more than 90 per cent of poll promises made in the manifesto, not done by any Chief Minister and wondered "what else I could have done?" "I am not angry. I feel let down. I feel humiliated," he said. Slamming his bete noire, the Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who kept up a relentless campaign against him, the Chief Minister called him a "disaster" and an "incompetent" person, who, he will "certainly not accept" as the next Chief Minister of Punjab. Meanwhile, a meeting of Congress Legislature Party attended by more than 70 MLAs, passed resolutions, asking party chief Sonia Gandhi to pick up the next CM and thank the outgoing Chief Minister's contribution to the state and the party during his nine and half-year tenure. The meeting happened after 50 MLAs wrote to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, seeking removal of the Chief Minister, which many believe was a scripted play after the high command realised that given the deep divide within the party unit and strong anti-incumbency, changing the 79-year-old CM would be the right decision keeping in mind future Congress interest as well. A visibly upset Chief Minister conceded he felt isolated and made no bones about his view on the PCC chief saying he will "oppose tooth and nail" if Sidhu replaces him as Chief Minister, whom he accused of being an "anti-national element" recalling how Sidhu had in 2018 hugged Pakistan Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. Indications emerged with the PCC chief Sidhu being a Jat Sikh and given the Opposition of the Chief Minister to his anointing for the CM's post, the Congress leadership could go in for middle path and have a Hindu face, (most probably former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar) as new CM for few months till the elections. Singh recalled, "Sunil Jakhar was my PCC chief". "I will not agree with Navjot Sidhu. If Sidhu is going to be the face of the Congress, he will have my total opposition. I will not accept him because I know what his capabilities are. He is a total disaster. He was a minister in my government. He could not run one ministry. How can he run the entire government? He will ruin the entire state," the Chief Minister said. He also rejected the contention that Sidhu has the support of people or MLAs saying "MLAs respond to anything that Delhi wants," indicating that he sees the party high commands' hand in his removal but declined to answer why it was done, saying it for the Congress leadership to say. He voiced anguish over the party leadership calling MLAs to meet three times in the last two months. "If there is no confidence in me then there is no point in my remaining as CM. Now I have resigned. They can make anyone CM," he said tersely. Asserting that politics is not a static game but a moving game, Singh said, "There are options in. When the options come, I will see," the Chief Minister said, making it clear that he is not going to hang his boots in near time. However, he did not rule out the possibility of working with the BJP. "Let us drop this question of what will happen. One task has been completed. There could be other tasks. What to say. Politics is a long term game. In politics, options are never closed. I am 80-year-old and can work for 10 more years. I am not the one to leave this way," he said. He asserted that he has many friends in politics, which he has cultivated in the last 52 years. Meanwhile, Opposition AAP hit out at the Congress over the "fight over the chair". "Congress is a sinking Titanic. It has already hit the iceberg. People have understood this. The biggest casualty has been governance in this ongoing game of thrones in Punjab," AAP leader Raghav Chadha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humiliated-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-resigns-says-future-options-open-1031776.html
18-09-2021||National||Congress talked about welfare of tribals to get their votes, but didn't do anything for them: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday accused the opposition Congress of only talking about the welfare of tribals to get their votes without actually doing anything for them, and added that the BJP, on the other hand, was committed to the development of the community. He was speaking at the ‘Gaurav Utsav’ organised in honour of tribal icons and erstwhile Gondwana Empire ruler Shankar Shah and his son Raghunath Shah at Garrison Ground here. "Congress always talked about tribal welfare in a bid to get their votes, but did not do anything for their well-being. Their intention was to divide the tribal votes by fielding different parties and faces. But the BJP is committed and worked for the development tribals whenever it got the mandate," he said. The BJP has provided facilities to tribals, including houses, power supply in their areas, he said, adding that the party was now trying to ensure household water supply for them so that they can lead an honourable life. Shah said that before the BJP came to power at the Centre, only Rs 4,200 crore were allocated for tribals in the 2013-14 Union budget. "But the amount has now been raised to Rs 7,900 crore...The budget component for the tribal development under various ministries has also gone up to Rs 71,900 crore in 2021-22 from Rs 21,500 crore in 2013-14," he said. Talking about various schemes launched by the Centre, Shah said that the coverage of scheduled tribal welfare works has been extended to 41 ministries. The Narendra Modi government has set up 18 tribal research institutes in its first term and increased that number to 27 in the second term, he added. Shah said that during the 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', the ongoing 75th anniversary celebrations of India's Independence, the Centre has decided to revive the memory of forgotten tribal leaders, who fought and sacrificed their lives during the freedom struggle. "Even before the 1857 rebellion, tribal warriors fought for freedom and independence. Historians have forgotten these brave warriors. Nobody else sacrificed their lives for the Independence like our tribal warriors did," the Union minister said. Recalling the fight of tribal warriors against Mughals and British rulers in different parts of Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere, Shah said that the Centre has announced to set up nine museums and highlight their (tribal freedom fighters') contribution, in different parts of the country, including Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Manipur and Mizoram at a cost Rs 200 crore, of which Rs 110 crore have been spent so far. "We should not let those people succeed who are trying to divide the tribal community," he said. Before his arrival at the programme venue, Shah was welcomed by MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his cabinet colleagues at Dumna airport around noon. After that, he visited the memorial of erstwhile Gondwana Empire ruler Shankar Shah and his son Raghunath Shah, near Rani Durgawati Hospital, and paid floral tributes. During the programme, Shah also laid the foundation stone for the construction of a museum in memory of father-son duo of Gondwana empire at a cost of Rs 5 crore. Later in the day, Shah is scheduled to launch the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 2.0 by handing over cooking gas connections to beneficiaries at the Veterinary College ground, and will then take part in a function at Shahid Smarak later in the evening, a release said. After that, he is slated to visit Narsingh temple close to Shastri Bridge at 6.10 pm. After visiting Dayodaya Teerth, a place of worship associated with the Jains, at Tilwaraghat along the banks of Narmada river, he would leave for New Delhi around 7.30 pm, an official has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-talked-about-welfare-of-tribals-to-get-their-votes-but-didnt-do-anything-for-them-shah-1031780.html
18-09-2021||National||Senior journalist K M Roy no more||Noted journalist K M Roy died at his residence here on Saturday, family sources said. He was 84. His body will be laid to rest at St Thomas Church on Sunday, they said. Roy, a senior journalist and a noted columnist began his career in 1961 as co-editor of Keralaprakasam. He had also worked with the Economic Times, The Hindu and UNI news agency. He retired from active journalism as the Editor of the Mangalam daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-journalist-k-m-roy-no-more-1031781.html
18-09-2021||National||About 50% rise in child marriage cases in 2020, experts say more reporting may be a factor||About 50 per cent rise in the cases of child marriages has been recorded in 2020 over the previous year, according to the recent NCRB data, with experts saying it does not only mean there has been an increase in these instances but that there also has been a rise in reporting. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data of 2020, a total of 785 cases were registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The number of cases registered were the highest in Karnataka at 184, followed by Assam at 138, West Bengal at 98, Tamil Nadu at 77 and Telangana at 62. In 2019, 523 cases were registered under the act, while in 2018, 501 cases were lodged. According to the data, the number of cases registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in 2018 was 501, in 2017 was 395, in 2016 was 326 and in 2015 was 293. Child marriage, according to the Indian law, is a marriage in which either the woman is below the age of 18 or the man is below the age of 21. Experts say the gradual rise in the cases of child marriage may not necessarily mean that there has been a jump in such instances but that the reporting of such cases has also increased. Roop Sen, Founding Member of Sanjog, one of the NGOs which is a part of the Indian Leadership Forum Against Trafficking, a national platform by and for the survivors of human trafficking said the increased instances can be due to a number of factors. "It is a mix of both increased reporting and instances. There have been increased incidences of adolescents girls falling in love and eloping and getting married that also contribute to increased number of child marriages. "Many grassroot organisations say a distinction must be made on child marriages and child led marriages. These phenomena are very different. In a number of cases of elopement, POCSO is invoked," he said. Kaushik Gupta, Advocate, Calcutta High Court, said government departments, DMs, local panchayats have become conscious, leading to an increase in reporting. "I do not think that there has been a gradual increase in child marriage I think there has been a gradual increase in reporting. Most importantly, the government department, the DM local panchayat have become conscious, hence the reporting has increased. They also want to show their efficiency by preventing cases and saying at the end of the day so many child marriages have been prevented," he said. Anindit Roy Chowdhury, Director Programmes and Policy at Save the Children, said Covid-19 pandemic has lead to an increase in child marriage and this is something being seen in communities. "Our staff working in rural and slum areas tell us that child marriage has risen sharply during the pandemic. Villages that haven't seen a single child marriage for several years are now having to intervene to stop parents marrying their daughters. "Many families have lost their livelihoods and, with children at home all day, they feel they have no choice but to marry their daughter to reduce the number of mouths they have to feed," he said. He further said that child marriage is extremely harmful for girls and not only does it mean they're unable to continue their education and limits their life chances, it's also extremely dangerous for their physical and mental health. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-50-rise-in-child-marriage-cases-in-2020-experts-say-more-reporting-may-be-a-factor-1031788.html
18-09-2021||National||Water from 115 countries to be offered at Ram Temple; Rajnath says it replicates message of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that procuring water from 115 countries of seven continents for offering in the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is an "innovative thinking" and it replicates the message of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'. Water from rivers, streams and oceans from these 115 countries was received by Singh at his residence at Akbar Road in presence of Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra general secretary Champat Rai and ambassadors and high commissioners from several countries including Denmark, Fiji and Nigeria. The water was procured by NGO Delhi Study Circle, which is led by BJP leader and former Delhi MLA Vijay Jolly. Lauding this effort, Singh said, "Procuring water from all the countries of the world replicates the thinking of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam of India. Bringing water from 115 countries is excellent work. I hope water from the remaining 77 countries would also be procured by the time construction of the temple is completed. We will do 'Jalabhishek' of our Ram Lala from that water." He further said that the construction of Ram Temple is a moment of pride for everybody. "Indian culture is very rich and there is no discrimination on the basis of caste, creed and religion in India," he asserted. Addressing the gathering, Rai said procuring water from across the world is a historic moment. "In Ayodhya, there is a place called 'Saptasagar'. It is believed that water from all oceans of the world was brought during the coronation of Lord Ram in Treta Yuga. And now when his temple is being made at his birthplace, water from all the oceans of the world has again been brought. It is a sentimental issue for me," he said. Rai also said that the first phase of the foundation of the Ram Temple has been completed. Jolly said that during the Covid pandemic, when people could not step out of their homes, his organisation procured water from 115 nations across the world. “Not just Hindus but also Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Jews and Buddhists of the world have contributed to this noble cause. People from all religions in different countries helped us in procuring water from their counties," he said, adding the water has been put in 115 small pots mentioning their respective countries.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/water-from-115-countries-to-be-offered-at-ram-temple-rajnath-says-it-replicates-message-of-vasudhaiva-kutumbakam-1031790.html
18-09-2021||National||Centre scales down Babul Supriyo's security cover||The Union government has scaled down the armed security cover of central paramilitary commandos given to Babul Supriyo who left the BJP and joined the Trinamool Congress on Saturday, official sources said. The cover has been reduced from the second-highest level of Z category to Y category, after an order was issued by the Union home ministry on Friday. The security cover given to VVIPs and high-risk personalities under the central scheme, ranges from the highest Z+ followed by Z, Y+, Y and X categories. On the scaling down of Supriyo's security category, the sources said that a recommendation in this context was made by central security and intelligence agencies. Supriyo (50), dropped as minister from the Narendra Modi cabinet in July, is being guarded by an armed contingent of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). From about six-seven commandos, Supriyo will now be guarded by two armed personnel during travel. The sources indicated a further review of his cover cannot be ruled out, and the job of his security can be entirely entrusted to the West Bengal Police as he has now joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Supriyo, after joining the ruling party in West Bengal, told the media that he was very excited about joining the TMC, led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and that he will work for the development of the state. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-scales-down-babul-supriyos-security-cover-1031795.html
18-09-2021||National||Parties engaging in mindless appeals in commercial disputes must bear costs: SC||The Supreme Court has said that the parties which engaged themselves in "mindless appeals" in commercial disputes must face the consequences, including costs. "In carrying on commercial litigation, parties must weigh the commercial interests, which would include the consequences of the matter not receiving favourable consideration by the courts. Mindless appeals should not be the rule," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said in a judgement on Friday. The court directed two companies to pay Rs 23.25 lakh to a successful bidder and Rs 7.58 lakh to the Tamil Nadu for cost and litigation expenses for challenging a tender process for hologram stickers to prevent sale of spurious liquor in the state.  The top court said the judicial review of contractual matters has its own limitations, which is intended to prevent arbitrariness, irrationality, unreasonableness, bias and mala fide. In evaluating tenders and awarding contracts, the parties are to be governed by principles of commercial prudence, it added. Maintaining that the succeeding parties in such disputes must get costs, the bench said, "There seems to be often a hesitancy in our judicial system to impose costs, presuming as if it is a reflection on the counsel. This is not the correct approach. In a tussle for enforcement of rights against a state different principle apply but in commercial matters costs must follow the cause." The court allowed an appeal by Uflex Ltd against the Madras HC's order directing the state government to float a fresh tender. "Merely because a company is more efficient, obtains better technology, makes more competitive bids and, thus, succeeds more cannot be a factor to deprive that company of commercial success on that pretext," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parties-engaging-in-mindless-appeals-in-commercial-disputes-must-bear-costs-sc-1031801.html
18-09-2021||National||Fanatics threaten Kashmiri women after Taliban takeover||Taliban taking over Afghanistan has led to tens of thousands of women fleeing the country to escape the atrocities of the new regime. Humeira Rizai, a researcher and activist from Afghanistan, who reached New Delhi from Kabul, while talking to reporters said, "Women were executed and beaten (when Taliban took over earlier). They took away all their rights. Women worked very hard to get back on their feet since 2000 which has again been lost. "When the Taliban ruled the country in 2000, all the rights of women were snatched and they were not treated as humans." Now, the Taliban is back in 2021. And women in Afghanistan don't expect any better deal from them as they are aware of the fact that Taliban would never respect their rights. As expected the Afghan militia has made it explicitly clear that women cannot be treated at par with men. To begin with the Taliban has banned the entry of female staffers in the organizations they were working for, concept of co-education has been wiped off and head of Taliban's cultural commission Ahmadullah Wasiq has announced that women's sport is neither appropriate nor necessary. So Taliban is back with a bang with women being on its hit list. After the change of guard in Afghanistan there have been murmurs in Kashmir that its effect may spillover to the Valley, which is 'slowly recovering' from the 30-years of insurgency and violence. The apprehension is not misplaced as Pakistan has not given up and the people sitting across the Line of Control (LoC) would try their best to push Taliban fighters into Kashmir. But Pakistan would think hundred times before planning any misadventure as India is not the same as it was in 2000, it can retaliate in a big way. Change in Afghanistan has prompted some fanatics in Kashmir to believe that Taliban will come to the Valley and would help the militants and separatists to foment trouble again. These unscrupulous elements are openly threatening women folk through social media and are trying to drive home a point that they would 'meet the same fate like the women in Afghanistan'. But the women in Kashmir are neither scared nor are taking these hate mongers seriously. Kashmiri women by dint of their determination and hard work have proven to the world that they can compete with men in every field. During the past thirty years of conflict in Jammu and Kashmir militants and separatists missed no opportunity to intimidate the women and turn them into second fiddles but the fairer sex in Kashmir never got bogged down and kept on moving ahead. There is no such field in Kashmir where women are not present. The success stories of Kashmiri women have inspired the females across the world to follow in their footsteps. There is no possibility about Kashmiri women accepting Taliban culture in the Valley. History stands testimony to the fact that Kashmiri women have never bowed down to threats and pressures. When armed insurgency broke out in Kashmir in 1990, the militants sponsored by Pakistan targeted the working women and made every possible attempt to confine them within the four walls of their homes. Acid attacks were carried out to make women wear the veils and dikat was issued to private organizations not to employ females. But the women folk in Kashmir stood against the militants and the extremists. They didn't succumb to pressure. The Pakistan sponsored women radical group Dukhtarn-e-Millat (DeM) led by Asiya Andrabi-presently lodged at Tihar Jail in New Delhi along with her aides- tried to enforce its writ by hounding the women in public places and even on the roadside, but common Kashmiri women fought back and there were many instances about DeM activists tasting the dose of their own medicine after facing the resistance. The DeM, despite resorting to every tactic failed to make the women folk in Kashmir wear a burqa (veil). During hey days of militancy in Kashmir the DeM activists were infamous for raiding parks, restaurants. But the women in Kashmir were never influenced by the ideology of the group. They kept on moving on with their lives and kept on achieving one milestone after another. Despite living in conflict Kashmiri women have made a mark in every field, including education, sports, entrepreneurship, civil services, medicine, etc.Many young artists, including girls, have proven their mettle in the recent past. These artists are participating in stage shows, performing during wedding functions and other cultural events. The videos of their performances on social media have gone viral. These budding artists are writing a new chapter in the history of Kashmir. Young women have contested elections, are playing football and cricket and are taking part in fashion shows and other events. They are participating in recruitment drives for police forces and other security forces. Women are running successful business ventures, are doctors, engineers and consultants. They are least interested in the Taliban and the narrative that a few people are trying to build about the Afghan militia may help Pakistan to revive militancy in Kashmir. The horrifying videos about women being ill treated by Taliban in Afghanistan have gone viral in Kashmir. Social media has exposed the barbaric face of the extremists who have taken over the control of Afghanistan. Women who have fled the country are narrating dreadful tales. No woman in Kashmir wants such men to reach the Valley. Nor do they want to see any radical outfit reemerging. Kashmir has a history of women working along with men and that hasn't changed. The Jamaat-e-Islami before being banned in 2019 made many attempts through militants to exert control over women. However, it could't achieve much. One thing is for sure that Kashmiri women cannot be bogged down, nor can they be treated as commodities. Even if the Taliban spillover reaches Kashmir, women folk will reject it and won't allow anyone to control their lives. Pakistan sponsored separatists are in no position to enforce their writ in Kashmir as they have been cut to size. Their sympathizers have gone underground. The money which used to flow into Kashmir through illegal Hawala channels has been blocked. Even if Pakistan seeks the help of Taliban to fight the proxy war- which it has lost in J&K-there is no chance of these extremists finding any support in Kashmir and the women will be the first ones to oppose them. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fanatics-threaten-kashmiri-women-after-taliban-takeover-1031805.html
18-09-2021||National||US company's tech abused by Indian govt to spy on Pakistan, China: Report||A US company's tech was abused by the Indian government amid warnings that Americans are contributing to a spyware industry already under fire for being out of control, Forbes reported. Earlier this year, researchers at the Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky had witnessed a cyberespionage campaign targeting Microsoft Windows PCs at government and telecom entities in China and Pakistan. They began in June 2020 and continued through till April 2021. What piqued the researchers' interest was the hacking software used by the digital spies, whom Kaspersky had dubbed as 'Bitter APT', a pseudonym for an unspecified government agency. Aspects of the code looked like some of the Moscow antivirus providers had previously seen and attributed to a company it gave the cryptonym 'Moses', the report said. Sometimes, American companies aren't the victims, but the ones fuelling costly digital espionage. Moses' real identity, Forbes has learnt, is a company based in Austin, Texas, called Exodus Intelligence, according to two sources with knowledge of the Kaspersky research. And Bitter APT, the Moses customer, is India, added one source. Little known outside the cybersecurity and intelligence worlds, over the last ten years, Exodus has made a name for itself with a Time magazine cover story. Exodus, when asked by the Five Eyes countries (an alliance of intelligence-sharing countries that includes the US, the UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand) or their allies, will provide both information on a zero-day vulnerability and the software required to exploit it. But its main product is akin to a Facebook news feed of software vulnerabilities, sans exploits, for up to $250,000 a year. It's marketed primarily as a tool for defenders, but customers can do what they want with the information on those Exodus zero days, ones that typically cover the most popular operating systems, from Windows to Google's Android and Apple's iOS. That feed is what India bought and likely weaponised, said Exodus CEO and co-founder Logan Brown. He told Forbes that after an investigation, he believes that India handpicked one of the Windows vulnerabilities from the feed-allowing deep access to Microsoft's operating system, and Indian government personnel or a contractor adapted it for malicious means. India was subsequently cut off from buying new zero-day research from his company in April, said Brown, and it has worked with Microsoft to patch the vulnerabilities. The Indian use of his company's research was beyond the pale, though Exodus doesn't limit what customers do with its findings, Brown said, adding, "You can use it offensively if you want, but not if you're going to be shotgun blasting Pakistan and China. I don't want any part of that, (The Indian embassy in London hadn't responded to requests for comment)," Forbes reported. The company also looked at a second vulnerability Kaspersky had attributed to Moses, another flaw that allowed a hacker to get higher privileges on a Windows computer. It was not linked to any particular espionage campaign, but Brown confirmed that it was one of his company's, adding that it would "make sense" that India or one of its contractors had weaponised that vulnerability too, the report said. Brown is also exploring whether its code has been leaked or abused by others. Beyond the two zero days already abused, according to Kaspersky, "at least six vulnerabilities" made by Moses have made it out "into the wild" in the last two years. Also according to Kaspersky, another hacking crew known as DarkHotel - believed by some cybersecurity researchers to be sponsored by South Korea - has used Moses' zero days. South Korea is not a customer of Exodus. "We are pretty sure India leaked some of our research. We cut them off and haven't heard anything since then, so the assumption is that we were correct," Brown said. Knowing that its zero days can be used offensively, Brown's company could have chosen not to sell to India, a country that's been accused of abuse of spyware in recent revelations about global use of tools made by Israel's $1 billion-valued NSO Group, the report said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-companys-tech-abused-by-indian-govt-to-spy-on-pakistan-china-report-1031806.html
18-09-2021||National||New portal to aid children in crisis by tracking school attendance||The Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has developed an early warning system to help government schools take measures in case a student is absent for long durations. The technology based mechanism will help government schools in tracking attendance of students to prevent incidences of dropouts and also aid children in case they are in a high-risk situation. If a child is absent for more than seven days at a stretch or the attendance is merely 30 per cent in a month, the system will send SMS to his or her parents in Hindi, which will convey the message that the school is missing the student and waiting for them to return, DCPCR Chairman Anurag Kundu said. The next day, the parents would receive an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) call where a recorded message will urge the student to go back to school. On the third day, the parents will receive a call from the teacher, inquiring about the reason for the child’s prolonged absence from school. After learning about the reason, the teacher will key in detail in the portal. The child will be provided assistance by the school and in case the reason is major, for instance, death of a parent or both the parents, the DCPCR and other bodies will step in for assisting the child. Kundu said they started working on this project in October and it was supposed to be rolled out in April but the second wave of coronavirus deferred their plans. He explained that if a child is absent for a prolonged period, it is an indicator that they are facing a huge crisis at home which is affecting their studies. The crisis may be loss of income of parents, early marriage, child labour, illness of parents, disability, etc, he said. This system will detect the early sign, which is long duration of absence from school, and help the authorities to work on it before the situation gets worse, he added. Till now, 250 principals across two districts have undergone an orientation programme on the system. The system is going to keep a track of the physical classes. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-portal-to-aid-children-in-crisis-by-tracking-school-attendance-1031810.html
18-09-2021||National||Higher investment required in agri R&D: India says at G20 Agriculture meet||India on Saturday stressed at G20 agriculture meeting that there is a need to increase investment in agricultural research and development amid the challenges of climate change and expected increase in food demand by 2030.         The G20 Agriculture Ministers' Meeting is one of the ministerial meetings organised as part of the G20 Leaders Summit 2021 to be hosted by Italy in October.         Addressing a session on the topic 'Research as a driving force behind sustainability', Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar shared that agricultural research has played a major role in transforming India from a net food importer to exporter.         "Today with an annual production of 308 million tonnes of food grains, India is not only in the realm of food security but is also catering to needs of other countries," he said and added India has experienced a revolution in the field of agricultural produce due to the efficient research of scientists.         However, the demand for foodgrain is expected to rise to 350 million tonnes with likely increase in India's population to 150 crore by 2030-32. The demand for food will rise amid depleting natural resources and the challenge of climate change, he said in an official statement. In this backdrop, the minister said, "There is a need to rethink and adapt agricultural research and development, along with increasing investment in scientific research to achieve adequate and nutritious food along with environmental sustainability." He said research contributes significantly to the three aspects of food security – availability, access and affordability. To make the country self-reliant, concerted efforts will continue in agricultural research in areas such as genomics, digital agriculture, climate-smart technologies and methods, efficient water use equipment, development of high yielding and bio-friendly varieties, systematic production, quality and safety standards among others, he said. The minister also said the strategy to meet the increased demand revolves around increasing productivity and increasing the income of farmers. Emphasising on practicing sustainable agriculture, the minister said the farm sector is facing the challenges of achieving food security, adapting to climate change and mitigating climate change. "Important resources like water, energy and land are depleting rapidly. There is a need for sustainable agriculture...," he said. Tomar informed that India has developed and released 17 varieties of different crops which are resistant to biotic and abiotic stresses. Similarly, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is developing bio-fortified varieties to meet the nutritional requirement of the people, he said, adding that a national mission on sustainable agriculture has been launched to integrate farming systems approach in agriculture. Tomar concluded that India will continue its efforts to cooperate in the exchange of best practices, in research and development and programme interventions to increase productivity through the promotion of trade and development of agricultural value chains, and sustainable use of natural resources for the benefit of the people. The G20 Ministers of Agriculture met for the first time in Paris in 2011 to address the impact of the economic crisis on the agricultural sector threatened by price volatility. Since 2015, they have met annually to discuss food security, nutrition and global agricultural development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/higher-investment-required-in-agri-rd-india-says-at-g20-agriculture-meet-1031811.html
18-09-2021||National||ED attaches Rs 68L worth assets of ex-Bihar MLA Dadan Singh Pehalwan||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has attached Rs 68 lakh assets of former Bihar MLA Dadan Singh Pehalwan and his family in connection with a money laundering investigation against him. The properties attached, after the agency issued a provisional order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), includes seven land parcels and an equal number of luxury vehicles.  "Dadan Singh is a politician and ex-MLA, Bihar Legislative Assembly. He has a criminal history in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh since 2004," the agency said in a statement. Pahalwan was expelled by the JD(U) last year for anti-party activities. The wrestler-turned-politician has represented the Dumraon assembly seat in Buxar district of the state. He has also served as a minister in the RJD government when Rabri Devi was the chief minister. The ED alleged that the MLA "invested the proceeds of crime for acquiring various immovable properties and bank deposits in the name of his family members". "He has also attempted to disguise the acquisition of properties as untainted by claiming the income from business and operation of companies, however, no such business or operative companies found to be run by Dadan Singh and his family members," it claimed. The central probe agency filed a money laundering case against the former legislator after studying five FIRs registered against him by the Bihar and the Uttar Pradesh Police. "He has been a habitual offender and is accused of several offences under the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act for crimes related to attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property, forgery, use of arms and ammunition etc in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. "In some cases, his wife Usha Devi and son Kartar Singh Yadav are also co-accused," the ED said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-rs-68l-worth-assets-of-ex-bihar-mla-dadan-singh-pehalwan-1031820.html
18-09-2021||National||Amarinder Singh-Rahul Gandhi feud not new, turns full circle||The Punjab crisis which began with Amarinder Singh's festering feud with Navjot Sidhu, who was appointed the state party chief in July, despite stiff resistance from the captain, is believed to be at the behest of Rahul Gandhi, as the feud between Amarinder Singh and Rahul Gandhi began when the latter wanted to back Pratap Singh Bajwa in the run up to Assembly elections in 2017. However, stiff resistance from the Amarinder camp forced the Congress to announce him as chief minister candidate. Bajwa was however made state Congress chief but time and again problems between Rahul Gandhi and Amarinder Singh cropped up as the Punjab CM was not in sync with the close aides of Rahul Gandhi, leaders in the know have told IANS. Amarinder Singh said he has been humiliated not once, or twice but thrice, which turned out to be a breaking point for him and the team led by Rahul Gandhi. He said that he has been in politics for 52 years and as a Chief Minister for 9.5 years, but months ahead of elections, the Congress gamble may prove counter productive as he was long credited for the farmers agitation and countering the union government. After quitting the chief minister's post of Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh said that the "future options are open". He said he will talk to his supporters as he said he was feeling humiliated in the Congress party. Since Rahul Gandhi had made up his mind to remove the Captain, was evident as even after stiff resistance from Amarinder Singh, Navjot Singh Sidhu was appointed as the state party chief and to complete the task from behind the scene was Harish Chaudhary, who is Revenue Minister in Rajasthan and was Secretary Punjab Affairs. But it seems Amarinder Singh has not given up and during elections, he may make a comeback. Having defeated Arun Jaitley in 2014 polls, he is a tough man to bow down easily as many in the Congress symphathise with him as his son Raninder hinted, "I am proud to accompany my father to Raj Bhavan when he submits his resignation as CM of Punjab and leads us as head of our family into a new beginning et all." Just minutes ahead of the crucial Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting on Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh reached the Governor's house and submitted his and his council of ministers resignation and said, "I told Congress President that I will be resigning today. Did they have an element of doubt that I couldn't run the government, I feel humiliated. Whoever they have faith in, can be made chief minister." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-rahul-gandhi-feud-not-new-turns-full-circle-1031825.html
18-09-2021||National||Furry companion: Man books Air India business class cabin for pet dog||In a rare incident, a passenger booked the entire business class of an Air India flight to travel with his pet dog. The 'J' or business class of an Air India flight from Mumbai to Chennai on Wednesday was booked so that 'K9' could travel with its owner in absolute 'luxury and peace'. The aircraft, an Airbus A320, had 12 business class seats. On an average, a business class ticket in the two-hour flight from Mumbai to Chennai costs between Rs 18,000 and Rs 20,000. At present, Air India allows pets to travel on-board its flights under certain conditions. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/furry-companion-man-books-air-india-business-class-cabin-for-pet-dog-1031826.html
18-09-2021||National||Babycare and feeding room opened at Akbar's tomb in Agra||A babycare and feeding room was inaugurated on the premises of the Akbar's Tomb at Sikandra and the Jodha Bai Palace at Fatehpur Sikri. The aim is to provide a safe and private space to lactating mothers during their visit to the monuments, a senior Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) official said. "A babycare and feeding room was inaugurated on the premises of Fatehpur Sikri and Akbar's Tomb at Sikandra today," Vasant Kumar, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Agra Circle, told PTI. "Now four world heritage sites in Agra -- the Taj Mahal, the Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri, and Akbar's Tomb at Sikandra -- have a babycare and feeding room," Kumar said. At Fatehpur Sikri, the room has been opened on the premises of the Jodha Bai Palace, he said. "Lactating mothers can feed their babies inside the room, while male tourists accompanying them can enjoy a documentary on the palace premises," he added. A baby care and feeding room was inaugurated at the Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort in 2019. Atiq Akhtar, a government-approved tourist guide in Agra, appreciated the initiative saying it was much needed for the safety and privacy of mothers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babycare-and-feeding-room-opened-at-akbars-tomb-in-agra-1031836.html
18-09-2021||National||Haryana appoints Manika Sheokand as ‘Goodwill Ambassador’||The Haryana government has appointed Femina Miss Grand India-2021 Manika Sheokand as the state’s ‘Goodwill Ambassador’ for water conservation. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar handed over the appointment letter and agreement to Sheokand in a programme organised at Haryana Niwas on Saturday, an official statement said here. Speaking on the occasion, Khattar said spreading awareness about water conservation is the need of the hour. “Water is one of the key necessities of everyone's life. Life is not possible without water. Just as time is considered precious, water is also very precious, he added. The chief minister congratulated Manika for coming forward for this campaign and wished Manika good luck for the upcoming competitions. Sheokand is a native of Uchana in Jind district and has done her BTech in Chemical Engineering. “I am the daughter of a farmer and understand the importance of water conservation,” said Sheokand. She said she was very impressed with the water conservation schemes of the Haryana government. She added that the chief minister's vision of considering water as heritage has immensely impressed her. Impressed by this thinking of the Haryana government, she offered to work as an ambassador to support this noble cause. She said that it is a matter of pride for her to be appointed as the 'Goodwill Ambassador' of the water conservation campaign by the Haryana Government. “I have always been a supporter of environmental protection. I express my gratitude to the chief minister, for appointing me 'Goodwill Ambassador' for the water conservation campaign,” said Manika Sheokand. Manika's parents were also present on this occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-appoints-manika-sheokand-as-goodwill-ambassador-1031843.html
18-09-2021||National||Amarinder Singh made scapegoat for unfulfilled promises: SAD leader||Reacting to Amarinder Singh’s resignation as the Punjab chief minister, SAD (Sanyukt) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Saturday said he was made a “scapegoat” by the Congress to save the party from allegations of non-fulfilment of promises. Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister on Saturday amid infighting in the state Congress. The whole drama was only to put the blame of non-fulfilment of promises on Amarinder Singh, he said. Congress leaders made Singh a scapegoat to save the party from allegations of non-fulfilment of promises, the MLA said. Dhindsa further alleged that the people of Punjab are well aware of wrongdoings of the Congress and they would not be tricked. The Shiromani Akali Dal left its principles and had become a party of the Badals only, he said, terming the party’s alliance with BSP as "opportunist". He said the SAD (Sanyukat) will contest the upcoming Assembly polls on all seats. Halqa incharges for all the constituencies will be announced soon, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-made-scapegoat-for-unfulfilled-promises-sad-leader-1031849.html
18-09-2021||National||Yes Bank-DHFL case: Rana Kapoor's wife, daughters remanded to judicial custody||A special CBI court in Mumbai on Saturday denied bail to the wife and two daughters of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in a quid-pro-quo case involving private sector lender DHFL and remanded them to 14-day judicial custody. Kapoor's wife Bindu and daughters Radha Khanna and Roshini have been named as accused in charge sheets filed by the probe agency in the case, and the court, after taking cognizance of the charge sheet, had summoned the trio. The three appeared in court and filed for bail through their legal team comprising Vijay Agarwal and Rahul Agarwal, who argued that the charge sheet was filed without Bindu, Radha and Roshni being arrested, and, therefore, as per a Supreme Court judgement, they deserve to be granted bail. Vijay Agarwal further argued that the court had already exercised the discretion of issuing summons to his clients, which clearly shows there is no need for their arrests. However, Special Judge S U Wadgaonkar rejected their bail applications and sent them to judicial custody till September 23. After the prosecution submitted that the jail superintendent wouldn't accept the custody of the accused without an RTPCR report, the court allowed the probe agency to keep the three in judicial custody till it was received. As per the Central Bureau of Investigation, Kapoor, who is in jail in a related case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, entered into a criminal conspiracy with DHFL's Kapil Wadhawan. The CBI has stated that between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, DHFL's Wadhawan allegedly "paid kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures, a firm controlled by Kapoor's wife and daughters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yes-bank-dhfl-case-rana-kapoors-wife-daughters-remanded-to-judicial-custody-1031850.html
18-09-2021||National||Airlines can now operate 85% of pre-Covid domestic flights: Aviation Ministry||Airlines can now operate a maximum of 85 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 72.5 per cent allowed till date, the Ministry of Civil Aviation stated on Saturday.  The carriers have been operating 72.5 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since August 12, according to the ministry's order.  Between July 5 and August 12, the cap stood at 65 per cent. Between June 1 and July 5, the cap was at 50 per cent. The ministry issued a fresh order on Saturday, in which it modified the August 12 order stating that "72.5 per cent capacity may be read as 85 per cent capacity".  Saturday's order also noted that the 72.5 per cent cap will remain in place "until further order". When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December. The 80 per cent cap remained in place till June 1. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airlines-can-now-operate-85-of-pre-covid-domestic-flights-aviation-ministry-1031851.html
18-09-2021||National||Centre to simplify Coffee Act to promote ease of doing businesss||The government will relook at the coffee law to make it suitable as per the present needs of the sector and facilitate its growth, the commerce ministry said on Saturday. The issue was discussed, among other things, in an interaction of Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal with coffee growers, roasters, exporters and other stakeholders at Coffee Board Head Office, Bengaluru. Coffee growers expressed concerns over losing their lands in view of the notices issued by banks under Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act. The minister assured coffee growers that the issue will be favourably discussed with other ministries concerned and a suitable solution would be found at an early date, it said. The present Coffee Act was enacted in 1942 and has many provisions which are redundant and are impediments to the coffee trade. "Therefore, it was decided in the meeting to completely relook at the provisions of the Act and to remove the provisions which are restrictive and regulatory in nature so as to bring out a simple Act that suits the present needs of the coffee sector and facilitates its growth," the statement said. Several exporters have raised concern that due to increase in international freight rates, the Indian agri-exports to several destinations have become uncompetitive. They sought increased assistance under Transport and Marketing Assistance Scheme (TMA). Goyal assured the exporters that a special package to assist agri-exports at least for one year will be considered under the scheme to tide over the present crisis. On the issue of Coffee White Stem Borer disease, the minister said a request will be made to Agriculture Department and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to initiate advanced research on this. Further, the Coffee Board requested the minister to announce restructuring of all existing loans into a single term loan with long repayment period and also extend fresh working capital with soft interest. Goyal assured them that a feasible package will be worked out after discussion with ministries concerned, it added. The minister has directed Coffee Board to develop a dashboard for real time updation of extension activities including field visits, workshops, demonstrations, seminars to be undertaken by the extension personnel in the farmers' fields and to effectively monitor the same. Dispelling stakeholders' apprehension that Coffee Board would be closed, Goyal said the government has no such intentions. However, in order to provide better services to coffee growers especially small growers, it is proposed to shift Coffee Board from Ministry of Commerce to Ministry of Agriculture, the statement said adding this will ensure that benefits of all the schemes for agriculture sector are extended to coffee growers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-simplify-coffee-act-to-promote-ease-of-doing-businesss-1031852.html
18-09-2021||National||Income Tax dept continues searches at properties, institutes linked to Anil Deshmukh||The Income Tax department on Saturday continued for the second day its searches here at properties and institutes linked to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in an alleged tax evasion case, local police officials said. After conducting searches at the NCP leader's houses in Nagpur and Katol and the National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Fetri the day before, IT officials on Saturday reached the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanshta's office in Ramdaspeth area here. Searches at the NIT at Fetri also continued, officials added. Teams of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were deployed for the protection of IT officials. The focus of the investigation was a Rs 4.18 crore donation allegedly received by the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, sources said. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had alleged earlier that the amount was deposited in cash with four Delhi-based companies and these firms then routed it to Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha Trust, a charitable trust controlled by Deshmukh and his family. The 71-year-old leader is also being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a corruption case related to allegations of bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-dept-continues-searches-at-properties-institutes-linked-to-anil-deshmukh-1031853.html
18-09-2021||National||Vaccination reduced earlier to create record on PM's birthday, NCP alleges||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Saturday alleged that fewer Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the last two weeks so that a record could be set on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. On September 17, the prime minister's 71st birthday, a record 2.5 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country. NCP national spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said a valid question that arises is why the Union government could not achieve the same or similar target the next day. "It was completely wrong to bring down daily vaccination rate some 15-20 days prior to prime minister Narendra Modi's birthday. That is how this record vaccination (of Friday) was achieved. "If the Union government had carried out vaccination on this scale earlier, people would have truly benefited," Malik said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-reduced-earlier-to-create-record-on-pms-birthday-ncp-alleges-1031864.html
18-09-2021||National||BJP-ruled states fuelled vaccination push on Modi's birthday||For a week before the Friday's high of 2.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccinations, Karnataka gave about two lakh shots on an average each day, but enhanced the campaign by 15 times to vaccinate nearly 31 lakh to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday. Karnataka was not alone in creating the huge vaccination spike on the Prime Minister’s birthday. Other BJP-ruled states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Assam too upped their performance to set the world record. Bihar, helmed by BJP’s long term ally and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar also jumped on the bandwagon. A back of the envelope calculation showed Karnataka had administered nearly two lakh shots on an average between September 10-16, but gave 31 lakh jabs on the Modi birthday – a jump of 15 times. Similarly, Gujarat’s vaccination campaign rose by 8 times as compared to the previous seven day average; Madhya Pradesh’s by 6.5 times, Bihar’s by 5 times, Assam’s by 4 times and Uttar Pradesh’s by 3.5 times. “Bihar, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat - these five states did more than 55% of Friday's vaccinations when compared with their last 7-day averages. The Friday figures are more than 5 times larger than their previous seven-day avg. All for the sake of a birthday,” tweeted health economist Rijo John, a guest faculty at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode. “From 25.1 million yesterday the vaccination is down to a humble 8.2 million on Saturday. It is now back to the 7-day average prevailed at the end of August. Modi ji needs to celebrate birthdays more often to ensure speedy vaccination for Indians,” he added. The Union Health Ministry planned to vaccinate the entire adult population of 94.47 crore individuals by December, 2021. In the last seven days, most of the non-BJP states barring Tamil Nadu distributed the Covid-19 vaccines more evenly. In Rajasthan (3.5 times), Maharashtra (2.2), Delhi (1.2) and Kerala (1.3), the Friday rise was marginally higher whereas in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, the seven-day average was more than what they achieved on Friday. The only parallel for the saffron party is Tamil Nadu, which made a huge surge in Covid-19 vaccination on September 12 preceded and followed by much lower level of inoculation. The DMK government conducted a special vaccination drive on Sept 12 and inoculated more than 24 lakh individuals (as per Co-WIN). A similar camp is planned on Sunday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-ruled-states-fuelled-vaccination-push-on-modis-birthday-1031869.html
18-09-2021||National||Delhi court summons TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife on ED's complaint||A Delhi court on Saturday summoned TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira on a complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly refusing to join the probe in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed her to appear before the court on September 30. In its complaint, the ED alleged that Rujira has refused to appear before the agency here despite repeated summons issued to her. The couple on Friday approached the Delhi High Court seeking quashing of summons issued to them by the ED for questioning in the money laundering case, saying they are residents of Kolkata and should not be compelled to join the probe in the national capital. Banerjee, nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and his wife have challenged the September 10 summons and also sought directions to the ED not to summon them for their appearance in Delhi and thereby not compelling them to join the investigation in the instant case here. The 33-year-old MP represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The plea before the high court also said that a greater degree of protection is granted to a woman under Section 160 of the CrPC, which mandates that she shall not be required to attend any place other than where she resides. It claimed the repeated issuance of summons to Rujira to appear before the ED was ex-facie illegal and mala fide and sought court's intervention before any coercive measures are resorted to by the agency. The ED lodged the case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges. Abhishek Banerjee said the ED has repeatedly summoned him and his wife for examination in person in Delhi without supplying a copy of the ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) and without specifying whether they are being summoned as witnesses or accused, nor indicating the scope of the investigation being carried out. He said their examination may take place in Kolkata where ED has a functional and fully equipped zonal office. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-summons-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjees-wife-on-eds-complaint-1031879.html
18-09-2021||National||80 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 80 crore, with over 77.25 lakh vaccine doses being administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The ministry, in a statement, said the last 10 crore doses were administered in just 11 days. "In a landmark achievement, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 80 crore landmark milestone (80,33,75,147) today. More than 77.25 lakh (77,25,076) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today," it said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight, the ministry said. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the people of the country, including healthcare workers, for the achievement of the 80-crore milestone. Ministry data stated that according to the 7 pm provisional report, 60,03,94,452 first vaccine doses and 20,29,80,695 second vaccine doses have been administered. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-1031880.html
18-09-2021||National||Veerappa Moily, Arundhathi Subramaniam, other winners receive Sahitya Akademi Award||Politician-writer M Veerappa Moily and poet Arundhathi Subramaniam were among the 20 authors who received the Sahitya Akademi Award for 2020 at a ceremony here on Saturday. While Moily received the prestigious award for his epic poetry Sri Bahubali Ahimsadigvijayam in Kannada, Subramaniam won the award for her poetry collection, When God is a Traveller, in English. The other winners in poetry include Harish Meenakshi (Gujarati), Anamika (Hindi), RS Bhaskar (Konkani), Irungbam Deven (Manipuri), Rupchand Hansda (Santali), and Nikhileswar (Telugu). Nanda Khare (Marathi), Maheshchandra Sharma Gautam (Sanskrit), Imaiyam (Tamil) and Sri Hussain-ul-Haque bagged the award for their novels. Apurba Kumar Saikia (Assamese), (late) Dharanidhar Owari (Bodo), (late) Hiday Koul Bharti (Kashmiri), Kamalkant Jha (Maithili) and Gurdev Singh Rupana (Punjabi) have received the award for short stories. The Akademi has named Gian Singh (Dogri) and Jetho Lalwani (Sindhi) the winners for their plays, while Mani Shankar Mukhopadhyay, popularly known as Shankar received the award for memoir (Bengali). The award, which includes a casket containing an engraved copper plaque, a shawl and an amount of Rs 1,00,000, was presented at the award presentation function. The executive board also announced the Sahitya Akademi Translation Prize 2020 in 24 Indian languages on Saturday. The English translation of Kannada novel Ghachar Ghochar, written by Vivek Shanbhag and translated by Srinath Perur, and the Hindi translation of Thiruvalluvar's Thirukkural by T E S Raghwan won the award among 22 others. "The books were selected on the basis of recommendations made by the Selection Committees of three members each in the concerned languages in accordance with the rules and procedure laid down for the purpose," the National Academy of Letters said in a statement. The translation prize carries an amount of Rs 50,000 and a copper plaque which will be presented to the translators of each of these books at a special function to be held sometime later this year, it said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veerappa-moily-arundhathi-subramaniam-other-winners-receive-sahitya-akademi-award-1031881.html
18-09-2021||National||PM Modi holds marathon meeting with top bureaucrats, stresses on execution of ideas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a marathon meeting with the secretaries of central government departments on Saturday and wondered why the bureaucrats, despite having vision for development, lacked in the execution, sources said. The meeting which came months after a major reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers lasted more than four hours. Many secretaries shared their views on various policy-related matters and made suggestions on further improving governance and delivery on the ground, the sources said. After listening to the secretaries, Modi said it is praiseworthy that they all have vision but wondered why is it that the vision is not being executed, the sources said. The prime minister said rather than acting as a secretary of a department, they should act like the leader of their respective teams, the sources said. In the aftermath of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the prime minister has been holding brainstorming sessions with ministers and top officials to inject fresh energy and zeal in the functioning of the government, the sources said, adding that the meeting with the secretaries is part of that effort. Some bureaucrats feel that the meeting could be the precursor to a bureaucratic reshuffle after the rejig in the Council of Ministers, the sources said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-marathon-meeting-with-top-bureaucrats-stresses-on-execution-of-ideas-1031893.html
18-09-2021||National Politics||BJP picks Sarbananda Sonowal, L Murugan for RS bypolls in Assam, Madhya Pradesh||The BJP on Saturday fielded Union Ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and L Murugan as its candidates for the October 4 Rajya Sabha bypolls in Assam and Madhya Pradesh respectively. Sonowal, a former Assam Chief Minister, and Murugan, a former Tamil Nadu BJP chief, were inducted into the Council of Ministers by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July. The Rajya Sabha seat in Assam fell vacant after the resignation of Biswajit Daimary, who won the state polls in May and was elected as the Speaker of the Assam Assembly. Daimary was re-elected to the Rajya Sabha in February this year and quit in May after being elected as an MLA. Sonowal, whose election to the upper house is all but certain, will enjoy a tenure of five years and four months in the Rajya Sabha. In Madhya Pradesh, the Rajya Sabha seat fell following the appointment of the then Union minister Thaawarchand Gehlot as the Governor of Karnataka. Murugan will have a shorter term in the Upper House as Gehlot was re-elected to the Rajya Sabha in 2018 and the seat has a residual tenure of less than three years. Sonowal, a Union Cabinet Minister, holds the portfolios of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, and AYUSH, while Murugan is the Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-picks-sarbananda-sonowal-l-murugan-for-rs-bypolls-in-assam-madhya-pradesh-1031693.html
18-09-2021||National Politics||Is a change of guard imminent in Punjab?||A change of guard appeared imminent in Punjab Congress with indications emerging that Captain Amarinder Singh will step down, but there are serious questions over his bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu replacing him. Also, there is still no clarity about the time of such a change of guard as the party leadership is keen to avoid a spectacle ugly power fights and factional pulls and pressures. Much will depend on the Captain himself, who had time and again said he would abide by the decision of the high command. Indications of a likely change in Congress state unit have emerged hours before the all important meeting of Congress legislature party in Chandigarh on Saturday evening, after 50 legislators wrote to the party high command seeking the Chief Minister's replacement. While Punjab PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu received the party's central observer Ajay Maken at Chandigarh airport, there is a buzz that the party could go in for an interim Chief Minister for the time being. Ahead of the likely major shake up, the names of some leaders close to Amarinder Singh as his replacement were doing the rounds, but it remains to be seen whether the party would like to create another power centre in the already faction-ridden Punjab Congress unit just six months away from elections. "There is no fight (koi ghamasan nahin hai). There is going to be a meeting of Congress legislature party," AICC general secretary and party's central observer for Punjab Maken said, parrying questions about a change of guard in Punjab. In the 117-member Punjab Assembly, Congress had won 77 seats in 2017 under the leadership of Amarinder Singh. The letter by 50 legislators to Sonia Gandhi seeking a change of guard was not the first development in this regard. Earlier, more than two dozen Congress legislators last month had raised the banner of revolt, and four ministers from Punjab government had met AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat, seeking the CM's replacement. Rawat earlier this month said he can't say that all is well in Punjab Congress. "I won't say all is well, but we are heading towards that. There are some issues, but we are towards their resolution. We are a political organisation. Issues come up, but they are resolved," Rawat had said. Perhaps the party's central leadership realised that with both factions led by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Captain Amarinder Singh toughening their stand, a final decision keeping in long term interests of the party is needed now. Singh, who is the tallest leader of Congress, is 79 and there is a view in the party that Congress needs to look cultivating future leadership in the party and cannot allow the party to go astray as happened in Himachal Pradesh and Assam, where the party could not grow a second leadership. However, the CM's loyalists in Punjab, many of whom are senior leaders, are not ready to accept the leadership of Sidhu, who came to Congress from BJP more than four and half years back. With 50 MLAs writing to the party top brass against the CM's continuance, the writing on the wall appears getting clear to Captain himself, who has been a colossal figure in Punjab Congress for decades. While there was no official confirmation, there was speculation that the Chief Minister spoke to the central leadership to voice his "anguish" over the "humiliation". Singh is also meeting MLAs close to him before the crucial CLP meeting. Sidhu, who had quit the Punjab cabinet as a minister in 2019, had never left an opportunity to take potshots on Captain, his governments' policies and his style of functioning. Sidhu was made Punjab PCC chief in the third week of July, ignoring the objections from the Chief Minister and his camp followers, indicating that the party top brass is looking for a reboot in the state unit. While Maken and Harish Chaudhary will attend the meeting as central observers, Rawat will also be present during the meeting. The leadership will be keen that the change of guard is a smooth affair. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-a-change-of-guard-imminent-in-punjab-1031705.html
18-09-2021||National Politics||'Amarinder Singh decides to quit as Punjab CM'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has decided to put in his papers ahead of the crucial Congress Legislature Party meeting in Chandigarh on Saturday evening, sources close to him said. The chief minister will meet the Punjab governor around 4.30 pm and resign from the post. Earlier in the day, Amarinder Singh spoke to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and expressed his anguish and displeasure over his repeated "humiliation", the sources said. They said the decision was taken at a meeting of legislators close to him at the his official residence in Chandigarh a little after 2 pm. The AICC gave its nod to the meeting of the CLP, being held at 5 pm at the Punjab Congress office in Chandigarh, after over 50 MLAs wrote to the party high command that Amarinder Singh be replaced as chief minister. Elections in the state are due in about four months. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-decides-to-quit-as-punjab-cm-1031751.html
18-09-2021||National Politics||Shashi Tharoor asks for immediate change of leadership in Congress||Three-time Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor on Saturday said there should be a new leadership of the Congress party. "None has spoken a word against Sonia Gandhi, but she herself is saying she wishes to step down and hence a new leadership should take over quickly." "If Rahul Gandhi wishes to take over, it should happen quickly," said Tharoor to the media as he arrived near Ernakulam on a day that saw the party's Punjab unit implode. He said if the Congress has to come back, things should fall in place quickly and should get ready to face the elections and for that it should happen now. Incidentally by now various feeder organisation of the Congress party have been firmly demanding that Rahul Gandhi should take over as the new president. Tharoor was part of the Group of 23 Congress leaders, who last year wrote a letter to Sonia asking for sweeping changes in the party Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shashi-tharoor-asks-for-immediate-change-of-leadership-in-congress-1031774.html
18-09-2021||National Politics||Way to Delhi goes via Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav||The way to Delhi goes via Uttar Pradesh, said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav stressing that the upcoming state Assembly elections are crucial to restore democracy, secularism and brotherhood. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also said the challenge before the media is to maintain objectivity and transparency as strong journalism leads to strong democracy. "The way to Delhi goes via Uttar Pradesh, hence, the upcoming elections in the politically significant state holds importance to restore democracy, secularism and brotherhood, the hallmarks of our Constitution," he said. Yadav once again claimed that his party will win 400 of 403 Assembly seats in the Assembly polls. He also alleged that "a section of the media is creating perceptions and setting narratives to earn handsome revenue". "Print media in particular is facing a big challenge to maintain fair news dissemination without bothering about revenue in the present scenario," he said. Today, like political parties, the media also stands a "big challenge" to maintain objectivity and transparency without any "bias" during the upcoming UP Assembly polls so that people know the truth, he said. "When journalism is strong, democracy becomes strong," he added addressing the annual general body meeting of the All-India Federation of PTI Employees’ Unions here. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/way-to-delhi-goes-via-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-1031807.html
18-09-2021||National Politics||Governance in Punjab biggest casualty in Cong's 'Game of Thrones': AAP||Governance in Punjab has been the biggest casualty in the Congress party's 'Game of Thrones', the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said on Saturday after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh resigned following months of a power tussle in the ruling party. In a video message, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the issues of Punjab have been put on the back burner amid a power struggle in the ruling party. "Congress has cheated the people of Punjab. They do not care about the welfare of Punjab, but their own personal happiness. Congress is a drowning Titanic that neither has vision nor commitment or performance," Chadha said in Punjabi. He tweeted, "Governance in the state of Punjab has been the biggest casualty in Congress's 'Game of Thrones'." Singh on Saturday resigned as chief minister of Punjab, capping months of a power tussle that had polarised the ruling party in the state headed for elections in just about four months. "I feel humiliated...," Singh told reporters outside the Punjab Raj Bhawan after submitting his resignation to the governor. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/governance-in-punjab-biggest-casualty-in-congs-game-of-thrones-aap-1031822.html
18-09-2021||National Politics||Opposition unity can't be built by undermining leaders, TMC's attack on Rahul unwarranted: Congress||The Congress on Saturday accused the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress of undermining the leadership of the grand old party and said its attack on Rahul Gandhi was "unwarranted and in poor taste". The remarks of the Congress came after the TMC's Bengali mouthpiece Jago Bangla ran a cover story, attacking Gandhi by saying he has failed to take on the BJP and Banerjee, who is the chief minister of West Bengal, should be the opposition’s face now. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he has seen reports citing an article in the official publication of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The same is not in good taste as Rahul Gandhi – a former Congress president -- is fighting a bigger battle to save democracy, he said. "Let me say that Rahul Gandhi and the Congress Party are fighting a bigger battle of saving democracy, protecting the Constitution and our national ethos that are under attack from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP-RSS," Surjewala said. "We also find the attack on Rahul Gandhi is unwarranted and in poor taste," he said. Jago Bangla had ran the cover story with the headline: 'Rahul Gandhi failed, Mamata is the alternate face’. Surjewala said the Congress respects all political parties and their leadership and recognises their contribution in the united fight against the BJP. "Everyone must understand that Opposition unity cannot be built by undermining the leadership of other parties, including the Congress Party. In fact, all like-minded parties, including Mamta Banerjee ji, have repeatedly vowed to fight together. Hopefully, those writing such articles will take note of Mamata ji's and Opposition parties' stance," he said. Congress leader in Lok Sabha and the party's West Bengal chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the views expressed by TMC's mouthpiece will weaken the unity and convergence among opposition parties. The article comes at a time when opposition parties are trying to come together and present a united face in fighting and defeating the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The article in the TMC publication stated that the country is seeking an alternative face. "I have known Rahul Gandhi for a long time, but I must say he has failed to emerge as an alternative face to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But Mamata Banerjee has been successful in emerging as an alternative face to Modi," the story quoted the TMC's Lok Sabha party leader Sudip Bandopadhyay as said. Congress leaders have said that this will adversely affect the bonhomie between the Congress and the TMC, and does not bode well for opposition unity. Senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh on Friday said the party neither intends to disrespect the Congress nor wants to talk about an alternative to the BJP government at the Centre without it. "Bandopadhyay has not talked about any alternative force without the Congress. He just said in his experiences, people are not accepting Rahul Gandhi as an alternative face to Narendra Modi. He (Gandhi) is not ready yet," Ghosh said. The Congress leader could not prove it (defeating the BJP) in the last two Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019, the state TMC spokesperson said. "But after the 2021 assembly poll victory, Mamata Banerjee has been successful in emerging as an alternative (face to Modi), he said. Veteran Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya said it is for the opposition allies to unanimously decide who will be their common leader. Banerjee, who has emerged as the doughtiest opposition face after her resounding victory in the West Bengal assembly polls, has been trying to bring together opposition parties to form an alternative force against the BJP government ahead of the next Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-unity-cant-be-built-by-undermining-leaders-tmcs-attack-on-rahul-unwarranted-congress-1031824.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Latest vigilance clearance rules for employees arbitrary, dictatorial, say J&K parties||Mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday denounced the governor administration’s latest vigilance clearance rules for its employees, terming them arbitrary and dictatorial and demanded their rollback. The National Conference (NC) believes that the new set of rules are an upfront against the rights and privileges of employees, party spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said. Dar said the new order is yet another set of “arbitrary decisions” that undermine the perception of natural justice and basic human rights. “The latest order is another addition to the 'laws of exception' being thrust on people of J&K. There was no need to have such an order in the first place as the service rules of government employees are already guided by various laws,” he said. The NC spokesperson said the new set of rules has tightened the juggernaut around the necks of J&K employees “pushing them towards a state of despondency”. “How can the employees work in such an atmosphere of suspicion? The dedication of our government employees is next to none in the country. The entire lot has been rendering their duties in the thick and thin of situations. Putting them under a cloud is not just unjust; it is highly disrespectful towards them,” he said. Dealing with government employees with such “revulsion and suspicion” also does not augur well for work culture, Dar said. “It is an act of wanton vilification by a government against its own arms,” he said. The new set of rules, Dar said, “infringes” the fundamental rights of employees, who as per the new rules are liable to punishment if they fail to report their relative's offenses, if any. “Why should an employee pay for someone else's crime? Similarly denying passports to employees based on vigilance cases cannot be a substitute for being proven guilty by the court of law. The latest rules have blurred the distinction between executive and judiciary. “It also goes against the presumption of innocence; a legal principle that everyone accused of any offence is innocent until proven guilty. The administration has done away with the legal aspect of prosecution,” he said. Dar said the order should be rolled back forthwith. The People’s Conference led by Sajad Lone termed the new directive as “yet another diktat aimed at trampling upon the democratic rights” of the people and throwing the constitutional safeguards to the wind. Party spokesperson Adnan Ashraf Mir said the circular “is nasty and objectionable” and issued in a mad rush to “hound” the employee fraternity of J&K. “In a legal jurisprudence, a person is liable and responsible only for his own sins and actions. One cannot be held responsible for someone else's actions unless he is complicit, conniving or conspiring with him. The Government Order is a flagrant infringement of fundamental rights of citizens and a violation of Right to Freedom guaranteed by Article 20 of the Indian Constitution,” he said. Mir said once can understand a person's involvement in an illegal act or his association or sympathy with persons aiding and abetting commission of any illegal act but how can the government justify clauses which make a person liable for any act committed by his relative or acquaintance even though he might not be knowing what his relative is doing. He termed the order not only unjust, illegal and unfair, but also unconstitutional, unethical and reprehensible and added that the present administration must refrain from “such blatant misuse of power and ruthless erosion of democratic values”. The PC spokesperson urged the administration to rollback the order and not cause an “unnecessary stir” within the administrative set up of J&K. CPI(M) leader Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami said the latest orders are another set of arbitrary decisions which need to be reconsidered. "A government employee is a tool to implement policies of the government. If the same employee is made a suspect by doubting him and putting him in the basket of suspicion repeatedly, it will adversely affect his working and in turn affect overall functioning of the government," Tarigami said in a statement. He said there was already a procedure laid down to deal with any employee involved in anti-national subversive activities and issuing new orders every now and then only created an atmosphere of suspicion. "It seems, because of some ill advice, J&K administration is resorting to such an unwarranted course and to targeting its employees and thereby putting them under constant fear. If an employee is violating the law he must be dealt with according to the already laid down procedures, but this type of arbitrary approach is not good in a democracy," he added. Tarigami said denying anyone a passport based on a vigilance case cannot be a substitute for being found guilty in a court of law. "One of the most sacred principles of the justice system is that a person is innocent until proven guilty. How can the government deny a passport to an employee on mere registration of a case by vigilance?" he asked. "The authoritarian orders issued by the administration are against the interests of the people of all the regions and communities. Instead of issuing such orders, the government must ensure that the rights of the people and their livelihood are protected," the communist leader added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/latest-vigilance-clearance-rules-for-employees-arbitrary-dictatorial-say-jk-parties-1031595.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Beware of BJP's 'e-Ravans' on social media who'll spread lies ahead of UP polls: Akhilesh to SP workers||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday cautioned his party workers against the BJP's "e-Ravans" on social media, saying the saffron party will use them to spread lies in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Yadav was speaking at an event organised at the SP headquarters here to celebrate Vishwakarma Jayanti. "The BJP will tell God knows how many big and small lies in the Uttar Pradesh elections. 'e-Ravans' with training and money are sitting on social media, they will work to mislead the public. We have to be careful," the SP president said. The coming elections in Uttar Pradesh will be the biggest in the country and will also be a test of democracy. The BJP is a party that spreads lies and confusion, hatches conspiracies and all need to beware of it, he said. Hitting out at the BJP-led government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, Yadav alleged that during the pandemic, workers and labourers were forced to go home on foot as bus and train services were suspended. However, flights continued for the rich people. "The public was left orphaned, dead bodies were found on the banks of the Ganga river and their pictures were published all over (the world)," he said. The SP president promised to include suggestions of the Vishwakarma community in his party's manifesto for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections due early next year. After coming to power, the SP will declare a public holiday on Vishwakarma Jayanti, Yadav said. He also promised to build a grand Vishwakarma temple on the banks of the Gomti river if his party is voted to power. Under the BJP government, Yadav alleged, people from all sections of society, including those from the Vishwakarma community, have been humiliated. He also reiterated the SP's demand for a caste-based census in the country. "We want a caste census so that the exact number of people from every section of society is known. Only then each section's participation can be decided. The BJP wants to snatch the rights of the backward communities, the poor and the downtrodden," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/beware-of-bjps-e-ravans-on-social-media-wholl-spread-lies-ahead-of-up-polls-akhilesh-to-sp-workers-1031617.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan schools to resume classes for 6 to 8 from Sept 20||The regular classes for students of 6 to 8 will resume from September 20 in government and private schools with 50 per cent capacity, according to the fresh guidelines issued by the Rajasthan government on Friday. School activity for Class 1 to 5 will resume from September 27 with 50 per cent capacity. The state government had already started classes for students of 9 to 12 from September 1. The guidelines don’t allow conducting the morning assembly prayer and opening of school canteen. According to the 'Three-layered public-discipline 6.0' guidelines issued by the Home Department, there will be a night curfew in entire state from 11 pm to 5 am every day. The order will come into effect from September 20. Now, 200 guests will be allowed to participate at weddings and other marriage-related functions. The government and private offices have been allowed to run with full staff while maintaining Covid protocol, including wearing mask, using had santiser and maintaining physical distance. The cinema halls and multiplexes have been allowed to run with 100 per cent capacity from 9 am to 10 pm whereas yoga centre and gyms can be opened from 6 am to 10 pm with staff having had at least one dose of vaccination. Animal fairs will be allowed from September 20 with prior permission from district collector. Swimming pools have been allowed to open from September 20 with staff having been administered at least the first dose of vaccine. Several other relaxations were also given in the guidelines. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-schools-to-resume-classes-for-6-to-8-from-sept-20-1031619.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Security forces apprehend former militant in J&K's Kishtwar||Security forces have arrested a former militant in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district, officials said on Saturday. On specific information received through reliable sources, a special team of security forces raided the suspected locations on Friday and arrested the former militant, they said. The arrested person has been identified as Abdul Gani. He was wanted in a case registered at Marwah Police Station, officials said, adding he was produced before a court in Kishtwar and sent in judicial custody.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-apprehend-former-militant-in-jks-kishtwar-1031677.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||AICC calls Punjab Congress Legislative Party meeting on Saturday||Amid the ongoing rift in the Punjab Congress unit, the AICC called a meeting of the state's Congress Legislative Party on Saturday. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat made the announcement Friday night. “The AICC has received a representation from a large number of MLAs from the Congress party, requesting to immediately convene a meeting of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) of Punjab. Accordingly, a meeting of the CLP has been convened at 5 PM on September 18 at Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee office. “AICC directs the PPCC to facilitate this meeting. All congress MLAs of Punjab are requested to kindly attend this meeting,” Rawat said in a tweet. He also tagged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in his tweet. Sidhu also took to Twitter on Friday night and said, “As per the AICC directive, Congress Legislative Party meeting has been convened at @INCPunjab PPCC Office, Chandigarh on 18 September 2021 (Saturday) 5 PM.” The move to call the meeting after bypassing the chief minister has raised speculations in party circles about the fate of Singh. The Congress has 80 MLAs in the 117-member state assembly. The development comes as several legislators and some ministers close to Sidhu have been seeking a meeting of the legislature party. Congress leaders Harish Chaudhary and Ajay Maken are likely to be the party's observers at the CLP meeting. Party MLAs on Saturday said they were unaware of the agenda of the CLP meeting. There were reports that a section of Congress MLAs had written to the party leadership to convene a CLP meeting to discuss the poll strategy and progress on the 18-point agenda which includes action on the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and the police firing on protesters and arrest of the “big fish” in drug rackets. Last month, four ministers and around two dozen party legislators had raised a banner of revolt against the Punjab CM and had said they had no faith in Amarinder Singh's ability to honour unfulfilled promises. Four ministers -- Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi -- had raised the demand for replacing the CM. Meanwhile, Sidhu's principal strategic advisor and former IPS officer Mohd Mustafa said it is time to have a “Congress CM” after a “long agonising wait”. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aicc-calls-punjab-congress-legislative-party-meeting-on-saturday-1031683.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Over 28 acres of prime govt land retrieved from encroachment in Jammu||The local administration has retrieved over 28 acres of prime government land from encroachment in the outskirts of Jammu city, officials said  On the directions of Deputy Commissioner Anshul Garg, a team conducted the anti-encroachment drive and retrieved 14.89 acres of government land in Ghoumanhasan village. Over 13 acres of government land was retrieved at Teda village, they said. Recently, 3 acres of land was also retrieved at Chowadi village, out of which two Kanal was handed over to PDD for the construction of a Receiving Station at Chowadi, officials said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-28-acres-of-prime-govt-land-retrieved-from-encroachment-in-jammu-1031689.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||2 killed, 7 injured as house collapses in Uttar Pradesh||Two people were killed and seven injured when a house collapsed at Shringinari-Bedipur crossing here, police said on Saturday. They said Mohammad Ali's house collapsed on Friday night when his family members were sleeping inside. The deceased have been identified as Sana Fatima (19) and Tarannum Fatima (22), they added. The seven injured people are undergoing treatment in Ayodhya, the police said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-killed-7-injured-as-house-collapses-in-uttar-pradesh-1031703.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Schools closed in Leh as Ladakh reports 71 new Covid-19 cases||All schools in Leh district were closed for 15 days from Saturday after Ladakh reported 71 fresh cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day rise in the past over two months, taking the overall infection tally to 20,702, officials said. A majority of the new cases were detected from Druk Padma Karpo School Shey, prompting the District Development Commissioner (Leh) Shrikant Balasaheb Suse to notify the school campus as a containment zone to stop further spread of the infection, they said. Suse, who is also the chairman of Leh district disaster management authority, ordered closure of all government and private schools in the district for 15 days from September 18 to October 2. In an order issued late Friday, the district magistrate said the decision was taken in view of reporting of fresh Covid-19 cases in schools and in the interest of the public health and safety. However, the order, said online classes would be encouraged with Covid standard operating procedures (SOPS). Leh’s chief medical officer and chief education officer have been directed to ensure that the students leaving from residential schools or hostels for their homes are mandatorily screened for RT-PCR test. The students have to undergo home quarantine along with their family members for seven days irrespective of their results, the order said, adding that "any violation of the directions shall invite strict action under relevant sections of DM Act, 2005." Of the 71 new cases, the officials said 70 case, including dozens of students were detected in Leh and one in Kargil. There are now 109 active cases in Ladakh, including 106 in Leh and three in Kargil, they said. The officials said three Covid patients -- two in Leh and one in Kargil - were discharged after successful treatment, taking the total number of cured patients to 20,386. Ladakh has registered 207 Covid-related deaths — 149 in Leh and 58 in Kargil — since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-closed-in-leh-as-ladakh-reports-71-new-covid-19-cases-1031733.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Grey Line: Delhi Metro's Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand corridor inaugurated||The Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of Grey Line of the Delhi Metro was inaugurated on Saturday, taking the mass rapid transit system further into the interior areas of Najafgarh. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal jointly inaugurated the section via video-conference link, the DMRC said. The opening of the nearly 1-km corridor took place after a delay of over one month which had occurred due to approach road-related issues. Passenger services on this section will commence at 5 pm, DMRC officials said on Thursday. This extension of the over 4.2-km Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor) will immensely benefit the residents of the interior areas around Najafgarh, which is steeped in history.  Union Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore and Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot were also present on the occasion. The nearly one kilometre-long Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section will take the metro further into the interior areas of Najafgarh. This segment was earlier scheduled to be inaugurated on August 6, but it was postponed, two days before the slated date, due to issues with an approach road to the station. The Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor was opened in October 2019, which had connected the urban village area of Najafgarh to the rapid transit network for the first time. The Dhansa Bus Stand station has been adorned with attractive artworks and photographs, which display the rich heritage, culture, flora and fauna of this suburban locality of the national capital. In a first for the DMRC network, Delhi Metro has built an underground integrated parking facility at Dhansa Bus Stand station that will allow commuters to park their vehicles and move to the concourse area directly, officials had said in July. "The Dhansa Bus Stand metro station on the Dwarka-Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand corridor will be the first ever underground metro station of the Delhi Metro network to have an entire underground floor dedicated for parking of vehicles," the DMRC had said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/grey-line-delhi-metros-najafgarh-dhansa-bus-stand-corridor-inaugurated-1031748.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||IAF to hold air show over Srinagar's Dal Lake on September 26||An air show will be held here on September 26 where IAF's skydiving team Akash Ganga and Suryakiran Aerobatic and Display Team and paramotor flying will maneuver the skies over the famous Dal Lake, officials said on Saturday. The air show will be organised by the Air Force Station Srinagar and the Jammu and Kashmir administration as part of the ongoing celebrations commemorating 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', they said. The main aim of the exercise — under the theme 'Give Wings to Your Dream' — is to motivate the youth of the valley to join the Indian Air Force (IAF) and to promote tourism in the region, the officials said. The event will be flagged off by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC) overlooking the Dal Lake. More than 3,000 college and school students are expected to participate in the programme to witness the impressive maneuvers of the IAF, which will motivate them to dream about a career in the force and in the aviation sector, the officials said. "The show will also develop passion among the students to give wings to their dreams. Along with the students, 700 teachers will also be present at the venue," they added. During the demonstration, students will also be familiarised with the new technological advancements achieved and incorporated by the IAF while flying aircraft in the sky over the world-famous Dal Lake, the officials said. Stalls will be established at SKICC where students will be familiarised with the achievements of the Air Force, employment opportunities in the IAF, recruitment rules and eligibility criteria, they added. Srinagar-based PRO Defence Col Emron Musavi said the display will include flypast by various aircraft of the IAF. “The spectators would also get to witness paramotor flying and IAF's skydiving team Akash Ganga in action. 'Ambassadors of IAF', Suryakiran Aerobatic Display Team, will be performing in the valley after a gap of 14 years,” he said. Col Musavi said the symphony orchestra of the IAF would also be performing at the event. The event would also consist of a photo exhibition depicting the history of the IAF, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-to-hold-air-show-over-srinagars-dal-lake-on-september-26-1031750.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||EC transfers 28 police personnel from Muzaffarnagar ahead of UP polls||A total of 28 police inspectors, including 11 station house officers, posted here for more than three years, have been shifted to other districts, an official said on Saturday. According to Preetinder Singh, DIG, Saharanpur range, the order came on Friday on the directive of the Election Commission, which stated that police officers cannot remain posted in the district going to polls if they have served in the same place for at least three years. The police personnel were transferred to Shamli and Saharanpur districts from Muzaffarnagar, the DIG said. Assembly elections will be held in Uttar Pradesh early next year. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ec-transfers-28-police-personnel-from-muzaffarnagar-ahead-of-up-polls-1031753.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Journalist held, another booked for publishing ‘incorrect place’ of arrest of terrorist||A journalist was arrested and another was booked at Ambala Cantonment for allegedly mentioning "incorrect place" of arrest of a suspected terrorist, prompting the opposition to attack the Haryana government for "suppressing" freedom of press. The case against reporter Sunil Brar and news editor Sandeep Sharma of Dainik Bhaskar was registered on Thursday under different sections of the IPC, police said, adding that Brar was taken into custody on Friday. Efforts are on to nab Sharma, they said. A suspected terrorist was arrested by Punjab Police on Wednesday over an alleged tiffin bomb plot from Mardon Sahib village of Ambala. The newspaper headline on the following day stated ‘Punjab police claims arrest of terrorist at Cantt from near IOC depot'. The national daily published a correction the next day on the location from where the suspected terrorist was arrested. SHO Ambala Cantt Vijay Kumar said the case against the journalists was registered as they published the news without any authentication. Journalists Sunil and Sandeep Sharma have created fear among the masses by publishing false news, he added. Meanwhile, opposition parties, including the Congress, INLD, Haryana Democrat Front and BSP, criticised the arrest. Senior Congress leader Rohit Jain said the arrest was made against the direction of Supreme Court. He said the police had not issued any prior notice to the journalist before arresting him. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-held-another-booked-for-publishing-incorrect-place-of-arrest-of-terrorist-1031755.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Rawat, 2 observers reach Chandigarh for meeting amid rift in Punjab Congress||AICC general secretary Harish Rawat and two observers reached here ahead of the Punjab Congress Legislative Party meeting, the announcement of which has triggered speculations about the fate of CM Amarinder Singh. Senior Congress leaders Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary have been appointed as the party's central observers for the CLP meeting scheduled for 5 pm on Saturday. The announcement of the meeting was made on Friday night by Rawat, the in-charge of the Punjab affairs at the AICC. The AICC's move to call the meeting after bypassing Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has come amid a rift in the Punjab Congress and triggered speculations in party circles about the fate of the leader. Such meetings are usually called by the CM as he is the CLP leader in the state. Several MLAs and some ministers close to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have been seeking a meeting of the legislature party. Sidhu and some other party leaders were present at the Chandigarh airport to receive Rawat and the two observers. Maken refused to make any comment on questions related to the meeting. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar in a tweet said, "Kudos to Sh@RahulGandhi for adopting Alexandrian solution to this Punjabi version of Gordian knot. Surprisingly, this bold leadership decision to resolve Punjab Congress imbroglio has not only enthralled Congress workers but has sent shudders down the spines of Akalis." Sidhu's principal strategic adviser and former IPS officer Mohd Mustafa in a tweet said it is the time to have a "Congress CM" after a "long agonising wait" of four and a half years. "Today is the time for course correction," said Mustafa referring to the meeting. Mustafa's wife Razia Sultana is a cabinet minister in the Amarinder Singh-led government. Earlier, reports had surfaced that a section of Congress MLAs had written to the party leadership to convene a CLP meeting to discuss the poll strategy and progress on the 18-point agenda, which includes action on the 2015 desecration cases and arrest of the “big fish” in drug rackets. Last month, four ministers and around two dozen party legislators had raised a banner of revolt against the Punjab CM and had said they had no faith in Amarinder Singh's ability to honour unfulfilled promises. Four ministers -- Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi -- had raised a demand for replacing the CM.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rawat-2-observers-reach-chandigarh-for-meeting-amid-rift-in-punjab-congress-1031766.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri Pandits stage protest in Jammu against delay in relief payment||Hundreds of Kashmiri Pandits staged a protest demonstration here on Saturday against a delay in the payment of monthly relief and their attempt to block the Jammu-Srinagar national highway was thwarted by police, officials said. The protestors came out from the Jagti migrant camp on the outskirts of the city and started marching towards the nearby highway, raising slogans in support of their demand for immediate release of relief payment for the month of August, the officials said. They said the police stopped the protestors from marching towards the highway and persuaded them to disperse. The protestors threatened to intensify their agitation if their monthly relief was not immediately released. "The relief for the month of August was not released by the relief commission till date, causing hardships to the displaced community," a spokesman of the Kashmiri Pandit Relief Holders Association said. He said this was for the first time in the past three decades that there was a delay in the release of monthly relief to the community. "We appeal to Lt Governor Manoj Sinha to look into the issue and ensure early release of the payment,” the spokesman said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-pandits-stage-protest-in-jammu-against-delay-in-relief-payment-1031768.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Gurudwara Bangla Sahib asked to close over Covid-19 norm violation; DSGMC chief fumes||The Chanakyapuri district administration has ordered the closure of Gurudwara Bangla Sahib here for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms, prompting outgoing Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa to demand action against the officials concerned. The order by the Chanakyapuri sub divisional magistrate (SDM) was issued on September 16. The order stated that a report submitted by executive magistrate (Chanakyapuri) found that the management of Bangla Sahib Gurudwara “allowed visitors/prayers inside the Gurudwara" in violation of DDMA directions. The order asked the management of Bangla Sahib Gurudwara, one of the most prominent Sikh shrines in the national capital, to be closed for visitors with immediate effect. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had earlier ordered reopening of religious places, but visitors were not allowed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus infection. Meanwhile, SAD leader and outgoing Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa fumed at the Chanakyapuri SDM order and demanded action from Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal against the district officials. In a video message on Twitter, he said, "Cheap action by SDM Chanakyapuri by passing this order to close Gurdwara Sri Bangla Sahib for Covid Violations! We condemn this sick mentality of Delhi Govt & demand @ArvindKejriwal Ji to take strictest action against concerned DC & SDM Geeta Grover.” Sirsa added that the order was issued to close the gurudwara which has helped many people during the Covid-19 second wave and lockdown by organising ‘langar’ (free food service) and setting up beds for patients. The Chanakyapuri SDM office, however, said whatever has happened is according to the DDMA order, and refused to comment further. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurudwara-bangla-sahib-asked-to-close-over-covid-19-norm-violation-dsgmc-chief-fumes-1031771.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Over 2.90 lakh challans issued for Covid norm violations in Delhi||The Delhi Police has issued over 2.90 lakh challans so far between April 19 and September 17 this year for violation of various Covid-19-related guidelines, of which the maximum were issued to those found not wearing masks, officials said on Saturday. According to the data shared by Additional Delhi Police PRO Anil Mittal, 2,91,423 challans have been issued for various Covid-related violations in the national capital. The data showed that of the total challans so far, the maximum 2,56,616 were issued for mask violation, followed by 29,698 for violation of social distancing norms and 1,463 for holding large public gatherings and congregations. Another 1,572 challans were issued for spitting and 2,074 were for consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco etc, the data mentioned. The unlock process began in Delhi in a phased manner with the government allowing construction and manufacturing activities from May 31. In following weeks, markets, malls, metro trains, restaurants and bars and many other activities were allowed. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-290-lakh-challans-issued-for-covid-norm-violations-in-delhi-1031773.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||2 bike-borne men open fire outside Tihar Jail official's house||Two unidentified bike-borne men allegedly opened fire outside the paternal house of Tihar Jail's assistant superintendent in outer Delhi's Alipur area, police said on Saturday. The assistant superintendent, who is posted in Tihar's central jail no. 3, resides in the staff quarters inside the prison premises while his elderly parents live alone at their house in a village in Alipur area of outer Delhi, they said. According to sources, it is suspected that the jail official had allegedly slapped a Tihar Jail inmate and the incident may have been its fallout. A senior police officer said all these aspects are being looked into and is part of the ongoing investigation. The police said the exact motive behind the incident will be ascertained with the arrest of the suspects. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer-North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said, "We have registered a case under IPC section of attempt to murder and Arms act. "We are analysing all the CCTV footage and technical evidence. Multiple teams are working to nab the suspects in the case." The assailants fire three bullets outside the paternal house of the assistant superintendent, officials said The incident on Friday afternoon was caught on CCTV camera, police said. According to the police, the two-bike borne men wearing masks and helmets came to the house of the senior jail official. When his elderly mother opened the door, the unknown assailants asked for her husband. However, when she asked them the reason, they fired three rounds at an iron gate to scare the elderly couple, a senior police officer said. Soon after the incident, they fled the spot, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-bike-borne-men-open-fire-outside-tihar-jail-officials-house-1031803.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab Governor accepts Amarinder Singh's resignation||Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit Saturday accepted Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's resignation. The governor, however, has asked him and his council of ministers to continue in office for the transaction of routine business till alternative arrangements are made, according to an official statement. "Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit accepted his (Amarinder) resignation and that of his council of ministers," said the statement. Earlier in the day, Singh submitted his resignation along with that of his council of ministers. "I, hereby, tender my resignation as Chief Minister, and that of my Council of Ministers," the one-line resignation letter said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-governor-accepts-amarinder-singhs-resignation-1031833.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||Jammu traders call for day-long strike next week||Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has called for a day-long 'peaceful' strike on September 22 to protest the alleged “discrimination of highest degree by the government” with them. Announcing the strike, JCCI president Arun Gupta said the token strike against “directionless policies” of the government should serve as a wakeup call for it and it should take immediate corrective measures to end the “discrimination” with Jammu region. “We believe that trade in the Jammu region is being disturbed deliberately as policy decisions are taken in closed rooms without consulting or taking into confidence the stakeholders,” Gupta, flanked by leaders of various trade unions, told reporters. “The directionless policies have hit the business fraternity, especially in the Jammu region,” he added. He said the chamber has raised the issues concerning Jammu traders with the concerned officials from time to time but the government remained unmoved. Referring to the new excise policy which left several hundred vendors jobless, he said almost after a gap of two months when the government has e-auctioned wine shops, the liquor bars across the Union Territory have been closed as the excise department has sought renewal of licenses and 'No Objection Certificates' from over 20 government departments for the smooth running of the business. “Nearly 250 liquor bars are running in J&K and thousands of people are engaged in this business. The government move has badly affected their livelihood,” he said. On scrapping the traditional 'darbar move' from this year, Gupta said the government's unilateral decision to end the past practice of shifting offices between the twin capitals bi-annually would adversely impact not only the traditional bond between the two regions and their people but also the business community. “Thousands of families from Kashmir and Jammu used to move along with Darbar to spend winter and summers in Jammu and Kashmir. It has severely affected the traders of Jammu as well as Kashmir regions,” he said. Gupta also questioned continued capping of the number of guests at banquet halls at 25, saying the government decision has hit the business very hard. “We request the government to fix the capping criteria of banquet halls as per their size and capacity and allow them to function with 50 per cent capacity,” he said. The chamber president also expressed resentment over the Reliance-like big companies’ proposal to open retail stores in Jammu. “If this happens, the small shopkeepers of Jammu will be ruined and their shops will be closed. Despite adding business opportunities, the directionless government has snatched away what was in the hands of traders and it is unacceptable,” he said, adding the traders have already borne the brunt of Covid-19 restrictions and lockdowns. Terming as “alarming” the Geology and Mining Department policy on the allotment of mining and extraction contracts, he said the lack of protective mechanisms has deprived thousands of families of their livelihood and exposed consumers to exploitation by a mining syndicate. “Over 60 per cent of mining contracts have gone to the outsiders. From contractors to sand diggers, labourers to transporters who are directly or indirectly associated with the extraction of minerals, all have lost their livelihood,” he said. Referring to the outreach programme started by the Centre under which Union ministers visit different parts of the Union Territory to review the developmental scenario, Gupta said it seems to be solely meant for Kashmir as practically Jammu is not on their itinerary. “Those who visited Jammu, they only preferred to meet the leaders belonging to a particular party, ignoring the stakeholders of Jammu region,” he alleged. He said it appears that the government was acting totally against the interest of the Jammu people and is appeasing the people of the other region despite Jammu being a nationalist region and a staunch supporter of the government.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-traders-call-for-day-long-strike-next-week-1031837.html
18-09-2021||North and Central||'Sidhu anti-national', will fight against any move to make him CM: Amarinder||Dubbing Navjot Sidhu as anti-national, dangerous, unstable, incompetent and a security threat to the state and the country, Amarinder Singh on Saturday  said he will fight "tooth and nail" against any move to make the Punjab Congress president the chief minister. Making it clear that he had no intention of quitting politics, Amarinder Singh said there was no question of supporting Sidhu, who was 'clearly mixed up with Pakistan and a danger, as well as a disaster, for Punjab and the country'. "I cannot allow such a man to destroy us, I will continue to fight the issues that are bad for this state and its people," said the outgoing Chief Minister, lashing out at Sidhu for his close alliance with the leadership across the border." We have all seen Sidhu hugging Imran Khan and General Bajwa, and singing praises for the Pakistan Prime Minister at the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor while our soldiers were being killed at the borders every day," he said, pointing out that the ex-cricketer had attended Imran's swearing-in even after he (Amarinder Singh) categorically told him not to. "The government of Punjab means the security of India, and if Sidhu is made the face of the Congress for chief ministership, I will fight him at every step," he added. In a series of media interviews, Amarinder Singh, who has been asked by the Governor to continue in office as Chief Minister till alternative arrangements are made, said Sidhu could never be a good leader for Punjab. "How can a man who could not handle a ministry handle the state?" he asked, adding that there was no question of backing an incompetent man whom he had removed from his cabinet. As local government minister, Sidhu failed to clear files for seven months, he said. Amarinder Singh ruled out leaving politics and said that as an army man, he has a lot of will and will remain active in the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab. "I am not hanging my boots," he declared, reiterating that he will decide on his future course of action after talking to people close to him, including MLAs of the Congress, which Sidhu had divided just months ahead of the polls. He revealed that he had himself asked MLAs who were supporting him to attend the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meet, and the presence of the large number of legislators at the meeting did not mean they were supporting Sidhu. Rejecting claims by the Congress leadership that he had lost the confidence of the MLAs, Amarinder Singh termed it a lame excuse. "Just a week ago, I had sent to Sonia Gandhi a list of 63 MLAs who were supporting me," he said, adding that MLAs usually respond to what they think Delhi wants, which was the case at the CLP meeting too. "In any case, it is not possible to make all MLAs happy," he added. Pointing to the sweeping wins by the Congress under his leadership since 2017, Amarinder Singh said he failed to understand the decision by the party to replace him. "The people of Punjab were clearly happy with my government," he said, adding till three-four months ago, the tide was completely in favour of the Congress in Punjab but "they have cut their nose to spite their face, and ended up from a winning to a losing position". Expressing pain and shock at the way he was humiliated into quitting, Amarinder Singh said, "Even today, I was not informed about the CLP meeting even though I was the leader. The way everyone was called in the night and informed about the meeting, it was clear they wanted to remove me as CM." He said he felt sad and humiliated that his contribution to the state was not recognised, and he had been misread despite having done the best for it, including on the sacrilege and drugs issues. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-anti-national-will-fight-against-any-move-to-make-him-cm-amarinder-1031847.html
18-09-2021||Opinion||Where Apple sees the future of streaming||By Mihir Sharma The small but diverse group of classical-music lovers is in deep mourning after one of the pillars of its community died. Primephonic, a Dutch-American app that streamed a wide catalogue of classical music went dark last month, after being acquired by Apple Inc., which aims to fold the service into Apple Music. But why would the world’s largest company be interested in a closely held startup with a relatively small user base, a few dozen employees and no startling technological innovation to boast of? The answer: Primephonic understood the future. Apple has realised that streaming services will succeed or fail depending on whether they master the four things the tiny company, along with its classical-music peers such as Idagio, have figured out: metadata, discovery, curation and quality. And that will hold true for video streaming, too, not just music. With the buyout, Apple is hoping to absorb Primephonic’s DNA. Right now Apple Music, like most music-streaming services, is laughably bad at providing metadata beyond the most basic track information. The software developer and composer Gene de Lisa regularly tweets out howlers such as Apple Music listing the composer of the Pathétique Sonata as “unknown.” (Poor Beethoven.) Without the right metadata, the user interface breaks down; you don’t know which movement is playing from which symphony. Search breaks down, too: Without metadata for conductor, orchestra, composer or movement, you can’t find the recording you want. And, worst of all, effective recommendations and music discovery become virtually impossible. This isn’t only a problem for classical music ‑ it matters for anything more complex than the latest Top 40 single. In India, where we listen to Hindi film music, you might remember a song based on its singers, its composer, its lyricist, which film it was from, which year it was released or even which actors lip-synced the song in the movie. Classic rock is the same: when a Beatles track pops up, you should know immediately if it’s the stereo or mono mix, the original single or the album version, the 1995 Anthology alternate take or the 2000 remaster. Search for an early R&B number and you might get some bad knock-off “re-recording” made in the 1980s when the original group was down on its luck. For anyone with more than a casual interest in music, streaming without proper metadata is a disaster. Primephonic, because it worked on getting metadata right – and searchable – learned about its users faster as well. Especially compared to, say, Tidal, which knows I have spent two years listening to the Vienna Philharmonic but still recommends hip-hop or (grudgingly) a playlist of movie soundtracks. Knowing your user matters. We don’t always open a streaming service already knowing what we want to hear or watch; the discovery process is half the fun. Primephonic didn’t just get algorithmic recommendations right, it had actual experts curating playlists – famous violinists picking their favorite violin-focused recordings, for example. As you listen to an album you’ve discovered on Primephonic or Idagio, you can read the CD liner notes ‑ and even, through Primephonic’s “maestro” service, get real-time notes on what to listen for in the orchestration. In the video world, the Criterion Channel regularly gets major filmmakers to pick and introduce their favorite movies.  Then there’s sound quality. Tidal – and its French competitor Qobuz – sell themselves as having high-resolution “better than CD” tracks on offer. Primephonic did the same without much fuss and at a fraction of the price. Apple recently announced “lossless” streaming, and Spotify promised high-fidelity music months ago. But high-resolution tracks aren’t really a priority for Apple compared to the far weirder world of “spatial audio.” Apple has worked hard to install Dolby Atmos on hardware such as Airpods, for instance. But the company’s implementation of high-resolution streaming through their proprietary Airplay streaming protocol is buggy and confusing. This is a mistake. Scientists disagree about whether high-resolution streaming makes a perceptible difference to the human ear. But it’s hard to find a classical fan who believes it doesn’t. And it is niche, high-end classical music buyers who drive new standards in music reproduction. RCA Victor’s “Living Stereo” orchestral recordings began to push stereo into the mainstream in the 1950s. Pop took a long time to catch up: the Rolling Stones were still recording mainly for mono as late as the “Beggar’s Banquet” album in 1968. CDs were designed for classical music – Sony and Philips agreed that they should by 74, not 60 minutes long so that they could accommodate the entire length of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony. Perhaps Apple is scared off by the fact that integrating music streaming with audio hardware is a mess of contradictory protocols. The implementation of Airplay’s main competitor, Google Cast audio, is also very buggy. Speaker companies such as Sonos Inc. exist to overcome these contradictions and investors are already rewarding them: Sonos stock has jumped almost 170 per cent over the past year. Classical music is demanding on both reproduction and search. But that’s why classical music fans are who you should seek out if you want to figure out the future, as Apple has just done. Streaming, both audio and video, is going to come down to competition over metadata, quality (are all your movies available in 4K?) and discovery, not breadth of catalog or cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/where-apple-sees-the-future-of-streaming-1031661.html
18-09-2021||Opinion||China on their minds at India-Australia 2+2 meet||The recent 2+2 Minister level meeting between India and Australia completes New Delhi's set of such engagements with all the members of the Quad. India's first such exercise was with the United States, followed by Japan and Australia, all of whom work closely in the Indo-Pacific region. The incremental approach is guided by the changing geostrategic landscape in the region, measured in terms of China's rise. A key component of India-Australia bilateral, Quad and multilateral engagements is the aggressive attitude of China. The trade showdown during US President Donald Trump's era, the outbreak of Covid-19 and the near-total shutdown of supplies from China last year made the world realise that dependence on one country can prove counterproductive. The accent since then is to develop alternate resilient supply chains, and India remains an important hub in this new calculation. Interestingly, as the political establishment in Australia started paying greater attention to India, the latest poll by the Australian think-tank Lowy Institute has shown that public opinion in this regard is just about growing. The polls said 61 per cent of Australians today trust India a "great deal/act responsibly", which is on par with the US. The poll findings showed that the quotient went up by 16 percentage points compared to the previous year. It said over fifty per cent of Australians continued to display "warm feelings" towards India. Where Indian rating is low among Australians is New Delhi not doing enough to combat climate change.  2+2 meeting India and Australia's foreign and defence ministers drew a roadmap encompassing political, economic, security and defence-related issues underscoring the importance of "advancing their shared objectives of an open, free, prosperous and rule-based Indo-Pacific region, in line with India increased engagement" in this sphere.  The two ministers deepened bilateral defence and strategic ties, thus taking the bilateral Comprehensive Strategic Partnership elevated during Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison's virtual summit meeting last summer forward. The meeting came ahead of two significant events that will have a bearing on the future trajectory of the ties. It took place a fortnight ahead of the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit scheduled at Washington DC. Five days after the 2+2 meeting came the announcement of AUKUS, a new trilateral security partnership agreed upon by Australia, the United Kingdom and the US in the face of security challenges in the Indo-Pacific region.  The focus of the new partnership is four-pronged – enhancing cyber capabilities, artificial intelligence, quantum technologies and additional undersea capabilities with Australia tasked to build at least eight nuclear-powered submarines. Neither the Quad nor AUKUS mentions China, but the country remains a concern for the Quad. Australia agreed to take upon the role of securing the maritime environment and global commons in the Indo-Pacific region. Be it the Quad or countries in the Indo-Pacific region or India and Australia, the aggressive attitude of China, which is gradually seeking to expand its global presence, is being taken seriously. Preparations are on for cooperation between different countries that are wary of Beijing's moves. After years of being wrapped in the world of Cricket and Commonwealth, India-Australia bilateral relations began to turn around at the beginning of this century as both sides started to look at it through the strategic prism and the vast ocean that connects the region. The nature of India-US ties and altering equations with China encouraged both countries to engage in defence and strategic spheres. That the US remains a factor in Australian geostrategic calculations is known as the waters of the Pacific lap the shores of either country. The latest announcement of the creation of AUKUS reiterates this link. Over the years, India's bilateral relations with Australia witnessed a quantum leap in the area of defence. After the country pulled out from the Malabar five-nation exercise after taking part in the naval exercise in 2007, Australia was readmitted. It took part in the first phase of the exercise hosted during August by the US off the coast of Guam.  This war-game exercise allows Navies of India, Australia, Japan and the US to demonstrate coordination, synergy and interoperability of the four countries on the high seas. Australia now invited India to participate in the 2023 edition of the Talisman Sabre exercise, its biggest war game in which the US also participates. With India promoting defence manufacturing in the country, research through India's Defence Research Development Organisation and Australia's Defence Science and Technology group would allow both countries to explore critical technology amid India seeking access to source critical material from Australia. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajanth Singh met Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne, and Defence Minister Peter Dutton sat down on September 11 for the first 2+2 meeting. They discussed the ongoing global Covid19 pandemic as well, especially work crafted under the Quad framework. The two countries are studying the effects of the virus on future health, prevent and respond to reduce risks from future pandemics under the Australia-Indian Strategic Research Fund. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-on-their-minds-at-india-australia-22-meet-1031687.html
18-09-2021||Opinion||Air India sale: Third time lucky?||State-owned airline Air India runs the best chance of finally moving out of the government's hands. On September 15 evening, Tuhin Pandey, Secretary, DIPAM, tweeted, "Financial bids for Air India divestment received by Transaction Adviser. The process now moves to the concluding stage." Shortly after the tweet, Tata Sons confirmed that it had bid for the Maharaja. Sources also indicated that SpiceJet's promoter Ajay Singh too, had bid. After two unsuccessful attempts at divesting the Maharaja, the government has made the terms more favourable for the bidders. The government is selling 100 per cent of its equity share capital in the state-owned airline, including Air India's shareholding interest of 100 per cent in AI Express Limited and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Limited. Air India's divestment process started in December 2020 with the Expression of Interest being called from prospective bidders. The government has since then been taking steps to ensure that this divestment process is successful. In October last year, the government decided not to predetermine Air India's debt levels and leave it to the market to determine as these were uncertain times due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from the market-determined price that the two bidders have quoted, they will have to provide 15 per cent of that value as cash. Earlier this month, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said that the buyer of a state-run company could carry forward losses of the erstwhile state-owned company and claim up to 30 per cent tax rebate annually. In another move to encourage buyers, this time around, the new owner only needs to pick up all aircraft-related debt, including normal working capital debt. In contrast, the debt relating to excess working capital and some debt guaranteed by the government has been transferred to a special purpose vehicle (SPV) set up a few years ago. In February 2021, the civil aviation minister had informed Rajya Sabha that national carrier Air India's total debt as per provisional figures for 2019-20 (April-March) was Rs 38,366.39 crore after transfer of debt amounting to Rs 22,064 crore to an SPV. Air India is an attractive buy this time around as the new owner will get about 1,500 highly trained pilots capable of flying the Airbus 320 aircraft, which criss-cross the country and fly to neighbouring countries. The new owner will also get pilots who can fly the bigger Boeing 777 and 787 aircraft, which are currently doing non-stop flights between India and the US, Canada, Australia, UK, Germany and other parts of Europe. The new owner will also get over 2,000 trained engineers to look after the fleet, which in May this year stood at 173 aircraft, including 13 Boeing 777-300 Extended Range, three Boeing 777-200 Long Range, 27 Boeing 787-800 and 27 Airbus 321-New Engine Option aircraft. Another plus for Air India's new owner will be the slots that the airline has in airports around the globe, including in New York, Chicago, London, Narita (in Japan) and Seoul. In Mumbai itself, the airline has 18-morning departure slots. A slot is defined as the scheduled time of arrival or departure made available at an airport to an airline for operating regular flights. The new owner will thus get an airline that started in 1932, which set the benchmark for other global airlines and sound marketing in many foreign countries to which the airline operates.  Given this situation, it will most likely be the third time lucky for both Air India and the government when divesting the Maharaja.  In 2001, the Vajpayee government attempted to sell Air India, then primarily operating only international flights. The Tatas and Singapore Airlines formed a consortium, but the consortium eventually pulled out with things moving at a snail's pace. Initially, the Hinduja Group was also in the fray at that time. The entire process was called off for various reasons, including the terror attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001. In 2017 the Modi government again unsuccessfully attempted to sell Air India, and it had by then been merged and was a combination of domestic and international routes. Still, no bids were received as the market was said to be lukewarm to the idea of owning only 76 per cent of Air India's stake that was on offer. This time around, if the Tatas successfully win the bid for Air India, it will be a sweet victory for the group. The original Air India was set up by JRD Tata, who launched Air India international when known international carriers like KLM, Air France and Imperial Airways were dominant players on the India-UK route. In 1948, a brand new Lockheed Constellation L-749 made its first Mumbai-Geneva-London flight, flying in Air India International's colours. (The writer is a journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/air-india-sale-third-time-lucky-1031692.html
18-09-2021||Opinion||It's in the Taliban's interest to include women||As the Taliban surged back to power following the planned withdrawal of the US armed forces, concerns have been raised that progress achieved on women's rights in Afghanistan will now be rolled back. The militant group has upheld that they would not squander any of the gains made and has committed to extending rights to women as per the Sharia Law. In the first official press conference since the Kabul seizure, Zabihulla Mujahid, the Taliban's spokesperson, said women in Afghanistan would have the right to education, health and employment. The group — on various occasions — has also invited women to participate in the government, stressing the creation of an inclusive caretaker government. Even more surprising was the visual of a senior Taliban official being interviewed by a female journalist. But while these incidents present a revolutionised image of the Taliban's hard-line political movement, to think that the leopard has changed its spots would be a little too optimistic. There exists a considerable gap between the Taliban's newly adapted rhetoric — which reflects a moderation in their behaviour towards women — and the actions that they have been undertaking. For instance, merely a few hours after coming to power, the Taliban instructed female students at Kabul University to not leave their dorm rooms without a male guardian. The Taliban gunmen were also seen escorting women from their jobs, asking them not to return. Besides this, the Taliban has neither articulated a clear position on reconciliation, power-sharing or governance nor women's voting rights and electoral participation. And, to justify these moves, the Taliban leaders have asserted that restrictions on women are a temporary procedure, as their security forces are not yet trained in dealing with women. However, reports emerging from districts that have already been under the Taliban's control reflect the re-imposition of repressive laws and retrograde policies against women, which defined the group's 1996-2001 rule. These reports speak volumes of how the Taliban's renewed control could perhaps look. Today, with looming uncertainty regarding which version of the Sharia law will the Taliban enforce, the situation in Afghanistan remains highly fluid where gender equality and women's rights face imminent risk. But the onus is now entirely on the Taliban to translate its reformed commitments towards women's rights into a living reality. Therefore, the fundamentalist group should undertake genuine and concerted efforts to include women within its governing bodies. The reasons for bringing about this positive inclusion and adopting a gender-sensitive approach are manifold. To begin with, during its previous regime, the Taliban quickly drew international outrage, repeatedly criticised for mounting human rights violations, especially its abuses against Afghan women. The track record of the Taliban and their regime has hence, been the biggest blot on Afghanistan. As a consequence of this bitter past, the group's recent resurgence to power has once again raised alarms among the entire international community, who fear Afghanistan's return to its darkest days. According to reports, overseas finance for Afghanistan have been frozen, and it is not clear whether the international community will recognise the new government and continue to provide funding. Besides, UN rights chief Michelle Bachelet has gone to the extent to state that the Taliban's treatment of women will mark a "fundamental red line." In this sense, the group's continued reliance on its old extremist policies — which includes ignoring and suppressing women's rights — will fundamentally stand against the goals of gaining legitimacy, especially in the form of sanctions relief, international recognition and assistance from countries. Hence, if the Taliban wants its government to be recognised and build relations with other member states, it needs to uphold and guarantee the socio-political and economic rights of women. And to be able to do this, the group must include women in its decision-making processes. Secondly, apart from the international denouncement, the Taliban has also faced intense backlash in the domestic sphere. There is, in fact, widespread suspicion about the Taliban's hard-line political movement among the Afghans. And, it is the women of Afghanistan — if given the opportunity — which can potentially play a critical role in repairing this mistrust. Afghan women have already made valuable contributions to securing peace at the grassroots level and have established in-roads into the local networks with connections throughout the country. Thus, if included in the Taliban's renewed government and political bodies, these women can be the appropriate negotiators between the opposite parties, thereby initiating effective communication and trust-building. In addition, the Taliban's efforts to ensure and improve women's rights can prove that the group is not merely using its words to put up a face but means whatever it says and is genuinely committed to its promises. Hence, a tactical shift in the Taliban's behaviour towards Afghan women is needed and could serve as a critical trust-building factor among the rest of the population. Thirdly, ever since establishing a democratic government in 2001, Afghan women have made many advances in education, employment and political participation. Afghanistan has also become a signatory to several international instruments concerning women's rights, such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the UN Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. To ensure that this female progression is not erased and international standards maintained, the Taliban must preserve women's rights. The Taliban thus stands to lose much more than it will gain if it chooses not to consider the agency and experiences of the Afghan women. And while the Taliban ends up including the Afghan women or not remains to be seen but, to achieve international and domestic acceptance, the group needs to bring in women's perspectives. (The writer is a Researcher at the Centre for Internal and Regional Security at the Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/its-in-the-talibans-interest-to-include-women-1031731.html
18-09-2021||Opinion||A rival rises: Mamata on global list of influentials||Featured in the list of the 100 most influential leaders in the world, Mamata Banerjee is evidently perceived by Time magazine as a new political force and an emerging rival in the complicated mosaic of India’s multiparty system to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Narendra Modi and his ambitions to establish a one-party hegemony.  In 2012, when she was featured on the same list, Banerjee was the one woman army whose 'poriborton' storm had blown away the 34-year-old coalition led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in West Bengal. In 2021, Banerjee has emerged as the leader to watch on the Indian political scene after she inflicted a humiliating defeat on the BJP and its reputation of invincibility. In the ten years since she became chief minister of West Bengal, Banerjee has grown and gained stature, which is unusual, given the natural accumulation of grievances of sections of voters and their individual experiences of life in Trinamool Congress times. In 2012, she was a regional leader of a rag-tag party who had inflicted a stunning defeat on an entrenched party with a reputation for running a formidable organisation. The difference within a decade is her rise and positioning as the new leader in India. She seems to have acquired an aura that transforms her into a challenger to Modi, despite his 71 per cent popularity rating and the enormous resources of his party, managed mainly by mastermind Amit Shah. Forced to contest a by-poll because she lost by a narrow and contested margin in Nandigram in Midnapore in May, Banerjee’s campaign for the Bhabanipur seat in Kolkata is a clever, low cost attack on Modi and the communally divisive politics of the BJP.  She is fully aware her every word and move is being tracked by the national media and by friends, foes, and fence-sitters of the confusingly diverse political parties, who are all calculating her chances as a potential face and therefore challenger to Modi in 2024. Flaunting her secular credentials and campaigning to defeat the “Talibani mindset” and establish an “even better Hindustan,” Banerjee’s aggressive style is at work. By slamming, without naming the BJP, she is doing what she does best – weaponise language to reach the masses and communicate the difference between the Trinamool Congress and its friends comprising other anti-BJP political parties and the extreme right-wing politics of the BJP. Hammering home the point that the BJP’s agenda is to sow fear, foment division by instigating majoritarian anxieties by using Pakistan as a bogey, Banerjee has been explicit in her attack. She has, in this campaign, drawing attention to the BJP campaign in Nandigram that repeatedly invoked fear among Hindu voters that if the Trinamool Congress won, the constituency, which has a 40 per cent Muslim population, would be transformed into a mini Pakistan.  The BJP has made it easy for her by suggesting that if she wins in Bhabanipur, there would be an influx of Muslims, and the constituency would become like Kidderpore, an area with a sizeable Muslim population.  If the BJP has hopes of poking Banerjee into reacting by attacking Hindutva politics, it has possibly got more than it bargained for. Her deliberately provocative campaign against the BJP, as the party in power, is an exercise in baiting the top leadership to react. Till now, even second-rung leaders of the BJP have not parachuted into Bhabanipur to counter Banerjee, leaving it to the divided and demoralised state BJP to fight the election as best as it can. The BJP’s dilemma is apparent. Not to take the risk of taking on the very energetic and now fully recovered Banerjee at her aggressive best is a sign that the BJP is not willing to be seen at a disadvantage. On the other hand, letting her walk all over the campaign without putting up a fight is equally embarrassing. That Banerjee has been able to brush aside as inconsequential the BJP attack on her for the poll and post-poll violence, currently being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation on instruction from the Calcutta High Court in the Bhabanipur campaign is an outcome of two things.  First, the slew of schemes announced by her in the manifesto now converted into schemes being rolled out for women and students; and second, the accumulation of negative capital by the BJP because it has mishandled the Covid-19 second wave that witnessed horrifying experiences of oxygen and ICU bed shortages, bodies floating down the Ganges and cremations in car parks, zooming prices of petrol, diesel and gas cylinders, farmers protest that has gone on for nine months, an economy that has failed to recover affecting employment and disposable income. The BJP’s problems after seven years in power may not have seriously undermined Modi’s popularity which remains over 70 per cent. Still, voter dissatisfaction with how the government has functioned has been steadily rising. The change of chief ministers in key states – Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Gujarat and the failed attempt by Modi and Shah to undermine Yogi Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh – indicate a BJP that is anxious about how voters rate the performance of its leaders across the country. That Modi is no longer enough of a draw to ensure victories in crucial states is implicit in the changes made after the Bengal elections. Bengal’s rejection of the idea of a “double engine sarkar,” a proxy leader in the state with control in Modi’s hands, was a lesson that the BJP has converted into an action plan. It now needs to figure out a strategy and a narrative on how to tackle its incomprehension of the uniquely quirky political-cultural-social differences that separate each state from the others and reconstruct its marketing of Modi as the one leader for all of India. The emphatic rejection in Bengal poses a challenge to Modi and Shah because Banerjee is like an antidote, regardless of how and when the opposition gets its act together to create the umbrella alliance that can formally challenge the BJP in 2024.  That internationally, there is a growing recognition of her leadership must make Modi and the BJP uncomfortable. As a leader helming India, Modi is a known quantity; Banerjee is the unknown and potential leader, a rival, sharing the centre stage in Indian politics because the BJP, Modi-Shah, JP Nadda and dozens of party heavyweights pitted themselves against her in Bengal and lost humiliatingly. (The writer is a journalist based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-rival-rises-mamata-on-global-list-of-influentials-1031787.html
18-09-2021||Opinion||Slowly yet steadily, Shah tightens noose on TMC||Bengal has been the hub of political violence for decades. From the killing of 16 Anandamargi sadhus and a sadhvi in broad daylight in Kolkata in 1982 to recent post-poll violence, there are innumerable instances of the party-in-power unleashing terror on chosen opponents. Such atrocities going unchecked is the impunity factor ruling party cadres and leaders enjoy. But this scenario has suddenly undergone a significant change, unnerving a section of the present ruling party, the Trinamool Congress and the state police. Since last May, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that hundreds of its supporters have been subjected to assault and forced to flee their homes after the Assembly polls outcome. A few English and Hindi TV channels traced such BJP supporters to Assam. The BJP also cried itself hoarse of its supporters being killed and raped. Following the decades-long tradition of successive governments, Mamata Banerjee too went into a denial mode. But the situation started changing subsequently. A National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) team investigated the allegations, and it substantiated some in the report it submitted to Calcutta High Court. In turn, the High Court ordered a CBI probe for those relating to murders and rapes. The state government has recently moved the Supreme Court against the order, but the apex court has not stayed so far. Meanwhile, four teams of the CBI have filed more than 30 FIRs. The CBI on Thursday interrogated Sheikh Sufian, Mamata Banerjee's election agent for the Nandigram constituency, about a murder case. The net is widening, and a lot many Trinamool workers are under the lens. This rare instance of the CBI investigating a non-riot case involving the culpability of hundreds across districts of a state gives Union Home Minister Amit Shah leverage to dent the ruling party cadres' impunity and tweak the situation in the BJP's favour. To the Trinamool's discomfort, the CBI probe into post-poll violence has come over and above so many other cases related to Bengal, like Saradha, Narada, coal scam and smuggling of cattle to Bangladesh. The Centre is not concerned about the victims of the fraud cases and wants to leverage those for political purposes has already been clear from the slow or no progress of Saradha and other chit fund cases. But Narendra Modi and Shah should by now have learned that the people of Bengal can see through such cheap designs. The BJP aspired for 200 plus seats in the Assembly of 294 but could bag only 75. So, it is likely that with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the Hindutva brigade would speed up probes in all the cases with the CBI and Enforcement Directorate and will also utilise the Income Tax Department. There are numerous allegations involving almost all the influential Trinamool leaders, and the Centre may leverage these cases to knock down Trinamool's top leadership. The CBI has taken to summon Abhishek Banerjee repeatedly. Is the Centre planning to pin corruption charges on Mamata Banerjee's nephew? We shall soon know. The CBI has started interrogating senior ministers like Partha Chatterjee. Two other ministers of the Mamata Banerjee government — Firhad Hakim, the most prominent Muslim face, and Subrata Mukherjee, the senior-most man in the cabinet — are out on bail in the Narada case. So, the pressure from the central agencies is two-pronged. The central agencies are investigating corruption cases against the upper echelons of the ruling party's leadership. But they are also probing cases of post-poll violence against the party's most belligerent sections of its cadres in the districts. This cadre force had helped the Left Front retain area control for decades and is now propping up the Trinamool. If some of them go to jail facing murder charges by the CBI, it will demoralise the whole lot. Meanwhile, the BJP has brought in the communal angle, and not so subtly, in post-poll violence cases. Suvendu Adhikari, the opposition leader in the Assembly, has said that the violence was targeted against those who adhered to Sanatan dharma (or Hindus). Notably, Suvendu Adhikari, and not state BJP unit chief Dilip Ghosh, met Shah in Delhi at regular intervals for the last few months. That such pro-Hindu campaigns are hitting the ruling party is evident because while campaigning in her constituency, Bhabanipur, Mamata Banerjee has said she would never allow anyone to "create Pakistan" in India.  As of the Samajwadi Party of Uttar Pradesh, Mamata Banerjee's problem is that the Trinamool is now dependent on Muslim votes to win the state. Her advantage is that unlike in UP, where Muslims comprise 20 per cent of the electorate, in Bengal, the community is 30 per cent. (The writer is a journalist based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/slowly-yet-steadily-shah-tightens-noose-on-tmc-1031796.html
18-09-2021||South||Kerala govt, Opposition attempt to bridge gap between communities over bishop's remark||A day after the Congress initiated conciliatory talks to bridge the gap created between two communities following the remarks by a bishop, Kerala Minister V N Vasavan on Friday visited the bishop Joseph Kallarangatt at the latter's house. Vasavan, who met the media later, said his visit has nothing to do with the remark but said certain extremist forces want to create issues. The bishop had said Christian girls were falling prey to what he said was love and narcotic jihad in Kerala and that wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth. However, KPCC (Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee) president K Sudhakaran said there was no need to not believe the bishop and it was the responsibility of the State government to probe into the truth behind his remark. "The bishop is a scholar and is well-versed in religious books, including the Bible, the Quran and the Bhagavad Gita. We have shared many a platform and I used to listen to his speeches. I couldn't visit him earlier for various reasons. This (today's) was a personal visit," Vasavan told the reporters and dismissed the question whether he was a messenger of the State government. Vasavan said other leaders from BJP and the Congress might have visited the bishop with some dubious intentions. "With regard to the controversy, the Chief Minister had given the reply. He had said that the government will not allow anyone to destroy the prevailing peace in the State," he said. Vasavan said during his visit he did not discuss with the bishop the controversy. "The discussion on that remark is over. The Chief Minister had made known the stand of the government. However, there are certain extremist forces which want to create issues in the State and the government does not intend to compromise on any form of terrorism," he said. Sudhakaran, during a meet-the-press programme organised in Kochi, said the Left government has failed to look into the reason behind certain controversies. "There is no need to disbelieve the bishop. It was the responsibility of the government to probe into and bring out the truth behind what the bishop had said. Everyone should jointly analyse the right and wrong in the statement. The government failed to look into the reasons behind certain controversies in the State," Sudhakaran said. The Congress chief said even after repeated requests to the Chief Minister to take steps against incidents affecting communal harmony, the government refuses to act. "The talks over narcotic jihad need to end now. The Congress party cannot stand and watch the destruction of secularism. It was the responsibility of the State government to mitigate the issue," Sudhakaran added. Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and its former State chief C K Padmanabhan said one cannot blame any particular religion for the narcotics issue. "There is no need to take the statement of the bishop in a serious manner. The menace of narcotics does not affect any particular religion. One cannot blame any particular religion for the issue. People should be careful while using the terms," Padmanabhan told the media in Kannur. The statement of Padmanabhan assumes significance as the BJP had alleged that the Congress and the CPI(M) were taking a position in favour of extremist elements creating trouble in society instead of addressing the issue raised by the senior priest. On Thursday, KPCC chief Sudhakaran and Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan met senior priests of Christian and Muslim communities as part of the Opposition party's effort to bridge the gap created between the two communities following the remark of the bishop. Both Sudhakaran and Satheesan visited archbishop Joseph Perumthottam at Changanassery archdiocese this morning before meeting the Church of South India (CSI) Central Diocese Bishop Dr Malayil Sabu Koshy Cherian and Kerala Muslim Youth Federation state president and Thazhathangadi Juma Masjid Imam Shamsuddin Mannani Ilavupalam in Kottayam. The Congress leaders' move came after the the BJP tried to reap political benefits by supporting the bishop on the matter.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-opposition-attempt-to-bridge-gap-between-communities-over-bishops-remark-1031607.html
18-09-2021||South||Colleges in Kerala to reopen on October 4||With Covid-19 restrictions being eased in Kerala, colleges in the state will reopen on October 4 after a gap of over a year, adhering to health protocols. Higher Education Department Joint Secretary Sajukumar, in an order, said classes for the final semesters of degree and post-graduate courses will be started, strictly adhering to Covid-19 health protocols. "All institutions under the Higher Education department shall start functioning from October 4," it said. The final year PG courses will be held with full attendance while it would be 50 per cent for final year degree courses, it said, adding that the timings can be decided by the college councils as per the space available in the institutions. Importance should be given to practical classes for the science subjects, the order said, adding that the classes for other semesters will continue online. "The classrooms, libraries and laboratories should be sanitized well before the commencement of classes and the institutions can seek assistance from the local self government bodies concerned, health workers or NGOs," the order said. The state government asked the respective institutional heads to ensure that the students follow strict Covid-19 health protocol. "The institutions should ensure availability of adequate number of masks, sanitisers and hand wash facilities. Gatherings should be avoided," the order said. It also directed the institutions to approach the health department to arrange vaccination drives for students and staff. On September 7, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced that all higher educational institutions, including technical, polytechnic and medical, would be allowed to function from October 4 for final year students. He, however, had said that reopening of the institutions would be subject to the condition that all final year students, faculty and staff receive at least the first dose of the vaccination. As part of easing restrictions, the government had that day decided do away with night curfew and 'stringent intensified' restrictions on Sundays. The Chief Minister had said that the decision was taken as the Total Positivity Rate in the state, which was around 18.49 per cent in the last week of August, fell to 17.91 in the first week of September. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/colleges-in-kerala-to-reopen-on-october-4-1031615.html
18-09-2021||South||RN Ravi sworn-in as Governor of Tamil Nadu||Ravindra Narayan Ravi was on Saturday sworn-in as the Governor of Tamil Nadu, succeeding Banwarilal Purohit who has since been shifted to Punjab. Ravi, shifted from Nagaland, said he saw his new role more as an opportunity than a challenge. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to Ravi at an official ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan here. Chief Minister M K Stalin, his cabinet colleagues, Leader of Opposition K Palaniswami and others participated at the swearing-in. He is the 26th Governor of the state. President Ram Nath Kovind had last week appointed Ravi, a former IPS officer, as the governor of the state. He was appointed as the Centre's Interlocutor for the Naga peace talks on August 29, 2014, a responsibility he continues to discharge. After the swearing-in, Stalin introduced state Assembly Speaker M Appavu and his cabinet colleagues to Ravi. Later, addressing media persons, the Governor said he saw his new role more as an opportunity than a challenge. "I think more than a challenge, it is an opportunity and I think it will be helpful for me," he said in response to a query. Asked if his stint in the Intelligence Bureau (IB) will serve in discharging the duty of a governor, Ravi replied, "the slate of our (his and the state government) relationship is absolutely new and clean. My effort will be to make it as beautiful as possible in the days to come." Dismissing as 'premature' to comment on the four-month-old DMK government's performance in the state, Ravi said he would be able to know more about it as the days go by. "I think it is too premature for me to say but I believe that it should be doing well, the way it has handled Covid-19 which has come down. I think so," he replied. On whether he would carry out review meetings with officials as his predecessor had done, which the then opposition DMK among others had protested against, Ravi shot back saying, "Look I have been sworn in some minutes ago. Plans will unfold as the time comes...one thing I know is that this state has a popular government mandated by the people and governance is the responsibility of the government. Governor is to function within the parameters of the constitution. And I will try my best to keep that in mind." Born at Patna in Bihar, Ravi, who did his Masters in Physics in 1974, joined the Indian Police Service in 1976 after a brief stint in journalism. He served in Kerala in various capacities for over a decade and then in different parts of the country in various capacities and was also deputed with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). While in the IB, he served largely in theatres of endemic violence including in Jammu and Kashmir and the North East. He also specialised in the dynamics of human migration in South Asia and worked extensively on the political sociology of border population. After retirement from government service in 2012, he regularly wrote columns in national dailies. He was appointed as Chairman, Joint Intelligence Committee in the Prime Minister's Office. He was appointed as Deputy National Security Advisor in October 2018 and served as the Governor of Nagaland from August 1, 2019 to September 15, 2021.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rn-ravi-sworn-in-as-governor-of-tamil-nadu-1031688.html
18-09-2021||South||Pregnant woman denied treatment in 3 govt hospitals; Kerala Human Rights panel registers case||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has registered a case on its own into the reported denial of treatment by three government hospitals in the state to a pregnant woman, whose baby had died in the womb. According to media reports, eight months-pregnant Meera, a native of Kalluathukkal in neighbouring Kollam district, had sought treatment at two hospitals in her home district and then at the Sree Avittam Thirunal Hospital here after she developed uneasiness, but the authorities were not willing to admit her. When she finally got admitted to the government medical college in Kollam and delivery was carried out, it was found that the baby had died six days ago, the rights panel said here in a statement. The Commission member V K Beena Kumari asked the Kollam District Medical officer to probe the complaint and the circumstances under which the young woman was denied treatment at the government hospitals. The report has to be submitted within three weeks, the statement added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pregnant-woman-denied-treatment-in-3-govt-hospitals-kerala-human-rights-panel-registers-case-1031727.html
18-09-2021||South||Kerala Finance Minister seeks extension of GST compensation regime||Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal on Saturday pitched for extending the GST compensation beyond June next year as he highlighted that the state is already grappling with significant revenue shortfall. Addressing the media here, the minister said the state is not getting its due in the wake of the 15th Finance Commission devolution recommendations. Kerala will be receiving GST (Goods and Services Tax) compensation of over Rs 13,000 crore and another one-time grant of over Rs 19,000 crore in the current fiscal ending March 2022, he noted. In case the GST compensation ends next year, then the state will face further revenue shortfall, he said and expressed hope that the compensation regime would be extended. The regime of paying compensation to states for revenue shortfall resulting from subsuming their taxes such as VAT in the uniform national tax GST will end in June next year. However, the cess which is currently levied on top of the GST rate on certain luxury and sin goods to fund the compensation amount for states will continue to be levied till March 2026. The collections will be used to pay off the borrowings that had to be done since 2020-21 to pay for state compensation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-finance-minister-seeks-extension-of-gst-compensation-regime-1031739.html
18-09-2021||South||Consider plea for separate board for students in Puducherry: Madras HC||The Madras High Court has directed the Puducherry government to consider a plea for establishment of a separate board for school education, more particularly for X and XII standards, in the Union Territory. "In the light of increasing population and the number of school-going children, it may be in the best interest of the students if a board or individual boards for primary and secondary education or even higher education were constituted. However, that is a decision exclusively within the domain of the executive," the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu said. The bench permitted the petitioner to send a representation afresh to the Education secretary in Puducherry. The secretary, it said, will consider the representation in appropriate perspective, particularly considering the many schools which have mushroomed in Puducherry itself and the need for providing a distinct curriculum or even process for students there delinked from what is followed in the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu. The bench was disposing of a PIL petition from R Sreedhar on Thursday. If such representation is made by the petitioner within the next four weeks, the Secretary should furnish a reply within 12 weeks, the bench said and hoped that expeditious and appropriate steps would be taken by the Puducherry government to best serve the interest of the school-going students in its region||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/consider-plea-for-separate-board-for-students-in-puducherry-madras-hc-1031830.html
18-09-2021||South||Kerala to reopen schools from November||The Kerala government has decided to reopen schools in the state from November 1. Classes from standards I to VII and standards X and XII will reopen from November 1. By November 15, all classes will resume. The Covid review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took the decision. The state government had already decided to reopen colleges and other higher education institutions from October 4. Final year degree and post-graduate classes would begin initially. The chief minister said in a statement that experts had suggested that primary classes should begin first. Health and education departments would finalise the modalities for reopening schools. A drive to give vaccinations to college students and teachers was also progressing in the state. Even as the Covid cases in Kerala remained high with the seven day average TPR remaining close to 17 per cent, the severity of the infection in the state was found to have come down as only a small section of the infected were requiring medical attention. Hence the state government decided to lift the Covid restrictions. The review meeting on Saturday also decided to impose lockdown in wards with Weekly Infection Population Ratio above ten per cent. So far lockdown was imposed at areas with WIPR above seven per cent. A drive would be initiated to identify those above the age of 65 who were yet to get vaccinated and vaccinate them. As many as 19,235 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Saturday. The total number of active cases in the state is 1.80 lakh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-reopen-schools-from-november-1031832.html
18-09-2021||State||Lingayat seer dares Karnataka CM Bommai to remove non-Hindu religious centre||Lingayat seer Dingaleshwara Swamiji on Saturday said that if Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has the guts let him remove a religious centre built illegally in his Shiggaon assembly constituency. Commenting on the demolition of a temple in Mysuru district violating Supreme Court orders, Dingaleshwara Swamiji said, "The Chief Minister has saved a religious centre belonging to a religion other than Hindu in his Shiggaov constituency. If he is really concerned about the Supreme Court orders, let him take action here. The religious centre is located near Bankapura on Puna-Bengaluru highway," he stated. Work on the double-lane road has been stopped as there is a religious centre. The officers have been instructed not to touch that centre. "You have different rules for Hindu temples, Veerashaiva Mutts. If you are concerned about removing religious places, you should be taking action here," he told Bommai. "Bommai has given a green signal for vacating temples all across the state, but, what is happening in your own constituency. We have all seen a non-Hindu religious centre right in the middle of the road. How many temples you have got demolished, how many other religious centres you have protected? What is the logic, philosophy behind it?" Dingaleshwara Swamiji questioned. The temple demolition issue in the state is turning into a flashpoint between pro-Hindu outfits and the ruling BJP government. Bommai has stayed the demolition drive until further orders. Meanwhile, the High Court of Karnataka has taken suo moto notice of the developments in connection with the demolition drive of religious places and registered a Public Interest Litigation (PIL). The divisional bench headed by acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma has posted the matter for October 4 as the Karnataka government has sought time to place its arguments. Bommai has stated that the government has issued notices to the Mysuru District Commissioner and Tehsildar for demolishing a temple without taking the locals into confidence. "We are very serious about this issue. We will find a solution sooner to protect our temples and identity," he said. The Hindu Jagaran Vedike has warned that if action is not taken against the officers responsible for the temple demolition in Mysuru, they would take out a protest march to the residence of Bommai. The ruling BJP is in consultation with the BJP high command over the issue and contemplating filing an affidavit on the Supreme Court order to remove religious centres that have come up on public properties. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lingayat-seer-dares-karnataka-cm-bommai-to-remove-non-hindu-religious-centre-1031870.html
18-09-2021||State||Tibetan monk died 10 days back, but last rites only after 'spirit leaves his body'||Ten days after a Buddhist monk died of age-related issues, his body is still being preserved and worshipped by Bikkus to help ease the transition of the soul/spirit out of the body at the Tibetan camp here. Geshe Phuntsok, a nonagenarian monk from the Shar Gaden Monastery here died on Sept 9. But the Bikkus, who believe that the spirit has not left the monk's body, have preserved the body in a room at the monastery and worshipping it. The senior monks visit the room on regular intervals to see if the soul has left the body. "The monk from Khamchating in Tibet came to India in 1959. He preached Buddhism in Varanasi for 20 years before settling down at Mundgod camp. He used to guide Bikkus at the monastery here," Gen Khesang, a Bikku, told DH. "Senior monks inspect the body at regular intervals. We believe that the soul has left the body if it starts emanating foul smell. Only then we perform the final rites...," the Bikku explained. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tibetan-monk-died-10-days-back-but-last-rites-only-after-spirit-leaves-his-body-1031887.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP backstabbed Hindus: Hindu Mahasabha||The ruling BJP has backstabbed the Hindus by allowing demolition of an ancient temple in Mysuru and is trying to cover up their deed by using Sangh Parivar to fight against the act, Hindu Mahasabha Karnataka state secretary Dharmendra said on Saturday. Addressing reporters here, he alleged that the fight against temple demolitions by Sangh organisations is just a ploy to cover up the failure of the BJP government. “We feel pity on the Sangh Parivar which is taking up the fight. If they are sincere about their fight, they should defeat the BJP in the coming elections and back Hindu Mahasabha which is the party of Hindutva,” he said. He also said the BJP is citing the Supreme Court order as the reason for the demolition of the temple. At the same time, they are not acting against illegal religious structures of other communities. The Hindu organisations who protest against the BJP government should openly take a stand that they will not support the party in future, Dharmendra said. He said the Hindu Maha Sabha will not spare the BJP and the ‘spineless’ government in the state if attacks on temples continued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-backstabbed-hindus-hindu-mahasabha-1031789.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cops arrest gang extorting money over nude videos||Criminal Investigation Department (CID) sleuths from Karnataka have arrested a three-member gang who blackmailed and extorted money from people posing as young women on social media. The accused persons after trapping people made their nude videos and extorted money, CID sources said on Saturday. The arrested persons were identified as Mujahid, Iqbal and Asif from Haryana. They got in touch with the victims on social media posing as women. They would post attractive pictures of young women to lure and trap people. The investigations have revealed that the gang was also providing SIM cards to gangs across India for committing cyber frauds. Once they started a conversation with the victims, they would indulge in sex chats. The accused persuaded the victims to remove their clothes before the camera and made their nude videos. Once the nude video was made, they would approach the victim and demand money. They threatened that the nude video would go viral if the money was not given. However, their free run ended when one of the victims lodged a complaint against them in the Cyber Crime police station. The special team nabbed the accused persons in Haryana. The CID sleuths managed to arrest the accused in spite of stiff resistance from the local villagers. The accused Mujahid would procure SIM cards directly from distributors by providing false documents. He also got demo SIMs and OTP to operate mobiles used for crimes. The investigations have revealed that the accused had procured as many as 5,000 SIM cards and activated them. The CID sleuths said that the information provided by the accused was shared with the Cybercrime wing of the Union Home Secretariat and it was found that the accused had 3,951 such cases. Another accused Asif aided Mujahid in his activities while Iqbal ran a computer printing and Xerox shop. He prepared fake Aadhar cards and false documents. Further investigations are on. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cops-arrest-gang-extorting-money-over-nude-videos-1031804.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 889 new Covid cases,14 deaths ||Karnataka on Saturday recorded 889 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths, taking the infection count to 29,67,083 and death toll to 37,587, the health department said. The day also saw 1,080 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,13,713. Of the fresh cases, 263 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 222 discharges and 6 deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 15,755. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.63 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.57 per cent. Six deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, followed by others. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, three other districts accounted for the maximum number of fresh infections today- Dakshina Kannada 133, Udupi 86 and Mysuru 74. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,43,213, followed by Mysuru 1,77,223 and Tumakuru 1,19,888. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,19,639, followed by Mysuru 1,74,279 and Tumakuru 1,18,150. Cumulatively 4,61,43,315 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,38,920 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-889-new-covid-cases14-deaths-1031838.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||It's official: Bihar outjabbed Karnataka in special drive||With more than 31 lakh doses administered on Friday, Karnataka accounted for 11 per cent of the total doses administered in the country. While Karnataka had recorded data of more than 31.43 lakh inoculations (99 per cent of its target of more than 31.75 lakh) that were done on Friday (till 5.30 pm today), till 1.30 pm, Bihar had already recorded data of more than 31.21 lakh vaccinations, making it the state to vaccinate the highest number of people on Friday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai acknowledged that the state trailed Bihar in Friday's drive, in a series of tweets. Health Minister K Sudhakar said Kalaburagi district that recorded the lowest number of inoculations on Friday has attributed it to vaccine hesitancy. It was the only district apart from Dakshina Kannada and Ballari to get a target of 1.5 lakh doses, not counting BBMP and Belagavi with higher targets. On Saturday morning, Sudhakar told a press conference that about 1.68 lakh doses are yet to be recorded on the CoWin portal. Asked about the drive being held on a week day, he said, "We had decided to celebrate PM Narendra Modi's birthday in a meaningful manner with an accelerated special vaccination drive. CM Bommai fully supported the initiative and we had set a target to clock 30 lakh jabs. Another 1.68 lakh doses are yet to be recorded in the portal, which takes the total count to 31 lakh doses." By inoculating 62,003 persons for every 10 lakh eligible population, Karnataka stands second in the entire country. A total of 14,401 vaccination centres were set up across the state and on an average, 205 doses were administered in each centre. Fourteen districts have achieved more than the set target and only four districts have achieved 75 per cent of the target, said the minister. About 14.96 lakh jabs were administered to women, while 14.53 lakh men were inoculated. With more than 4.4 lakh doses, BBMP has administered the highest jabs in the country for a city. More than 2.57 lakh doses have been administered in Belagavi. In total, the state has administered more than five crore doses and the last one crore has been achieved in just 20 days. More than 1.45 crore people are fully vaccinated with both the doses, the minister said. Vision document A comprehensive vision document prepared by 250 experts will soon be handed over to the PM by the CM. The PM will launch the vision report, he said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/its-official-bihar-outjabbed-karnataka-in-special-drive-1031872.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Temple demolition: Hindu Mahasabha secy issues threat to CM, BSY||Akhila Bharatha Hindu Mahasabha secretary Dharmendra on Saturday held out threats to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle for failing to prevent demolition of temples in the state. Dharmendra told reporters that the Hindu Mahasabha had not hesitated to murder even Mahatma Gandhi when Hindus came under attack. "Thus, we will not spare BJP and its government in the state, if such attacks on temples continues," declared Dharmendra and added that they had expressed similar dissent when the Anjaneya temple in Chitradurga was demolished. "If the demolition drive against temples continues, life will become difficult for Bommai, Yediyurappa and Jolle," he warned. Dharmendra sought to know whether there was a Taliban administration in Karnataka. BJP is a spineless party. Not only officials, even political leaders should be held responsible for the demolition of temples, he said. Dharmendra said the BJP had backstabbed Hindus by allowing the demolition of a temple in Mysuru district. The protest by different Hindu organisations against temple demolition is just an eyewash to cover up the failures of the BJP government. The government is targeting only Hindu temples citing the Supreme Court order, he said. “Did they demolish a church or a mosque," he asked. The Hindu Mahasabha will fight against BJP till the next elections,” he said. Case registered Meanwhile, a resident of Bengaluru has lodged a complaint against Dharmendra following the latter's threats.  When contacted, Dharmendra told DH that he will not withdraw his statements and was prepared to face any consequence. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/temple-demolition-hindu-mahasabha-secy-issues-threat-to-cm-bsy-1031874.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Return degrees to Modi, DKS tells unemployed youth||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Saturday gave a clarion call to unemployed youngsters to send their degree certificates en masse back to the government.  “I am giving a call to all unemployed youth to return their degree certificates to PM Modi,” he said.  "Modi had promised to provide two crore jobs every year. Instead of government jobs, the government could have formulated policies to create jobs in the private sector. Instead, two crore jobs were lost,” Shivakumar said, justifying the Youth Congress’ decision to observe Modi’s birthday (September 17) as Unemployment Day.  Meanwhile, the party will launch a nationwide contest to select spokespersons for the party.   “Selection will take place in every state. The contest will be held on Nehru’s birthday (November 14),” Congress leader BL Shankar said. “At present, the party itself was choosing spokespersons. Hitting the brakes on this practice, real talent will be selected. This will also help the party’s organization,” he said, adding that five persons will be selected in every district.   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/return-degrees-to-modi-dks-tells-unemployed-youth-1031882.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Signs of economic recovery in Karnataka; experts hold their horses||Commercial taxes and excise revenue so far this fiscal have exceeded pre-pandemic figures, in the first clear sign that Karnataka could be on the path to post-Covid economic recovery.  According to data tabled by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the Assembly, the government has received Rs 60,959 crore from four main revenue sources - commercial taxes (including GST), excise, motor vehicles tax and stamps & registration fees - from April to August.  Commercial tax collection stands at Rs 26,253, higher than Rs 25,042 crore collected in the April-August period in 2019-20, a non-pandemic year. Similarly, excise revenue is Rs 10,225 crore as against Rs 9,132 crore in the corresponding period two years ago.  The other two revenue streams - motor vehicles tax and stamps & registration fees - are slightly behind the collections achieved in 2019-20.  The government is keeping its fingers crossed on how things will play out in the coming months in terms of the pandemic.  “We are recovering, but it also feels like a rebound,” IT/BT Minister C N Ashwath Narayan told DH. “People are skeptical of the third wave.”  But, Narayan is convinced that Karnataka will be ring-fenced even if there is another wave. “The vaccination drive is happening well. So regardless of the virus variants, we'll be on a safer pitch.”  After analyzing the data tabled by Bommai, Madhusudhan B V Rao, senior research advisor at the Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, said there were recovery signs. "But, it's not enough to cheer that growth is fully back on track.” Commercial tax collection so far is 41% of the total budget estimates. “Going by trends and picking up of economic activity, including opening up of offices, the numbers for September-end should take it to more than 55%,” Rao said.  Naturally, the revenue receipts in this fiscal so far are better than what they were in 2020-21, a year that was impaired by lengthy lockdowns and curbs on economic activities.  According to Bommai, the state has seen an increase in revenue receipts by Rs 1,524 crore and fiscal deficit is Rs 9,536 crore. “This also does not mean the growth trajectory is very steep. The real growth adjusted to inflation would be very low,” Rao surmised.   The only restriction currently in place is the daily night curfew starting at 9 pm, hampering shops and commercial establishments that shut earlier than necessary, some argue. “The night curfew is a preventive measure as there’s still some wariness on what will happen,” Narayan said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/signs-of-economic-recovery-in-karnataka-experts-hold-their-horses-1031889.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt rolls the dice: Game over for online betting?||Taking no ‘chances’, the state government is moving to ban all forms of betting in online games.  The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, tabled in the Assembly on Friday, has sparked a buzz raising concerns about the impact it would have on the online gaming industry while also receiving brickbats for being ambiguous. If the Bill gets through, Karnataka will join Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala in attempting to either regulate or prohibit this sphere.  While the existing law in Karnataka prohibits gambling on offline games (games of chance), the government has now included online games and has also brought a ban on wagering on games of skill. No person will be allowed to risk money on the unknown result of an event including a game of skill, it says. However, maintaining status quo, horse-race betting is exempted from the Bill. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy told DH that the government’s aim is to only crack down on wagering or betting on games, but not on gaming itself. “If someone plays without money or without stakes, it is not an offense,” he says. He added that the government will soon notify which games will qualify under “skill” and what falls under “chance.” However, the Bill seems to have neither brought cheer to those demanding a ban on online games nor to those seeking liberalisation of the gaming industry.  S Umesh, senior advocate and president of Five-Year Law Course Advocates’ Association, has been among those demanding a ban on online gaming. “I am not satisfied with this Bill. It is open to multiple interpretations. The government needs to explicitly ban all forms of online gaming,” he says. Umesh argues that several children are addicted to online games that require them to pay money to play. “This has worsened during the pandemic. Many steal money from their parents to pay for gaming. The government has to act in the welfare of children,” he says. His association would soon file a public interest litigation on this, he adds.  On the other hand, the gaming industry is also worried because the Bill does not clearly distinguish between games of skills and chance. Tech policy researcher Shivani Jha, the legal head at eSports Players Welfare Association, puts it thus: “Going by public sources, everything seems ambiguous. Considering that we are looking forward to Asian Games 2022, which includes eSports as a discipline and the fact that Bengaluru is an investment hub for sports tech in India, one can only hope that the state will come up with clarifications on skill-based games.”  According to a recent KPMG report, the online casual gaming in India is expected to grow to Rs 169 billion by 2025, from Rs 60 billion in 2021. The report also highlights how the Covid-19 pandemic period has bolstered the online gaming space.  With the Madras High Court recently striking down a similar law in Tamil Nadu, there are also concerns about the legality of the Bill. “The Supreme Court has clearly indicated that states can only prohibit betting and gambling on a game of chance and not on games of skill. Also, the court has held that both Rummy and horse-racing are games of skills. However, Karnataka’s legislation allows horse race betting, but not Rummy,” Supreme Court senior advocate Sajan Poovayya points out. The Bill is vague and merits an expert committee report, he adds. “Also, the law should be clear that it will not restrict fantasy games, which aren’t games of chance.” Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-rolls-the-dice-game-over-for-online-betting-1031896.html
18-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1,000 electric charging stations planned in Karnataka||The government will set up 1,000 electric charging stations in the state, including 500 in Bengaluru, to encourage adoption of electric vehicles, Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar said on Saturday. Speaking at a workshop on e-mobility, the minister said setting up e-charging stations has gathered pace thanks to public-private partnership. "The state has 136 e-charging stations. Another 172 will be set up in the next phase. In Bengaluru, 152 will be set up under FAME II scheme and the remaining will come up through agreements with different companies," he said. G Kumar Naik, additional chief secretary, Energy department, said upgrading the grid network was necessary to cater to the varied demands. During the interactive session, president of Bangalore Apartment Federations, Nagaraj Rao urged the government to provide subsidies to big apartments. "The government gives several subsidies to big companies. These should be extended to big apartments, which have have played a positive role in solar energy generation," he said. Niranjan from Delta Electronics India said charging stations should use renewable energy. "Many charging stations are not designed well. Such infrastructure should complement city's aesthetics," he said. During the event, Bescom signed an MoU with IISL to set up charging stations.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1000-electric-charging-stations-planned-in-karnataka-1031910.html
18-09-2021||West||FIR against actor Sahil Khan after bodybuilder-model tries to commit suicide||Suburban Oshiwara police on Friday registered a First Information Report against actor Sahil Khan, a day after former Mr India contest winner and model Manoj Patil allegedly tried to commit suicide, an official said. Khan had denied allegations leveled against him by Patil's family. Patil (29), who allegedly consumed sleeping pills in the early hours of Thursday, is being treated at a hospital. The 29-year-old bodybuilder-turned-model had a few days back submitted a letter to the Oshiwara police, demanding action against Sahil Khan for allegedly defaming him on social media. An FIR was registered against Khan and three others for allegedly instigating suicide attempt but no arrest has been made, police said, adding that probe was on.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-actor-sahil-khan-after-bodybuilder-model-tries-to-commit-suicide-1031633.html
18-09-2021||West||Political parties experienced fever after record vaccination: PM Modi takes potshots at Opposition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday took potshots at the Opposition a day after the Centre administered over 2.5 crore vaccines on his birthday. "There is talk of fever as a vaccine side effect but a political party experienced fever after 2.5 crore vaccines were administered," PM said.  During a virtual interaction with healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries of Goa, PM Modi lauded the state's vaccine wastage prevention model.  "Goa is playing important role in the success of the world's largest and fastest vaccination drive — Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine. In the past few months, Goa fought bravely against heavy rainfall, cyclone and flood, under the leadership of CM Pramod Sawant," said PM Modi.  More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/political-parties-experienced-fever-after-record-vaccination-pm-modi-takes-potshots-at-opposition-1031690.html
18-09-2021||West||ED moves court against Anil Deshmukh for non-compliance of summonses||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has moved a court against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for failing to appear before the probe agency despite being summoned multiple times in a money laundering case. The ED filed the plea in a special court on Friday seeking action against Deshmukh under IPC section 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from public servant). The section attracts a simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or fine up to five hun­dred rupees or both. The probe agency had issued multiple summons to Deshmukh in the money laundering case registered against him by it. However, the NCP leader has failed to appear before it so far. Two of Deshmukh's aides - Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde - have been arrested in the case. They are currently in the judicial custody. Besides the duo, the probe agency in its charge-sheet filed recently, has also named dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze as an accused. However, Deshmukh or his family members have not been made accused in the charge sheet. The ED launched a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused him of corruption. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from city bars and hotels every month, a charge denied by the former minister. Deshmukh resigned a minister in April this year.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-moves-court-against-anil-deshmukh-for-non-compliance-of-summonses-1031700.html
18-09-2021||West||74 roads, 33 small bridges damaged in Raigad's Mahad due to July downpour, flooding||A total of 74 internal roads and 33 small bridges have suffered damages due to the devastating rains that pounded Mahad tehsil in Maharashtra's Raigad district in July this year, the authorities said on Saturday. The cumulative length of the damaged roads is 117 kms. Sixteen of these roads were damaged due landslides, the Public Works Department (PWD) of Raigad Zilla Parishad said in a statement. Torrential rains on July 21-22 had caused flooding in the region. It had also triggered landslides. The damaged roads and small bridges have to be constructed afresh and some others need to be repaired. For this Rs 31.30 crore funds are required, it said. Taliye village in the tehsil had witnessed a massive landslide on July 22, in which at least 84 persons were killed. Two villages in Poladpur tehsil of Raigad had also reported landslides during that period, in which 11 persons had died, officials have said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/74-roads-33-small-bridges-damaged-in-raigads-mahad-due-to-july-downpour-flooding-1031718.html
18-09-2021||West||Sindhudurg Airport receives aerodrome licence from DGCA||The new airport at Chipi-Parule in the Sindhudurg district of coastal Konkan region has received the aerodrome license from the DGCA -- a big requirement before the formal commissioning of the airport and start of flights. The airport is slated to formally open next month.  "IRB Sindhudurg Airport Pvt Ltd, an SPV of IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd, has received aerodrome licence from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA),” the airport operator said in the release. The license enables the company to open a new aviation facility for airlines and the general public.  "The license authorises the aerodrome to be used as regular place of landing and departure to all persons on equal terms and conditions by aircraft requiring specifications of runway and associated facilities including granted exemptions equal to or less than those indicated in the Aerodrome Manual,” DGCA said. IRB Sindhudurg Airport Pvt Ltd CMD Virendra D. Mhaiskar said, “We are very happy to achieve yet another milestone in the current year and see the airport receive license to operate after successful completion. The Sindhudurg Airport with a cost outlay of nearly Rs 800 crore and a concession period of above 90 years is the first of its kind in the South Konkan region. It is aimed at establishing and enhancing air connectivity of the region with Western Maharashtra; Southern States; Mumbai and subsequently to all regions of India. "With a concession period of over 90 years and a compelling regional proposition, it offers meaningful avenues of growth. We express our sincere gratitude to all authorities and stakeholders for extending their valuable cooperation and support in bringing up this new facility. We now look forward to opening the facility for airline operators and the general public soon.” The airport will not only generate passenger traffic but also will be a boon for the economic development of the region as it will facilitate and boost cargo transportation; generate direct as well as indirect employment and other business opportunities for the local people. It has the potential to become a Cargo Hub of the Western Region as there is ample space for handling the Cargo, and is expandable to meet the future growing needs. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sindhudurg-airport-receives-aerodrome-licence-from-dgca-1031719.html
18-09-2021||West||Being made 'scapegoat': Raj Kundra seeks bail in porn case citing 'no evidence' against him ||Businessman Raj Kundra, an accused in the pornographic content case, on Saturday moved a bail application in a court here, claiming that he was being made a "scapegoat" and that there was not a single evidence in the supplementary charge sheet of him being actively involved in creation of alleged questionable content. The crime branch, probing the case, had recently filed a supplementary charge-sheet against Kundra and three others in the case pertaining to reported creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. After that, the accused approached the metropolitan court for bail, saying that the investigation in the case was practically over. Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested July 19 by after being booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Information Technology Act. He is currently in judicial custody. In the bail plea, filed through advocate Prashant Patil, Kundra claimed that there is not a single iota of evidence till date with the prosecution that would connect the app 'Hotshots' with an offence under law. As per the probe agency, the Hotshots app was being used by the accused for uploading and streaming obscene content. The bail plea also said that there is not a single allegation in the entire supplementary charge sheet against the present applicant (Kundra) that he was actively involved in any of the video shootings. In fact, it is a sole discretion of the individual artists to upload their contents on the app, the plea said. The contents of the complaint do not disclose any prima-facie offence against Kundra, the application said. It further claimed that Kundra was falsely implicated in the case. He was not named in the FIR and he has been dragged by the respondent (police), it added. For the reasons best known to the investigating agencies, he is being made a "scapegoat", it said. The investigation so far clearly shows that Kundra was not involved in any offence even in a remotest way in creating the alleged "questionable content". Further, he is not even related to the process of uploading or broadcasting of the alleged questionable content, the bail plea added. The court will the hear the bail plea on Monday.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/being-made-scapegoat-raj-kundra-seeks-bail-in-porn-case-citing-no-evidence-against-him-1031726.html
18-09-2021||West||In Gujarat, three minor pedestrians killed in hit-and-run case, two others injured||Three children hailing from Rajasthan were killed and two others injured after a vehicle hit them when they were walking along the side of a highway in Banaskantha district of Gujarat early on Saturday, police said. The vehicle ran over the five devotees, who were walking to the pilgrim town of Ambaji in Banaskantha, in which the three minors were killed on the spot. The accident took place around 3 am, an official of Ambaji police station said. "The victims had started their journey on foot from Ambasa village in Udaipur district of neighbouring Rajasthan. The speeding vehicle, which is yet to be identified, escaped after the accident," he said. The bodies of the deceased were sent to a government hospital for post-mortem. Their family members arrived after being informed, he added. "We are trying to ascertain the identity of the vehicle that was involved in the hit-and-run case," the police official said. The deceased were identified as Naresh Damor (16), Harish Damor (15) and Reshmi Bhoi (12), police said. Hundreds of devotees undertake long journeys on foot from different parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan to Ambaji to offer prayers at the Ambaji temple. Banaskantha shares its borders with Rajasthan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-gujarat-three-minor-pedestrians-killed-in-hit-and-run-case-two-others-injured-1031740.html
18-09-2021||West||Man dumps 4 kids into water tank, attempts suicide||A 30-year-old man attempted suicide after dumping his four minor daughters in a water tank Saturday, police said, adding all the girls have drowned. The incident took place in Poshala village around 1 pm when Purkha Ram administered poison to his daughters -- Ziyo (9), Noji (seven), Hina (three) and one-and-half-year-old Lasi. He threw them in a 13-feet deep water tank outside his house and then he plunged into it, said Station House Officer (SHO) Omprakash. His neighbours spotted him jumping and they informed the police, the officer said. “All the four girls drowned in the tank. Their bodies were shifted to the mortuary at a nearby hospital while Purkha Ram was admitted to the district hospital. The bodies were handed over to the family after postmortem,” he said. Primary investigation revealed that he was distressed as his wife died due to Covid about five months ago. He wanted to marry his sister-in-law so his daughters could have a mother but his in-laws didn’t agree, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-dumps-4-kids-into-water-tank-attempts-suicide-1031747.html
18-09-2021||West||Gujarat administers over 22.15 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses during mega drive; Surat gives highest jabs||Over 22.15 lakh people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Gujarat during the state government's mega drive on Friday, with Surat administering the highest number of 2.77 lakh doses, an official said on Saturday. As per the figure released by the state health department, a record 22,15,027 people were administered Covid-19 vaccine till 10 pm on Friday during the mega campaign organised to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. Surat administered the highest number of 2,77,121 doses among 33 districts, the official said. Ahmedabad administered 2,31,639 jabs, followed by Vadodara with 1,22,986 and Rajkot with 1,05,829 doses, he said. Surat was also on top among the state's eight municipal corporations as far as the number of doses administered during the mega drive is concerned, the official said. As many as 2,02,421 doses were administered in the Surat Municipal Corporation, followed by Ahmedabad with 1,50,096 doses, Vadodara with 61,946 and Rajkot with 44,636, he said. Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel had launched the drive, which was organised on the occasion of the Prime Minister's 71st birthday, from a centre in Ahmedabad, while state Health Minister Rishukesh Patel launched it from Jamnagar. India set a record of administering over 2.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in a single day in the mega drive. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-administers-over-2215-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-during-mega-drive-surat-gives-highest-jabs-1031754.html
18-09-2021||West||Newly-appointed Gujarat ministers take charge||Several newly-appointed ministers of the Gujarat government on Saturday took charge of their offices at Sachivalay, with some choosing an auspicious time and others coming with kin for blessings. Among the ministers who took charge were Kanu Desai, Jitu Vaghani, Rushikesh Patel, Raghavji Patel, Naresh Patel, Harsh Sanghavi, Brijesh Merja, Kirtisinh Vaghela, Manisha Vakil and Vinod Moradiya. Many of them began their ministerial stint with meetings with officials, with Vaghani, minister of education as well as science and technology, approving Rs 7.83 crore as financial aid for 906 student beneficiaries. Finance Minister Kanu Desai met officials of the state electricity board, and said he would "take forward the work carried out by previous CMs like Narendrabhai (Modi), Anandiben (Patel) and Vijay Rupani". Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister Rushikesh Patel, after taking charge, said the government would continue to push for free Covid-19 vaccination. Patel, who is also in charge of the water resources and supply ministry, said work will continue to ensure tap water is made available in every household in the state. Tribal Affairs minister Naresh Patel assumed office by bringing a priest for prayers, while minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Pradip Parmar took charge on an auspicious time after seeking the blessings of his parents. Minister of State for Health, Medical Education and Tribal Affairs Nimisha Suthar said her department would make all out efforts to ensure 100 per cent vaccination in Gujarat's tribal areas. Harsh Sanghavi offered prayers in his office along with his family and assumed charge as the minister of state for home. and later held a meeting with state Director General of Police Ashish Bhatia and other senior officials. Governor Acharya Devvrat had, on Thursday, administered the oath of office and secrecy to 10 cabinet ministers and 14 ministers of state, including five with independent charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/newly-appointed-gujarat-ministers-take-charge-1031868.html
18-09-2021||West||Dawood aide Parveen arrested in extortion case involving Param Bir Singh||Tarique Parveen, an alleged aide of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, was arrested by Thane police on Friday in an extortion case where IPS officer Param Bir Singh is one of the accused. Tarique Abdul Karim Merchanta alias Tarique Parveen (55), who was already in jail in another case, was wanted in the case registered with the Thane Nagar police station here, an official said. The present FIR names over 20 persons including Singh, who had been police commissioner of Mumbai and Thane, and some other police officers. It was filed on the complaint of builder Ketan Tanna, who alleged that Singh and other officers extorted money from him by threatening to frame him up in false cases when Singh was Thane police commissioner. Parveen, accused in another extortion case, was lodged in the Taloja jail. A court in Mumbai on Friday ordered that he be handed over to Thane police. Thane police produced him before a local court which remanded him in police custody till September 22. Singh has not been arrested in the case so far. He was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March in the aftermath of the `Antilia bomb scare incident'. He later accused then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption, which led to the minister's eventual resignation. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dawood-aide-parveen-arrested-in-extortion-case-involving-param-bir-singh-1031885.html
