19-09-2021||First Edit||Karnataka textbook panel must not exceed brief||The appointment of Rohit Chakrathirtha, a strong Hindutva ideologue, as the head of the committee to review textbooks by the Karnataka government has led to loud protests from academicians who see this as an attempt to saffronise education. The 15-member committee will look into certain “contentious” chapters in social sciences, languages and environmental science syllabus from classes I to X. The syllabus was recently revised by a panel headed by noted writer Baragur Ramachandrappa which comprised 27 subject committees and 172 members. While it is possible that certain errors might have crept in and may have to be corrected, revising the entire content smacks of a sinister design. The trigger for the review was a controversy surrounding a chapter ‘Birth of New Religions’ in Class VI social studies textbook which had apparently hurt the sentiments of the Brahmin community. With the Brahmin Development Board raising certain objections, schools were instructed not to teach this chapter. What has raised eyebrows is that the brief of the new committee goes beyond this “objectionable” chapter. History has to be told as it is and cannot be tampered with to suit certain ideologies or communities. Many repugnant social and religious practices, especially untouchability and discrimination that existed in the past, may bring us shame today and it would be wise to accept such uncomfortable facts and move on instead of trying to whitewash the dark pages of history. This is not the first time that an attempt has been made to distort history or even obliterate important personalities and events. There have been demands earlier to completely drop Tipu Sultan and his father Hyder Ali from textbooks. Though the atrocities committed by father and son cannot be denied, history is incomplete without a mention of Tipu Sultan and Hyder Ali, who were among the first to check the British in their tracks, even before the freedom movement began. Though the then primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar had fortunately not acquiesced to this demand, the Chakrathirtha committee was set up by him though the formal orders were issued by his successor, B C Nagesh. While Chakrathirtha has appealed to critics not to judge him before the report is submitted, any attempt by the BJP government to erase, twist or communalise history would be foolhardily and would definitely be resisted by all right-thinking people, especially academicians. History, with all its discomforting facts, should serve as a guiding light for the future, and it should be remembered that those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-textbook-panel-must-not-exceed-brief-1032196.html
19-09-2021||In Perspective||'Secular' netas, elaborate poojas||Under articles 75 (4), 99, 124 (6), 148 (2), 164 (3), 188 and 219 of the third Schedule of the Constitution, any elected representative has to take the oath of office and oath of secrecy before assuming the office of the minister in the presence of constitutional authority. In a secular and pluralistic society like ours, when the new ministers take charge, before stepping into their chambers and start their work, their hallowed precincts are repainted and elaborate poojas and homas seeking divine blessings are conducted. Some ministers order the demolition of a wall in the precincts to meet vastu standards. These ministers, after assuming office and during a political crisis or at the onset of elections, run to prominent mutts or monasteries to woo religious leaders and to gain the support of lakhs of people. The events will be played on the loop by TV channels, reporting and interpreting almost every angle of significance of such visits. The mutts rarely refuse permission for such visits, treating everyone at their doorstep equally, giving enough content for the politician to flaunt, almost as if claiming to have the validation and support of pontiffs and their followers. Though swamijis have taken the oath of renunciation and abandoned their social status and though mutts were traditionally only into social and religious duties, some of these entities are increasingly getting involved in politics, especially since the 1980s. The original goals of the mutts are to spread Adhyatma, spirituality and to provide moral education and guidance to people. They should never deviate from these goals. The 42nd Amendment changed the description of India from a “sovereign democratic republic” to a “sovereign, socialist, secular democratic republic”, and changed the words “unity of the nation” to “unity and integrity of the nation”. The Constitution does not recognise, does not permit mixing religion and State power. But unfortunately, our constitutional secularism has been sidelined or corrupted by electoral politics. According to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, secularism is defined as “the belief that religion should not play a role in government, education, or other public parts of society”. The commonly accepted definition of secularism is “separation of religion from political, economic, social and cultural aspects of life”. According to this definition, are our politicians truly secular? Performing poojas, havanas and other religious activities in government buildings, that are provided for public office or residence, based on vastu is against the secular character of our Constitution. And the alterations caused to structures to meet vastu standards is nothing but looting public money. In order to prevent such religious activities, in 2014, M C Nanaiah moved a private Bill in the legislative council, proposing amendments to the Karnataka Legislature Salaries, Pensions and Allowances and Other Law (Amendment) Bill, 2008. The member withdrew his Bill after the then IT minister and House leader S R Patil assured the House that the government was planning to bring a similar legislation shortly. But till date, no such legislation has been enacted to curb this. It is not fair on the part of the constitutional authorities, who, after administering the oath to ministers that they will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, give tacit approval for such activities. According to endowment department data, the state has over 830 registered mutts. Some of these mutts are entwined in Karnataka’s deep-rooted caste-based politics, backing candidates, opposing or proposing policies that are likely to impact the community, making political statements and even bargaining for better reservation and representation. It was during former CM Ramakrishna Hegde’s tenure in the early 1980s that the trend of politicians and pontiffs sharing the dais at public events and for negotiations across the table commenced, when he sanctioned lands to mutts for starting professional colleges. Over the years, the rapport between elected representatives and religious heads became stronger, and during polls, each awaits the other. Election laws prohibit appeals to the electorate on the basis of religion, caste, community, race and language. In 2017, the Supreme Court judgement, while clarifying Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, said that elections are secular exercises and religion should not be mixed with matters of state. The highly visible and well-publicised visits of political leaders and ministers to religious places and their meetings with religious heads ahead of elections violate the spirit of this legal and constitutional bar on appeal to religion and community. But it is here that we need the courts, a free press, an alert citizenry, and civil society activists to move in, to show a mirror to these leaders and tell them what they can and cannot do. It is on all of us to forestall the misuse and abuse of secularism. Citizens must work for a modern society based on individual rights and freedom. (The writer is retired Deputy Director of Boilers)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/secular-netas-elaborate-poojas-1032199.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi: Father suspect in child's murder||The father of the two-year-old toddler, who was found dead in an abandoned borewell at Alaknur village in Raibag taluk on Saturday, was seen as prime suspect as per the allegations made by relatives. The suspect reportedly confessed to murdering the toddler during interrogation by police, sources said. Sharad Siddappa Hasare (2) was found dead in the abandoned borewell on Saturday after he had gone missing on Friday evening while playing. Saraswati, maternal grandmother of the deceased alleged that Siddappa refused to accept Sharad as his son and had been suspecting fidelity of his wife Rajashri and murdered the toddler. Sources said, during interrogation, Siddappa accepted that he smothered the toddler and dumped his body in the borewell. Police said they were looking into all angles including allegations by close relatives that father himself has murdered the child. Borewell was over 100 meters away from the house in the midst sugarcane crops. Siddappa himself had led police to the borewell when he was quizzed regarding the complainant of Sharad being kidnapped made by him.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-father-suspect-in-childs-murder-1031972.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Liquor shops in Dakshina Kannada bordering Kerala to open from Sept 21||Dakshina Kannada administration has allowed the reopening of liquor stores on the Kerala border from September 21as the Covid positivity rate in the district declined. The stores had been closed in the first week of August as Covid-19 cases in the district rose. The ban was to prevent tipplers from Kerala's Kasaragod district from visiting bars and wine shops. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V in his order said that the liquor shops in 19 villages within a 5-km from the border can function between 10 am and 6 pm. He said that people from Kerala entering liquor shops without RT-PCR negative certificates will face appropriate action. The staff and customers are mandated to adhere to Covid protocol and have to prevent crowding. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/liquor-shops-in-dakshina-kannada-bordering-kerala-to-open-from-sept-21-1032025.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Artists urge government to allow movie halls, theatres to function at full capacity||Tulu theatre and cine artistes Devdas Kapikad, Vijay Kumar Kodialbail, Kishore D Shetty and producers Prakash Pandeshwar and Mohan Koppala urged the government to allow screening of films, staging of plays in halls with full capacity. The district is returning to normalcy as the Covid-19 cases declined drastically in the past few weeks. Schools and colleges have reopened. The artists sought to draw the government's attention to those dependent on movies and theatre for their living and their financial distress as theatres remain shut.  Kapikad said, "There are hundreds of families depending on theatre for a living. With theatre being dormant for 18 months, the artists are in distress. There are more than 30 theatres groups in the district with more than 5,000 artists. The government which failed to help the artists should allow us to stage plays, screen films to full capacity and help the families," he added.  "Many cinema halls have already shut down in the district. The restrictions on the cinema halls should be removed," Vijaykumar Kodialbail said. Pandeshwar said, "10 to 15 films are slated for release. With 50 per cent capacity, people are not ready to return to theatres. When traders are allowed to function with 100 per cent capacity in the market, why is there discrimination on the screening of movies and staging plays? The producers who invested heavily in films are unable to repay the loans availed at higher interest," he added. "Tulu cinema and play have contributed to the growth of Tulu language and culture. All the theatre groups should be allowed to stage plays during the upcoming Dasara, Deepavali festivals," Kishore Shetty said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/artists-urge-government-to-allow-movie-halls-theatres-to-function-at-full-capacity-1032031.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt to take corrective step in Mysuru temple demolition incident: CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai promised that the government would take all possible steps to put an end to the demolition of temples in Karnataka. It would also respond to the sentiments of people of the Mysuru district who are hurt by the incident within the legal framework. Inaugurating state BJP executive committee meeting at Trishul convention hall, here on Sunday, he said, "The state has witnessed an incident which would pave the way for disturbance of the peace. The demolition of a temple in the Mysuru district is unfortunate. The officials took some hasty decisions without thinking of the consequences. The government would take the correct administrative and legal steps." He also stated that the government is determined to rectify the mistake that has taken place in Mysuru. Referring to the various communities' demand for a hike in reservation for employment and education, he said, "The aspirations of people of various communities have increased following the rise in population over the years. They are seeking reservation in education employment. The government is committed to find a permanent solution to it and safeguard their interests." Commenting on the upcoming polls, he said the party would consider each election seriously. BJP obtained a complete majority in the elections to Belagavi corporation for the first time by winning 35 seats out of 58. The party has fared well in Hubballi-Dharwad corporation polls. The party improved its performance in Kalaburgi city corporation from nine seats to 24.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-to-take-corrective-step-in-mysuru-temple-demolition-incident-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1032075.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||With Dasara near, hoteliers urge lifting night curfew||Tourism activities are slowly returning to normalcy fifteen days after the government lifted the weekend curfew in Mysuru district. The stakeholders of tourism and hospitality sector have been urging the government to withdraw the night curfew that has been affecting their business. The government announced the lifting of the weekend curfew on August 30 as the Covid positivity rate in Mysuru district declined below 2% with a rider that the night curfew will continue in the district until further notice. Though it brought cheers among the people, traders and tourism sector, the hotel industry opposed it questioning the need for the night curfew. When all activities, business and events have been allowed, why is the night curfew still imposed, they wanted to know. Several memoranda to the district administration and also to the Minister in-Charge of Covid Management S T Somshekar requesting to lift the night curfew, are yet to be considered. Though the Minister assured to do the needful, no step has been taken in this regard, according to Hotel Owners' Association President C Narayana Gowda. Speaking to DH, Narayana Gowda wanted to know the reason behind the night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am. "This has affected the hotels and restaurants that are forced to close by 9 pm. While several bars and Restaurants on the ring roads and extensions are seen open till late night, those in the city are told to abide by the norms. Even parcel service has been affected," he said. "While wedding receptions and other functions continue till late night, why only hotels and restaurants are asked to shut the operations by 9 pm? Will Covid target the people in the night? This has caused inconvenience to the public. The state government should consider lifting the night curfew as Covid cases are declining and positivity rate is under control," he stated. Dasara procession Commenting on Dasara festivities, Narayana Gowda said that last year only around 500 people were allowed to be a part of the Jamboo Savari held within the Mysuru Palace premises. The government had spent around Rs 4 crore for Dasara for just 500 people. "The government should consider continuing Jamboo Savari on Vijayadashami Day till Bannimantap. This will allow more people to watch Dasara procession and attract people from other districts to Mysuru. This will not only lift the spirit of the people, but also help the tourism and hotel industry to survive," he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/with-dasara-near-hoteliers-urge-lifting-night-curfew-1032107.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Assault on CMC Commissioner: Civic workers temporarily withdraw two-day protest||The two-day protest staged by the pourakarmikas demanding action on Yatindra Para Medical College owner for assaulting City Municipal Council Commissioner Krishnamurthy was withdrawn temporarily. The pourakarmikas have decided to attend duty by wearing black bands. Krishnamurthy was allegedly assaulted for questioning the Para medical college owner for closing the vaccination centre in the afternoon. A complaint was lodged at Pension Mohalla police station. The pourakarmikas boycotted the work and staged a protest in front of the deputy commissioner's office on September 18. The water supply to the city was stopped on that day. The streetlights too were not switched on till evening. The civic workers did not attend duty on Sunday also. They had also planned for a 'jail bharo' protest on Monday. Uncleared garbage was strewn across the city for two days. However, they withdrew the protest after Krishnamurthy visited the protest venue and appealed to them to resume duty explaining that the police department and officials have urged to take action against the guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/assault-on-cmc-commissioner-civic-workers-temporarily-withdraw-two-day-protest-1032110.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Temple demolition: Hindu outfit leader arrested for threatening CM||The police on Sunday arrested Akhila Bharatha Hindu Mahasabha State General Secretary Dharmendra who had threatened Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle for "failing to prevent" demolition of temples across the state during a press conference in Mangaluru. During a press meet, Dharmendra had said that Hindu Mahasabha had not hesitated to murder even Mahathma Gandhi when Hindus came under attack. "Thus, we will not spare the BJP government in the state if such attacks on temples continue.” Following the press meet on Saturday, Akhila Bharatha Hindu Mahasabha State President Dr Lohith Kumar Suvarna had filed a complaint against Dharmendra and others at Barke Police Station. Lohith Kumar in his complaint had alleged that Dharmendra and Rajesh Pavitran were expelled from Hindu Mahasabha for their objectionable behaviour two years ago. They had proclaimed themselves as leaders of Hindu Mahasabha and had misused the letterhead of the organisation. A complaint was filed against six persons under various sections of the IPC, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. The Commissioner said that two others who were accompanying Dharmendra have been detained. The police investigation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temple-demolition-hindu-outfit-leader-arrested-for-threatening-cm-1032116.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man loses Rs 99,999 to online fraud in Mysuru||Miscreants cheated a person to the tune of of Rs 99,999, on the pretext of offering ATM card and seeking the OTP number. Basheer Ahmed of a resident of Neelakanta Nagar in Nanjangud town, is the victim. He has a savings account at the Central Bank of India. The miscreants called up his wife and spoke in Hindi. They introduced themselves as bank staff and claimed that they were offering a new ATM card. They also sought details of the old ATM card and swiped off Rs 99,999 from their account. The victim received a message on the mobile about withdrawal of funds. They tried to contact the callers, but the number was switched off. Basheer has lodged a complaint with Cyber crime police in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-loses-rs-99999-to-online-fraud-in-mysuru-1032126.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||SDA exams held in Mysuru, safety measures followed||The written exams conducted by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) for the appointment of Second Division Assistant (SDA) and junior assistant posts in Karnataka government service were conducted with safety measures in Mysuru on Sunday. Thousands of aspirants appeared for the exams held at 42 centres in the district. In all, 16,990 aspirants had registered for the exam. While 10,736 students appeared, 6,254 students were absent, according to Additional Deputy Commissioner B S Manjunathaswamy, who is district in-charge for the exam. The exams were held between 10 am and 11.30 am and 2 pm and 3.30 pm. Prohibitory orders were imposed in 200 mts radius at all the centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sda-exams-held-in-mysuru-safety-measures-followed-1032130.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Community farming to prevent man-animal conflict yields results||The community farming experiment at a village in Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife limits to reduce the people's dependency on forest resources and prevent the man-animal conflict has seen a success. The forest department in association with Amruthabhoomi, Raitha Sangha and Raijya Raitha Mahila Okkoota experimented with community farming at Tulasikere village in the wildlife sanctuary limits last year. The agricultural land that was limited only for two quintals of ragi and legumes is now being used to grow a variety of crops using drip irrigation method. This has brought a ray of hope among the local farmers. The department had taken 10 acre land on lease from the local farmers for community farming. As there was a water problem, only five acres is being cultivated now. Ten families are involved in the agriculture activities and are growing onions, chillies, bananas, turmeric, greens and vegetables. A check dam has been constructed across the stream in the village by the gram panchayat and water stored. Solar pumps have been installed. Drip irrigation method is being followed for cultivation. Raitha sangha district unit president Honnuru Prakash said, "Grass is grown on one acre out of 10 acres of land available on lease. The forest department has been encouraging the farmers. This is an effort to prevent the animals from venturing into the forest for grazing. The villagers have extended their cooperation." V Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forest, Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife division said, "The project has been implemented to prevent man-animal conflict and also to protect the environment. We are providing all support to the farmers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/community-farming-to-prevent-man-animal-conflict-yields-results-1032136.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four days on, leopard continues to be elusive in Hubballi||Forest Department officials continued with their efforts to capture a leopard in and around Nrupatunga Betta and Raj Nagar on Sunday which has eluded them for four days. A 13-member team of forest department staff, fire and emergency service and police personnel intensified their search, in the backyard of Raj Nagar Kendriya Vidyalaya, where the big cat was last sighted on Saturday night. The leopard was first sighted on Wednesday night by a walker near Nrupatunga Betta. Confirmation of the presence of the leopard in one of the thickly populated locations of Hubballi has set fear among the residents, who staged an extempore protest demanding the forest department capture the leopard at the earliest. Deputy Commissioner of Police R Basargi and Hubballi urban Tahsildar Shashidhar Madiyal, who visited the spot, held talks with forest department officials to discuss the plan of action to capture the leopard. Speaking to DH, Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Kshirsagar said plans are being chalked out to capture the leopard as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Forestry. “Our top priority is to push the leopard into a cage rather than tranquillising, which involves more risk both to humans and the animal,” he said and added that three cages with stray dogs as bait have been placed at the strategic locations. He also said that feeds from CCTV cameras are also being analysed to monitor its movement. “Patience is the key to capture the leopard and we are creating a no-human zone near the school so that the big cat makes a move and falls into our trap,” he said and added that veterinary doctors and dart tranquillising experts are also part of the search team and their service will be used if necessary. He also clarified that the team consists of forest guards who have earlier worked in Bandipur, Nagarahole and have experience in handling such situations. Speaking to media persons, Hubballi Range Forest Officer Sridhar Tegginamani said thick vegetation behind the school is making the search operations a bit difficult. The leopard has sufficient prey base in this area, including hare, pigs, stray dogs and others, so the chance of a human attack is minimal unless humans venture near it. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-days-on-leopard-continues-to-be-elusive-in-hubballi-1032143.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 8.44 lakh seized at MIA||Officers of Mangaluru Customs at Mangalore International Airport (MIA) seized assorted gold jewellery of 18 carat purity weighing 230 grams from a passenger on Sunday. According to officials, the value of the seized gold is Rs 8,44,100. It was seized from a passenger hailing from Bantwal, who arrived at the airport from Dubai via Air India Express IX 0384. The gold was concealed inside the package of body lotion. Further investigation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-844-lakh-seized-at-mia-1032217.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Modi wave won't help BJP win Assembly polls: Yediyurappa||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa stated that Congress and JD(S) leaders have started consulting BJP leaders and asked them to embrace their party ahead of Assembly bye-elections, legislative council polls and Assembly polls. He was speaking at the inaugural ceremony of the state executive committee meeting on Sunday. He asked party workers not to underestimate the Congress party as their leaders and workers have become active. They have their own strategies to win the polls. So, the workers must strive to strengthen the party at booth-level, he said. Referring to the forthcoming assembly by-polls, he said that it was easy to win Lok Sabha polls using Modi's name, but not Assembly polls. The party's defeat in the assembly bye-elections will convey wrong a message. So, the bye-elections are not a cake-walk for BJP. The workers should not be under the notion that Modi wave will help it win the polls. "We need to work hard to win both the seats and teach a lesson to Congress party." Yediyurappa also exuded confidence that BJP will win the next Lok Sabha polls and Narendra Modi would become prime minister again. There is no second thought about it, he said. Commenting on the demolition of temples, he said if necessary, the government would file an appeal in Supreme Court and try to convince that such an order is not fair. So, the workers need not be disappointed over the demolition of temple in Mysuru district. The government will take suitable steps to ensure that such incidents are not repeated. Terming the up-coming year as an year of elections, he said zilla panchayat, taluk panchayat polls, legislative council polls for 25 seats are slated to be held in the year to come. So, the party has to be strengthened at the grass root level. Besides, the SC, ST, backward class morchas must be strengthened and people of such communities must be brought to the party. The Shikharipura MLA will tour the state for about a month to strengthen the party with the sole intention of winning more than 140 seats in the next Assembly polls. Modi's programmes must be taken out to households in Karnataka. "Without depending on others, we have to win more than 140 seats. Will Yediyurappa take out state wide tour alone?, he questioned and said MLAs, MLCs, office-bearers will accompany him." Recalling the past, he said former prime minister the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had told in Bengaluru that his government had carried out good work but party worjerss did not highlight to voters hat it was conducted by the NDA coalition in the Centre. So, the party suffered defeat in the Lok Sabha polls, Vajapayee had said. Going by past experience, the workers must educate voters about pro-people schemes implemented by the Centre and state government. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh, Union Ministers A Narayanswamy, Shobha Karandlaje, Bhagwanth Khuba, MP G Siddeshwar, BJP National Vice-President D K Aruna, former chief ministers Jagadish Shettar, D V Sadananda Gowda, State BJP General Secretary Arun Kumar, District BJP President Veeresh Hanagawadi were present in the meeting. Check out latest DH videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/modi-wave-wont-help-bjp-win-assembly-polls-yediyurappa-1032040.html
19-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress to hold 'cycle jatha' on Monday to protest fuel price hike||The state Congress will stage another protest against rise in prices of fuel and essential commodities on Monday. KPCC president D K Shivakumar, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and others will take out a cycle jatha from the KPCC office on Queens Road to the Vidhana Soudha. This is the second protest being staged by the state Congress since the session started on September 13. Before the session commenced last Monday, the Congress leaders had staged a protest by riding bullock carts to the Vidhana Soudha. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-to-hold-cycle-jatha-on-monday-to-protest-fuel-price-hike-1032163.html
19-09-2021||Main Article||Queries in nutrition month||Why do we show interest only in post-mortems? Only to know about the type of crime, how it was committed, what caused the death, and any evidence that may lead to the conviction of the criminal? Why are we not doing enough to prevent crime in the future? This analogy is in response to the series of ritualistic channel discussions, webinars and virtual meetings on the customary nutrition month in September. The National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) results for states are out and the spotlight is on Bihar, which has shown persistently high figures for under-5 infant and neonatal mortality. Life starts quite adversely for a baby born there. Early initiation of breastfeeding within one hour of birth has come down from 35% to 31% this time around compared to NFHS-4. The figures for severely wasted children have increased from 7% to 8.8%. When a hungry child eagerly looks into your eyes, you turn your face away and lecture about the gravity of stunting as a sign of chronic hunger and malnutrition. The harm is done. Academically, it is true that we need to monitor data for programmatic evaluation and corrections. But the ethical question is: What type of data do you need to help starving children in India? Is it the current data on what is happening in the field, how much food is supplied, served and consumed or the data on what went wrong, how many have become worse, what is the prevalence of weight loss and growth stagnation as evidence of recurring and perpetual denial of food? Do we need output or impact data or input and process data and their quality parameters? When children are weighed monthly and, in many anganwadis, meticulously marked on the growth monitoring chart, is there an effort to counsel parents or to monitor the number of days the centre was opened, the days when hot cooked meals were served, the monthly ration supplied to the centre, or to check whether 'take-home rations' (THR) were distributed or not? Also, was there any attempt to diversify the menu and procure locally cultivated millets, vegetables, pulses and oilseeds for cooking mid-day meals in schools or anganwadis? Was there any attempt at value addition by provisioning eggs or milk for children? Or, is egg denied or stopped for sociopolitical reasons or forced vegetarianism? These data on the work process and its active monitoring will help growing children. Data on severe malnutrition and the death of children is for academicians, bureaucrats and government policy formulators, not for the suffering children. Mere surveys and their results will proclaim one's apathy and heartless inaction. Our Public Distribution System (PDS) and Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) have not attained the status of recognising and enabling a mechanism for nutrition security. It still remains at the food security level, even after the Supreme Court's intervention. The National Food Security Act 2013 (also the 'Right to Food Act') aims to provide subsidised food grains to approximately two-thirds of the country's 1.2 billion people. The prime concern is not to allow anybody to go to bed hungry. So, as a hunger mitigation method and prevention of starvation, the PDS focused on procuring cereals, especially wheat and rice, through the Food Corporation of India and distributing them to families. Rice and Wheat, as staple foods, filled stomachs and averted hunger, so also starvation deaths. But not malnutrition — because cereals alone are not nutrition. Nutrition security can be achieved only by supplementing cereals with protein-rich items like meat, fish, eggs, milk, pulses, fats and oils in addition to vegetables and fruits in the family pot. Nutrition is wholesome, where carbohydrates, proteins, fats, oils, vitamins, minerals and micronutrients all have a role in the right proportions. Diet diversity with a culturally acceptable menu, cooked from locally cultivable and available cereals, vegetables, fruits, nuts and oil seeds will be the natural and sustainable strategy to ensure nutrition security and prevention of malnutrition. Ever since the monoculture dominant “green revolution”, India produced enough and surplus grains to feed, but the irony is that famine, starvation deaths and seasonal migration for survival due to abject poverty continued. Supplementary nutrition through ICDS did make a dent on severe acute malnutrition. Micronutrient deficiencies were tackled through Vitamin A concentrate biannual supplementation and iodine deficiency through fortification of salt before supply for marketing. Iron supplementation had many limitations of inadequate absorption and storage in the body. But the quick solution of iron-fortified rice, promoted mainly by the corporate food industry lobby, is severely criticised by scientists and health activists for lack of evidence of impact and sustainability. Back to basics is to promote diet diversity and promotion of locally cultivable cereals, millets and pulses. Procure them and cook them according to traditional recipes and serve as per acceptable menu. The minimal intervention must be limited to imparting knowledge about a few practices that will have nutritive value addition. 1. Mothers are not aware of “calory densing” in weaning diet or complementary feeding by addition of two or three spoons of cooking oil, if butter and ghee are not affordable. It can make a major difference in the small frequent quantity of semisolid diet the infant takes. 2. Fermented foods enrich cereals by amylisation of carbohydrates. Overnight fermentation makes complex starch easily digestible for the baby as in idli, dosa, sanna, dhokla etc. 3. Sprouting of pulses and grains generates many vitamins and adds nutritive value for infants and young children. 4. Adding tangy fruits like lemon and tamarind will provide Vitamin C, enabling iron absorption. 5. Coloured vegetables like green leaves, beetroot, carrots and pumpkin will give Vitamin A. The above messages are not adequately focused on our interpersonal communication or in the media. Even counselling on those messages will not result in changed practices unless it is demonstrated in anganwadi kitchens and Poshan Vatikas promoted through ICDS in this Poshan Mah. Sustainable nutrition security is assured more through such small interventions at the community level than policies and programmatic directives nationally. (The writer is a paediatrician, public health consultant and Independent Monitor, National Health Mission, based in Kochi) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/queries-in-nutrition-month-1032194.html
19-09-2021||National||Congress social media department passes resolution to make Rahul Gandhi party president||The Congress social media department Saturday passed a resolution to make Rahul Gandhi party president at the earliest, saying his leadership will bring new energy into the party cadre. The resolution was passed unanimously at the social media department's national executive meeting "Drishti 2021". This comes after similar resolutions were passed at the national executive meetings of the Indian Youth Congress, the NSUI and the Congress SC/ST department. Rahul Gandhi attended the social media department meeting and urged party workers to continue their fight against the ruling dispensation with humility, truth and love. Social media department head Rohan Gupta said Gandhi inspired party workers and spoke to them candidly about their lives and answered each of their questions with empathy and patience. He also commended the social media workers for their hard work and dedication to the party and commitment to fight and defeat the ruling dispensation, he said. "We believe that only the rights-based approach, the policies of justice or NYAY of Shri Rahul Gandhi can save the country today. He is the only leader in the country who has shown the courage and conviction to hold the fort of truth and welfare of the citizens. "We believe leadership of Shri Rahul Gandhi will bring a new energy into the party cadre across India. We therefore, unanimously pass the resolution that Shri Rahul Gandhi should take over as President of the Indian National Congress at the earliest," said the resolution passed Saturday at the conclusion of the two-day meeting. In another resolution adopted at the meeting, the party said social media is being used as a weapon to spread hate and create division among various sections of the society by the "fascist forces" ruling the country. "We resolve to fight for the Idea of India as conceived by the Gandhian and Nehruvian philosophy to save the country from the policies of division by the ruling dispensation. "We resolve to use social media as a tool to unite people from across all sections of the society. The ruling regiment has been on a rampage spreading fake news and misinformation using social media to run their agenda," the resolution said. It further stated that the party will expose "fake news being propagated by them" and ensure that truth and reality take the centre stage. "The RSS-BJP government is hiding their incompetence and mis-governance using PR and headline management and using event management to distract people from their failures. We resolve to bring forth their reality without any fear and with absolute conviction," it said. Gupta said everyone is disturbed over the goings on in the country as every single person is suffering -- from the student community, to farmers to women and the oppressed sections of the society. "Not a single Indian is at peace. To please a few friends, the economy of the country has been destroyed. The social fabric of this country, which was our pride and strength, is being damaged time and again," the resolution also said. Those who are raising their voices against those in power are being harassed and being made victims of vendetta politics, it alleged. "Hate crime is on the rise and the criminals are enjoying state impunity. Women are not safe in this ‘new India'. Crime against women is at an all-time high," the resolution also said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-social-media-department-passes-resolution-to-make-rahul-gandhi-party-president-1031943.html
19-09-2021||National||Odia litterateur, journalist Manorama Mohapatra dies at 87||Eminent Odia litterateur and journalist Manorama Mohapatra died here on Saturday. She was 87. The former editor of the largest Odia daily 'Samaja' was rushed to the SCB Medical College and Hospital after she complained of chest pain. She died while undergoing treatment, sources at the medical establishment said. The daughter of Padma Bhushan awardee Radhanath Rath, Mohapatra was the face of women empowerment in Odisha. She had won the Sahitya Academy Award in 1984, Soviet Nehru Award in 1988, Critic Circle of India Award in 1990, Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar Samman in 1991 and Rupambara Award in 1994. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and many other dignitaries including Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan condoled her death. Patnaik said the state has lost a learned and an esteemed personality. As an educationist and litterateur, Mohapatra had created a niche in the Odia literary world. She had played a pivotal role in creating awareness on social issues especially concerning women, Patnaik said. As editor of 'Samaja', she took journalistic ethics to a new level, Patnaik said, while praying for peace to her soul.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odia-litterateur-journalist-manorama-mohapatra-dies-at-87-1031945.html
19-09-2021||National||Ruskin Bond, Vinod Kumar Shukla and six others named for Sahitya Akademi Fellowship||Eminent English author Ruskin Bond, Hindi writer Vinod Kumar Shukla and six others were on Saturday selected for the Sahitya Akademi Fellowship. The National Academy of Letters said in a statement that the general council of Sahitya Akademi which met under the chairmanship of its president Dr Chandrashekhar Kambar announced its highest honour, the Fellowship. The others who received the Fellowship are Sirshendu Mukhopadhyay (Bengali), M Leelavathy (Malayalam), Dr. Bhalchandra Nemade (Marathi), Dr Tejwant Singh Gill (Punjabi), Swami Rambhadracharya (Sanskrit), Indira Parthasarthy (Tamil). Bond, who has written over 300 short stories, essays and novels and more than 30 books for children besides several other works, is the recipient of Sahitya Akademi Award, Sahitya Akademi's Bal Sahitya Puraskar, Padma Shri and Padma Bhushan among other prestigious awards. With 20 published books including poetry collections, novels, and short stories to his credit, Shukla is a member of the General Council of Sahitya Akademi. He is also the recipient of Sahitya Akademi Award, Shikhar Samman of the Madhya Pradesh Government, Hindi Gaurav Samman, Raja Puraskar, Rashtriya Maithilisharan Gupta Samman among others. Mukhopadhyay, who is a major Bengali novelist and short story writer began his career as a teacher and later took up productive journalistic writing. He is a recipient of the Sahitya Akademi Award, Ananda Puraskar, Vidyasagar Puraskar, Saratchandra Media, and Bhaulka Puraskar. An eminent Malayalam writer, literary critic, and educationist, Leelavathy has more than 60 published books to her credit including books on literary criticism, essays collections, and translations. Leelavathy has won many prestigious awards and honours like the Padma Shri, Sahitya Akademi Award, Kerala Sahitya Academy Award, Vallathol Award, Basheer Award, Ezhuthachan Puraskaram, and Guptan Nair Memorial Award. Marathi author Nemade has around 15 published books which have won him honours as the Padma Shri, Sahitya Akademi Award, Jnanpith Award, H N Apte Award, Yashwantrao Chavan Award, and R S Joag Award. Gill, an eminent Punjabi writer and scholar, has written 25 books and has translated works of Punjabi poetry, drama and fiction into English and Garcia Marquez's "One Hundred Years of Solitude" into Punjabi. An eminent spiritual leader and Sanskrit scholar, Rambhadracharya is the recipient of a number of awards including five gold medals at the All India Sanskrit Conference, Sahitya Akademi Award, Vishishta Puraskar, President's Certificate of Honours, Vachaspati Award, Tulasi Award, and Dev Bhumi Award among others. Tamil writer and scholar Parthasarathy has more than 40 published books to his credit including plays, novels, collection of short stories and anthologies of novellas. He is also a recipient of the Sahitya Akademi Award, Padma Shri, Saraswati Samman, Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, Tamil Nadu Government Award, Bharatiya Bhasha Parishad Award among others. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ruskin-bond-vinod-kumar-shukla-and-six-others-named-for-sahitya-akademi-fellowship-1031950.html
19-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Hygiene steps to keep communal virus at bay||With the BJP going all out to polarise voters along communal lines ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections six months from now, and its rivals making every effort to counter the same with ‘soft Hindutva’, the state is headed for a fierce, no-holds-barred, multi-cornered electoral battle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-hygiene-steps-to-keep-communal-virus-at-bay-1031968.html
19-09-2021||National||India reports 30,773 new Covid-19 cases, 309 deaths||With 30,773 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a single day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,34,48,163, while the active cases declined to 3,32,158, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,44,838 with 309 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.99 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.68 per cent, the ministry said.  A reduction of 8,481 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,59,895 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 55,23,40,168. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.97 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 20 days The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.04 per cent. It has been below three per cent  for the last 86 days, according to the health ministry.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,26,71,167, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 80.43 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 309 new fatalities include 143 from Kerala and 80 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,44,838 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,38,469 from Maharashtra, 37,587 From Karnataka, 35,310 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,439 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,641 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-30773-new-covid-19-cases-309-deaths-1031986.html
19-09-2021||National||Delhi-Mumbai Expressway to fetch monthly revenue of Rs 1,000 to 1,500 crore: Gadkari||The Centre will get toll revenues worth Rs 1,000 to 1,500 crore every month once the much-awaited Delhi-Mumbai Expressway becomes operational in 2023, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Sunday and described state-owned NHAI as a "gold mine" for generating income. Steering the ambitious drive to expand the country's road infrastructure for the past seven years, a confident Gadkari also asserted that National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will rake in annual toll income to the tune of Rs 1.40 lakh crore in the next five years from the current level of Rs 40,000 crore. Gadkari, who just completed a whirlwind tour to assess the progress of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway that will pass through four states apart from the national capital, said the national highways infrastructure is a world-class success story. "Once the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is completed and opened for the public, we will get at least Rs 1,000-1,500 crore as toll revenues every month," he told PTI in an interview. The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is likely to be completed by March 2023 and is being built as part of the first phase of the 'Bharatmala Pariyojana'. The eight-lane expressway, covering Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, is expected to halve the commute time between the national capital and the country's financial hub from nearly 24 hours to 12 hours. Against the backdrop of concerns being flagged about NHAI being saddled with high level of debt, the Union Road Transport and Highways Minister pointed out that the nodal agency has received 'AAA' rating and all its road projects are productive. 'AAA' is one of the highest credit ratings and indicate robust financial position. "NHAI was not in a debt trap, and it will never be in debt trap in future. It is a gold mine, and is on strong footing... in the next five years, NHAI's toll income will rise to Rs 1.40 lakh crore per year from current toll income of Rs 40,000 crore," Gadkari noted. In March, the Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture had expressed its displeasure over a whopping Rs 97,115 crore-debt servicing liability on NHAI. Recently, the minister informed Rajya Sabha that total borrowings of NHAI increased to Rs 3,06,704 crore at the end of March this year from Rs 74,742 crore in March 2017. While noting that investments in the infrastructure sector will create employment and accelerate the country's economic growth, Gadkari said, "We (NHAI and the ministry) are working on projects worth lakhs of crores". When the economy is on a decline, "then economics tells us that there is a need to increase investments in infrastructure", he added. The country's economy has been adversely impacted by the coronavirus pandemic and is slowly on the recovery path. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-mumbai-expressway-to-fetch-monthly-revenue-of-rs-1000-to-1500-crore-gadkari-1032000.html
19-09-2021||National||Small cars too need adequate number of airbags to ensure safety: Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said that small cars, mostly purchased by lower middle-class people, should also have an adequate number of airbags and wondered why auto makers are providing eight airbags only in big cars bought by rich people. In an interview to PTI, the Road Transport and Highways Minister also emphasised that his appeal for more airbags in small economy cars was to ensure safety and prevent possible deaths in accidents. His remarks come against the backdrop of the automobile industry raising concerns that high taxation and stricter safety and emission norms for vehicles have made their products expensive. Mostly, lower middle-class people buy small economy cars and "if their car won't have airbags and when accidents happen, then it may result in deaths. So, I appeal to all car manufacturers to provide a minimum of six airbags across all variants and segments of the vehicle," he said. While acknowledging that additional airbags in small cars will increase their cost by at least Rs 3,000-4,000, Gadkari also said, "in our country, poor should also get protection (in case of road accidents)". Known for expressing his views frankly, he said, "for rich people, you (auto makers) offer eight airbags, and for economy model cars (used by lower middle-class people), you will offer only two-three airbags. How come?" Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/small-cars-also-need-adequate-number-of-airbags-to-ensure-safety-gadkari-1032005.html
19-09-2021||National||Address gender disparity in Covid-19 vaccination: OMAG||As India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme gets fast-paced, a professional body of doctors has called upon the Centre and state government to address the issue of gender disparity.  The Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), an umbrella organisation of professional medical associations of post-graduate doctors, said India will be able to meet the commitment of vaccinating the eligible population by the end of 2021, however, we need to address some of the challenges on war-footing. “The challenges in terms of gender disparity need to be addressed through women-friendly clinics and vaccination timings,” OMAG secretary general Dr Ishwar Gilada and president Dr Suneela Garg said in a statement. “The elderly population and difficult to reach population needs to be provided vaccines at the doorsteps. At no stage we can afford to be complacent with regard to vaccinations, addressing vaccine hesitancy whether it is total or relative, continued Covid-appropriate behaviour, and looking for new variants of concerns through genomic studies,” said Dr Gilada.  According to OMAG, one of the major concerns is regarding the use of Covishield. "We are majorly banking on Covishield that meets 90 per cent supplies and Covaxin that meets the reminder with Sputnik V vaccination is minuscule 30 lakhs (0.4 per cemt). Moderna mRNA vaccine licensed to Cipla for marketing, Johnson & Johnson-single dose licensed to Biological-E for domestic production and ZyCov of Zydus Cadila – none have made debut. Probably from next month these three and six more vaccines awaiting the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) nod, will give a major boost to the requisite quantity," it said. “More so it will further help enhance India’s image globally with its capacity to export vaccines to those countries in dire need of vaccines, as they are still below 5 per cent of vaccination,” it said. Even if 100 per cent of the adult population is fully vaccinated, we will need to at least vaccinate 25 per cent of the below 18 population, to be able to achieve the required target of 70 per cent of the total population to attain the ‘herd immunity’, if at all the concept of herd immunity holds true for the coronavirus.  "As regards to the third wave looming at large, the populous states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu hold key due to the relatively low pace of vaccination,” Dr Gilada said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/address-gender-disparity-in-covid-19-vaccination-omag-1032014.html
19-09-2021||National||Tags to riches: Gadkari's YouTube Expressway a hit with fans||They say politicians rake in crores, but Nitin Gadkari earns in lakhs. Check his YouTube videos and you’ll know. Gadkari recently said he gets Rs four lakh every month as royalty from YouTube, as viewership of his lecture videos posted on the popular video streaming platform has increased during the pandemic period. An aide to the senior Union minister told PTI that the earnings from YouTube may not always be as high as the sum he mentioned, but they are substantial as he has a large, dedicated following, always awaiting new videos for his frank – some say brutally frank – views on diverse topics. And the videos are aplenty. The aide says Gadkari addresses anywhere between five to seven ‘webinars’ daily from his residences in Nagpur or Delhi and has so far held around 1500 such virtual interactions during the pandemic. Soon after the first national lockdown was imposed, Gadkari started addressing events and various programmes through video link. Starting from April 2, 2020, Gadkari has been a part of almost 1500 such events, reaching out to crores of people across India and abroad, the aide says. Gadkari has 92 lakh followers on Twitter, 16 lakh followers on Facebook, 13 lakh followers on Instagram, and two lakh followers on YouTube. Content monetisation has helped him earn big bucks from YouTube. While the topics he has touched in the online interactions range from the ‘gym to gem’ sector, as the aide says, Gadkari holds forth with equal vigour while speaking on cooking as he does on the expressways he has built. Gadkari, a self-proclaimed foodie, says he started cooking at home during the pandemic. His YouTube channel began in 2015 but has become more active during the pandemic. It has all his speeches, press conferences, and media bytes garnering thousands of views. Those who like the videos also tag them, bringing more viewership. Gadkari was invited by international organisations, universities to deliver speeches virtually during the pandemic and all those videos were uploaded on his YouTube channel, the aide says. In these virtual interactions, Gadkari’s approach is to ask people to convert adversity into opportunity, the aide says. Through his numerous webinars, Gadkari has interacted with chambers of commerce, economic forums, students, scientists, entrepreneurs, foreign investors, and Indians abroad. Two Nagpur-based journalists, Rahul Pande and Sarita Kaushik are bringing out a book titled 'Unmasking India' after going through almost 500 of these webinars. They said the book is a compilation of amazing thoughts articulated by Gadkari on Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Pande said Gadkari has had online interactions with leading doctors, engineers, policymakers, and secretaries in most state and Central government departments. These people shared their problems with Gadkari, who guided them towards solutions, he said. The range of topics covered is diverse, from micro, small and medium industry to agriculture, forestry, transport, and green energy. Gadkari not only interacted with prominent builders or real estate sector players but also reached out to Gadchiroli district tribals who collect honey and tendu leaves for livelihood. During his online lectures and interactions, Gadkari has spoken of his road map for cluster-driven growth along highways, with equal stress on boosting agriculture and creating value out of farm and forest produce to bring economic prosperity in rural India, Pande says. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tags-to-riches-gadkaris-youtube-expressway-a-hit-with-fans-1032018.html
19-09-2021||National||PM Modi urges people to take part in auction of gifts, mementos received by him||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to take part in the auction of several gifts and mementos that he has received over the years, and said the proceeds would go to the 'Namami Gange' initiative. Sports equipment and gears of India's Olympics and  Paralympics stars, including badminton rackets of Krishna Nagar and S L Yathiraj, Neeraj Chopra's javelin and gloves of Lovlina Borgohain, are among the mementos that are drawing the maximum bids in an e-auction by the Culture Ministry. "Over time, I have received several gifts and mementos which are being auctioned. This includes the special mementos given by our Olympics heroes. Do take part in the auction," Modi tweeted. The proceeds would go to the 'Namami Gange' initiative, he added. The Namami Gange Mission is aimed at conserving and rejuvenating the River Ganga. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-people-to-take-part-in-auction-of-gifts-mementos-received-by-him-1032023.html
19-09-2021||National||Indian Industry to produce two more entire rockets - GSLV-Mk III and SSLV||The Department of Space (DoS) plans to realise entirely-built rockets -- GSLV-Mk III and SSLV -- from Indian industry partners, in addition to PSLV, according to a top official of its commercial arm NSIL. NSIL (NewSpace India Limited) has received three bids -- HAL-L&T, BEL-Adani-BEML, and BHEL, in response to the request for proposal (RFP) floated by it for end-to-end production of PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle). "We are now going through the techno-commercial evaluation (in respect of the three bids)", NSIL Chairman and Managing Director, Radhakrishnan D, told PTI. He said the process will be completed within the next two months with one of the bidders bagging the contract. The selected bidder will be responsible for realisation of five numbers of PSLV. Immediately after selection of the bidder to produce the entire PSLV, NSIL will release Expression of Interest (EOI) for end-to-end production of another operational rocket -- GSLV-Mk III (Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle) -- in a similar fashion, Radhakrishnan said. "I am targeting before the end of this year (to release EOI for GSLV-Mk III)", he said. NSIL also has plans to realise SSLV (Small Satellite Launch Vehicle), being developed by the Indian Space Research Organisation (SSLV) with the first development flight expected by this year-end, through Indian industry partners. "We are waiting for the first mission (of SSLV) to happen successfully", Radhakrishnan said. "This (SSLV) will be an ideal candidate for industry production". SSLV is a three-stage all solid vehicle and has a capability to launch up to 500 kg satellite mass into 500 km low earth orbit (LEO) and 300 kg to Sun Synchronous Orbit (SSO). The new generation compact rocket has been designed to meet "launch on demand" requirements in a cost-effective manner for small satellites in a dedicated and rideshare mode, according to officials of Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO. Industrialisation of space activities is gaining momentum in India. About 40 space startups and industries are in consultation with ISRO for support related to various domains of space activity such as development of satellites, launch vehicles, develop applications and provide space-based services. India's Foreign Direct Investment policy in the space sector is also getting revised which, the ISRO Chairman and DoS Secretary K Sivan believe, will open up huge avenues for foreign companies to invest in the country. Earlier this month, the DoS entered into a Framework MoU with two spacetech startups -- Skyroot Aerospace and Agnikul Cosmos -- for access to ISRO facilities and expertise towards the development and testing of subsystems/systems of space launch vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-industry-to-produce-two-more-entire-rockets-gslv-mk-iii-and-sslv-1032024.html
19-09-2021||National||US trade official called India's Mastercard ban 'draconian'||A senior US trade official privately criticised India's July decision to ban Mastercard Inc from issuing new cards, calling it a "draconian" move that caused "panic", according to US government emails seen by Reuters. The documents show frustration within the US government after India's central bank banned new card issuance by American Express and Diners Club International in April, then took similar action against Mastercard in July. The Reserve Bank of India accuses the companies of breaking local data-storage rules. The bans do not affect existing customers. The ban on Mastercard - a top payment network in India alongside Visa - triggered a flurry of emails between US officials in Washington and India as they discussed next steps with Mastercard, including approaching the RBI, the government emails show. "We've started hearing from stakeholders about some pretty draconian measures that the RBI has taken over the past couple days," Brendan A. Lynch, the deputy assistant US trade representative for South and Central Asia, wrote on July 16, two days after the Mastercard announcement. "It sounds like some others (Amex, Diners) may have been impacted by similar actions recently," wrote Lynch, asking his colleagues in India to get in touch with their central bank contacts "to see what's going on". Lynch, spokespeople for the Office of the US Trade Representative and the US Embassy in New Delhi did not respond to requests for comment. The US government has not publicly commented on the Mastercard ban. The RBI did not immediately respond. A Mastercard spokesman told Reuters, "We've had very constructive engagements with the Indian and US governments over the past few weeks and appreciate the support of both." This includes discussions with the RBI, and Mastercard has "made good progress" as it looks to resolve the situation quickly, he said. Mastercard counts India as a key growth market. In 2019 it said it was "bullish on India", a country where it has made major investment bets and built research and technology centres. The Mastercard ban rattled the company and upset India's financial sector as Indian partner banks fear a hit to their income as they struggle to swiftly partner with new networks to offer cards. The RBI acted against Mastercard because it was "found to be non-compliant" with the 2018 rules despite the "lapse of considerable time and adequate opportunities". The rules, requiring foreign card networks to store Indian payments data locally for "unfettered supervisory access", were implemented after failed lobbying efforts of US firms also soured trade ties between New Delhi and Washington. Mastercard has said it was "disappointed" with the decision. The company has told Reuters it had submitted an additional audit report to the RBI before the ban took effect on July 22. The US government emails show there was hope things could be sorted out before that. In one, Lynch told colleagues the understanding was that "the RBI has info they need and are hopeful that they will respond appropriately." But as the ban approached, "if the RBI doesn't change course, I'm sure the panic will resume," he wrote. Days later, he wrote that Mastercard was continuing "to put on the full court press" in Washington.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-trade-official-called-indias-mastercard-ban-draconian-1032026.html
19-09-2021||National||Over 78.58 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: Centre||More than 78.58 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Further, more than 1.16 crore doses are in the pipeline. The ministry said over 5.16 crore balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7858-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-1032028.html
19-09-2021||National||Backdoor entry in colleges should stop, lakhs of students work hard to get admission: Delhi HC||Lakhs of students in the country work hard and toil to secure admissions in educational institutions on the basis of merit and it is high time that backdoor entries there, including medical colleges, should stop, the Delhi High Court has said. The high court's observation came while dismissing an appeal by five students who were granted admission in 2016 by L N Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Bhopal, without their undergoing the centralised counselling conducted by the Department of Medical Education (DME). However, according to the Supreme Court's direction, admissions in all government and private medical colleges in the country have to be done through the centralised counselling system on the basis of NEET examination result. Consequently, the Medical Council of India (MCI) issued letters of discharge regarding the five petitioners in April 2017 and thereafter, several more communications were sent but neither the students nor the medical college paid any heed to them. The college continued to treat the petitioners as their students and allowed them to attend the course, appear in the examinations and get promoted. Eventually, the five petitioners filed a petition seeking quashing of the discharge communications issued by the MCI and for direction that they be permitted to continue their studies in the medical college as regular medical students, which was dismissed by the single judge. They filed an appeal challenging the single judge's order. However, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also dismissed the appeal saying there is no merit in it. "It is high time that such backdoor entries in educational institutions, including medical colleges, should stop. Lakhs of students all over the country work hard and toil to secure admissions to educational institutions on the basis of their merit," the bench said in its order on September 9. "To permit any backdoor entry to any educational institution would be grossly unfair to those who are denied admission, despite being more meritorious, on account of the seats being taken and blocked by such backdoor entrants,” it said. It further added that the petitioners have only themselves to blame for the mess that they find themselves in. "Had they acted in terms of the discharge letter of April 26, 2017, they would have saved four years of their lives. But they did not, and acted recklessly. Despite not having any interim orders in their favour in their writ petition, they continued to attend the course – obviously, at their own peril,” the court said. Advocate T Singhdev, representing the MCI, said despite discharge of the petitioners by the MCI, as early as on April 26, 2017, the same was not acted upon either by the college or by the students and they continued to ignore it even after repeated communications. He further said that there was no interim order obtained by the petitioners from the court and despite that they continued to take admissions in subsequent years and undertake examinations at the college which was done at their own peril and they cannot claim equity in their favour. Singhdev said the petitioners did not undergo the centralised counselling and they were well aware from day one that their admissions in the college were irregular and illegal, being in the teeth of the judgement of the Supreme Court. The counsel for the petitioners contended that they ranked higher in the NEET examination than even those who were granted admission through the central counselling conducted by the DME in relation to this medical college and, therefore, they should be shown leniency. The court said it is for this reason that if the medical college had informed the vacancy position to the DME on time, the DME would have conducted further counselling and sent names on merit on the basis of the NEET examination conducted in 2016. "It is quite possible that the names of other candidates, more meritorious than the five petitioners, may have been sent,” the bench said. "Since the respondent medical college does not appear to have informed the DME of the vacancy position, and they proceeded to grant admissions to the five petitioners much before the close of the date of admission on October 7, 2016, the other meritorious students, obviously, remained unaware that they could stake a claim against a seat in the respondent medical college on the basis of their merit. Thus, to say that no other meritorious candidate has shown up, is neither here nor there,” it added.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/backdoor-entry-in-colleges-should-stop-lakhs-of-students-work-hard-to-get-admission-delhi-hc-1032030.html
19-09-2021||National||PM Modi, Jaisahankar will take a call on further infrastructure investments in Afghanistan: Gadkari||With Afghanistan coming under the control of the Taliban, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said a final decision on continuing infrastructure investments in the war-torn country will be taken by the prime minister along with the external affairs minister after considering the prevailing situation. Gadkari, who is helming the Road Transport and Highways Ministry, also said that while many infrastructure projects in that country have been completed by India, some are yet to be completed. Last month, the Taliban seized control of Afghanistan ousting the previous elected leadership which was backed by the West. "We have built a dam (Salma dam)... we have worked in areas of water resources in Afghanistan," Gadkari said while responding to a query on whether India will make further investments in the now Taliban-controlled country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will take a decision on whether India will now invest in infrastructure projects in Afghanistan or not, Gadkari said. "As a friendly country, we had discussions with Afghanistan government officials for building some roads (also)... good that I did not start construction of roads (in Afghanistan)... the situation there is of concern," he told PTI in an interview. India has invested around $3 billion in different welfare and infrastructure projects in Afghanistan. On Friday, Modi said the global community should decide "collectively" and "thoughtfully" on recognising the new setup in Afghanistan in view of questions over its acceptability as the change of power was not "inclusive".  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-jaisahankar-will-take-a-call-on-further-infrastructure-investments-in-afghanistan-gadkari-1032045.html
19-09-2021||National||Maharashtra bids adieu to Lord Ganesha amid terror threat, Covid-19 rules||With loud chants of ‘Ganpati bappa moraya…pudchaya varshi laukar yah’ and bursts of gulal, Maharashtra bid adieu to Lord Ganesha on Sunday amid tight security arrangements in the wake of a terror threat. Large crowds thronged the streets of the Mumbai metropolitan region and neighbouring districts of Pune and Nashik. With the threat of the third wave looming large, the Maharashtra government and local bodies had announced a series of measures that were not strictly observed in many places on Sunday.  Huge crowds were seen on roads of Byculla-Tardeo-Lalbaug-Parel area known for grand celebrations with idols like those of Ganesh Gully, Lalbaugcha Raja, Chintamani Ganesh and so on. From the terrace and balconies, people offered flowers to Lord Ganpati. Though processions was banned, people came out in large numbers for the darshan of the pot-bellied elephant-headed Ganesha, the god of intellect, wisdom and prosperity.  The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has made special arrangements in Girgaum Chowpatty, one of the biggest and most crowded immersion sites.  “Until we meet again next year...Let's all pray and follow guidelines so that we can welcome Bappa to a Covid-free Mumbai next year!,” the BMC said in its Twitter handle.  “During visarjan, keep the memories of Bappa close & mask even closer,” the Mumbai Police tweeted.  In the wake of the terror threat with the busting of Pakistan-ISI-backed terror by Delhi Police, security was beefed up in the Mumbai metropolitan region comprising twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and neighbouring areas of Palghar, Thane and Raigad and the local train network. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-bids-adieu-to-lord-ganesha-amid-terror-threat-covid-19-rules-1032052.html
19-09-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi takes dig at government over record Covid vaccinations on PM's birthday, calls it an 'event'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the government over the record Covid-19 vaccinations in a single day, and said the "event" is over now. He also shared a graph of the vaccination trend in the last 10 days as per data from the Co-WIN website to show the decline in inoculations after the record. India vaccinated 2.5 crore people in a single day on Friday to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. Using the hashtag vaccination, Gandhi said in a tweet, "Event over". Gandhi on Saturday had hoped more such record vaccinations happened in the country. "Looking forward to many more days of 2.1 crore vaccinations.This pace is what our country needs," he had said on Twitter. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/event-over-rahul-gandhi-takes-dig-at-government-over-record-covid-vaccinations-on-pms-birthday-1032055.html
19-09-2021||National||Adityanath releases report card; says UP has seen complete transformation||Uttar Pradesh remained riot-free since 2017 while governance saw a complete transformation from the past with welfare schemes now reaching the deserving and the state emerging as number two in the ease of doing business, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday while making public the report card of his rule of four-and-half years. The BJP government has fulfilled every promise mentioned in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra in 2017, he said and voiced confidence that the party' tally will cross 350 seats in the 403-member House in the 2022 assembly polls. The chief minister also hit out at the opposition, saying they were busy building their houses when they were in power and indulged in corruption for transfer and postings while the state was seen as a laggard in development and its image linked with riots. Uttar Pradesh is now number one in implementing 44 central schemes be it the PM Awas Yojna or construction of toilets in the households and its image is no longer liked with riots due to effective and transparent governance, Adityanath said at a press conference while listing the achievements in various fields including development, law and order and handling of the coronavirus pandemic. "Unlike them (previous governments), we did not make luxurious houses for ourselves. Our government focused on building houses for the poor," he said, taking a veiled dig at his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav. "Government bungalows were demolished, and there was a competition to build houses for themselves as well as huge 'havelis' (mansions). But the four-and-half years were dedicated to good governance. And we did not build houses for ourselves, but for 42 lakh poor people of the state," he said. He said criminals were firmly dealt with irrespective of their caste and religion to provide a safe and secure environment in the state. "UP remained free from any riots during four-and-half years unlike in the past when there used to be communal clashes every 3-4 days," the chief minister said. He also claimed the government displayed sensitivity at every level. Facing criticism over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister pointed out that the state has the highest number of tests and vaccinations and is among those with the lowest positivity rates. He said the investors' confidence in the state is growing and UP has emerged as number 2 in the country in terms of ease of doing business. Accusing the previous SP government of shuffling officials frequently, Adityanath said, "Transfer and posting had assumed the shape of an industry in the previous (SP) government. Every post was sold. "Earlier, the officials were shuffled like a pack of cards. But in the past four-and-half years, no person can level allegations of exchange of money for posting." A booklet titled 'Vikaas kee lahar, har gaav har shahr' which listed achievements of the UP government was also released on the occasion. "In the 2022 Assembly elections, BJP will win 350 seats (out of 403 seats), and there should be no doubts on this," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adityanath-releases-report-card-says-up-has-seen-complete-transformation-1032069.html
19-09-2021||National||Security forces use pump action guns to destroy low-flying drones||Security forces that guard vital installations, airports and even their own camps have been directed to use rubber bullets bearing pump action guns to neutralise low-flying drones till an appropriate technology is found to thwart such aerial attacks, official sources said. Also, forces like the Border Security Force (BSF) have recently installed an improvised iron pole mounted light machine gun (LMG) observation post at some of its border deployments against Pakistan to take a 360 degrees aim and shoot down drones or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) flying at a high altitude, they said. A latest blueprint prepared by central security agencies to counter the emerging drone threat has been reviewed by PTI and it directs security forces to use PAGs (pump action guns) that are already available in their armoury for "neutralising any low-flying UAV". Following the directive, the central forces deployed for internal security have begun allocating PAGs to their units vulnerable to drone threats, including those deployed for anti-Naxal operations. "Till a complete technology solution is found for effectively checking and neutralising a drone attack, the security forces have been asked to use what is available with them, like the PAGs. "Those who do not have adequate numbers of these non-lethal weapons have been asked to procure them," a senior Union home ministry officer said. He said the security units deployed for counter-terrorist duties in Kashmir and those guarding airport boundaries have also been asked to provide these arms to their sentries deployed for observation and protection of the campus. "It has been found that rubber pellets fired by the PAGs can effectively bring down a drone that is flying low at about 60-100 meters from the ground and attempting to either drop bombs or to conduct reconnaissance of the camp area or the installation," an officer from a Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) said. For example, he said, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) guards a number of airports and facilities in the power and nuclear domain where there are either people living close to the boundary or there is vehicular movement, and hence using a lethal weapon like an INSAS rifle can cause collateral damage and injure a person. Hence, the officer said it has been advised that if low-flying drones are detected, they should be shot using the PAGs and save larger damage to the facility and those present there. "Various CAPFs like the CRPF, ITBP, SSB and the CISF have their camps in risk-prone areas and hence they have been advised to use pump action guns to protect their camps from drone bombings or surveillance sorties," a third officer said. For border guarding forces like the BSF, which guards over 6,300 km of the Indian front with Pakistan and Bangladesh taken together, it is "suggested" to use regular lethal weapons like INSAS rifles to kill a drone but incase they find a UAV descending or losing height to carry out an attack, it has been recommended that PAGs can be used, officials said. The security establishment is still looking at procuring a suitable counter-drone technology for the last few years but the effort has been scrambled in the wake of the first-ever drone attack on the IAF station in Jammu on June 27 where two UAVs dropped bombs injuring two airmen and damaging a portion of a building inside. Former BSF director general Rakesh Asthana had said that such incidents are a "very serious and very dangerous" threat and there is an urgent need to develop counter-technology against this challenge. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-forces-use-pump-action-guns-to-destroy-low-flying-drones-1032081.html
19-09-2021||National||Side-effects of Covid jab recurring within 20 days that need immediate medical attention||The Centre has released a list of post-vaccination symptoms that may require immediate medical attention. While there are some common side-effects of the Covid vaccine, others might need immediate attention. On Saturday, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting shared a graphic on social media that asked people to consult a doctor if certain symptoms occur within 20 days of recieving the vaccine. Here’s the list of symptoms within 20 days of vaccination that may require immediate attention: 1. Shortness of breath 2. Chest pain 3. Vomiting or persistent abdominal pain 4. Blurred vision or pain in the eyes 5. Severe or persistent headache 6. Weakness in any body part 7. Seizures 8. Pain in limbs or swelling in arms or feet Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/side-effects-of-covid-jab-recurring-within-20-days-that-need-immediate-medical-attention-1032084.html
19-09-2021||National||Ration card-related services now available at common services centres||To streamline ration deliveries and strengthen public distribution system (PDS) in semi-urban and rural areas across the country, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has tied up the Common Services Centres (CSC) under the Ministry of Electronics & IT. A Memorandum of Understanding has been signed between the Department of Food & Public Distribution and the CSC to enable ration card services through 3.70 lakh CSCs across the country. The partnership is expected to benefit over 23.64 crore ration card holders across the country who can now visit their nearest CSC and update their card details, do Aadhaar seeding, get duplicate print of their card, check status of availability of ration and register their grievance. Apart from existing ration card holders, citizens wanting to apply for a new ration card can also now visit their nearest CSC to put in the request application. Elaborating on the partnership, CSC Managing Director Dinesh Tyagi said: “Following our partnership with the Department of Food & Public Distribution, our Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) who run CSCs will be able to reach out to those without ration cards and help them get access to the public distribution system and various government schemes for free ration.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ration-card-related-services-now-available-at-common-services-centres-1032091.html
19-09-2021||National||Vice President Naidu releases books on Sir Chhotu Ram||Vice President of India M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday lauded farmers for not letting the country down during the Covid pandemic, and called for an integrated approach towards rural economy to ensure income security for them. "Our objective should be the overall well-being of the rural society. We need to develop an integrated approach towards rural economy to ensure income security of our farmers," he said. Releasing works of Sir Chhotu Ram at an event in Gurgaon, the vice president credited him with major agricultural reforms in undivided Punjab. Improving the quality of life in rural areas will be a true tribute to revolutionary visionaries like him, Naidu added. Naidu was addressing a gathering after releasing five volumes of Sir Chhotu Ram: Writings and Speeches brought out by the Haryana Academy of History and Culture. He suggested that copies of the publication should be available in public libraries and Panchayat Ghar so that the people could read and learn about the life and work of the great leader. Naidu reiterated the need to modernise agriculture and adopt best practices to make it more sustainable and remunerative. "Building on our past experiences, we must regularly revisit and renew our strategies on agriculture and rural development, and introduce new technologies as part of our efforts to build a self-reliant India," he said in an official statement. Agriculture is the backbone of the Indian economy, and the country cannot progress if villages remain underdeveloped and backward, Naidu said. He further said that many of our freedom fighters did not get the recognition they deserved, and called for efforts to spread awareness about their life and work. Observing that the independence movement was not just a political movement, he said, it had a deep social and economic reformist agenda as well. Naidu praised contributions of Sir Chhotu Ram for the cause of nation building. "He worked tirelessly to bring reforms in the agriculture sector and to free farmers from the exploitation of money lenders," he said. Mentioning that Sir Chhotu Ram was the first person to visualise the Bhakhra Nagal dam on Sutlej river, the vice president said he was a farmer's son and had deep understating of farmers' problems. He also praised the legendary leader for his bold initiatives in the field of social reform and education. Naidu recalled Sir Chhotu Ram's strong opposition to the partition of the country, saying he was a true nationalist who dreamt of a united and strong India. Sir Chhotu Ram was a man of renaissance, and he ushered in new ideas in polity, society and rural economy, the vice president said. Younger generations should take inspiration from great personalities like Chhotu Ram, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya, Ram Manohar Lohia and Chaudhary Charan Singh and strive to build an "Atmanirbhar Bharat", he said. Complimenting former Union minister Birendra Singh, the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram, Naidu urged all state governments to prepare similar compilations on prominent leaders. He exhorted the youth “to read books on great leaders such as Chhotu Ram, visit historical places such as their birthplaces and draw inspiration from their lives”. Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar, former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, and former Uttarakhand CM Vijay Bahuguna were among those who attended the event. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-releases-books-on-sir-chhotu-ram-1032096.html
19-09-2021||National||India mulls reopening doors to foreign tourists as Covid-19 situation eases||With the Covid-19 situation easing in India, the government is mulling reopening the country for foreign tourists over a year after the doors were shut in March 2020. Officials said the plan is to issue visas free of cost to the first five lakh foreign tourists in a bid to help in the revival of the tourism sector, which was hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. The financial implication for the scheme would be around Rs 100 crore. The Ministry of Home Ministry is discussing the issues with all stakeholders, including the Ministry of Tourism, tour operators and other stakeholders. Officials expect that the government would make the announcement in the next 10 days. As per the plan, free visas to the tourists will be issued till March 31, 2022 or till the issuance of five lakh visas, whichever is earlier. The government expects that this move will incentivise short-term tourists. The cost for a month-long e-tourist visa in India is country-specific but is around $25. Year-long multiple entry e-tourists visa charge is around $40. The government suspended the e-tourist visa scheme in March 2020 as the country went into a lockdown. The decision will be announced after the government decides on the criteria of foreign tourists who would be allowed entry. Deliberations are on conditions like limiting it to only vaccinated travellers for now and having a negative list of countries where Covid-19 cases remain a concern. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mulls-reopening-doors-to-foreign-tourists-as-covid-19-situation-eases-1032103.html
19-09-2021||National||India becoming destination country for healthy foods like millets: Tomar at G-20 agri meet||India is becoming the destination country for healthy food items like millets and the government is promoting biofortified varieties to address malnutrition, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said as he participated in the G-20 agriculture meeting virtually.         Tomar said the United Nations (UN) has accepted India's proposal and declared 2023 as international year of millets and urged the G-20 nations to support the celebration of the millet year to promote nutrition and sustainable agriculture.         The G20 Agriculture Ministers' Meeting is one of the ministerial meetings organised as part of the G20 Leaders Summit 2021 to be hosted by Italy in October.         "The Government of India has emphasised on re-introducing traditional food items including millet, other nutritious cereals, fruits and vegetables, fish, dairy and organic products in the diet of the people. Their production has been phenomenal in India in recent years and India is becoming a destination country for healthy food items," an official statement quoted Tomar having said in his virtual address.         Tomar said biofortified-varieties, which are the source of staple diet rich in micro-nutrients, are being promoted to remove malnutrition. About 17 such varieties of different crops have been developed and released for cultivation. The government has also taken steps to increase the optimal use of water resources, create infrastructure for irrigation, conserve soil fertility with balanced use of fertilizers, and provide connectivity from farms to markets, he added.         The minister was addressing a session on "Working together to achieve the Zero Hunger goal: successful projects implemented by the Ministries of Agriculture".         Stating that Indian agriculture has achieved great success after the country's independence, Tomar said, "The Indian agriculture sector remained unaffected even during the Covid pandemic." Various government initiatives to keep the agri-market dynamic along with the agri-input supply chain during the Covid pandemic have helped the agriculture sector in better performance, he said. Consequently during the year 2020-2021, there has been increase in the production of foodgrains as well as in exports, he added. Highlighting measures taken towards sustainable agriculture, the minister said the 'Per Drop-More Crop' scheme for irrigation and 'Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana' for organic farming is being successfully implemented. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana is being implemented to provide insurance cover for the farmers.         "India is fully aware of its commitments on the issues of climate change and several steps have been taken to make agriculture sustainable," he said. To address the malnutrition problem, India is running the world's largest food-based safety net programme, which includes the Public Distribution System and the Mid-Day Meal Scheme, he added. The government is also providing an annual income support of Rs 6,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. So far, Rs 1.58 lakh crore has been deposited in the bank accounts of more than 11.37 crore farmers under this scheme. Further, Tomar assured that India will share best practices and build capacities of other developing countries. He reiterated India's resolve to continue working together to achieve the Poverty Reduction' and 'Zero Hunger Goal as part of the sustainable development goals. He also reiterated India's resolve to cooperate in research and development as well as exchange of best practices to enhance productivity. Tomar led a four-member Indian delegation to the G20 Agriculture Ministerial meeting which was organised in a hybrid mode due to the pandemic.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becoming-destination-country-for-healthy-foods-like-millets-tomar-at-g-20-agri-meet-1032106.html
19-09-2021||National||No one can be convicted of abetment to suicide without positive act of instigation: SC||The Supreme Court has said that no one can be convicted for the offence of abetment to suicide under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code without a positive act to instigate or aid one to end his or her life. "To proceed against any person for the offence under Section 306 IPC it requires an active act or direct act which led the deceased to commit suicide, seeing no option and that act must have been intended to push the deceased into such a position that he committed suicide," a bench of Justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy said. The top court further pointed out ‘abetment’ involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing. The court explained the legal provision while quashing a criminal case and a non-bailable warrant issued against a girl in Meerut in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly forcing a youth from the Scheduled Caste community to end his life after she refused to marry him. After considering the facts of the case and material on record, the bench said except the statement, there is no material at all to show that she was maintaining any relation with him. The court noted, in fact, at an earlier point of time when the deceased was stalking the appellant, she, along with her father, went to the police station to complain about the calls being made by the deceased to her. This was evident from the statement of a police officer, who deposed that a complaint was received against the deceased for continuously calling the appellant and proposing that she should marry him, otherwise he will die, the court pointed out. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-can-be-convicted-of-abetment-to-suicide-without-positive-act-of-instigation-sc-1032112.html
19-09-2021||National||Narcotic jihad row: Congress to call meeting of religious leaders||The Congress in Kerala on Sunday said it would call a meeting of various religious leaders in the state to spread the message of communal harmony, in the wake of controversial 'narcotic jihad' remarks made by a catholic bishop. KPCC Chief K Sudhakaran and Leader of Opposition in the assembly, V D Satheesan held talks with Muslim religious heads today as part of the party's efforts to resolve the row over the comments made by Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt recently. The senior Congress leaders met Sayyid Muhammad Jifri Muthukkoya Thangal, the leader of Samastha Kerala Jem'iyyathul Ulema and Grand Mufti of India, Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musliyar. Later, speaking to reporters, Sudhakaran said the KPCC has decided to take up conciliatory talks between the Christian and Muslim communities as the state government "failed to take up the responsibility". "We understand that nobody in our society wants to spread hatred and want all the religious leaders to come together to discuss and address the matter. The KPCC will convene a meeting of all religious leaders in order to spread the message of religious harmony," he said. Alleging that certain online media houses were attempting to cause disharmony in the state, Satheesan asked the government to take stern action against them. Noting that responsibility of the Left government was to stand with all communities in the state, Thangal, who was present at the press meet, said, "If such a statement comes from the Bishop, then the government stand should not be in a manner justifying it. The government should stand for all communities and it is its responsibility." If there is something called 'love jihad,' then it should be probed, he said. Asked whether he will participate in the conciliatory meeting called by the Congress party, Musaliyar termed the statement of the Bishop as 'wrong' and said it needs to be corrected. The bishop had at a function on September 9 stated that Christian girls were falling prey to 'love and narcotic jihad' in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth of the state. Senior BJP leader C K Padmanabhan had on Saturday said one cannot blame any particular religion for the narcotics issue. The statement of Padmanabhan assumes significance as the BJP had alleged that the Congress and the CPI(M) were taking a position in favour of extremist elements creating trouble in the society instead of addressing the issue raised by the senior Christian priest. On Thursday, Sudhakaran and V D Satheesan met senior priests of Christian and Muslim communities to calm tempers following the remark of the bishop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narcotic-jihad-row-congress-to-call-meeting-of-religious-leaders-1032119.html
19-09-2021||National||Rahul congratulates Channi on being picked as Punjab CM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday after he was picked as the next Punjab chief minister, and said the party must continue to fulfil the promises made to the people of the state. Channi, who was elected the Congress Legislature Party leader on Sunday and will take oath as chief minister on Monday, succeeds Amarinder Singh who resigned on Saturday alleging humiliation by the party. Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfill the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance. "Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfil the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance," Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-congratulates-channi-on-being-picked-as-punjab-cm-1032128.html
19-09-2021||National||Deferments by courts causing unnecessary burden on us: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has observed deferments by courts cause unnecessary burden on it as it granted interim protection from arrest to a man whose anticipatory bail application is pending before the Allahabad High Court for the past seven months. A bench of justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh granted the relief while noting that the Allahabad High Court has not taken any view on the anticipatory bail application pending before it. "We do believe that such deferments are only causing unnecessary burden on this Court rather than being dealt with at the appropriate level. "The petitioner was never arrested during the investigation, however, he joined and cooperated with the investigation. In such a scenario, on the charge-sheet being filed, there is no need to arrest the petitioner and produce him before the Court in view of the legal position now enunciated by us," the bench said. The top court made the observation while hearing a plea by an accused seeking anticipatory bail in a criminal case. In pursuance to cognisance taken by the Special CBI Court Ghaziabad against the petitioner, a summons was issued against him. On receiving the summons, the petitioner applied for anticipatory bail on January 16, 2021, which was declined on January 28. The petitioner then filed an application for anticipatory bail before the High Court on February 3, 2021. The top court noted that the order-sheet shows that various proceedings have been held before the High Court, counter filed by the CBI, yet no view has been taken by the Court on the anticipatory bail application necessitating the petitioner to approach the highest court. "We, thus, grant interim protection to the petitioner against arrest till the next date of hearing before the Trial Court and stay the operation of the Order dated August 3, 2021, directing process under Section 82 (Proclamation for person absconding) of the CrPC on the petitioner appearing before the Trial Court he will be dealt with in accordance with the law," the bench said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deferments-by-courts-causing-unnecessary-burden-on-us-supreme-court-1032144.html
19-09-2021||National||Heroin worth over Rs 150 cr seized in Gujarat||Authorities seized over Rs 150 crore of heroin and detained seven Iranian men in a deep-sea drug bust off the western coast, officials said Sunday. Officials intercepted messages sent to the boat's crew and apprehended the vessel — travelling from Iran to Sri Lanka — 180 nautical miles off the coast of Gujarat, the state's anti-terror squad chief, Himanshu Shukla, told AFP. "It is suspected that there is about 30 kilogrammes or more heroin on the boat which is worth over Rs 150 crore ($20 million) in the international market," Shukla said. Shukla added the boat, captured in a joint coast guard and anti-terror squad operation, was expected to arrive at a Gujarat port late Sunday or early Monday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heroin-worth-over-rs-150-cr-seized-in-gujarat-1032185.html
19-09-2021||National||Abhay Bhutada hasn't done anything as per lawyers: Adar Poonawalla||Poonawalla Fincorp Chairman Adar Poonawalla on Sunday said Abhay Bhutada, who resigned last week from the post of Managing Director on alleged charges of insider trading, "hasn't done anything" as per the lawyers and others who gave him reports. He said the company is also conducting an independent investigation. Last week, Bhutada resigned as Managing Director of Poonawalla Fincorp, after capital markets regulator Sebi barred him and seven other entities from securities markets for alleged insider trading in shares of the company. Poonawalla said he too was shocked when he heard the news (about Sebi barring Bhutada) and the company has also done a preliminary enquiry on its part. "I have looked at what has happened. We are conducting an independent investigation ourselves also, but very soon this entire matter will be cleared in a positive way. And whoever has done anything wrong will of course face their justice. "And of course, Abhay will also be cleared of what he has done, because he actually hasn't done anything as per the lawyers and the others who have given me the reports," Poonawalla said during an investor call. The Pune-based non-banking finance company submitted the audio recording of the investor call through stock exchange filing on Sunday. When asked if the position of the managing director will be filled, he said, "MD's position is yet to be seen." He said the company can very well run with the new team and the old team that is there. "To the unfortunate subject, let me just assure everybody that of course I was also a little shocked when I heard this news. But upon my preliminary investigation...very soon this entire matter will be cleared in a positive way and whoever has done anything wrong will of course face their justice," he added. However, on the compliance side, he said the first action the company had to take was whether someone is guilty or not of an alleged crime, they have to sit down until the enquiry goes on. Poonawalla Fincorp has the managerial structure of having a Managing Director and a Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Vijay Deshwal is the group CEO presently. Deshwal was business head at ICICI Bank in his last role, responsible for its fast growing services. After the Sebi action, Poonawalla Fincorp last week said Deshwal will continue to run the operations of the firm. Kolkata-based Magma Fincorp was renamed Poonawalla Fincorp a few months back, after the acquisition of the company by the Poonawalla Group which also owns the Serum Institute of India (SII). Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abhay-bhutada-hasnt-done-anything-as-per-lawyers-adar-poonawalla-1032189.html
19-09-2021||National||Small cars also need adequate airbags: Gadkari||Small cars also need an adequate number of airbags to ensure safety and automobile makers should think over it, Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has said. Addressing an event, Gadkari appealed to carmakers to provide a minimum of six airbags to ensure the safety of passengers.  Small cars mostly purchased by lower-middle-class families have two to three airbags while big cars have eight. Gadkari has been insisting that small cars also have safety features similar to big cars. "For rich people, you (auto makers) offer eight airbags, and for economy model cars (used by lower middle-class people), you will offer only two-three airbags. How come?" Gadkari asked. Automobile manufacturers have been raising concerns that high taxation and stricter safety and emission norms for vehicles have made their products expensive. While Gadkari admitted that additional airbags will lead to an increase in the price of small cars, he also said our country's poor should also get protection in case of road accidents. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/small-cars-also-need-adequate-airbags-gadkari-1032191.html
19-09-2021||National||India, Saudi Arabia discuss Afghanistan situation||India and Saudi Arabia on Sunday exchanged views on the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban last month returned to power through a military offensive taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with visiting Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan al Saud in New Delhi. They exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan and other regional issues, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. The meeting took place just two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi categorically stated that the new government announced by the Taliban in Afghanistan lacked inclusivity and the international community should be cautious about recognising it. Farhan had a few days back said that Saudi Arabia would respect the choices that the people of Afghanistan made regarding the future of their country, without external interference. “Discussed our cooperation in the political, security and socio-cultural pillars of our strategic partnership. Very useful exchange of views on Afghanistan, the Gulf and the Indo-Pacific,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter after his meeting with the Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia. This was the first ministerial visit from Saudi Arabia to India since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two sides discussed issues related to the bilateral relationship and regional and international issues of mutual interest. They reviewed the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Council Agreement signed between the two sides during the visit of the Prime Minister to Saudi Arabia in October 2019. “They expressed satisfaction at the meetings held under the Agreement and progress achieved,” Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. Jaishankar and Farhan discussed further steps to strengthen bilateral partnership in trade, investment, energy, defence, security, culture, consular issues, health care and human resources. They also discussed bilateral cooperation in multilateral forums, such as United Nations, G-20 and Gulf Cooperation Council. The External Affairs Minister congratulated Saudi Arabia on its successful presidency of G-20 last year despite the Covid-19 pandemic. He appreciated the Saudi Arabian government’s support provided to the people from India, during the Covid-19 pandemic and urged Saudi Arabia to further relax restrictions on travel from India. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-saudi-arabia-discuss-afghanistan-situation-1032193.html
19-09-2021||National||MVA, BJP on collision course as Kirit Somaiya heads to Kolhapur||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government and the Opposition BJP on Sunday entered into yet another phase of collision course after senior leader Kirit Somaiya was debarred from entering Kolhapur district and was briefly “detained” in his Mumbai residence.  Late in the night, after a tiff with police at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Somaiya boarded the Mahalaxmi Express and headed for Kolhapur. The issue snowballed into a major controversy with the BJP all out to target the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress dispensation. "This is the government of Uddhav Thackeray and chalis chor," he said, lashing out at the government. A former MP, Somaiya, a chartered accountant with a doctorate, has been targeting MVA leaders for an alleged “scam”. Last week, he had named state Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif, who is a senior NCP leader and hails from Kolhapur, accusing him of money laundering and of being involved in a scam of Rs 127 crore. He also complained against Mushrif and his family members to the Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate. On Sunday morning, Somaiya said that he would be visiting Kolhapur on Monday and announced his schedule on Twitter.  He also said that he would expose “scams” of the Thackeray family and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. After Kolhapur district collector Rahul Rekhawar issued orders banning entry of Somaiya, the Mulund police station, under which the former MP’s residence falls, sent a posse of policemen. Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar went into a huddle to discuss the future strategy. As soon as news of Somaiya’s detention spread, senior leaders including Darekar rushed for his help. “Thackeray Sarkar Dadagiri, notice is for Kolhapur district no entry, but not allowing me to move out from my house. Not allowed to go for Ganesh Visarjan, Mulund Police wants to arrest me, but no warrant, no order...it's totally illegal,” he tweeted. Somaiya told police that he wanted to go for Ganesh Visarjan and was later allowed to move out of his house. “I have taken darshans of Lord Ganesha and I would now take darshans of Ambe Mata in Kolhapur,” he said at Girgaum Chowpatty immersion site and headed to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus. As a posse of policemen stopped him, there were heated arguments, during which he said, "The orders are valid in Kolhapur...how can you stop me here...who has given you the right? Who had asked you to come? What authority do you have?" After almost 30 minutes of verbal dual, Somaiya boarded the train. Meanwhile, when senior NCP leader Jayant Patil was asked about the developments, he said that he was not aware of the details. Meanwhile, Fadnavis said, “We strongly condemn the action against Kirit Somaiya and we would continue to protest against the MVA government.”  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mva-bjp-on-collision-course-as-kirit-somaiya-heads-to-kolhapur-1032211.html
19-09-2021||National||Science and technology priority sector for PM Modi: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Sunday science and technology is the priority sector for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and there is a visible change for the past many years in this field. He made these remarks while inaugurating a one-day workshop on Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) initiatives for science and technology-led development in Jammu and Kashmir at Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Center here. “Science & Technology is the priority sector of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and under his dynamic leadership there is a visible change for the past many years in this field,” Singh said. He said as every sector is increasingly becoming dependent on technology, awareness among stakeholders is essential for optimum outcomes. He stressed that there is a need to commit ourselves to technological tools as there is no other option to compete without it. “Indians have had a strong scientific temper for ages and we have talent in abundance and with this talent, India is bound to be the world leader in the technological sector. We ought to be the frontline leader of space technology and India is far ahead of many developed countries in this field,” Singh said. While commenting on the technological interventions in J-K, he said the region can reap maximum benefits out of it in different fields. He said after the 2019 constitutional arrangements, Jammu and Kashmir has been able to successfully implement programmes, schemes and other “good practices” of governance. Singh said J-K has become a pioneer of the purple (lavender) revolution in India after taking lead in the production of lavender. He said the CSIR provided support to J-K during the Covid-19 pandemic with respect to the infrastructure of RT-PCR machinery, biosafety and also trained manpower. He said two industrial biotech parks are being established in the UT. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/science-and-technology-priority-sector-for-pm-modi-jitendra-singh-1032214.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||After Punjab, will it be Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh?||After the Punjab operation, all eyes are now on Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh which have also been facing similar problem and issues. In Rajasthan, the Congress leader Sachin Pilot wants his position to be restored and given top post in the state and in Chhattisgarh T.S. Singhdeo wants the formula of rotational Chief Minister be honoured. In Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has been evading the high command's decision to adjust Sachin Pilot camp and in Chhattisgarh, Bhupesh Baghel rallied more than 50 MLAs to Delhi to show his strength. The Congress leadership is miffed with state of affairs in both the states with Chief Ministers defying Congress leadership decisions. With Punjab operation, the Congress has given tough message to the other Chief Ministers as well. Congress General Secretary In charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken on Thursday had said that roadmap is ready for cabinet expansion and organisational rejig in the state. "If Ashok Gehlot had not fallen ill we would have done cabinet expansion and the roadmap is ready for appointment at board corporations and district presidents," Maken had said at a press conference in Delhi on Thursday. The Congress leader said that Gehlot is still unwell and doing his work from home and as he gets well this will be done. When asked about Sachin Pilot, he said, "At the state level, we are discussing all issues but if something is given at the AICC level its beyond my purview." In the same way in Chhattisgarh the supporters of Singhdeo has been pushing for change of guard since incumbent Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel completed 2.5 years in office, suspense still looms on the issue of rotational chief minister as there is no clarity from the top leadership of the Congress party. Singhdeo who is pushing on the formula of rotational chief minister is maintaining a line that everything is in the purview of the party leadership and whatever decision will be taken by them will be accepted. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-punjab-will-it-be-rajasthan-and-chhattisgarh-1031979.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Congress leaning 'Left' to recruit young talent?||Speculation is rife in the Congress over the induction of CPI leader and former JNU President Kanhaiya Kumar into the party. Another leader who is expected to join is Jignesh Mevani, MLA in Gujarat, as Congress leaders indicate that this is not the first time that Left leaders will be joining the party. The Congress is buoyed by these young leaders after the exit of some people who were perceived to be close to former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, starting with Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada who joined the BJP. The latest is Sushmita Dev who joined the TMC and was women wing President of the party. She has now been nominated to the Upper House of Parliament. The Congress has a long list of Left student leaders who joined the party, including former JNUSU President Shakil Ahmed Khan who was in the SFI and joined the party in 1998. He is now a second time Congress MLA from Bihar and AICC secretary. Shakil Ahmed Khan said, "when I joined Congress it was to fight communalism as the BJP government was in power and only the Congress could fight the BJP at the national level and the party has a legacy and commitment towards secularism." He hailed Rahul Gandhi for taking on the BJP despite all the odds. Before him late DP Tripathi was in the Congress and was a close aide of Rajiv Gandhi though he later left for the NCP. B L Bairwa was another leader who joined from the JNUSU left wing student organisation. Syed Naseer Hussain who is a MP in the Upper House was JNUSU President in 1999-2000. Most recently Sandeep Singh joined the Congress and is working closely with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra while Mohit Pandey is also working in Uttar Pradesh and is likely to contest the UP assembly polls. Both Singh and Pandey have been President of Student Unions from left wing student organisations but switched to the Congress for a better political future. Congress leaders said on condition of anonymity that the party too has talent and they should be promoted rather than looking to other parties. A leader cited the examples of Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Randeep Surjewala, KC Venugopal, Ramesh Chennithala and Ajay Maken who had come from student politics to the Congress. Many present and former Chief Ministers are from the same background but are being ignored in the party, he said. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi while addressing the party's social media volunteers virtually on July 16 said that the party only needs courageous people, and not those who are afraid of the BJP. "Bahut sare log Congress ke bahar hai jo dar nahi rahein hain, unko andar lao. Jo hamare yahan dar rahein hain, unko bahar nikalo (There are many outside the party who are not scared. Bring them into the Congress. Remove those from the party who are scared)," he had said. Sources said that talks with Kanhaiya Kumar and Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani from Gujarat are in the final stages but nothing has been finalised yet. The sources said the Congress wants to rope in these two leaders ahead of the assembly polls and particularly Mevani before the Gujarat polls for their oratory and crowd pulling capabilities. Mevani is an independent MLA in Gujarat and had won the election with Congress support. While the Congress is in search of talent in the JNU, its principal rival BJP has at least two senior ministers in the Union Government from the same campus -- Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaning-left-to-recruit-young-talent-1031987.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh: The man who put Congress back on saddle in Punjab||One of the strongest regional satraps of the Congress, Amarinder Singh was the leader who put the party back in the saddle in Punjab after an intensely fought poll battle that decimated the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and crushed the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) dream of expanding its footprint beyond Delhi. The 79-year-old widely respected and popular leader steered the Congress in 2017 to a landslide victory in the 117-member assembly to occupy the chief minister's post for the second time. The 'maharaja's' win in Punjab after 10 years had also rekindled the hopes for the revival of the grand old party. But now all seems not well in the party's state unit as over 50 MLAs have written to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi seeking that Singh be replaced as chief minister, a development that comes just about four months ahead of assembly elections in the state. Singh has now decided to quit from the post of chief minister. Belonging to a very rare breed of politicians who have seen action in the Indo-Pak war, Singh tasted success in the 2017 polls after Akali Dal supremo Parkash Singh Badal foiled his previous attempts to become chief minister in 2007 and 2012. Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the Congress a few months ahead of the polls after quitting the BJP. Speculation was rife that he would be given the post of deputy chief minister, but he was made a Cabinet Minister. Relations between him and the chief minister were never warm. Just two years after the Congress came to power, Sidhu was stripped off key portfolios in the cabinet reshuffle in June 2019 and he then resigned from the state cabinet. Singh had divested Sidhu of the local government and tourism and cultural affairs departments and allotted him the power and new and renewable energy portfolio though the latter never assumed charge of his new department. Shortly afterwards, Sidhu had approached the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi and "apprised him of the situation". The tension between Singh and Sidhu came out in the open. While Singh blamed him for the "inept handling" of the local government department, claiming that it resulted in "poor performance" of the Congress in urban areas in the (2019) Lok Sabha polls, the former cricketer, on the other hand said "(Congress chief) Rahul Gandhi is my captain...Rahul Gandhi is the captain of the captain (Singh) also." However, things became worse and finally, Sidhu was appointed state Congress president, notwithstanding strong opposition from Singh . Once a leader of the Akali Dal, Singh, the 'scion of Patiala', in his short Army career, fought in the 1965 war. Son of late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh of Patiala, Singh did his initial schooling at Lawrence School, Sanawar and Doon School in Dehradun, before joining the National Defence Academy, Kharagwasla in 1959 and graduating from there in 1963. Commissioned in the Indian Army in 1963, he was posted in 2nd Bn. Sikh Regiment (both his father and grandfather had served the battalion), served in Field Area - Indo Tibetan border for two years and was appointed Aide-de-Camp to Lt Gen Harbaksh Singh, GOC-in-C Western Command. The political career of Singh, who was considered a close friend of late Rajiv Gandhi, began in January 1980 when he was elected an MP. But he resigned from the Congress and the Lok Sabha in protest against the entry of the army into the Golden Temple during Operation Blue Star in 1984. After joining the Akali Dal in August 1985, Singh got elected to the Punjab assembly on an Akali Dal (Longowal) ticket in the 1995 elections. During his first term as chief minister (2002-07), his government in 2004 passed the state law terminating Punjab's water sharing pact with neighbouring states. Last year, his government brought four bills, which were later passed by the state assembly, to "counter the contentious farm legislation enacted by Parliament". In his second term, his government also announced a waiver of crores of rupees worth of loans under the farm debt waiver scheme for labourers and the landless farming community. Singh fought the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Amritsar and defeated BJP's Arun Jaitley by a margin of more than one lakh votes. He then resigned in November as MP after the Supreme Court termed Punjab's 2004 Act terminating the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal agreement as unconstitutional. A few days later, he was appointed president of the Punjab Congress again in the run-up to the polls. A widely travelled person, Singh has penned several books including his memoirs of the 1965 Indo-Pak war. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-the-man-who-put-congress-back-on-saddle-in-punjab-1031989.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Who are the leaders in contention for Punjab CM post?||After Captain Amarinder Singh's resignation from the post of Punjab Chief Minister on Saturday, Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi is slated to select a candidate to succeed the 79-year-old during a Congress Legislature Party meeting later today. From former state unit chief Sunil Jakhar to Navjot Singh Sidhu, various names have been doing the rounds. Let's take a look at the top contenders in the race for the Punjab CM post: Sunil Jakhar Navjot Singh Sidhu Former cricketer and Amritsar MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been in a power tussle with Amarinder Singh in the state, is one of the contenders for the post. In the months leading up to the former CM's resignation, Sidhu had rallied around 50 MLAs to express their dismay over the lack of fulfillment of poll promises, among other issues. The four-year-long rift between Sidhu and Singh intensified in July, following which he was made state party chief. Whether 58-year-old Sidhu, the youngest among the frontrunners, will be given the coveted post, remains to be seen. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa Partap Singh Bajwa Check out the latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/who-are-the-leaders-in-contention-for-punjab-cm-post-1031994.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Ambika Soni bows out of Punjab CM race, backs Sikh face||Congress leader Ambika Soni, who was called in a late night meeting with Rahul Gandhi, has declined to become the chief minister of Punjab. Sources close to her said she has instead suggested that a Sikh occupy the post. After the refusal, the Congress, which wanted Ambika to become the CM after Amarinder Singh resigned, is now considering other names, including Partap Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Ravneet Singh Bittu. Earlier, the party had decided to appoint Sunil Jhakhar as the Chief Minister, but now the party leadership is having second thoughts on his name. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi held a meeting late in the night in which party leader Ambika Soni, General Secretary Organisation K.C. Venugopal were present. The meeting ended post midnight on Sunday. Sources said discussion on a new chief minister was held and also strategy to pacify Amarinder Singh was discussed. Since Ambika Soni hails from Punjab, the party leadership wanted her to become the Chief Minister till elections are held. Sources said the party wants to project a non-Sikh face ahead of the polls to counter the AAP which is gaining ground in the state. They added that the party wanted a Sikh, Navjot Singh Sidhu, as the state Congress chief and a non-Sikh CM candidate combination in the polls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ambika-soni-bows-out-of-punjab-cm-race-backs-sikh-face-1032012.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Hope Amarinder Singh will not take any step that may harm Congress: Gehlot||A day after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh quit his post claiming "humiliation" by the party leadership and indicated keeping political options open, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday hoped the veteran leader will not take any step that would harm the party. Gehlot took to Twitter to urge Singh to listen to his “inner voice” and continue to work in the interests of the Congress that was fighting “fascist forces” in the country. “I hope that Capt Amarinder Singh ji won’t take any step that could cause damage to the Congress party,” Gehlot said, hailing Singh as a “respected leader” of the party. On the change of guard in Punjab, Gehlot said sometimes the high command has to take decisions in the interest of the party on the basis of feedback from MLAs and common people. “I personally believe that the Congress president selects the CM at the risk of inviting displeasure of several leaders who are in the race for chief ministership,” he said. “However, when the same CM is changed, he/she is displeased and holds the decision wrong. One should listen to the inner voice in such moments,” said Gehlot, who is also facing a challenge to his leadership from his arch-rival Sachin Pilot. After resigning as Chief Minister, Singh had said he had been “humiliated thrice” by the Congress leadership and that it was free to “appoint whoever they trust”. “There is always an option, and I will use that option when the time comes... at the moment I am still in Congress,” Singh told reporters at the gates of the Raj Bhawan on Saturday. The outburst by the outgoing chief minister sent alarm bells ringing in the party, prompting the words of counsel from Gehlot. The Rajasthan Chief Minister voiced concern over “fascist forces” gaining ground in the country and said that Congressmen had greater responsibility at such times to work in the interest of the country. “One must rise above oneself and think in the interest of the country and Congress party,” he said. Gehlot said “Captain sahib” has worked to the best of his capacity and served the people of Punjab. “Captain Amarinder Singh ji is a respected leader of the party and I hope that he will continue to work in the future also keeping the Party's interests in the forefront,” the Rajasthan chief minister said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hope-amarinder-singh-will-not-take-any-step-that-may-harm-congress-gehlot-1032013.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Hope hard-earned peace won't be damaged, Amarinder Singh writes to Sonia Gandhi||Before resigning as the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi expressing anguish over the internal wranglings in the Congress that have played out in the open over the past five months. In the letter, Singh expressed the hope that the recent developments will not cause any damage to the “hard-earned” peace and development in the border state under his leadership. “Notwithstanding my personal anguish, I hope this will not cause any damage to the hard-earned peace and development in the state, and that the efforts I have been focusing on during the last few years would continue unabated, ensuring justice to one and all,” Singh wrote in his letter to Gandhi. The letter, excerpts of which were shared by Singh’s office, reflected the outgoing chief minister’s concerns about instability in Punjab as a result of the political developments in the state unit of the Congress. Singh said he was anguished at political events of the last five months, which were not based on the full understanding of the national imperatives of Punjab and its key concerns. “People of Punjab are looking up to Congress for its mature and effective public policies, which not only reflect upon good politics but also address the concerns of the common man that are specific to this border state,” the veteran leader said. At the same time, he expressed satisfaction at having done his best for the people as the chief minister of Punjab, which, as a border state, "has many geo-political and other internal security concerns, which I tried to handle effectively without any compromise." Singh resigned as the chief minister of Punjab on Saturday, five months ahead of the assembly polls in the state and capping a messy power struggle with arch-rival Navjot Singh Sidhu. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hope-hard-earned-peace-wont-be-damaged-amarinder-singh-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-1032019.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||I never hanker for any post: Randhawa on being among Punjab CM 'probables'||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, a minister in the outgoing cabinet of Amarinder Singh whose name is doing the rounds among the probables to be the new leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in Punjab, on Sunday asserted that he has never hankered after posts. Asked that his name was among the frontrunners, Randhawa replied he or his family "never hankers for any post". When the mediapersons here asked that can it be assumed that they are talking to the future chief minister, Randhawa quipped, " You are talking to a Congressman". In a veiled dig at Amarinder Singh, he then added, "A chief minister remains (in his post) only till the time when his party, people of the state stand by him". Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had said that he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. Asked how soon can one expect the name of new CLP leader to be announced, Randhawa said, "We have authorised Congress president in this regard." He said the party senior leadership has not only to talk to the MLAs, but other stalwarts too before finalising the name. Asked why so much time is being taken to announce the CLP leader, he said, "If you have to make a village sarpanch, sometimes it takes 20 days to decide". However, he assured the new CLP leader's name will be announced later in the day. On Amarinder Singh saying he felt humiliated, Randhawa replied, "So far, the BJP has changed five chief ministers. And in the Congress too, some chief ministers have been changed. In Congress, Amarinder Singh has the maximum tenure of nine-and-half years as chief minister. The honour he got, I think no other chief minister got so much." To a question over what caused differences with Amarinder Singh, he said, "When we felt that promises which were made… and elections were near and the Congress high-command and we too felt worried". Randhawa had earlier this year joined hands with Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had targeted his own government over alleged failure to fulfil the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 polls including those related to the sacrilege incidents (in 2015). On Amarinder Singh's outbursts against Navjot Singh Sidhu after he resigned as chief minister, Randhawa termed it as "unfortunate" that a senior leader had used such words. "I think it is unfortunate that such words have been used against Punjab Congress chief by a senior leader," he said. "Even when there were differences with Amarinder Singh since April 26, but you must have never heard me speak any word against him in a disrespectful manner," said Randhawa. "Even today, I consider him like a father," said the Jails and Cooperation minister in the outgoing cabinet of Amarinder Singh. "...Till the time we (Amarinder Singh and Randhawa) were together, you saw that I was very close to him. When he hurt me, then I followed my conscience," Randhawa said. The names of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, the party's current state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the Congress president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Saturday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-never-hanker-for-any-post-randhawa-on-being-among-punjab-cm-probables-1032027.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||AICC observers in talks with Punjab leaders to pick new CM||Hectic talks on Sunday were going on to finalise the name of new leader of the Punjab Congress Legislature Party (CLP), a day after Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary are camping at a hotel here, holding discussions and taking feedback. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, the party's current state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are the frontrunners for the post of the CLP leader, who will be the new chief minister. According to sources, the central observers were also in touch with the party leadership in Delhi. The sources said the party may also go in for two deputy chief ministers in order to balance the caste equations. If the party goes for a Hindu face as the CLP leader, then a Sikh and a Dalit can be made deputy CMs, they said. Meanwhile, the party legislators said they will accept whatever the party leadership decides on the CLP leader. A Punjab CLP meeting, which was slated for 11 am on Sunday, was deferred as consensus was yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader. Earlier, several legislators have gone to the residences of Jakhar and Randhawa to meet them. Randhawa, a minister in the outgoing cabinet of Amarinder Singh whose name is doing the rounds, asserted that he has never hankered after posts. When asked that his name was among the frontrunners, Randhawa told the reporters that he or his family "never hankers for any post". "A chief minister remains (in the post) only till the time his party and people of the state stand by him," he said, in an apparent dig at Amarinder Singh. Punjab Congress legislators on Saturday authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader, who will be the next chief minister of the state.           Congress veteran Amarinder Singh had put in his papers after speaking to the party president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Saturday evening, with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aicc-observers-in-talks-with-punjab-leaders-to-pick-new-cm-1032039.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Sukhjinder Randhawa likely to be new Punjab CM||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, a minister in the outgoing cabinet of Amarinder Singh, is likely to be the state's new chief minister, Congress sources said on Sunday. Randhawa, the Jails and Cooperation Minister in the outgoing cabinet, has emerged as the frontrunner for the post of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader, who will be the next chief minister, the sources said. Earlier, when asked that his name was among the frontrunners, Randhawa had said he or his family "never hankers for any post". When the media persons had asked that can it be assumed that they were talking to the future chief minister, Randhawa quipped, " You are talking to a Congressman". In a veiled dig at Amarinder Singh, he then added, "A chief minister remains (in his post) only till the time when his party, people of the state stand by him". Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and had said that he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. Asked how soon can one expect the name of the new CLP leader to be announced, Randhawa said, "We have authorized Congress president in this regard." He said the party senior leadership has not only to talk to the MLAs but other stalwarts too before finalizing the name. Asked why so much time is being taken to announce the CLP leader, he said, "If you have to make a village sarpanch, sometimes it takes 20 days to decide". However, he assured the new CLP leader's name will be announced later in the day. On Amarinder Singh saying he felt humiliated, Randhawa replied, "So far, the BJP has changed five chief ministers. And in the Congress too, some chief ministers have been changed. In Congress, Amarinder Singh has the maximum tenure of nine-and-half years as chief minister. The honour he got, I think no other chief minister got so much." To a question over what caused differences with Amarinder Singh, he said, "When we felt that promises which were made… and elections were near and the Congress high-command and we too felt worried". Randhawa had earlier this year joined hands with Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had targeted his own government over alleged failure to fulfil the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 polls including those related to the sacrilege incidents (in 2015). On Amarinder Singh's outbursts against Navjot Singh Sidhu after he resigned as chief minister, Randhawa termed it as "unfortunate" that a senior leader had used such words. "I think it is unfortunate that such words have been used against Punjab Congress chief by a senior leader," he said. "Even when there were differences with Amarinder Singh since April 26, but you must have never heard me speak any word against him in a disrespectful manner," said Randhawa. "Even today, I consider him like a father," said the Jails and Cooperation minister in the outgoing cabinet of Amarinder Singh. "...Till the time we (Amarinder Singh and Randhawa) were together, you saw that I was very close to him. When he hurt me, then I followed my conscience," Randhawa said. The names of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, the party's current state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the Congress president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Saturday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster".  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sukhjinder-randhawa-likely-to-be-new-punjab-cm-1032056.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||AAP's CM candidate for Punjab will be pride of state, says Raghav Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party's Punjab chief ministerial candidate will hail from the state and will be somebody who can be called the pride of the state, party leader Raghav Chadha said. With assembly polls in Punjab set for early next year, the AAP is going all out to win the battle and has already promised free 300 units of power to the people of the state if it forms the next government. Chadha, the AAP's Punjab co-in charge, told PTI in an interview that people of the state want to give the Arvind Kejriwal led party a chance in the next polls as the Akali Dal has become "irrelevant", while the Congress has been the most "nikami sarkar" (useless government) ever in the history of electoral politics of Punjab. He said the chief ministerial candidate of the party for Punjab will be decided by the political affairs committee in due course of time. On chances of AAP MP and Party's Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann being chosen, he said at this point and time, "I can only say three characteristics of the CM candidate of AAP. One is that he will hail from the state of Punjab, he will be from the 2.8 crore population of Punjab and thirdly he will be somebody who can be called the 'aan baan shaan' (pride) of Punjab. Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal in June had said that the party's chief ministerial face for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls would be from the Sikh community. Over reports that Mann's supporters want that he should be named as the CM candidate, Chadha said, "All are supporters of Kejriwal and of the Kejriwal model of governance. I don't wish to comment on individuals but the vote is for Jhaadu (party's sign) and for Kejriwal". Several AAP volunteers in Sangrur and Barnala districts are holding meetings to press the party leadership to choose Mann as the chief ministerial face, sources in the party said. Talking about the political situation of Punjab, Chadha claimed that the Akali Dal is slowly becoming "irrelevant" because people have "utmost hatred" for the party of Badals and want it to be defeated. As far as the Congress is concerned, it is on a "suicide mission and on self destruction mode" and they do not need an opposition. They are their own opposition and people are just waiting for the AAP and for elections to happen, he said. On Amarinder Singh's resignation from the chief minister's post on Saturday, Chadha has said that governance in Punjab has been the biggest casualty in the Congress party's ''Game of Thrones". "The people of Punjab are yearning for a change. They feel they have tried everyone and now only AAP is their hope and they wish to try AAP, they wish to vote for AAP and are banking heavily on the Kejriwal model of governance in Delhi that was showcased in the last six years," he said. Chadha said when he asks people of the state who they will vote for in the next polls, they reply that this time they want to give a chance to AAP. On the impact of the ongoing farmer's protest on the polls, Chadha alleged that all three parties - BJP, Congress and Akali Dal -  have "betrayed" the Indian farmers and "backstabbed" them "I don't look at the farmers protest through the prism of politics and it would be unfair for anyone to do that but I can most certainly say that the BJP is not even a player in Punjab because of enacting these three laws. Akali Dal is hated because they were the people who brought this law as Harsimrat Kaur Badal being the minister in the Union Cabinet proposed this legislation and Captain (Amarinder Singh) is also hated because he was part of the drafting committee of these laws," he said. "The AAP and its leader Arvind Kejriwal  have stood with the farmers throughout and have been rock solid behind them and will work for the welfare of the farming community and their uplift," he said. Asked if the AAP will be benefited by the vote bank of Akali Dal, he claimed that everyone will be voting for the AAP not just those who are traditionally Akali Dal or Congress voters. "This time all these divisions and classifications are not going to work. Just like when elections happen in, Delhi people from all caste, creed and religion vote for Arvind Kejriwal. Similarly, they will vote for Kejriwal in Punjab," he said. Talking about the party's vision for Punjab, Chadha said reforms that have been carried out in the national capital will also be carried out in Punjab. "With utmost sincerity and dedication we will work work towards making Punjab 'khush haal' (happy) and achieving our dream of 'rangla Punjab' (vibrant and colourful) by solving the problem of unemployment, debt trap of the state, uplift farmers and giving them their due, working for the landless labourers, ease of doing business for the business community and the traders, reforming completely the electricity and the water sector," he said. The party will also strive to bring to Punjab world class education in primary and secondary schools as well as an affordable and accessible healthcare system. In 2017, the AAP had emerged as the main opposition party in the state after winning 20 out of the 117 assembly seats. The Congress had won 77 while an alliance of Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP won 18 seats. Assembly polls in Punjab are scheduled for 2022. Check out DH's latest vidoes here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aaps-cm-candidate-for-punjab-will-be-pride-of-state-says-raghav-chadha-1032079.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Will Congress take cognizance of Singh's 'extremely serious' charge against Sidhu?: BJP||Seizing on outgoing Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's charge of anti-national against state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, the BJP on Sunday said Singh has voiced an issue which the country had been grappling with and asked the opposition party if it will take cognizance of the allegations and take action. Senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar termed Singh's charges "extremely serious" and asked why Congress president Sonia Gandhi and its two other main leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have kept silence. "Such an extremely serious allegation has been levelled by the chief minister against the party president, and the Congress is silent. What does it mean? We demand that the Congress should speak up and make its stand clear," he told reporters. "We want to ask if the Congress will take cognizance of such extremely serious allegations and take action," Javadekar added. Hours after quitting as Punjab CM, Singh had on Saturday launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, calling him "anti-national", "dangerous" and a "total disaster". He had mentioned Sidhu's praise for Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan and him hugging its army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa during a trip to the neighbouring country to slam his bete noire. Javadekar said the country had seen this and had been grappling with this issue. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-congress-take-cognizance-of-singhs-extremely-serious-charge-against-sidhu-bjp-1032082.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Life has opened a new avenue for me: Babul Supriyo on joining TMC||Former Union minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who switched over to West Bengal's ruling TMC in a surprise move, on Sunday said life has now opened a new avenue for him from the prospect of being "retired hurt" from public affairs. Supriyo also said he has nothing to prove to anybody, and he has been involved in politics from the grassroots level since becoming an MP in 2014 on a BJP ticket from Asansol. "Life has opened a new avenue for me from the prospect of being retired hurt from public life," Supriyo said, addressing a press conference at the Trinamool Congress headquarters here. "I received a lot of love and support from a party (TMC) with which I had a very tumultuous relationship," he said. Blowing hot and cold for several weeks after being dropped from the Narendra Modi government, the BJP MP sprang a surprise on Saturday when he joined the TMC and asserted he will work for the development of the state. Supriyo, a two-term MP from Asansol, had earlier declared he will quit politics, before being persuaded by the BJP leadership to continue as a Lok Sabha member.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/life-has-opened-a-new-avenue-for-me-babul-supriyo-on-joining-tmc-1032088.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Congress picks Charanjit Singh Channi as poll-bound Punjab's first Dalit CM||Congress on Sunday announced Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister of Punjab, capping two days of furious political developments after it decided to oust Amarinder Singh in the poll-bound state. Channi, 48, will be the first Dalit Sikh chief minister of Punjab where scheduled castes form more than 33 per cent of the electorate and are being aggressively wooed by Akali Dal as well as the BJP ahead of the assembly elections, expected in February. A three-term MLA from Chamkaur Sahib constituency in Malwa region of Punjab, Channi belongs to the Ramdasia Sikh community, and was the minister for Technical Education and Industrial Training in the outgoing government. He was also the Leader of the Opposition from December 2015 to November 2016, when all opposition members resigned over the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal issue. AICC General Secretary Harish Rawat made the announcement of Channi’s election as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party in Punjab, putting an end to speculation on chief ministerial probables where names of state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, veteran leader Ambika Soni, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sunil Jakhar were tossed up. Soon after his election as CLP leader, Channi along with Sidhu and other senior Congress leaders called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit to stake claim to form the government. “The oath taking ceremony is at 11:00 a.m. on Monday,” Channi told reporters outside Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh and refused to answer any other questions. Outgoing chief minister Amarinder Singh, who had declared that he would oppose Sidhu from becoming the chief minister, congratulated Channi on his election to the top executive post in the state. The chances of Randhawa, a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post, were nixed by Sidhu, who was against a fellow Jat Sikh being appointed to the top post. Congress sought to portray itself as a pro-Dalit party through Channi’s appointment as the chief minister. “Since Independence, there has been no Dalit chief minister in Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Rajasthan. Congress has proved itself to be a pro-Dalit party by appointing the first Dalit Chief Minister in North India,” Manpreet Singh Badal, the Finance Minister in the outgoing government, said. Earlier, the Congress had to defer the meeting of the CLP scheduled for Sunday morning as there was no consensus on Amarinder Singh’s successor. Veteran leader Ambika Soni turned down the offer to become chief minister citing ill-health and endorsed the candidature of a Sikh leader. The final decision was announced after a meeting of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her predecessor Rahul Gandhi in the national capital. Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-picks-charanjit-singh-channi-as-poll-bound-punjabs-first-dalit-cm-1032097.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||BJP takes swipe at Congress over Channi's election||The BJP on Sunday took a swipe at the Congress over its Punjab chief ministerial pick Charanjit Singh Channi, citing reported allegations that he had sent an inappropriate text to an IAS officer in 2018. BJP leader Amit Malviya, who is its IT department head, tweeted, "Congress's CM pick Charanjit Channi faces action in a 3-year-old MeToo case. He had allegedly sent an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer in 2018. It was covered up but the case resurfaced when Punjab Women's Commission sent notice. Well done, Rahul." The issue had resurfaced in May this year when Punjab women panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the state government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the “inappropriate text” message allegedly sent by Channi, who was then a minister in the Amarinder Singh government. Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati had said she had written to the chief secretary seeking the government’s action taken report. Malviya also posted a story reported in May this year that said that outgoing chief minister Amarinder Singh's rivals within the party had accused him of "hounding" them with old cases. Following the 2018 allegation, the Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and had sought the government’s stand even then. At that time, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked Channi to tender an apology to the woman officer and had said he believed the matter has been “resolved” to her satisfaction. Channi was elected the leader of the Congress Legislature Party in Punjab on Sunday and will be the next chief minister, succeeding Amarinder Singh who resigned a day ago following a bitter power tussle in the state unit. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-takes-swipe-at-congress-over-channis-election-1032122.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||Congress explores Dalit dynamics by appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab chief minister||Congress has taken a bold gamble by appointing Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab chief minister, and the echo of the gamble could be heard even in Uttar Pradesh, where Dalits are politically more assertive and drifted away from Congress to BSP long ago. However, whether Channi, the first Dalit CM in Punjab after its reorganisation in 1966, could be a sure shot passport for Congress in Punjab is a million-dollar question, despite the state having 33 per cent Dalit population, the highest in the country, owing to the divided nature of Dalit voting pattern there and the highly hierarchical nature of politics in Punjab, where most of the Chief Ministers so far have been from the dominant Jat Sikh community. Prominent Dalit leader Kanshi Ram hailed from Punjab, but his Dalit empowerment politics worked more in Uttar Pradesh than in his home state.  Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP have forged an alliance in Punjab after a gap of 27 years for the 2022 Assembly polls. Mayawati's party will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, leaving the rest for SAD. The SAD-BSP alliance had contested the 1996 Lok Sabha polls together and won 11 out of 13 seats in Punjab. The partnership ended after the former allied with Congress. While Congress leaders in Punjab merely repeated one after another that they are fine with the decision taken by the high command, the last-minute change from Jat Sikh leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to Channi, who started his political career from the post of a councillor has baffled many. Proximity to Sidhu and perception of not being a long term challenger seems to have worked for Channi. Party sources said Sidhu was not keen on Randhawa's appointment even as the latter was a strong critic of the outgoing Chief Minister. Captain Amarinder Singh, Sidhu and Randhawa all belong to the dominant Jat Sikh community and clearly having a senior leader from the same community as CM four months before the polls must not have been a very palatable idea to Sidhu, whose sustained campaign led to the exit of the Singh on Saturday. After the announcement, a visibly startled Randhawa said that the high command has taken a decision and anyone's name can come.  "I thank the MLAs for supporting me. Those who have never seen power are the ones who get disappointed. I have seen absolute power during my father's tenure. I have been the most powerful minister and I still am," he said, calling Channi his "younger brother" and welcoming the high command's decision. While doubts persist whether Channi, belonging to the Ramdasia Sikh community and a three-term MLA, will be able to salvage the Congress party at this time of crisis, the party may use his elevation to burnish its pro-Dalit credentials beyond Punjab and project the transition of power in the state from a Maharaja (Captain Amarinder Singh) to a low profile Dalit leader with a humble origin. In UP, the Congress is trying to revive its Dalit-Brahmin-Muslim alliance and Rahul Gandhi's 'Dine with Dalit' programmes in 2010-11 were a big attempt in wooing back Dalits. "The decision proves who is more pro Dalit," said Punjab Congress leader Manpreet Singh Badal. Amarinder Singh, who after his resignation had made a pitch for strong leadership in Punjab and slammed Sidhu for his alleged "links with Pakistan", tweeted "My best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he’s able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border." After Singh's "anti-national" allegation against Sidhu, BJP on Sunday dared Congress leadership to take cognizance of the allegations and take action. BJP's IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted, "Congress’s CM pick Charanjit Channi faces action in a 3-year-old #MeToo case. He had allegedly sent an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer in 2018. It was covered up but the case resurfaced when Punjab Women's Commission sent notice. Well done, Rahul." More controversy is likely to unfold in the run-up to assembly polls, while questions remain whether the Congress high command handled the issue deftly as the change has left Amarinder Singh angry and looking for options, while the role of the chief minister has gone to someone who has never been in the limelight of state politics. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-explores-dalit-dynamics-by-appointing-charanjit-singh-channi-as-punjab-chief-minister-1032158.html
19-09-2021||National Politics||RSS chief junks allegation of Swayam Sevaks interfering with administration||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday junked the allegations of Sangh Swayam Sevaks interfering with administration saying that meeting political leaders or discussing various issues with them does not amount to "participation in power". He asserted that this allegation is the creation of media. “The participation of the Sangh in power is misleading and of the media origin,” Bhagwat was quoted as saying during a dialogue with intellectuals in Udaipur. He said if RSS Swayam Sevaks meet political leaders to discuss various issues with them, it should not be seen as participation in power. “Other governments including those of communists have also been taking cooperation of Sangh volunteers in many works,” Bhagwat was quoted as saying in an RSS release. Bhagwat made the observations while addressing an intellectuals' conference and responding to their queries. Bhagwat said the Sangh Swayam Sevaks work with the objective of nation-building through the character building of people. Referring to the Sangh founder K B Hedgewar, Bhagwat said he used to say that the organisation of Hindu society can solve all problems of the country. “The Hindu ideology is that of peace and truth. We are not Hindus, such a campaign is being run with the aim of weakening the country and society. Where the Hindu population has decreased, problems have arisen,” he said. Bhagwat said the selfless service of Sangh volunteers during the Covid pandemic is an example of Hindutva. The Sangh does not hanker for any praise or name, he said, adding the word 'Hindu' was publicly avoided till the 80s and the Sangh worked in such adverse situations. “Sangh is an organisation of credible and trustworthy people of the society whose words and deeds do not differ,” he asserted. In response to a question on RSS workers' plight in Kerala and West Bengal, he said what the society suffers from, the Swayam Sevaks too suffer from. He said the volunteers, however, are not going to panic and run away. On the question of discrimination-free society and reservation, Bhagwat said "in the Sangh’s Shahkas, people are taught to be non-discriminatory. We are Hindus, this is what is taught in Sakhas”. “Therefore, there is no atmosphere of such discrimination in the Sangh. The volunteer tries to implement this ideal in personal life as well,” he said. He said the Sangh’s purpose is to organise the entire Hindu society. Bhagwat said “the Sangh should be understood from within, not from outside”. “The Sangh is doing good work in the interest of the country, society and religion,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-chief-junks-allegation-of-swayam-sevaks-interfering-with-administration-1032204.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||MP to implement PESA, doorstep delivery of rations in tribal areas: CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said his government would implement the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to the Scheduled Areas) Act or PESA in a phased manner and also begin doorstep delivery of rations in 89 tribal blocks. Chouhan, while addressing the Gaurav Diwas programme in Jabalpur to honour tribal icons, said his government would celebrate 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas” every year on November 15. "PESA Act will be implemented in a phased manner to protect and conserve community resources. We will start doorstep delivery of rations in 89 tribal blocks from November 1, to coincide with the foundation of the state. Tribals won't need to visit ration shops by leaving their work," he said. "Vehicles owned by tribals will be hired for the distribution work. The state government will guarantee the loan for the purchase of these vehicles, It will benefit 23.80 lakh families living in more than 7,500 villages of tribal development blocks. The MP government will Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas every year on November 15 to mark the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda,” he announced. Chouhan said the state government will also observe the martyrdom day of tribal icons and erstwhile Gondwana Empire ruler Shankar Shah and his son Raghunath Shah on September 18 every year. He also announced the renaming of Chhindwara University as "Raja Shankar Shah Vishwavidyalaya". Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other leaders were also present in this programme.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-to-implement-pesa-doorstep-delivery-of-rations-in-tribal-areas-cm-1031918.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Day after 2 militant attacks in district, Kulgam SSP transferred||The Jammu and Kashmir government Saturday transferred the Kulgam senior superintendent of police a day after two militant attacks hit the south Kashmir district. In an order, Principal Secretary (Home) Shaleen Kabra said the government effected the transfers of three SSPs "in the interest of administration with immediate effect". According to the order, Kulgam SSP Gurinderpal Singh (IPS) was transferred and was asked to report to the police headquarters, awaiting further posting. Kupwara SSP G V Sundeep Chakravarthy (IPS) will succeed him in Kulgam, while SSP (Tech) CID headquarters Yougal Kumar Manhas moves Kupwara as the SSP. A policeman and a non-local labourer were killed in two back-to-back attacks by militants in Kulgam district on Friday.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-2-militant-attacks-in-district-kulgam-ssp-transferred-1031944.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Digvijaya advises MP forest minister to join in `oust CM' campaign||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday advised Madhya Pradesh Forest Minister Vijay Shah to quit the ruling BJP after he was purportedly denied entry into the memorial of two tribal rulers where Union home minister Amit Shah paid homage. “If he (Vijay Shah) feels disrespected, he has two options. He should resign from the BJP or join in the `oust the chief minister' (Shivraj Singh Chouhan) campaign,” Singh told reporters here. Vijay Shah, a tribal leader, was reportedly denied entry by the security personnel at a function held to pay tributes to erstwhile Gondwana state ruler Shankar Shah and his son Raghunath Shah at their memorial here. Union home minister Amit Shah attended the function. A video where police are seen stopping Vijay Shah from entering the venue was doing rounds on social media. Shankar Shah and his son were killed by the British for rising up against the East India Company's rule during the rebellion of 1857.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/digvijaya-advises-mp-forest-minister-to-join-in-oust-cm-campaign-1031946.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress MLAs authorise Sonia Gandhi to pick Amarinder Singh's successor as CM||Punjab Congress MLAs Saturday authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new legislature party leader who will succeed Amarinder Singh as the chief minister of the state. This came after Amarinder Singh resigned as Punjab chief minister, saying he felt "humiliated" at the way the party handled the infighting in the state unit. A resolution requesting Sonia Gandhi to pick the next chief minister was passed unanimously in a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party here. Party sources said the name of the new leader is likely to be announced in a CLP meeting called at 11 am on Sunday. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, current state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are frontrunners for the post of the CLP leader, the sources said. Names of senior party leaders Ambika Soni, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and MP Partap Singh Bajwa are also doing the rounds. Some sources, however, have said the Navjot Singh Sidhu was not in contention for the next CLP leader. Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, who was one of the two central observers deputed by the party, informed the media after the meeting Saturday evening that 78 out of total 80 party legislators were present in the CLP meeting, which he called was “very important”. He said a resolution praising and thanking the contribution of Amarinder Singh towards Punjab and the Congress was also unanimously passed at the meeting. “We also expect that the party will continue to get guidance from Amarinder Singh,” he further said. This resolution was moved by Maken and seconded by Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. Maken said the second resolution in which the Congress president was authorised to pick the Congress legislature party leader was also unanimously passed. “Whosoever she picks will be unanimously accepted by everybody,” said Maken. The senior party leader and former minister said that this resolution was moved by Brahm Mohindra and seconded by MLAs Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Amrik Singh Dhillon. “We have apprised the Congress president about these two resolutions. We will wait for her response and guidance,” he further said. Asked if any names were discussed, Maken replied in the negative. Earlier, speaking to reporters, AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat said outgoing CLP leader Amarinder Singh led with great capability and ran a very good government. He confronted the challenges faced by Punjab and also found their solutions, Rawat said After speaking to the Congress president, he took the decision to resign, said Rawat. The AICC on Saturday held the CLP meeting which it called after bypassing Amarinder Singh who was earlier the CLP leader, amid a rift in the Punjab Congress. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar in a tweet said, "Kudos to Sh@RahulGandhi for adopting Alexandrian solution to this Punjabi version of Gordian knot. Surprisingly, this bold leadership decision to resolve Punjab Congress imbroglio has not only enthralled Congress workers but has sent shudders down the spines of Akalis." Sidhu's principal strategic adviser and former IPS officer Mohd Mustafa in a tweet said it is the time to have a "Congress CM" after a "long agonising wait" of four and a half years. "Today is the time for course correction," said Mustafa. Mustafa's wife Razia Sultana was a cabinet minister in the Amarinder Singh-led government. Earlier, reports had surfaced that a section of Congress MLAs had written to the party leadership to convene a CLP meeting to discuss the poll strategy and progress on the 18-point agenda, which includes action on the 2015 desecration cases and arrest of the “big fish” in drug rackets. Last month, four ministers and around two dozen party legislators had raised a banner of revolt against Amarinder Singh and had said they had no faith in his ability to honour unfulfilled promises. Four ministers -- Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi -- had demanded he be replaced. The crisis in the party's state unit has been brewing for the past many months.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-mlas-authorise-sonia-gandhi-to-pick-amarinder-singhs-successor-as-cm-1031947.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Recruitment by militant groups has come down considerably in Kashmir: Police chief||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh on Saturday said recruitment by militant groups has come down considerably in the Valley as the youth are acting wisely. The director general of police also said that the attacks taking place in Kashmir reflect the frustration of pro-Pakistan forces as the top leadership of various militant outfits has been wiped out. "The local militant recruitment has not increased but reduced considerably as the youth are acting wisely. We want the youth to focus on their life and career and to not indulge in any irresponsible activity," Singh told reporters. Asked about the militant attacks taking place in Kashmir despite security forces claiming that there has been a decline in violence in the region, he said, "Both police and security forces make claims based on facts and figures which are the result of successful counter-terrorism operations. The number of terrorists has decreased. The terrorist structure has been destroyed. Their leadership has been wiped out." The attacks are a result of the frustration of pro-Pakistan forces, he said. Not only will they be given exemplary punishment here, but they will also be punished in the afterlife, he added. "We want peace to prevail so that people can live in a peaceful atmosphere and we will work towards that," Singh said. He claimed that the overall situation in Kashmir is more peaceful compared to the previous years. The enemies of peace are not happy about it. The number of overground workers (OGWs) in the Valley has halved compared to the previous years and no local militant is active in Kupwara, Baramulla and Sopore, he said. "Barring Sopore and Sumbal areas of Bandipora district, no militant is active in north Kashmir," the DGP said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recruitment-by-militant-groups-has-come-down-considerably-in-kashmir-police-chief-1031948.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Jalalabad motorcycle blast an 'act of terror', one held: Police||The Punjab Police on Saturday described the Jalalabad motorcycle blast as an "act of terror" and said it has arrested one person in connection with the case. The accused has been identified as Parveen Kumar, a native of Fazilka district's Dharmupura village, which is just three kilometers from the India-Pakistan border, police said. A 22-year-old man, Balwinder Singh, was killed after the fuel tank of his motorcycle exploded in Fazilka's Jalalabad on September 15. During the investigation, Kumar's role in hatching a conspiracy to blow up the motorcycle in a crowded area came to light, the police said. After learning about Kumar's role, the Fazilka police launched a probe based on the available clues and arrested him on Saturday, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ferozepur Range, Jatinder Singh Aulakh said in a statement. During questioning, Kumar revealed that the motorcycle that was being driven by Balwinder was supposed to be parked in a crowded area in Jalalabad city, the officer said. Kumar also revealed that the planning for this "act of terror" was done on September 14 at the house of one Sukhwinder Singh alias Sukha, a resident of Ferozepur's Chandi Wala village, the IGP said. Gurpreet Singh, a native of Lakhmir Ke Hitthar village in Mamdot, was also part of the plan, he said. Senior Superintendent of Police Deepak Hilori said that based on the inputs gathered from Kumar, all four accused, including Balwinder, have been booked and efforts are on to arrest Sukhwinder and Gurpreet. He said all the four accused have a criminal background and are related to each other. Based on Kumar's instance and information provided by a farmer, a tiffin bomb that the accused had hidden in the fields in his village was also recovered, the police said. On August 8, the Amritsar Rural police had recovered five hand grenades and a tiffin bomb from Daleke village in Lopoke. On August 20, the Kapurthala police had also recovered two hand grenades, one tiffin bomb and other explosive material from Phagwara. Another tiffin bomb was used to blow up an oil tanker in Ajnala on August 8. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jalalabad-motorcycle-blast-an-act-of-terror-one-held-police-1031952.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Negating Rama and Krishna is nature of people of one party: UP CM||Negating Rama and Krishna and fleeing to Italy in times of calamity are the nature of the people of a particular party, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday in an apparent dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The chief minister took the dig without naming Gandhi while addressing an “enlightened class conference” organised by the BJP. “People of one party flee to Italy in the times of calamity. UP helped their family members become prime ministers but they go abroad and criticise the state and the country,” said Adityanath. “They want everything from Uttar Pradesh but criticising and humiliating its people and making comments on gods and goddess are their tendency. Negating Ram and Krishna is part of their habit. This is what happens if someone is a Hindu by accident,” the chief minister said. Referring to the 'bulldozer' jibe by Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Adityanath said, “There is only one remedy for those who illegally encroach upon the government land and the people’s property – bulldozers." Attacking the Samajwadi Party, the chief minister said "during the previous government, people of eastern Uttar Pradesh used to be submerged in floods and children and citizens used to suffer from encephalitis and dengue”. “At that time, the people responsible (to manage it) were busy enjoying dances of film personalities in Saifai. I do not understand how people forget the interests of the nation and society. If the country is strong, everyone will be strong together,” he said. In his address, the chief minister termed the country’s interest above all, including one’s personal interests. "Personal desires, method of worship, freedom of faith and religion are secondary before the 'rashtra dharma.' You all have to provide the right vision to the society and show the right path, it is for you to decide whether you want a government of riots and mafia or a Ram Rajya in Uttar Pradesh,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/negating-rama-and-krishna-is-nature-of-people-of-one-party-up-cm-1031965.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Gadkari dubs NHAI a 'gold mine', says it will never fall into debt trap||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday dubbed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) a "gold mine" that would never fall into a debt trap.  Stating that India's national highways infrastructure world-class success story, he said, "The NHAI is a gold mine and will never be in a debt trap. In the next five years, NHAI's annual toll income will rise to Rs 1.40 lakh crore from the current level of Rs 40,000 crore." Gadkari added that the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, once operational, will generate Rs 1,000-1,500 crore toll revenue every month.  The Centre will get toll revenues worth Rs 1,000 to 1,500 crore every month once the much-awaited Delhi-Mumbai Expressway becomes operational in 2023, Gadkari said. Gadkari, who just completed a whirlwind tour to assess the progress of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway that will pass through four states apart from the national capital, said the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is likely to be completed by March 2023 and is being built as part of the first phase of the 'Bharatmala Pariyojana'. The eight-lane expressway, covering Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, is expected to halve the commute time between the national capital and the country's financial hub from nearly 24 hours to 12 hours. (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gadkari-dubs-nhai-a-gold-mine-says-it-will-never-fall-into-debt-trap-1031993.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress Legislative Party meeting delayed as party yet to decide on new CM||A meeting of the Punjab Congress Legislative Party, which was slated for 11 am on Sunday, has been deferred, with party sources saying that a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader. A party leader said the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting has been deferred. Party sources said a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader, who will be the new chief minister of Punjab after the resignation of Amarinder Singh on Saturday. The names of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, current state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. “We will abide by whatever the party leadership decides,” said a party leader. AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary are currently in the city. Punjab Congress legislators on Saturday had authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader. Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had said that he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress’s powerful satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the party president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Saturday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster". Congress sources had said the party -- also battling dissensions in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where its governments are in power -- is trying to balance equations in the poll-bound state and is likely to appoint a Hindu face like Jakhar to the top post. Jakhar, who is not an MLA, is believed to be close to the top Congress leadership.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-legislative-party-meeting-delayed-as-party-yet-to-decide-on-new-cm-1032003.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||What does Geelani's death mean for Kashmir's separatist movement?||The death of hardline Hurriyat Conference leader Syed Ali Geelani on September 1 may have come at a time when separatists in Kashmir are at the receiving end of the BJP government’s zero-tolerance policy against separatism. However, the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan couldn’t have come at a better time than this for Pakistan. At the moment, the influence of the separatists in Kashmir has waned to its lowest ebb in the past three decades of militancy. Geelani’s death has left a huge void that might not be easy to bridge in the near future. Nonagenarian Geelani, during his prolonged illness, had resigned from the hardline faction of the Hurriyat Conference last year which he led for almost 17 years. A week after Geelani’s death, the Hurriyat announced his protégé Masarat Alam Bhat, as his successor, apparently at the behest of Pakistan. The 50-year-old staunch Pakistan supporter currently lodged in Tihar jail for terror funding has spent more than two decades of his life in jails. But it will take years for Bhat to reach the stature of Geelani. Under current circumstances, it looks very difficult for him to be released from jail. Though Bhat’s appointment has a symbolic value, Pakistan has succeeded in its mission to replace a hawk with a hawk to lead the hardline separatists’ group so that moderates like Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who has always favoured talks with New Delhi, can be kept in a check. Bhat’s succession is a signal to the moderate separatists that Pakistan requires only hardliners with a strong anti-India stance. Ever since the abrogation of Article 370, the moderate faction of Hurriyat led by Mirwaiz have toned down their rhetoric and maintained a stony silence. They have not even carried out routine activities such as calling for a shutdown or protest. But while the separatist politics in the Valley was on the decline since New Delhi stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its autonomy, a big geostrategic development in Afghanistan has put Pakistan in an advantageous position after the Taliban took over. In all likelihood, Pakistan will shift its focus back to Kashmir sooner than later. And with separatists feeling the heat in Kashmir, Pakistan would try to keep Kashmir on the boil and will try its best to resuscitate the separatist movement. While the Taliban’s rise in Afghanistan and ISI hobnobbing with them is certainly a concern, the security situation in Kashmir is fluid. Attacks on J&K police personnel and political workers by militants continue unabated. In whispers, the Taliban’s victory and its impact are being discussed in anti-India constituencies in Kashmir to keep their morale high. Syed Salahuddin, the chief of United Jihad Council (UJC), an umbrella of militant groups in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK), called the Taliban’s victory “extraordinary and historical” in a voice message shared across social media. He reportedly said he expected the Taliban to aid Kashmiri militants. Geelani, who was more an Islamist than a Kashmiri nationalist, was a staunch supporter of Kashmir’s merger with Pakistan. His death may have brought down the curtain on a phase of hardline separatist politics in the Valley. But a sizeable population, especially youth, is inspired by the teacher-turned-MLA-turned-separatist. It is this population that Pakistan can cash in on. Geelani, who was a vocal supporter of militancy, was believed to be the mastermind behind civilian unrests of 2008 and 2010 in the Valley. Bhat acted as his deputy during both the unrests. Often referred to as a hawk and a hardliner, Geelani took a public stand against India and its “occupation” after a long tryst with electoral politics in the 70s and 80s. Bhat’s views are more or less the same. Over the years, authorities in Kashmir feared that as and when Geelani dies, his funeral could trigger a huge crisis. However, as separatist organisations and their networks remain in disarray due to relentless crackdown, police managed a quiet burial of Geelani’s body. His family was warned against making his funeral a political manifestation. The real challenge now is to maintain the peace and not to harass common people. Much-awaited Assembly elections are likely to be held soon after the delimitation. Every few years, the cycle of violence repeats in Kashmir. It happened in 2008, 2010 and 2016. The summer of 2022 would be crucial as the government can’t bask for long in the glory of maintaining law and order after Geelani’s demise. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/what-does-geelanis-death-mean-for-kashmirs-separatist-movement-1032004.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||'Jao Ram' gaffe on Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram leads to political satire||A tweet by the Information and Public Relations Department of the Himachal Pradesh government spelt Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur's name wrongly. In the now deleted post, the name of the CM was written as "Jao Ram", which many translated as "Go Ram". The error got more attention as speculations are rife about a possible change in the post of the state Chief Minister, especially since Jai Ram Thakur recently visited Delhi. Himachal Pradesh is going to polls next year. Leaders of the Congress party found the matter to be hilarious while BJP dismissed it as just a typing error. Kuldeep Rathor, the State Congress president laughed and said that if he is going then it is natural to write "Jao Ram" and that there was nothing wrong in it. However, BJP ministers had the opposite reaction, and also dismissed speculations of a change in CM. Former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar said that it was a big mistake. State party president Suresh Kashyap termed it a typing error. In reference to a possible action against the IPR staff, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal said that a mistake such as this should be overlooked and forgiven. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jao-ram-gaffe-on-himachal-pradesh-cm-jai-ram-leads-to-political-satire-1032017.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot's OSD Lokesh Sharma resigns after tweet sparks controversy||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's OSD Lokesh Sharma submitted his resignation on Saturday night, hours after he posted a tweet which was seen as an indirect criticism of the Congress over the change of leadership in Punjab. The tweet appeared to refer to a strong person being made helpless and a mediocre person being elevated. The officer on special duty to the Rajasthan chief minister submitted his resignation on Saturday night, seeking an apology for his tweet. Sharma has been associated with Gehlot for over a decade now and he has been looking after his social media. He was made the OSD after Gehlot came to power in December 2018. "Majboot ko majboor, mamuli ko magroor kiya jaye... baad hi khet ko khaay, uss fasal ko kaun bachaye!" Sharma had tweeted after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh resigned on Saturday. In the resignation letter, the OSD said he has been active on Twitter since 2010 and has not tweeted beyond party lines. Sharma said he never posted any political tweet after being given the responsibility of OSD by Gehlot. However, he sought an apology if his tweet hurt the party high command and the state government in any way. The Delhi police had registered a case against Sharma in March on Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's complaint. During the political crisis in Rajasthan due to rebellion by deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs last year, purported audio clips of conversations between Shekhawat, BJP leader Sanjay Jain and Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal and Vishvendra Singh were leaked. They were allegedly discussing a plan to topple the Congress government in the state. It was alleged that Sharma had circulated the audio clips, a charge denied by him. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlots-osd-lokesh-sharma-resigns-after-tweet-sparks-controversy-1032020.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||In 2020, 1.20 lakh people died in road accidents due to negligence||India recorded 1.20 lakh cases of "deaths due to negligence relating to road accidents" in 2020 -- 328 people losing their lives every day on an average -- despite Covid-19 lockdowns, according to government data. As many as 3.92 lakh lives have been lost in three years in deaths due to negligence related to road accidents, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) revealed in its annual 'Crime India' report for 2020. While 1.20 lakh such deaths were recorded in 2020, the figures stood at 1.36 lakh in 2019 and 1.35 lakh in 2018, the data showed. The country also logged 1.35 lakh cases of “hit and run” since 2018, the report of the NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, showed. In 2020 alone, there were 41,196 cases of “hit and run” while there were 47,504 such cases in 2019 and 47,028 in 2018, the report showed. On an average, there were 112 cases of “hit and run” reported across the country every day in the past year, according to the data. The cases of causing “hurt” by rash or negligent driving on public way stood at 1.30 lakh in 2020, 1.60 lakh in 2019 and 1.66 lakh in 2018, while the cases of “grievous hurt” stood at 85,920, 1.12 lakh and 1.08 lakh, respectively, the data showed. Meanwhile, 52 cases of deaths due to negligence relating to rail accidents were recorded across the country in 2020, from 55 in 2019 and 35 in 2018, the report showed. During 2020, India also logged 133 cases of "deaths due to medical negligence", up from 201 in 2019 and 218 in 2018, the NCRB data showed. There were 51 cases of "deaths due to negligence of civic bodies" in 2020 while there were 147 cases in 2019 and 40 in 2018, according to the report. Another 6,367 cases of "deaths due to other negligence" were reported across the country in 2020, up from 7,912 in 2019 and 8,687 in 2018, it showed. The NCRB stated in the report that the country remained under complete lockdown from March 25, 2020 till May 31, 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic during which the movement in public space was "very limited". "The cases registered under crimes against women, children and senior citizens, theft, burglary, robbery and dacoity have therefore declined, whereas Covid-related enforcement has resulted in increase of cases registered under 'disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Section 188 IPC)', under 'Other IPC Crimes' and under 'Other State Local Acts',” it noted. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-2020-120-lakh-people-died-in-road-accidents-due-to-negligence-1032044.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||UP government should answer people's questions: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that it had "failed" on several counts such as giving jobs to people, dues to farmers and in reining in price rise. The Congress general secretary said the Uttar Pradesh government should have answered people's questions on its four-and-a-half years in power, but it is continuing to peddle "lies, lies and more lies". उप्र सरकार को चाहिए था कि 4.5 सालों पर जनता के सवालों का जवाब दे, लेकिन नहीं। फिर झूठ, झूठ और सिर्फ झूठ 👉लाखों खाली पदों पर नौकरियां देने और लटकी भर्तियां कराने पर👉किसान को गन्ना, गेहूं, धान, आलू के दाम देने में👉बिजली के दाम कम करने में👉महंगाई रोकने मेंउप्र सरकार फेल रही   She was referring to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's remarks on Sunday that Uttar Pradesh remained riot-free while the governance saw a total changeover from the past providing benefits of welfare schemes directly to the deserving. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "On giving jobs to lakhs and filling up vacant posts, in giving dues on sugarcane, wheat, paddy, potato to the farmers, in reducing electricity prices, in reining in price rise, UP government failed". In another tweet, she alleged, "What did the BJP government make Uttar Pradesh, number 1 in malnutrition, number 1 in crimes against women, number 1 in kidnappings, number 1 in murder cases, number 1 in atrocities against Dalits." Gandhi has been criticising the performance of the Yogi Adityanath government on various fronts and said last week that people are going to change the government and the chief minister in the upcoming assembly polls. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-should-answer-peoples-questions-priyanka-gandhi-1032046.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Kashmir remains safe destination for foreign tourists, NCRB data shows||Despite turbulence, Jammu and Kashmir continues to be a safe destination for foreign tourists as only one minor offence has been recorded against the travelers in the last five years. A National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) report reveals that no case of crime against foreigners emerged in J&K during 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. “There was no case of violence, sexual assault, rape, forgery, theft and cheating reported from Jammu and Kashmir against the foreigners who visited the region in these years,” it says. The data shows that most of the foreigners, who visited J&K, had stayed only in the Kashmir division. However, on the contrary there have been 22 cases registered against foreigners, who have committed crimes in J&K in the last three years, the NCRB data reveals. The NCRB report also reveals there was no crime against solo women travelers in Kashmir during the period. Countries like Germany, UK, US and Canada had issued advisories against travelling to Jammu & Kashmir to their citizens soon after New Delhi on August 5, 2019 revoked J&K’s special status under Article 370 and announced bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two separate union territories. Officials say that tourism in Kashmir has been badly hit by the negative travel advisories and it is high time to get them lifted so that foreigners will visit the picturesque region. “Kashmir’s hospitality is known across the globe and since decades we have welcomed foreigners. But unfortunately in the recent past there have been some instances where the foreign governments imposed negative travel advisories to Kashmir which has hampered our business,” said Mushtaq Ahmad Chaya, Chairman, Jammu and Kashmir Hoteliers Club. He urged the government of India to take up the issue of lifting negative advisories keeping in view the ground situation and NCRB data which clearly reflect that Kashmir is a safe place to visit. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-remains-safe-destination-for-foreign-tourists-ncrb-data-shows-1032048.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||You can soon buy Himachal Pradesh's handlooms, organic fruits on ecommerce platforms||Himachal Pradesh's famous handmade shawls, sweaters, carpets, organic honey, fruits and spices will soon be available on e-commerce platforms like Amazon, Flipkart and Government e-Marketplace (GeM). Himachal Pradesh's Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar said the state government is planning to facilitate 2.80 lakh women belonging to 27,000 self-help groups (SHGs) access to the e-commerce platforms so that they can sell their products in a wider market. Among the products which may be available on the e-commerce platforms include handmade shawls, sweaters, carpets, organic honey, fruits, dry fruits, spices, pickles, medicinal herbs. The e-commerce platforms will enable small artisans living in remote or snowbound areas of the hill state to showcase their organic, natural and handmade products and connect them with buyers from across the country, Kanwar said in a statement. The uploading of the SHG products on e-commerce platforms is under progress and will be available under 'Him Ira' brand. This is a major step towards women empowerment and will give a big boost to the women entrepreneurs, he said. The necessary standardisation procedure and quality tests along with paper works are being completed expeditiously to provide sustainable livelihood opportunities to the women from SHGs. The minister said this would also integrate SHGs with the government's public finance management system (PFMS), thus helping them get their payments without difficulties. The state government will help the SHGs in branding, packaging and pricing their products to make them market competitive. This will open doors of growth and ensure the rural women folks get maximum profit, Kanwar said. At present, the products made by women SHGs are available only at government and a few other outlets. Following an initiative of Kanwar, the state tourism department has agreed to display these products at all the tourist hotels in Himachal Pradesh so that the SHGs products are easily available to the tourists. In Himachal Pradesh, about 15,000 SHGs are involved in agricultural activities while 12,000 SHGs in non-farm activities under the ambit of the National Rural Livelihood Mission . Some SHGs sell products at 'Him Ira' shops and weekly markets under the 'Him Ira' brand. At present 40 'Him Ira' shops are in operation in various parts of Himachal Pradesh and the state government is planning to set up around 100 'Him Ira' shops in all districts of the state so that small farmers and SHGs reach markets without interference of a middle man or vendor. A woman member of a SHG earns around Rs 200-300 daily and the state government is providing Rs 50,000 to every SHG to start livelihood activities, the minister said. Any SHG can avail Community Investment Fund (CIF) for such activities at nominal rate of interest and they are also being credit linked with the banks to avail loans. The central government has also provided them interest subvention on loans up to Rs 3 lakh. The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to provide additional interest subvention to SHGs, who are interested to take loan up to Rs 5 lakh, Kanwar said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-can-soon-buy-himachal-pradeshs-handlooms-organic-fruits-on-ecommerce-platforms-1032054.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Man arrested for duping job aspirants of Rs 2.4 crore||The Delhi Police Economic Offences Wing has arrested a 43-year-old man for allegedly being part of a racket that duped around 40 people on the pretext of getting them jobs in the Railways, officials said on Sunday. Accused Mohammad Raghib Firoz of Greater Noida holds a post-graduate degree in psychology and a diploma in journalism and mass communication, they said. He coordinated all activities of the racket, including collection of money from victims, filling of various forms regarding appointment and training, besides other miscellaneous affairs in the commission of the economic offence, police said. Two people, Brij Kishore and Sachin Kumar, were arrested in the case earlier, they said. The police said around 40 job aspirants were cheated to the tune of Rs 2.44 crore by the accused. Most of the victims come from poor families in villages around Agra, Hathras and Patna. According to the police, one of the accused would pose as an IAS officer and lie to the victims about good acquaintance and liaison with the Railway Board, while others organised bogus job training sessions for them. Fake appointment and training letters were issued, fake medical examinations conducted and three months’ job training was also organised in Dehradun to earn their trust, said R K Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing). Investigations revealed that the victims had no idea about the whereabouts of the accused, except for their phone numbers. They used to meet them at Paharganj hotels and near the Railway Bhawan in Delhi, the senior police officer said. "Through manual and technical surveillance, our team traced the third accused from Greater Noida. He has been arrested and taken on police custody remand," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-duping-job-aspirants-of-rs-24-crore-1032059.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Pollution: Delhi govt ranks departments on complaint resolution, East DMC bags top spot||The Delhi government has ranked 14 departments based on their performance in resolving pollution-related complaints, with the East Delhi Municipal Corporation topping the charts, followed by the PWD and SDMC. The agencies were divided into two categories -- those which received more than 100 complaints through the “Green Delhi” application and those with over 1,000 complaints. A review of their performance till August was conducted. The performance has been adjudged on three parameters -- quantity of complaint resolution, quality and timeliness, according to officials. “Quality” of complaint resolution means whether the complaint was resolved properly or was it reopened. Not a single department could resolve their complaints within the cumulative stipulated time, according to government data. Five departments received more than 1,000 complaints -- North Delhi Municipal Corporation, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Public Works Department, and Delhi Development Authority. The EDMC was ranked first in this category with a net score of 58 (out of 100). It resolved 3,423 of the 3,436 complaints received as 90 per cent of the resolved complaints were never reopened. The PWD resolved 4,630 of the 4,771 complaints and stood second with 56 points, while SDMC disposed of 5,622 of the 5,877 complaints bagging the third place. North DMC readdressed 5,527 of the 6,040 cases and DDA 1,300 of the 1,536 cases. In the 100 plus category, the New Delhi Municipal Council resolved 216 of the 218 complaints received and scored 62 points, grabbing the top spot. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which stood second in this category with 58 points, settled 164 of the 166 complaints. The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) readdressed 551 of the 569 cases, taking the third place with 55 points. The Revenue Department and the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) were the worst performers with 45 and 42 points, respectively. The Revenue Department resolved 226 of the 247 complaints, and 76 of them were reopened. The CPWD disposed of 183 of the 261 complaints, 99 of which were reopened. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pollution-delhi-govt-ranks-departments-on-complaint-resolution-east-dmc-bags-top-spot-1032060.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi BJP expels 3 councillors for 6 years over 'graft charges'||Cracking the whip over complaints of corruption, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Sunday expelled three municipal councilors from the party for six years, and said more heads will roll if they are found involved in financial irregularities. Gupta termed the action, coming months ahead of the three municipal corporations early next year, as BJP's "zero tolerance" policy. "Not just councilors but officers of the municipal corporations (MCDs) will also not be spared if they are found involved in corruption," Gupta told PTI. He said people should make videos if anyone "extorts" money from them in the name of MCDs and provide it to Delhi BJP so that FIR can be registered against them. The councillors who have been removed from the party over graft charges are Sadulajab councillor Sanjay Thakur in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), New Ashok Nagar councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and Mukherjee Nagar councillor Pooja Madan in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, according to the orders issued by Delhi BJP president. The move comes ahead of the civic polls early next year where corruption and mismanagement in municipalities is likely to be the main issue. "You (Sanjay Thakur) are informed that due to numerous complaints of corruption against you, you are removed from the primary membership of the party for six years.  "You were many times made aware of this and asked to mend your corrupt behaviour but to no avail. You are removed from the party for six years with immediate effect," the expulsion letter issued to SDMC councillor Sanjay Thakur by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. Similar expulsion letters were also issued to EDMC councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey and North MCD councillor Pooja Madan.  Calls made by PTI to seek response of the expelled councillors on the development went unanswered. The three civic bodies — North, East and South — are ruled by the BJP while the city government is headed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).  The AAP is the primary opposition party in three MCDs. The civic bodies are set to undergo election early 2022 where opposition parties (AAP and Congress) will corner the BJP over the issue of "burgeoning corruption".  In 2017 civic polls, the BJP has not given tickets to any of the sitting councillors due to corruption allegations against them.  In last one year many AAP leaders including CM Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia had raised the issues of corruption and mismanagement in civic bodies.  They had held that corrupt practices by BJP councillors and officials as responsible for poor financial situation of the three municipalities.  AAP leaders had alleged that many BJP councillors were involved in "extortion and other corrupt practices" in all the three civic bodies.  In April this year, senior AAP leader and MLA from Greater Kailash Saurabh Bharadwaj had accused BJP's Saidulajab councillor Sanjay Thakur of being involved in corruption. Bharadwaj had said that Thakur has a "nexus with local builders" and "extorts money" from common people when they try to do any type of construction in the area. Similarly, in August last year, senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak had accused New Ashok Nagar councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey and her kin of "extracting money" from people for illegally building houses in the area.  The party had also released an audio recording between a builder and the councillor's brother-in-law where a man was purportedly heard saying that he had given money to civic officials and also to councillor's brother-in-law but still the construction was stalled. These allegations were, however, denied by the councillor as "baseless". Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-expels-3-councillors-for-6-years-over-graft-charges-1032065.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Development did not reach all families in Amethi despite Gandhis' 'rule' for five decades: Smriti Irani||Amethi in Uttar Pradesh was presumed not to be in want of any infrastructure as it was "ruled" by the Gandhi family and "not served" by them for five decades, but development -- like internet connectivity -- has not reached all families there, Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Irani said on Sunday. Irani, who was scheduled to virtually inaugurate the 'sevasamarpan' initiative of RSS affiliated NGO Deseeya Seva Bharati, said she was unable to join the organisation's conference earlier in the morning as she was deep in the interiors of Amethi, where it was "a struggle" to connect to the internet. "I am deep in the interiors of Amethi. Network connectivity is a challenge in some of the villages here. Many presume this was a constituency ruled and not served by the Gandhi family for five decades and hence, would not be in want of any infrastructure. "However, the struggle today itself to connect with you (Seva Bharati) is significant enough for you to recognise that even under their (Gandhis) leadership, in their own constituency, development has not reached every single family," she said after she managed to join the online conference much later. She said that with the endeavour to ensure development reaches all parts of the constituency, she is going from village to village to find out their needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/development-did-not-reach-all-families-in-amethi-despite-gandhis-rule-for-five-decades-smriti-irani-1032066.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt shuffles 25 IAS officers, including 2 new collectors||A total of 25 IAS officers, including two district collectors, were transferred in Rajasthan, according to a state government order. The transfer order was issued on Saturday night by the Department of Personnel. Additional Chief Secretary (Mines and Petroleum) Subodh Agarwal was given the Energy department in addition to the one he is currently holding. He has also been made the CMD of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd. Principal Resident Commissioner, New Delhi, Roli Singh was made the Principal Secretary of General Administration Department, Estate, State Motor Garage, Chief of Protocol and Civil Aviation Department in Rajasthan. Pratapgarh Collector Renu Jaipal was transferred to Bundi as the new collector. She will replace Ashish Gupta, who has been transferred to the Watershed Development and Soil Conservation Department as its director.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-shuffles-25-ias-officers-including-2-new-collectors-1032071.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Congress not to field candidate in MP for RS bypoll; BJP's Murugan likely to be elected unopposed||Union minister L Murugan is likely to be elected unopposed in the Rajya Sabha bypoll from Madhya Pradesh next month as the main opposition Congress has decided not to field its candidate. The BJP on Saturday announced Murugan's name for the bypoll will be held on October 4. The vacancy emerged in Madhya Pradesh after the then Union minister Thaawarchand Gehlot resigned following his appointment as Karnataka governor in July this year. Talking to PTI on Sunday, MP Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said, "We are not going to field a candidate. MP party chief and Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Kamal Nathji has decided not to field any candidate for the RS bypoll in the state." A senior state BJP leader expressed confidence that Murugan would have a comfortable entry to the Rajya Sabha. Before Murugan's name was announced, the name of BJP Scheduled Caste Morcha's national president Lal Singh Arya, as well as of senior party leaders Kailash Vijaywargiya and Uma Bharti were doing the rounds for the seat in the Upper House of Parliament, according to party insiders. In the 230-seat MP Assembly, the BJP has 125 MLAs, while the Congress has 95. Besides, two seats are held by the Bahujan Samaj Party, one by the Samajwadi Party and there are four Independents, while three seats are lying vacant. Out of the 11 Rajya Sabha seats in the state, the BJP currently has seven and the Congress has three. Right now, the BJP Rajya Sabha members from the state are M J Akbar, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Dharmendra Pradhan, Ajay Pratap Singh, Kailash Soni, Sumer Singh Solanki and Sampatiya Uike. The Congress's members to the Upper House of Parliament from the state are Digvijaya Singh, Vivek Tankha and Rajmani Patel. As per the Election Commission, the last date of filing nominations for the Rajya Sabha bypoll is September 22, and last date of withdrawal of nomination is September 27. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-not-to-field-candidate-in-mp-for-rs-bypoll-bjps-murugan-likely-to-be-elected-unopposed-1032077.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand: Arvind Kejriwal promises unemployment allowance, job quota for local people if voted to power||AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised to take big steps to end migration from Uttarakhand, assuring an unemployment allowance and an 80 per cent job quota for people of the state if his party comes to power in the next assembly elections. Making six promises, Kejriwal said every youth of Uttarakhand would get employment if the AAP is voted to power, and assured a monthly allowance of Rs 5,000 to an individual from every family till they got a job. He also promised to reserve 80 per cent of both private and government jobs for the people of the state and to create one lakh employment opportunities within six months of coming to power. A job portal, on the lines of the one in Delhi, will be launched which will provide an interactive platform to job seekers and employers, Kejriwal said, addressing a press conference in Haldwani. A separate ministry will also be created to address the issues of unemployment and migration, the Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor added. Kejriwal also accused successive governments of doing nothing but looting Uttarakhand's resources for years. If voted to power, the AAP will take big steps for large-scale creation of jobs and prevention of migration from the hills, he said. Referring to his earlier promises of free electricity to farmers round the clock and 300 units of power to every household at no cost, Kejriwal said all these are meant to be fulfilled. "Unlike others, we do what we say. We are going to keep all our promises. If we say we will give free power to farmers 24x7 or give 300 units of power for free, we mean it. We have done it in Delhi, and we will do it here," he added. He asserted that all of what he has said can be done and the only thing needed is good intention. "Successive governments in Uttarakhand have been devoid of good intentions and have only looted its resources," Kejriwal alleged. "When we came to power in Delhi in 2015, we were asked from where would we bring the money that was needed to keep the commitments we had made to people. But we turned a deficit budget into one of profit within four years. All we did was wipe out corruption and everything else followed," he said. Kejriwal said the AAP has run Delhi and it will bring that experience to serve the people of Uttarakhand. Seventy-three per cent of people in Delhi are getting free electricity, he said, adding that the Delhi model of development will be adopted in Uttarakhand. Giving an example of how the Delhi government was saving money on every development project, he said a bridge estimated to be built at a cost of Rs 325 crore was built in Rs 200 crore only. Given an opportunity, the AAP will help the people of Uttarakhand overcome the misery of 21 years in just 21 months. If people want all this to happen, they must give AAP's chief ministerial candidate Col Ajay Kothiyal a chance, Kejriwal added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-arvind-kejriwal-promises-unemployment-allowance-job-quota-for-local-people-if-voted-to-power-1032080.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Adityanath's report card is all gas, full of lies: Opposition||Poverty, unemployment and inflation have soared in the four-and-half-year rule of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and the report card released by the government highlighting its achievements is all gas and full of lies, the opposition parties charged on Sunday. The Samajwadi Party said, "The-16 page booklet published by the BJP government is 16 aane (hundred per cent) lies." The Bahujan Samaj Party said the advertisement of transformation of four-and-half years is "all gas and far from reality". Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath released the 'report card' of his rule of four-and-half years and claimed Uttar Pradesh remained riot-free since 2017 while governance saw a complete transformation from the past with welfare schemes now reaching the deserving and the state emerging as number two in the ease of doing business. The BJP government has fulfilled every promise mentioned in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra in 2017, he said and voiced confidence that the party's tally will cross 350 seats in the 403-member House in the 2022 assembly polls. Dismissing the claims as "rhetoric", SP chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted, "Six months are left for this government, which has committed atrocities on farmers, poor, women and the youth through unemployment, inflation, hatred and slump in business." उप्र की भाजपा सरकार ने प्रकाशित किया ‘16 पेज का 16 आने झूठ’! "Do not want a government whose truth is 'thug ka saath, thug ka vikas, thug ka vishwas, thug ka prayaas'," he said, taking a swipe at the BJP dispensation. Yadav said, "The 16-page booklet published by the BJP government is 16 aane (hundred per cent) lies. It seems that the BJP government in UP has published the textbook of 'international training centre for lies'. But the BJP's 'jhoot ke doot' (messenger of lies) will only be able to run them in online classes as they are unable to go to the masses." BSP chief Mayawati said, "The advertisement of transformation of four-and-half years is all gas and far from reality....there has been increase in poverty, unemployment and inflation, and the bad condition of the public is known to everyone." यू.पी. भाजपा सरकार द्वारा ’बदलाव के 4.5 वर्ष’ का विज्ञापन व दावे अधिकांश हवा-हवाई व जमीनी हकीकत से बहुत दूर। इनकी कथनी व करनी में अन्तर होने के कारण ख़ासकर यहाँ की बढ़ती ग़रीबी, बेरोज़गारी व महंगाई आदि से जनता की बदहाली जग-ज़ाहिर। UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said the Adityanath rule has been full of lies and deceit. "UP has become number one in corruption, crime and in problems faced by the farmers. The BJP government is organising events as a desperate move to save itself ahead of the 2022 assembly polls," Singh said. Attacking the BJP government, Rashtriya Kisan Manch president Shekhar Dixit said, "Four years ago, a promise was made that the sugarcane price will be paid to the farmers in 14 days. But this was conveniently forgotten, and till date, no statement from the government came on this. Corruption is rampant at the wheat and paddy purchase centres in the state." He added that the suicide by farmers is still continuing. "This government has only taken forward the policies of the previous government. However, you should be congratulated for the ongoing construction of Ram temple (in Ayodhya). But, please do not open the box of lies pertaining to development and transformation," Dixit said. Rebutting the claims made by the opposition leaders, UP BJP spokesperson Manish Shukla said, "Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati and the entire opposition has no logical answer to the development done in the state. It also has no point-wise questions to the development of UP in the past four-and-half years. The opposition sitting in palaces has indulged only in tweeting. After seeing today's report card, they have accepted their defeat." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanaths-report-card-is-all-gas-full-of-lies-opposition-1032085.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||BJP uses Taliban, Afghanistan, Pakistan to garner votes: Mehbooba Mufti||Accusing the BJP of playing politics over the issues of Taliban, Afghanistan and Pakistan to garner votes, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday said that the seven-year-rule of the saffron party has brought miseries to the people of the country and left Jammu and Kashmir “destroyed”. She said that it is not Hindus but the democracy and India which are in danger under the BJP rule, which has undone all the “good work” of the past 70 years of the Congress and started selling national resources and raising the prices of essentials to fill its coffers to “buy or intimidate” opposition legislators. The former chief minister taunted her critics and said the mere mention of Taliban or the party's vision of self-rule makes her “anti-national” and triggers debates and discussions even as the focus should have been the ongoing agitation of the farmers, inflation and other issues of public importance. “Jammu and Kashmir is in trouble and so is the entire country…they say Hindus are in danger but they are not in danger and in fact it is India and the democracy which are in danger because of them (BJP),” Mehbooba said addressing a rally organised by the youth wing of her party here. Mehbooba reached Jammu late on Saturday after a five-day tour of Poonch and Rajouri districts, facing a small protest by a group of Rashtriya Bajrang Dal activists whose attempt to stop her cavalcade near Dogra chowk in the city was foiled by police. As the elections in different states come nearer, the BJP will start cashing on the god-given opportunity of Taliban and Afghanistan and if it would not work, they will bring Pakistan and drones into picture, the Peoples Democratic Party chief said. “They will not talk about China which has intruded into Ladakh because they do not get votes by talking about that country. If you want to frighten people, talk about Taliban, Afghanistan and Pakistan and do something here and there and seek votes,” she said. Referring to the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Mehbooba alleged that the BJP's incumbent state chief minister failed to provide jobs, roads and schools, while as the river Ganga which is considered sacred by the people of the country was made a dumping ground for human corpses because people do not have money to perform the last rites of their relatives. “…They do not have anything to sell to the people and therefore they will use Pakistan and J-K to garner votes. They have destroyed J-K and are using sticks to oppress the people who are not allowed to speak openly for their rights,” she said. Mehbooba said the BJP is watching what she is saying to trigger a debate in media. “The farmers' agitation, growing unemployment, inflation and other issues facing the country should have been the focus of our debates but there is no discussion on these important issues. Since the elections in UP are drawing closer, there will be more discussion on Taliban and Afghanistan,” she said. She alleged that the BJP government is using crores of rupees on the self-projection and taxing people by raising petrol and diesel prices to fill its coffers and use the money to “buy MLAs of other parties and use government agencies to intimidate those who reject its offer”. Mehbooba said there are debates on the oppressive measures adopted by the Taliban against women in Afghanistan but nobody is talking about the women of India who are facing rapes and dowry deaths. “I know unemployment is such that we cannot provide jobs to everyone. Mufti had a plan to address this problem but if I name the plan which is self-rule, I will be dubbed as anti-national and it will trigger debates and discussions,” she said. Explaining self-rule, she said Jammu and Kashmir is holding a strategic position and can be a gateway to central Asia if all the cross-border traditional routes are opened and all the neighbouring countries allowed to open bank branches which will generate employment. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-uses-taliban-afghanistan-pakistan-to-garner-votes-mehbooba-mufti-1032089.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 7 dead, 9 injured in autorickshaw-SUV collision||Seven persons were killed and nine others injured after an autorickshaw collided with a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in Chhattisgarh's Kondagaon district on Sunday, police said. The accident took place near Borgaon turn under Farasgaon police station limits when the occupants of the autorickshaw were returning after attending a funeral in the nearby village, an official said. "The autorickshaw collided with the SUV that was coming from Jagdalpur. Seven occupants of the rickshaw died on the spot, which is located over 200 km away from the capital Raipur," he said. Nine others, who were travelling in both the vehicles, have suffered injuries and were admitted to a local hospital, he said. As per the preliminary information, all the deceased belonged to the same family, but it was yet to be confirmed. Their bodies were taken to the hospital for post-mortem, he said, adding that further investigation was underway.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-7-dead-9-injured-in-autorickshaw-suv-collision-1032093.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||UP govt relaxes Covid-19 curbs by allowing 100 people to gather in non-containment zones||The Uttar Pradesh government has relaxed the Covid-19 lockdown norms from Sunday by allowing a maximum of 100 people to gather at a place outside Covid-19 containment zones. In a letter addressed to police and administration officials in the state, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said, "In closed and at open places, a maximum of 100 persons have been allowed to gather at a place, while following Covid-19 protocol. Earlier, as per June 19 government order, a maximum of 50 persons were allowed to gather at open and closed places." A distance of two yards will have to be maintained in seating arrangements for guests. Toilets should be adequately cleaned and sanitised, the statement said. On September 7, activities were allowed in all the districts of UP on all days of the week from 6 am to 11 pm. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-by-allowing-100-people-to-gather-in-non-containment-zones-1032102.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Wary of 'Jat anger', BJP turns its focus on Gujjars in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||Apparently unsure of the support of the Jats, who have been at the forefront of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the farm laws, the BJP has turned its focus on the sizable Gujjar community in western Uttar Pradesh. In a bid to woo the community, the BJP has decided to organise programs to honour the 9th Century Hindu king Mihirbhoja, who hailed from the 'Gurjar-Pratihar' dynasty. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath would be unveiling a 12-feet statue of Mihirbhoja, which had been installed at degree college after the king at Dadri in Gautam Buddh Nagar district on Wednesday. Adityanath would also be addressing a meeting of the Gujjar community at the college grounds after unveiling the statue.  Mihirbhoja is widely respected in the Gujjar community and there were many educational institutions after him in several western UP districts, including Baghpat, Shamli, Ghaziabad and others. ''Our government is committed to honour the Hindu kings, who fought the foreign invaders valiantly to protect Hinduism,'' said BJP lawmaker from Dadri Tejpal Nagar, a Gujjar. He rejected assertions that there was any political motive behind the unveiling of the statue of Mihirbhoja. However, Samajwadi Party (SP) termed the program as another 'electoral stunt' of the saffron party. ''BJP starts remembering the great personalities only when the polls are closer,'' said a senior SP leader. Controversy however has erupted over calling Mihirbhoja a Gujjar king as the 'Rajputs' have claimed that he hailed from their community. The 'Karni Sena', an outfit of 'Rajputs' has warned of an agitation if Adityanath unveiled the statue. Barely a few days back, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of a university after the popular 'Jat' king Mahendra Pratap Singh at Aligarh.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wary-of-jat-anger-bjp-turns-its-focus-on-gujjars-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-1032114.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||#MeToo shadow over Punjab CM-designate Charanjit Singh Channi||The #MeToo controversy looms over Punjab Chief Minister-designate Charanjit Singh Channi, who was accused of sending indecent messages to a senior woman IAS officer. The alleged controversy came to light in October 2018 when Channi was the Technical Education Minister, and then Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said the matter was brought to his notice and that it was "resolved" to the satisfaction of the woman officer concerned. At that time, the #MeToo movement was hogging the limelight across the country. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/metoo-shadow-over-punjab-cm-designate-charanjit-singh-channi-1032134.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Charanjit Singh Channi to take oath as Punjab CM on Monday||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi will take oath as the chief minister of Punjab on Monday. Channi, who was elected the Congress Legislature Party leader on Sunday, met the governor in the evening and said, "The oath-taking ceremony will take place at 11 am on Monday.” He was flanked by state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and other leaders. Channi will be the first Dalit to hold the post in the state. Channi's election as the CLP leader came a day after Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. A minister in the outgoing Amarinder Singh cabinet, Channi's selection assumes significance as the dissension-riven Congress faces the Assembly polls in less than five months. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/charanjit-singh-channi-to-take-oath-as-punjab-cm-on-monday-1032135.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Vehicle owners have to carry PUC certificate or face punitive action: Delhi transport department||Ahead of the winter when the pollution level is likely to rise in the nation capital, the transport department of the Delhi government has asked vehicle owners to carry valid pollution under control (PUC) certificates to avoid punitive actions, including suspension of driving licence for three months. If caught without a valid PUC certificate, vehicle owners may face imprisonment up to six months or fine up to Rs 10,000 or both. They will also be disqualified to hold their driving licence for three months, stated a public notice issued by the transport department on Sunday. "The Transport department, Government of NCT of Delhi, in its ongoing efforts to control pollution and improve air quality in Delhi, requests all motor vehicle owners in Delhi to ply their vehicles ony with valid pollution under control certificate," it said. Vehicles are periodically tested for their emission standards for various pollutants such as carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide after which they are given PUC certificates. "All registered vehicle owners are requested to get their vehicles checked from the pollution checking centres authorised by Transport department to avoid any penalty/ imprisonment/ suspension of driving licence," stated the public notice. There are over 900 pollution checking centres authorised by the transport department in Delhi. These are set up at petrol pumps and workshops spread all over the city so motorists can get it done easily. The centres conduct pollution checking facilities and issue PUC certificate to vehicles complying with prescribed pollution norms. PUC certification has been made real time and integrated with the vehicle registration database. This has improved credibility of PUC certification by reducing human intervention and helps in identifying polluting vehicles for necessary punitive action. The fee for pollution checking in case of petrol and CNG driven two and three wheelers is Rs 60. It is Rs 80 for four-wheeled vehicles. The fee for pollution checking certificate of diesel vehicles is Rs 100. According to Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, every motor vehicle (including those conforming to BS-I/ BS-II/ BS-III/BS-IV as well as vehicles plying on CNG/LPG) is required to carry a valid PUC Certificate after the expiry of period of one year from the date of its first registration. However, the validity of four-wheeled BS-IV compliant vehicles is one year and for other vehicles it is three months. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vehicle-owners-have-to-carry-puc-certificate-or-face-punitive-action-delhi-transport-department-1032139.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||PDP to fight upcoming assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir: Mehbooba Mufti||The PDP will fight the upcoming assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, party president Mehbooba Mufti said on Sunday, ruling out an alliance with its erstwhile coalition partner the BJP. The former chief minister said the situation in Jammu and Kashmir is far from normal which is evident from the twin attacks in Kulgam district in south Kashmir where a policeman and a non-local labourer were killed by militants on Friday. “PDP will fight the (assembly) elections. So far an alliance is concerned, the question is premature but one thing is absolutely clear that we will not go with that party (BJP),” Mehbooba told reporters on the sidelines of a party function here. The BJP walked out of the PDP-led government in 2018, ending a three-year-old alliance with the party. Mehbooba has made it clear time and again that she herself is not going to fight the assembly elections as her objective is to seek restoration of Article 370 of the Constitution which was abrogated by the BJP-led government in August 2019. “Their claim that everything is normal in Jammu and Kashmir is absolutely wrong. People are silent and silence does not mean that the situation has improved. They are feeling suffocated while they (BJP) are trying to portray that everything is alright,” she said. Referring to the one-day strike call given by Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry against for September 22 against alleged attempts to finish local trade by allowing big corporate chains to open their outlets, she said those who the BJP claimed were in support of the abrogation of Article 370 are going on a protest strike. “At least they are registering their protest but in Kashmir, the people cannot even do this. They are forced to open their shops if they resort to strike,” the PDP leader said. “They are only concerned about the commission which they use to buy opposition MLAs to bring down an elected government,” she alleged. Asked about the removal of the national flag from a building at Kotranka in Rajouri district during her visit, she said, “I do not have any information. Ask the police about this.” Police on Saturday said an FIR was lodged against unidentified persons for removing the national flag from a building in Kotranka during the intervening night of September 17 and 18. In response to a question about the visit of 70 union ministers to different parts of Jammu and Kashmir and their remarks that Article 370 was a hurdle in the development of the Union Territory, Mehbooba said, “It is nothing but a photo opportunity to portray that the situation is normal. But if the situation is normal, why are District Development Council (DDC) members kept in hotels and other buildings under security and not allowed to move freely.” “They should go to Uttar Pradesh to campaign for the next assembly elections. They should go there to find out the reasons for dumping of bodies in the sacred river Ganga and the condition of the people,” Mehbooba said. About the slow pace of work on various projects in Jammu, She said, “Nothing is happening in Jammu and Kashmir. Many of these projects were sanctioned during the previous government.” She said that the corruption in Jammu and Kashmir is at an all-time high with all government departments affected, while the poor people are facing starvation in the backdrop of rising prices of essential commodities and fuel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-to-fight-upcoming-assembly-elections-in-jammu-and-kashmir-mehbooba-mufti-1032146.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Channi's journey: From municipal council to Punjab's first Dalit CM ||From being elected president to a municipal council to being handpicked as first Dalit chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi has seen a meteoric rise in the last two decades. The 58-year-old three-time legislator from Chamkaur Sahib assembly constituency in Rupnagar district had joined the Congress in 2012 and was holding the portfolios of Technical Education, Industrial Training, Employment Generation and Tourism and Cultural Affairs in the outgoing Amarinder Singh-led cabinet. He had along with three other ministers rebelled against Amarinder Singh while choosing to side with the camp of state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. With barely five months left for the assembly polls, the announcement of a Dalit face as chief minister by the Congress assumes significance as Dalits constitute nearly 32 percent of the state's population. The Doaba region - Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar and Kapurthala districts - has the highest population of Dalits. The Shiromani Akali Dal, which has joined hands with the BSP, has already announced that the deputy chief minister post will be given to a Dalit if it wins the assemby polls, while the Aam Admi Party too is sensing a victory as its rivals remain in disarray. Though Channi appears to be a surprise choice, it can be a calculated gamble by the party which is hoping that there might not be public opposition from leaders in the faction-ridden party to the naming of a Dalit for the post and it may contain the damage from the unsavoury exit of Amarinder Singh. Channi along with three other ministers - Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria - and a section of MLAs had last month raised a banner of revolt against Amarinder Singh, saying they have no faith in his ability to honour the unfulfilled promises. He has been a vocal critic of the government on the issues related to Dalits like representation of Scheduled Caste in senior government posts. His political journey began with being elected as the president of the Kharar municipal council in 2002. He first contested as an Independent in 2007 and won from Chamkaur Sahib Assembly constituency. He joined the Congress in 2012 and was again elected as legislator from the same seat. During his ministerial tenure, Channi was at the centre of a row after a woman IAS officer had accused him of sending an inappropriate text message in 2018. Thereafter, the Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and had sought the government's stand. At that time, the then Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked Channi to tender an apology to the woman officer and had also said he believed the matter had been "resolved" to her satisfaction. But the issue again came to haunt Channi in May this year when the women panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the state government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on an "inappropriate text" message issue. But Sidhu's camp had alleged that it was an attempt by Amarinder Singh to target his detractors. In 2018, Channi again courted controversy when he was purportedly caught on camera flipping a coin to decide between two candidates for the post of lecturer in a polytechnic institute, leaving the Amarinder Singh government red-faced. A lecturer from Nabha and another from Patiala had both wanted to be posted at a government polytechnic institute in Patiala. Channi had once got a road constructed outside his official residence to have east-facing entry to his house and it was later razed by the Chandigarh administration. He was the leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly during the previous SAD-BJP regime.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channis-journey-from-municipal-council-to-punjabs-first-dalit-cm-1032171.html
19-09-2021||North and Central||Govt committed to return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits: J&K L-G Manoj Sinha||The government is committed to the return and rehabilitation of the Kashmiri Pandit community in the Valley to restore the rich social fabric of the land, the union territory's Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said Sunday. The LG was speaking in this month's episode of ‘Awaam ki Awaaz’ radio programme, aired on all local & primary channels of All India Radio (AIR) in the union territory and broadcast on DD Kashir channel. Sinha spoke of the need for the rehabilitation of the displaced communities from the Valley and outlined the recently launched online facility whereby aggrieved families can submit their applications to get justice with respect to their immovable properties. “To undo the injustice of decades, we are committed to bring back all the families who were forced to leave in despair, and restore the culture of glorious brotherhood in the valley,” he added. Sinha spoke on the suggestion of Sanjay Kumar Pandita who had written on the need for introducing the teaching of Sharda script at various levels of education. He also mentioned Sadaket Ali from Doda who suggested the creation of separate sections for Bhalesi, Bhaderwahi, Padri, Sarazi and Poguli in J&K Academy of Art Culture and Languages. The Lt Governor informed the government is conscious of the need and is determined to promote the forgotten and local languages through a comprehensive programme. Sinha said the UT administration is committed to providing training, mentoring and intensive capacity building through initiatives like SAATH and UMEED, primarily aimed at reinforcing the rural women enterprise. He also outlined the efforts of the Department of School Education which is working continuously on the lines of the New National Education Policy. On the issue of infrastructural delays and approvals, and the need for climatic specific construction techniques highlighted by Vickey Mattoo, the Lt Governor said that since last August, 21,943 projects have been completed and with the incorporation of many best practices. The Lt Governor said the Jammu and Kashmir Administrative Council has recently constituted the Accelerated Recruitment Committee that has been instructed to fast track recruitments which suffered on account of the pandemic. The Lt Governor assured that no outsider will be given jobs in big power projects on posts where locals are qualified. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-committed-to-return-and-rehabilitation-of-kashmiri-pandits-jk-l-g-manoj-sinha-1032215.html
19-09-2021||Oasis||Nature, our best teacher||Stuffed indoors with no friends, no school and under the constant radar of parents, this pandemic has been hard on the juveniles too. Our maid’s children and their amigos around the block remained frozen indoors when the pandemic’s first wave shook the nation. Slowly, as the number went down… small faces peeped out of several windows and for a couple of hours they would play board games while moms were busy doing the daily chores. For the past two summers, these children have shown a gradual shift of interest with each wave of this pandemic passing by. The mobile for online classes was usually reserved for the eldest child and the rest were often left free. With the IPL season opening up, the love for cricket brought these young lads to a heavily weeded patch behind. Tall weeds, creepers, dirt and stones were all cleared up within days. From the first rays of sunlight till sunset, these youngsters ran through the gardens, trees and even on rooftops in search of their lost ball. Within a couple of months, the enemy lines were drawn and the friends would often end up fighting more than playing. So they wisely decided to part ways. Gazing at the pitch, one of them got the idea of sowing some seeds while the patch was clean. The parched patch was watered well so that digging becomes easier from dried chillies to coriander seeds and mustard, multiple seeds flowed out of the anjarai petties and were sowed in small batches with a line of twigs separating them. A few days of dedicated watering bore results. When the small saplings sprouted, the happiness was in their faces. With each tiny harvest, the little hands found contentment in their hard work. Sometimes little things in life can bring immense joy also teaching a lesson that no one else can impart so well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/nature-our-best-teacher-1032198.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||Economy, ecology, equity: We’ve put the cart before the horse||The economy has always been in focus. For as far back as I can remember, the idea of the nation’s ‘growth’ was essentially an economic one. At various times, we were building industry for self-sufficiency, creating financial markets, exporting software ... all more or less for economic betterment. And whenever we believed ourselves to be a superpower in the making, the size of our economy has often been the first argument put forward in support. Ecology is finally, at long last, coming into focus. The most recent report of the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change rang alarm bells louder than many earlier ones, and that may be part of the reason for the new awakening. But a more likely explanation is that many sustainable practices are now market-competitive in price. Therefore, the old fixation with economy has allowed such practices to be embraced. And why not -- especially if one can do so with a sudden turn to sustainable fashion? But falling in step with ecology is still too slow. It will leave the planet cooking for many years more before it becomes mainstream. To overcome that, we have to ask a different question -- what will enable the accelerated adoption of sustainable practices? Accelerated adoption is the only game in town, if we’re serious about stepping back from the cliff’s-edge of vulnerability to climate change. For some places, it is already too late. There are roads along the coastlines of every continent that remind us that the ocean surface was a little lower not that long ago, and news reports about the ferocity of extreme weather events are now frequent enough that national media can dedicate a weekly column or time-slot to them. It’s not that difficult. A combination of five things, if done together, can drive such acceleration. First, there must be far more information and advocacy driving consumers to sustainable choices. Second, there must be a well-funded pipeline of innovations for sustainability, in both the public and private sector. Third, there must be sandboxes in which ideas for sustainability can be tested and proven. Fourth, there must be investment funds created to specifically put money into scaling proven innovations. And fifth, the law and rules for construction, transportation, and a few other sectors need to be tweaked to routinely support sustainability. Each of these can be detailed fairly simply. There are people working on bits and pieces of this. But the whole is much more powerful, potentially, than the sum of the parts. And that’s why each of these things need to be done together, coherently, to be able to support and benefit each other. Which brings us to equity -- the third part of the trinity with economy and ecology. It is no secret that inequality is at astronomical levels, and that increasingly any new growth is not being distributed equitably. My guess is that the first 6 per cent of economic growth each year occurs without diminishing inequality, and it is only above that threshold that some benefits begin to trickle down to the poor. In times of distress, like the last two years, the impact of such a skew in economic value-capture is catastrophic. We’ve always put the cart before the horse, living with the illusion that India will first somehow achieve growth, and after that we will be in a much better position to pay attention to the majority. No one actually says this, but a large number of policy and programme choices effectively lean towards this stance. For now, it seems, most people are being told they must wait for development while others become strong enough to one day help them. In fact, equity is the strongest argument for economy. A more educated population can be a lot more productive, so anyone who actually cared about building a stronger and more competitive economy should invest like crazy in widespread quality education, adequate nutrition for all children, and repeated skilling opportunities at different stages in people’s lives and careers. But this is not what we do. Rather than give everyone a fair start in level, we’re stunting most of them -- physically and financially -- by an initial dose of inattention that leaves them unable to catch up later. Fewer than half the children in the country are getting even a full school education, let alone getting to college. And even among those who do get degrees and diplomas, there is a large gap between what those pieces of paper certify and what those holding them actually know and can do. At each stage in life, having the right inputs is key to create the strength for the next stage. But that exercise must begin early. That means that the inputs to a fair start for all must be available widely, in sufficient quantity and quality. And with modern life being what it is, this baseline has to be more than education and health alone; it has to include energy access, transportation, internet connectivity, and many other things that create full inclusion in society and the economy for all people. A constant retort to all this is that India cannot afford to be spending money giving people all these inputs. Actually, it is quite obvious by now that we cannot afford not to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/economy-ecology-equity-we-ve-put-the-cart-before-the-horse-1031919.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||Be one of us, Governor||One of the things British commissioners did when they were appointed to a province was to learn the native language and try to assimilate into the local culture and traditions. But it has been a different story with the Governors of states post-Independence -- a post which is anyway a vestige of the colonial era. Especially so with Governors of Karnataka, with almost none of them making an attempt to learn Kannada. However, the recently appointed Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot has endeared himself to the people by tweeting in Kannada from his very first day in office. His predecessor, Vajubhai Vala, who could not utter a word of Kannada even after spending about seven years in the state, was instead accused of furthering the Hindi cause. He insisted that copies of his address to the joint session of legislature in Hindi be distributed among elected representatives, though most of them are not familiar with the language. Traditionally, only Kannada and English versions are circulated. Fortunately, Gehlot is familiar with Karnataka as he was the BJP’s in-charge of the state in the early 2000s. During one of his visits, Gehlot had injured his head after a bad fall in the Kumara Krupa guesthouse, recalls party old-timer Prakash Sesharaghavachar who had then rushed him to hospital. He has lived not only to tell the tale, but to return to the state as Governor a decade later. Though Governors have a limited role to play as they are bound to act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers, except in areas where they enjoy certain discretionary powers, former President APJ Abdul Kalam had demonstrated how even those holding gubernatorial offices can play an inspiring role within the confines of constitutional limitations. Gehlot, hopefully, will make an effort to become a ‘people’s Governor’, unlike the previous incumbent who had virtually quarantined himself within Raj Bhavan during his entire term. As the Chancellor of the state universities, the Governor enjoys some independent powers. Gehlot should spare no efforts to restore excellence in higher education, which has plummeted over the years. One of the main reasons for that is the political interference in the appointment of Vice-Chancellors and other members of academic bodies, with extraneous considerations often taking precedence over merit. This calls for the Chancellor’s urgent intervention. Raj Bhavans have turned into white elephants, and the ostentatious lifestyles of Governors with their armies of butlers, servants, helpers and aides can put even erstwhile maharajas to shame. Khursheed Alam Khan, who was the Governor from 1991 to 1999, had, however, set an example by his frugal living, even saving on the budget allotted to Raj Bhavan. When Khan assumed office, Raj Bhavan was saddled with a 15-year-old car. The government offered to replace it with a swanky new one, but the Governor would have none of it. When the car had to be ultimately replaced, he opted for another 16-year-old vehicle which was previously used by former chief minister R Gundu Rao. While Governors are usually allotted the latest model Mercedes, Khan’s successors, too, opted for less expensive cars. Vala, however, preferred a Rs 80-lakh Merc, which was later upgraded to an SUV costing more than Rs 1 crore. Gehlot should put an end to such wasteful expenditure. While the Sarkaria Commission describes the Governor as the “lynchpin of the constitutional apparatus of the state,” many of them have been reduced to agents of the ruling party at the Centre. Karnataka, however, has been fortunate to have had some excellent Governors, save a few, and one hopes Gehlot will keep the flag of Raj Bhavan flying high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/be-one-of-us-governor-1031920.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||In a world of fakes, it’s hard to keep it real||Last Sunday, eagle-eyed newspaper readers were jarred out of their morning reverie by a front-page ad praising the economic progress of Uttar Pradesh under the Yogi Adityanath government. Those who were paying attention soon noticed something amiss: an iconic yellow Ambassador taxi on the bridge in a key image. Where else could it be but Kolkata? Twitter erupted into a furore as the bridge was identified as eastern Kolkata’s Maa Flyover. Predictably, the bungle provided fabulous political fodder. Opposition parties and their supporters were quick to point out that they had seen through the “false claims” of development using “fake pictures of flyovers and factories”. But what about the many other false claims and misleading images so common in advertising in India? Real estate developers get first prize for creating exaggerated ideals of utopia. “A smoking hot rendezvous”, one hoarding in Mumbai promised, with an image of a foreigner couple having a barbeque against a backdrop of a verdant meadow. Never mind that the upcoming apartment complex is being built next to a main road. There were steaks cooking on the barbeque as well. To add to the absurdity, they looked suspiciously like beef! Another ad for an under-construction apartment complex in Mumbai featured a similar wide-open meadow, except this time it came with a girl dressed in formal riding attire and a huge horse. “What does every child crave for?” the ad asked. Too bad if it is a horse and grasslands to gallop through, because no amount of imagination is going to materialise such things in the city’s concrete jungle. And then, there are companies that use unauthorised images of celebrities to promote their products. Remember the scandal back in 2016, when James Bond actor Pierce Brosnan appeared to endorse an Indian paan masala brand? “Class never goes out of style”, the ad claimed. Pierce, in return, claimed he’d been grossly manipulated as the product’s brand ambassador. According to his contract, he’d agreed to promote a natural “breath freshener/tooth whitener!” Photos of Indian celebrities frequently show up in ads without their knowledge or consent. Most recently, Olympic medalist P V Sindhu is said to have sent legal notices to several brands that capitalised on her win by associating themselves with her image for moment-marketing. The road to recourse can be long though, usually making such opportunistic actions easy to get away with. I’m not a celebrity but my foreignness is sufficient for personal photos of me to be taken from the internet and used in advertisements. One day, I’d had enough when a mass distribution brochure for a local Mumbai paint company arrived in the mail and, much to my shock, on it was an image of me wearing a saree. Where was the relevance? I wasn’t even holding a paint brush! I decided the company owed me an explanation, and perhaps some free paint. So, I indignantly marched into their office to demand it. (My earlier days in India were ridiculously dramatic at times). Instead of being apologetic, the owner was excited I’d paid him a surprise personal visit. “Madam, you should be flattered that we’ve used your photo. An Indian woman would be happy with the attention,” he proclaimed. The showdown was on. Once he realised I was indeed serious about my complaint, he proceeded to defend himself by saying that the advertising agency chose the image. He was not responsible. The UP government ad blunder was blamed on the inadvertent inclusion of a wrong image by the newspaper’s marketing department. Doesn’t the client approve the ad before publication? Whether it’s bridges, meadows or foreigners, it’s mindboggling how far ads stray from reality at times. Quite often, it’s a game of separating fact from fantasy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-a-world-of-fakes-it-s-hard-to-keep-it-real-1031921.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||The written Constitution, and the unwritten one||There is an important case currently in the Calcutta High Court that has implications for India’s parliamentary democracy. It is an issue that even informed citizens may not know much about -- who should head the Public Accounts Committee of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly? The Public Accounts Committee is charged with evaluating how the government has spent public money. It ensures the accountability of the executive to the legislature. By convention, it is headed by a member of the Opposition in the legislature. This convention is followed in the Lok Sabha, too, and even the Narendra Modi government, not otherwise known for being a stickler to constitutional propriety and niceties, has followed it: the PAC is currently headed by Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Controversy arose when the Speaker of the Bengal Assembly appointed Mukul Roy as chairman of the PAC. While Roy was elected on a BJP ticket in the recent election, he has since defected to TMC, the ruling party. His appointment has been challenged in court by a BJP MLA arguing that this is against constitutional norms and practice. But here’s the thing -- as per Article 212 of the Constitution, courts are not allowed to interfere in the internal matters of legislatures, including the constitution of such committees. Should the court ignore Article 212 in this case and intervene? Or, should it follow Article 212 and allow a long-standing practice that is in tune with the spirit of the Constitution to be disregarded by the Speaker? Should the court let the PAC be subject to partisanship and thus let that institution collapse? The arguments are ongoing, but this case tells us something important about our Constitution -- that some of the most important things it requires of us are not actually written down in it! The requirement that the Governor invite the leader of the single largest party to form the government after an election? Found nowhere in the Constitution. The rule that a Chief Justice of India should be the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court? Again, no article mentions this. The power of the High Court and Supreme Court to declare a law unconstitutional? Not written down in so many words. Yet, all these are integral to our Constitution and to uphold its spirit. If a Governor were to ignore the winner of an election and appoint someone else, we call it unconstitutional. If the Union government were to ignore the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court (as Indira Gandhi did in 1973 and 1976), we call it unconstitutional. If Parliament by law tried to take away the power of the courts to declare laws unconstitutional, we would definitely consider that itself unconstitutional (as the Supreme Court has, in fact, in the past). These are only some instances of things that we take for granted about the Constitution that are not actually written down in it. The Constitution is not only what has been written down. For the written Constitution to be worked as per the spirit of constitutional morality, as Babasaheb Ambedkar put it, we also have to have conventions, principles and norms that are followed on a daily basis and that are established as accepted practices over time. The Constitution has a written part and an unwritten code of constitutional conduct, and both are just as important. This is why the dilemma before the Calcutta HC is so acute. Should the court condone the move by the Speaker to appoint Mukul Roy, it is only a matter of time before other state Assemblies, and even Parliament, follow suit -- reducing the PAC to a rubber-stamp of the respective government and making the legislature redundant. We have seen this happen with ‘money bills’. In 2014, the Supreme Court condoned the Akhilesh Yadav government’s use of the ‘money bill’ route for a law that had nothing to do with the Consolidated Fund of the state. The Modi government made it almost a habit during its first term, using it to bypass parliamentary propriety as it pleased. On the other hand, if the court were to intervene and set aside the Speaker’s decision, it would undermine the authority of the Speaker and the sanctity of the legislature. Once that happens, it is a slippery slope then onwards as every small issue relating to the House will start to be litigated to the bitter end, making Article 212 redundant. Perhaps it is unfair to put the Calcutta HC in this situation, and maybe the right way out is to remind the Speaker of his constitutional responsibilities and let him revoke Roy’s appointment on his own. The Constitution, after all, is not just for judges and lawyers, but also for the Speaker to follow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-written-constitution-and-the-unwritten-one-1031922.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||Such stuff as dreams are made of||Sigmund Freud set out, in his own words, “to understand some of the mysteries of this world”, and much of what he discovered emerged from his striving to understand himself. His often controversial ideas went on to influence every aspect of social relations, contemporary culture and literary theory; and in more ways than one, psychology as a discipline, even today, lives in his shadow. In contextualising his theory of psychoanalysis and its relevance to modern thinking, readers of all levels will find him fascinating and at once challenging. Freud’s true impact is on how we think, and how we think about how we think. Born in 1856 in what is now the Czech Republic, Freud studied medicine at the University of Vienna, receiving his medical degree in 1881. For much of his life, Freud lived and worked in Vienna, till in 1938, to escape persecution by the Nazis, he went to the United Kingdom, where he died an exile in 1939. The 20th century qualifies as the Freudian century, comparable in its impact only with Darwin and Marx. Whatever we, in this century, choose to believe about the workings of the human mind, we will remain indebted to Freud; a debt that involves either critiquing or subscribing to his foundational ideas. Freud’s theory, psychoanalysis, pioneered new ways of understanding the conﬂicting emotions that make up our daily lives -- love, hate, childhood, sexuality, and fantasy. In its scope and transformative power, Freud’s work represents a core of ideas that the poet WH Auden best described ‘In Memory of Sigmund Freud’, when he wrote: if often he was wrong and, at times, absurd/to us he is no more a person now/but a whole climate of opinion/under which we conduct our diﬀerent lives. First published in 1899, Freud’s ground-breaking book, The Interpretation of Dreams, explores why we dream and why dreams matter in our psychological lives. Delving into case histories and real-dream experiences, Freud brilliantly analyses the contents -- manifest and latent – of dreams and presents the special language of dreams, dreams as wish fulfilment, and the significance of childhood experiences. Freud dives deep into fascinating case studies, providing an incisive and enduring examination of dream psychology. His case histories are some of the most fascinating facets of reading Freud -- each unfolding as a puzzle; the patient’s history and Freud’s story of the analysis combining to provide insights on content and narrative and how they might relate to manifestations of neuroses in the present times. Freud was a master detective of the “hidden recesses of the mind”, observing daily occurrences such as slips of the tongue, seemingly silly mistakes, forgetting names, recurring dreams; to interpret through psychoanalysis our unfulfilled desires in everyday life, even when we try to hide them. His psychoanalysis method provided an empirical framework to interpret the deceptive manifestation of consciousness to uncover the subconscious mind lurking underneath; and how dreaming is a way of fulﬁlling these desires through the unconscious imagination. Conﬂict between two opposing forces or antagonistic emotions is at the heart of Freud’s framework on psychoanalytic thinking -- the struggle between conﬂicting conscious and unconscious desires resulting in repression, leading to neurosis. To understand his relevance to our own times, one must read Freud beyond the realm of individual psychology. Just as he used his analyses of neuroses to formulate a universal theory of sexual and mental development, so he expanded the application of his ideas, such as the Oedipus complex and repression, to society at large. In this sense, Freud’s psychoanalysis colonised other areas of study, including social relations, although with modest success. His writings on war and group psychology pose intriguing questions about the herd instinct in human beings, the origins of organised violence, and the distinctive and growing phenomenon of the human ability to identify enough with a non-material idea such as a faith, a nation, or a cause, to will oneself to ﬁght and die for it. How else might you understand suicide bombers? In this respect, his Thoughts for the Time on War and Death, provides invaluable insights that help understand better the problems of human social organisation, the rise of religious militancy, and the violence that pervades and brutalises all of society today. Why must we read Freud? “Get it out, produce it, and make something of it -- outside you that is; give it an existence independent of you”. Such was Freud’s advice to Joan Riviere, one of his English translators, referring to his own approach to thinking. The highest measure of his meaning rises from the echoes of his voice: urging the integrity of thought, word, and deed -- of greater relevance today than ever before. As Freud said, “Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/such-stuff-as-dreams-are-made-of-1031924.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||Elon Musk soars while Jeff Bezos sues in the new space race||By Adam Minter Space races are supposed to be won in engineering labs or up in orbit. Thanks to Jeff Bezos, the next one might be won in a courtroom or regulator’s office. As Bezos’s companies fall behind Elon Musk’s SpaceX in the race to return humans to the moon and launch satellite-based broadband services, they’re increasingly resorting to politics and legal filings to get ahead. It’s not exactly a novel approach in Washington. But if Bezos prevails, it could do significant damage to America’s commercial space industry, just as it’s starting to get off the ground. It may be hard to believe these days, but the National Aeronautics and Space Administration was once known for its speed and efficiency. In July 1962, NASA invited 11 companies to bid on the Lunar Exploration Module — or LEM — that would ferry astronauts to the moon’s surface for the first time. Shortly thereafter, it chose Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp. (later Northrop Grumman Corp.) for the contract. Just seven years later, the module was on the lunar surface. Since then, unfortunately, NASA's pace has slowed while costs have soared. In 2007, to cite only one example, the agency authorised a program to develop a new spacesuit for America's next round of lunar exploration. Fourteen years later, there’s still no new suit. A recent audit predicted there won’t be one for at least another four years. And the cost? About $500 million per suit. A major reason for this glacial pace is that the project was distributed among 27 separate contractors.  Back in 2019, Bezos himself offered a pretty good summary of the problem: “To the degree that big NASA programs become seen as big jobs programs, in that they have to be distributed to the right states where the right senators live, and so on, that is going to change the objective.” During the same talk, Bezos predicted that if the LEM competition were held today, lawyers would line up next to the engineers. “Today, there would be, you know, three protests, and the losers would sue the federal government because they didn’t win. It’s interesting, but the thing that slows things down is procurement. It’s become the bigger bottleneck than the technology.” He was right! Last year, NASA selected three companies — Bezos’s Blue Origin, SpaceX, and Dynetics Inc. — to compete for a lander contract for its next mission to the moon, scheduled to land in 2024. The agency was expected to select two candidates. In April, however, it announced it was only selecting one: SpaceX. Rather than concede defeat, Blue Origin filed a complaint with the Government Accountability Office. When that failed, it sued NASA. As the legal process dragged on, NASA had to halt work on the lunar lander and put its schedule at risk. (Blue Origin didn’t respond to a request for comment.) Yet Bezos wasn’t done. On Aug. 25, Amazon.com Inc. (of which he is the founder and chairman) asked the Federal Communications Commission to dismiss SpaceX’s updated plan for a constellation of internet-beaming satellites. SpaceX already has more than 1,700 in orbit, with plans for as many as 30,000 more. Not coincidentally, Amazon has its own plans for internet-broadcasting satellites. With little prospect of catching up in the short-term — none of its orbiters even has a launch date yet — Amazon sent a personal attack on Musk to the FCC last week, claiming that, at his companies, “rules are for other people.” (Amazon declined to comment on the record.) It remains to be seen how receptive the regulators and courts will be to these pleas. But even if Bezos wins, NASA shouldn’t look kindly on a come-from-behind strategy that’s designed — at least in part — to slow innovation and exploration via lawyerly means. By almost any measure, SpaceX is far ahead in this race, launching rockets every few weeks and landing contracts to send landers to the moon.  Big companies with deep pockets will always be tempted to sue rather than compete. But Bezos, as one of the most accomplished entrepreneurs in American history, should understand that humanity’s progress into space is best promoted by trusting engineers and scientists — not litigators. The new space race is just beginning. It’d be a pity to see it tethered to the launch pad by red tape. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/elon-musk-soars-while-jeff-bezos-sues-in-the-new-space-race-1031975.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||Terrorists didn’t change the world, we did||By Pankaj Mishra, The world changed on 9/11 — this sentiment was expressed again during the recent commemorations of the World Trade Center attacks. But the world did not change on September 11, 2001. Nor did the mass-murderers of al-Qaeda ever possess the power to change the world. This small band of fanatics certainly “hated our freedoms,” as President George W. Bush claimed in September 2001, “our freedom of religion, our freedom of speech, our freedom to vote and assemble and disagree with each other.” The most vicious assaults on these freedoms, however, were launched by their supposed defenders — politicians, bureaucrats, lawyers and journalists — in the weeks, months and years after 9/11. That’s when the world truly changed, leading to the traumatic present where the Taliban are back in power and the rest of us, whether in India or the United States, are besieged by what Bush last weekend called the “violence that gathers within.” In the US, racial injustice and white supremacism came to flourish on the scorched ground where a bonfire of laws was fed by successive administrations, pursuing an endless war on terror with the help of extrajudicial executions, torture, indefinite detentions and intrusive surveillance. Much of our bleak world today, where once-celebrated democracies such as the United Kingdom, India and Israel are dominated by far-right personalities and movements, and Russia and China seem condemned to authoritarian rule, was also forged in the days after 9/11, when the global war on terror endowed violence and brutality with unprecedented global sanctions. A younger generation today probably doesn't remember how quickly an insecure young Russian leader named Vladimir Putin moved in 2001 to link Russia’s long battle against separatists in Chechnya to Bush’s war on terror. The first foreign leader to call the White House after 9/11, Putin accelerated his brutal suppression of the Chechens with support from Bush, who claimed to have looked into the Russian leader’s “soul” and found him “very straightforward and trustworthy.” It was in the weeks and months after 9/11 that Putin’s autocracy was consolidated. In Israel, right-wing Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who had been complicit in the massacre of hundreds of civilians in Beirut in 1982 and had found his way back to power by undermining peace talks with the Palestinians, moved as fast as Putin to subsume decades-old Palestinian resistance to Israeli military occupation under the war on terror. Describing Yasser Arafat, leader of Palestinian Authority, as Israel’s Bin Laden, Sharon launched in March 2002, with the support of the Bush administration, Israel’s biggest military operation in Gaza and the West Bank since its original occupation of these territories in 1967 — an assault that irreparably damaged fledgling Palestinian institutions. India’s Hindu nationalist leaders claimed that India had suffered its own 9/11 in December 2001, when militants driving a car with a sticker that proclaimed “India is a very bad country” opened fire at the Indian parliament building in New Delhi. Putting the Indian army on high alert on the border with Pakistan, they introduced anti-terrorist legislation which put the onus on the accused to prove his or her innocence, laws which were later disproportionately deployed against India’s Muslim minority. It was in this toxic climate of jingoism and Islamophobia that more than 2,000 Muslims were massacred in Gujarat state, six months after 9/11, under the watch of Narendra Modi, now prime minister of India. The most malign legacy of 9/11 was an extensive dissolution of norms and values as well as laws. It is hard to imagine China’s large-scale detention of Uyghur Muslims without the superpower culture of impunity defiantly proclaimed by the still-open prison in Guantanamo Bay. The ongoing descent of Britain, the original home of liberty, into a libertarian’s nightmare can be dated back to Prime Minister Tony Blair’s involvement in the US‐led invasion and occupation of Muslim countries — what brought, as widely predicted, terrorism to the streets of London, a state crackdown on civil liberties and a virulent media culture of Muslim-baiting and xenophobia in general. More damagingly, the mainstream intelligentsia in advanced democracies chose to participate in their self-mutilation. Those marveling today at how once-respectable media organisations, from the UK’s Spectator to the Times of India, became eager hosts to far-right trolls and culture warriors must examine their post-9/11 record of warmongering and Islamophobia, of marginalising and stigmatising dissent. No wonder the violence that gathers within today is fueled by a profound and universal collapse of public confidence in political elites and the media. “Never forget” — the imperative resonates 20 years after the unconscionable attacks that killed thousands of men, women and children. But nor should we forget that, though terrorists brought down the Twin Towers on 9/11, the older and sturdier edifices of democratic institutions were devastated by those sworn to protect them. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/terrorists-didn-t-change-the-world-we-did-1031982.html
19-09-2021||Opinion||Two unusual films - 'Sir' and 'The Disciple'||In these really trying times ruled by the Covid-19 virus, two unusual Indian films, Sir directed by Rohena Gera and The Disciple by Chaitanya Tamhane, give food for thought. They are international co-productions written and directed by independent filmmakers from Mumbai.  The first, Sir, made by the Stanford University-educated Gera, is a rigorous, intelligent, deeply felt story about a jilted young architect Ashwin who returns from the US to his plush flat in Mumbai and gradually falls in love with his caring maidservant Ratna.  The second film, The Disciple, is also about a cultural problem. In it, Sharad Nerulkar, an aspiring vocalist of Hindustani classical music, is caught in these fast-changing times, when this particular form of music is on the verge of a troubling, even painful transformation. People simply do not have the time to listen to music, whether vocal or instrumental, which is essentially contemplative. Tamhane made his name with his first Indie feature, Court, a witty, highly critical examination of the Indian judiciary and hence the system. In the film, a Dalit folk theatre activist is repeatedly sent to jail for writing a song about a poor Dalit Mumbai sewage worker who died inhaling poisonous gases at work not having been provided with the right protective gear by the government.  His second film, under the guardianship of Alfonso Cuaron, the internationally famous Mexican filmmaker, who happens to be the executive producer on The Disciple, finds Tamhane on slippery ground. The film has been lionised abroad where knowledge of Hindustani music and the crisis it finds itself in now is minimal In terms of form, The Disciple is as interesting as Court. The disciplined, even austere structuring confirms the maturity of technique evident in Tamhane's first film and shows his grasp of cinematic storytelling.  Where he slips up badly - a minority opinion – is the inadequate grasp of his subject matter, though he makes some pertinent observations in the voiceover about a near-mythical character called 'Maii' or Mother, a deceased great singer, who believed that Hindustani music was about seeking; not just acquiring musical knowledge but through it an understanding of the wisdom and beauty of life and living. It was about Marga Darshan.  The vocal music that Sharad is learning from his guru is pretty pedestrian, as is the battle-scarred veteran's singing, though the old man keeps talking about riyaz, or practice, and of learning for its own sake. The words do not ring true because Tamhane has not heard enough of truly memorable Hindustani music to come up with apt musical examples to bolster the teacher's words.  The one unforgivable error he commits is suggesting in a voiceover of Maii's that the Muslims polluted Margiya Sangeet. The opposite is true. It is the Muslim contribution to our heritage of Margiya Sangeet over many centuries that has greatly enriched it, and Hindustani music became a glorious example of our syncretic culture. Sir deals with day-to-day living and how a class-ridden society in the India of our times circumscribes our best intentions and prevents positive action. Without either being a Marxist or even Marxian, Gera remains in her storytelling approach a humanist, aware of the deepest desires and aspirations of individuals and the conditioning of their class moorings.  Ashwin, the son of a westernised big-time builder, returns to Mumbai emotionally shattered after his fiancée suddenly calls off their wedding. He summons his erstwhile maid Ratna to take charge of his apartment once again. He tries gamely to cope with his trauma but with limited success.  Ratna senses his pain and helps him greatly by being constantly attentive towards him by doing her work with consistent efficiency and care. Gradually they come to respect each other as individuals and slowly fall in love, and he is unwilling to accept their employer-employee status. She is all too aware of her role as his servant, although she has a not-so-secret desire to learn to tailor (for which she has a talent) and then become a fashion designer.  Gera's style is cool, detached yet committed to preserving the dignity of her two protagonists who represent the two extremes in the social scale, that of high privilege, meaning easy access to power and money, and its opposite, where the necessity of earning one's daily bread and preserving one's dignity becomes an ongoing struggle. Gera gives her film an open ending. She evokes a strong sense of empathy in the viewer for her two characters by her deeply felt cinematic treatment; therein lies her triumph.  Both films were made with international funding, thereby allowing each director to work with complete artistic freedom.  Tamhane's The Disciple and Gera's Sir could be made exactly the way they were intended because box office considerations did not hamper them. They had the scope to earn back their investment and earn a reasonable profit on the international market. More such films of serious intent ought to be made in the near future. (The writer is a film critic) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/two-unusual-films-sir-and-the-disciple-1032006.html
19-09-2021||Panorama||A Rs 200-crore penalty and the telling effect of India's antitrust laws||On August 23, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) passed a significant judgement and imposed a penalty of Rs 200 crore on Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) for antitrust violations viz., implementation of a discount control policy vis-à-vis its dealers. The Competition Act attempts to regulate the conduct of enterprises in India under two classes, horizontal agreements and vertical agreements. The Act prohibits horizontal agreements (agreements between competing entities) which affect purchase and sale prices, limit or controls production, supply, markets, technical development, investment, and provision of services. Additionally, agreements that allocate operational markets to eliminate competition, and agreements that pertain to collusive bidding are also prohibited. Horizontal agreements are presumed to be illegal, and the burden to prove the legality of any such agreement lies on the enterprise facing investigation. Vertical agreements (agreements between entities that form part of the same production chain of manufacture, transport, and distribution) between enterprises that pertain to tie-in agreements, exclusive supply and distribution agreements, refusal to deal and finally resale price maintenance is also prohibited in India. However, such vertical agreements are not presumed to be illegal unless the CCI demonstrates that such agreements have an appreciable adverse effect on competition. The CCI’s MSIL judgement was focused on violations of the law pertaining to vertical agreements between MSIL and its dealers for resale price maintenance. In 2015, MSIL commenced a new retail strategy to launch and sell their premium vehicles through a distinct dealer network under the brand name ‘Nexa’. New showrooms were unveiled with an exclusive premium presentation of MSIL’s Nexa branded vehicles such as the S-Cross. Thereafter, other vehicles such as the Baleno, Ignis, Ciaz and XL6 also joined the Nexa lineup. The Nexa presentation was met with success considering MSIL’s historically reliable vehicles, comfortable service, and support. However, the build quality, fit and finish of all Maruti cars, including the Nexa range, continued to remain a complaint. Lack of refinement and unremarkable build quality of the Maruti cars were a significant sore point for motoring enthusiasts and automotive journalists. These niggles did not shake the idea that Maruti cars were ‘commonplace’ and did not cater to status-conscious consumers. It appears that MSIL had also come up with another mechanism to control the perception of MSIL vehicles prior to the implementation of the Nexa strategy. MSIL implemented a discount control policy and routinely held meetings across the country with its dealers to enforce such a discount control policy. The policy, in essence, mandated that all discounts offered by all Maruti and Nexa dealers would have to be in line with the discount control policy and the limits fixed therein, failing which MSIL would impose penalties in the form of fines and withholding of fresh stock to errant dealers. Additionally, the policy also required dealers to seek approvals for discounts sought above certain thresholds. This discount control policy drew the attention of the CCI which took suo motu cognisance of this policy consequent to an anonymous email it received in 2017. The CCI ordered an investigation into MSIL’s discount policy and sought to ascertain if MSIL was involved in resale price maintenance viz., discounts offered by its dealers and if MSIL’s conduct was afoul of the Competition Act, 2002. The first charge levelled against MSIL was that it framed guidelines and gave instructions to its dealers to not offer discounts without its permission over certain pre-restricted levels. The second charge against MSIL was that it appointed Mystery Shopping Agencies (‘MSA’) to keep a track of the discounts offered by the dealers and imposed penalties on them and even threatened to withhold the sale of premium vehicles to errant dealers. The conduct of MSIL, therefore, resulted in the best price not being offered to the end consumers and was hence violative of the Competition Act. MSIL, in response, set out a defence that the discount policy was not imposed by it, and was a self-policing initiative between the Maruti dealers. MSIL contended that it only acted as a mediator on account of its stature as a ‘father figure’ to the dealers. MSIL further contended that due to the enormity and diversity of its dealer network, enforcing or implementing a discount policy was not practically possible. Finally, it contended that there was no formal agreement between the dealers regarding any discount control and therefore, the Competition Act had no application. On the other hand, MSIL’s agreement with the dealers specifically permitted the dealers to sell at lower prices and contained no penalty clauses for such sales. Considering the aspects mentioned above, the CCI reproduced and analysed damning emails from the managers of MSIL to various dealers specifically warning the dealers about discounts offered, approval for discounts offered and imposition of penalties, both monetary and refusal to supply premium vehicles, for such violations. The CCI also analysed the position enjoyed by MSIL in the market as against other car manufacturers. Further, the CCI also took into account the emails, considering the broad definition of agreements under the Competition Act which included any ‘mutual understanding’, and held that the emails themselves constituted an agreement under the Act. The CCI also laid threadbare the mechanism under which MSIL imposed and recovered penalties from the dealers who were in violation of the discount control policy. It was revealed that the penalty amounts were deposited into a third-party non-MSIL account and such amounts were thereafter paid to other vendors for advertisements sanctioned by MSIL, directly by third parties. In conclusion, the CCI observed that the minimum retail price maintenance by MSIL had the effect of reducing inter-brand price competition in addition to reducing intra-brand competition. Additionally, the arrangement with the dealers did not result in accrual of any consumer benefits; rather, the same resulted in denial of benefits to consumers as they were made to pay high prices. Considering all these aspects, the CCI imposed a penalty of Rs 200 crore payable by MSIL. The CCI judgement reflects the significant evolution and maturity of antitrust laws in India that has been steadily developing since 2009. The CCI is also presently investigating Amazon and Flipkart for anti-competitive practices pursuant to the judgement of the Supreme Court declining to interfere in the validity of ordering such an investigation. These developments reflect India’s growth as a mature and stable market with the capacity to enforce fair competition amongst its players in the interest of consumers. Entities operating in India routinely invest in measures to ensure compliance with tax and revenue laws, it is probably the right time for all companies and participants in the market to invest in similar measures to ensure that all their businesses are compliant with competition laws. (The writer is a practising advocate. He was one of the advocates who represented CAIT and DVM against Amazon and Flipkart in the High Court of Karnataka and the Supreme Court of India in the recent proceedings related to the investigation by CCI against the said entities) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-rs-200-crore-penalty-and-the-telling-effect-of-indias-antitrust-laws-1032197.html
19-09-2021||Right in the Middle||The seeds that saved an empire||In his book, The Lotus and the Robot, British writer Arthur Koestler wrote: “Rome was saved in A.D.408 by three thousand pounds of pepper imported from India as part of the ransom the Senate paid to Alaric the Goth.” It is amazing these tiny seeds loaded with potent antioxidants had the miraculous power of saving an empire! Koestler’s words let my mind wander back over six decades to remember Krishna Bhaktar, a merchant of pepper who lived in Mathamangalam, a village abutting on ours, Kaithaprom, in north Malabar. He was around fifty, tall and hefty with a protruding belly. Bhaktar traded in a handful of spices but pepper was his mainstay which earned him the nickname, ‘Pepper Bhaktar.’ He walked daily a few kilometres to reach the bus terminal from where he took a bus to the spice market in Payyannur. Since Kaithaprom was sandwiched between Mathamangalam and the bus terminal, Bhaktar had to leg it to the stop through our village. Whether the price of pepper soared or not could be inferred from the expressions on Bhaktar’s face. If a cheery smile had stolen across his visage it was a sure sign that the price was up. Often a song accompanied the cheeriness — 'Achutham Kesavam Rama Narayanam, Krishna Damodaram Vasudevambaje… praising Lord Krishna for bringing good luck to him by substantially hiking the price of pepper in the spice market. He would sing the song rhythmically and sonorously. During rains, Bhaktar’s voice rose steadily in pitch and heard over the clatter of rainfalls. His song that resonated across villages, was an appeal to pepper growers, my grandfather and his brothers and cousins among others, that time was propitious for disposing of their products which had already been harvested. Whenever the price slumped, his countenance was bent down under the weight of dejection and he walked indolently as if all energy had drained out of him. And from a low-spirited Bhaktar no songs emanated. He was the lone merchant who traded in pepper in our village and the neighbouring ones. He earned pepper growers’ gratitude, for he obviated their need to travel to Payyannur. Undoubtedly, Malabar pepper was a most coveted and sought-after commodity by the ancient Roman and Arab traders. Perhaps the great ancestors of Bhaktar and others of his ilk were instrumental in making pepper well-known merchandise. So, one can safely assume that they contributed the lion’s share of pepper that was paid as ransom to the uncouth Goth to save the historic city of Rome! Right?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-seeds-that-saved-an-empire-1032200.html
19-09-2021||Second Edit||Save land from desertification||India is experiencing desertification of land, including cultivable and fertile stretches and forests, at a pace not seen in the past. The government recently published the latest version of the country’s desertification and land degradation atlas prepared by the Indian Space Research Organisation, which provides details of degraded land for the period 2018-19. It also provides an analysis for the previous 15 years. It has been noted that about 30% of the land area has got degraded, and ironically the areas where the Green Revolution was most successful are very prone to degradation. Desertification is a natural geological process. But it has been given a push directly and indirectly by human activities, and so it has gained scale and speed as never before. It is a global problem but every country has to address it separately because the reasons and solutions vary widely. But there are also common issues that demand the adoption of common strategies. Most of the human activities on the soil can cause desertification, especially if they are done collectively over large areas. Wrong land-use practices including some farming practices, overgrazing and deforestation are some contributory factors. Industrialisation and urbanisation cause degradation extensively all over the world. The latest threat is from climate change which poses a very long-term and even irreversible threat to the soil. Degradation saps the ability of the soil to support any kind of life, including plant life, as it loses the ability to conserve water. The economic cost of land degradation was estimated to be about Rs 3 lakh crore in 2014 or about 3% of the GDP, and it could only have gone up now. As many as 26 of the 29 states have witnessed increased desertification, though nine states accounted for most of it. Efforts to prevent and push back desertification have been made for decades even as the activities and processes that cause it have also gained momentum. India has committed itself to land degradation neutrality by 2030, which is a Sustainable Development Goal. It is also a signatory to the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) in 1994, ratified in 1996. The 14th Conference of Parties (CoP) of the convention was held in Delhi in 2019 where India made a commitment to restore 26 million hectares of degraded land, five million hectares more than the promise it had made at the 2015 Paris climate conference. The country has also been implementing programmes like the command area development plan of 1970, the 1995 desert development programme, the 2000 national afforestation programme and the 2014 National Green Mission of India, which is a part if the climate action plan. Unfortunately, the pace of desertification is faster than the pace of implementation of the programmes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/save-land-from-desertification-1032195.html
19-09-2021||South||Panneerselvam slams DMK's opposition to bring petrol under GST, reminds Stalin of earlier stance||The AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Sunday questioned the DMK government's opposition to bring petroleum products under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), saying it was contrary to the ruling party's persistent demands for covering fuel under the GST ambit earlier, when it was in the opposition. Chief Minister M K Stalin, as Leader of Opposition in the past, had often stressed for bringing petrol and diesel under GST, saying it will enable in reduction of the fuel prices, AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam said. However, the government had opposed any move to bring petrol and diesel under the tax ambit in the latest GST Council meeting on Friday, saying it was a means of key tax revenue for the states, he pointed out. "DMK is known for taking one stand while in the opposition and another when in power, in issues like regional autonomy, NEET cancellation and inter-state river disputes," the former chief minister said in a party statement. Explaining in detail DMK's earlier demand for bringing petroleum products under the GST and its Finance Minister P T Palanivel Thiaga Rajan now opposing any such move, he said there was an "apprehension" among the public that the ruling party's earlier stand was only a "desperate attempt to capture power." "Therefore, Chief Minister M K Stain should intervene in the matter immediately and in order to lessen the burden on the people, take steps to bring petroleum products under GST and establish DMK's pre-election stand," he urged. This will also help in "total" fulfilling of DMK's poll-time promise of reducing the rates of petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 3, respectively, he added. The DMK government had last month announced a cut of Rs 3 per litre in petrol rates. Tamil Nadu on Friday opposed the idea of bringing fuels under the goods and services tax (GST) by saying the petrol and diesel remain one of the last vestiges of a state's right to manage its own revenue. The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday had decided to continue to keep petrol and diesel out of the uniform national tax regime, besides taking a number of other taxation related decisions. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panneerselvam-slams-dmks-opposition-to-bring-petrol-under-gst-reminds-stalin-of-earlier-stance-1032029.html
19-09-2021||South||Centre seeks report from Andhra govt on Rs 960 cr loans from foreign agencies for EAPs remaining unutilised||The Centre has sought a report from the Andhra Pradesh government on Rs 960 crore received as loans from foreign agencies for various Externally- Aided Projects (EAPs) remaining unutilised. The departments that are supposed to get these funds for executing the projects have drawn a blank, while payments running into hundreds of crores of Rupees are yet to be made to contractors on works done so far. The EAPs now remain derailed because the state is unable to draw further loan amounts from the external agencies due to poor progress of the works and non-clearance of payment (dues). The Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) under the Union Finance Ministry has taken a strong view and written a letter last week seeking an explanation from the state Finance Department on the issue. "The overall position of utilisation of advances extended by various authorities is not so encouraging as a very heavy amount of advance is lying in the accounts of Government of Andhra Pradesh. As on September 7, the amount released as advance is $124.65 million, roughly equivalent to Rs 960 crore,” the DEA pointed out in its letter to the Principal Finance Secretary. The DEA also noted that utilisation of the loan amount "is not so high", which indicated a "situation wherein the interest cost is increasing but the project execution is at a slow pace". Also, officials of the DEA personally called up top officials of different state departments and "gave us an earful" over the sorry state of affairs, a senior bureaucrat said. "We are being bombarded with queries on the status of works and utilisation of funds (advanced by foreign agencies), but our report card is filled with only blanks. They gave us money but we can’t tell them we actually don’t have it,” the bureaucrat observed. On the one hand, the state government has been scampering for loans but, on the other, the loans secured were obviously not being spent for the intended purpose, he told PTI. Efforts to contact the Principal Finance Secretary for clarification on the subject did not bear fruit. There are 14 EAPs in execution in AP now, with loans from foreign lenders like World Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, International Fund for Agriculture Development, Asian Development Bank, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Japan International Cooperation Agency, New Development Bank and KfW of Germany. The DEA, in particular, referred to six of these projects for which ADB, AIIB, IBRD and IFAD have already released a sum of $124.65 million in advance. The AP Rural Roads Project is a classic case. The $666 million project was taken up in November 2018 with 70 per cent loan ($455 million) from AIIB to provide road connectivity to un-connected habitations with 250-plus population and also reconstruct existing roads in 137 rural Assembly constituencies in 13 districts. Of the total 6,323 km length of roads proposed under the project, only 865 km has been completed so far. A recent note presented to the Chief Minister by the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department said there were “no bidders” for 169 works though the tender notifications were issued four times. In some cases, the bids were rejected because of excess rates quoted. The note said Rs 507 crore has been received from AIIB so far and an expenditure of Rs 405 crore has been incurred. Since September 2020, Rs 341 crore has not been paid to the contractors (on completed works) while bills for another Rs 349 crore worth works (done) have to be raised. According to the DEA letter, $43.35 million (about Rs 316 crore) should be available (with the state) as balance (advance) out of the total disbursement of $71.13 million. Worse is the case of the $468.10 million AP Health Systems Strengthening Project, taken up in 2019 with 100 per cent assistance from the World Bank. The Medical and Health Department as such got “zero” (money) under the project so far though for the record it is still “on track”. "What we are doing under the National Health Mission, we are showing it as done under the World Bank project since most of the works under the two schemes are similar," a top official said. "It’s a different matter that our department is not given even the NHM funds," he lamented. The DEA has warned the state to ensure the EAPs are “completed at a faster speed” by liquidating the advances since the terminal date in the case of four projects is very near.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-seeks-report-from-andhra-govt-on-rs-960-cr-loans-from-foreign-agencies-for-eaps-remaining-unutilised-1032076.html
19-09-2021||South||Two Kerala teachers build 150 houses for the homeless in ten years||Two school teachers in Kerala helped build a house for a homeless student after her father's death in 2011. Ten years later, they have completed the construction of 150 houses for homeless families irrespective of their caste or religion. Sister Lizzy Chakkalakkal, principal of Our Lady's Convent Girls' School at Thoppumpady in Kochi in Kerala, started the Home Challenge mission with her colleague Lilly Paul to help a student who lived in a precarious shack with her family following her father's death.  The nun pooled funds and started the construction of a home for the girl. "Later on, we came across a similar plight of many of our students and hence decided to initiate the mission which has now become part of the school. A society with no homeless people is the mission," Sister Chakkalakkal told DH. These houses are of around 600 square feet in two cents of land. The 150th house is ready and would be handed over to the beneficiary soon. Sister Chakkalakkal said that 85 per cent of the beneficiaries were students of the school, while other families, especially those who had differently-abled members, were provided assistance. From daily wage labourers to industrialists, the mission has contributors from different sections of society. Staff, parents, students and former students also regularly contribute to the scheme. Not just money, people contributed land, building materials and skills to the mission, Sister Chakkalakkal said. This makes it possible to construct decent houses at reasonable costs. The 150th house has come up at around 70 cents of land received as a contribution at Vypeen in Kochi. A majority of the houses were constructed in Kochi. Sister Chakkalakal said that the Home Challenge initiative of the school has become an inspiration to many schools as well as voluntary organsations to initiate similar drives. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-kerala-teachers-build-150-houses-for-the-homeless-in-ten-years-1032086.html
19-09-2021||South||Nun in Kerala among those licensed to kill wild boars||A nun in Kerala, who doesn't own a gun or a licence to carry arms, is among 13 farmers granted permission by the Kerala High Court to kill wild boars. Sister Joffy of CMC convent at Chakkittapra in the rural parts of Kozhikode district in North Kerala sought permission to kill wild boars due to the massive crop destruction the animals caused to her crops. But the nun doesn't know any techniques to kill boars. So, she is planning to ask the other 12 farmers to help her learn. The nun had been cultivating types of tuber crops like tapioca but was getting no yield owing to the wild boars, causing big losses. Hence, she asked the convent to allow her to join the farmers' collective for approaching the Kerala High Court seeking permission. The farmers in Kerala's forest areas have struggled with the menace of wild boars for a long time. The state forest department used to engage officials to kill wild board. Kerala has also been pressing the Centre to declare wild boars as vermin to initiate its culling. A collective of farmers from Kerala had approached the court seeking permission to kill wild boars citing the extensive damage caused to crops. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nun-in-kerala-among-those-licensed-to-kill-wild-boars-1032090.html
19-09-2021||South||Detention of Lankans: NIA holds enquiries in Tamil Nadu's Rameswaram||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday held enquiries in the coastal villages of Rameswaram in the district in connection with a case related to the detention of 38 Sri Lankan nationals in June for alleged their illegal stay in the country. The Lankans were detained in Mangalore in Karnataka in June by that state police for illegally entering the country through Tamil Nadu and the case was subsequently taken over by the NIA. On Sunday, personnel of the NIA held enquiries at Maraikkayarpatnam, Vedalai and Seeniappadarha coastal hamlets relating to the Lankans being provided sanctuary, here, police said. The officials also enquired about drug smuggling, they added. The detained Lankans had left their country on March 17 by paying Rs six lakh to Rs 10 lakh in Sri Lankan Rupees to an agent in the country, who had promised them jobs in Canada.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/detention-of-lankans-nia-holds-enquiries-in-tamil-nadus-rameswaram-1032104.html
19-09-2021||South||Kerala's Rs 12 crore Onam bumper lottery ticket results announced||The results of the Kerala government's Onam bumper lottery was announced on Sunday, and the state is eagerly waiting to know about the owner of the ticket that won the first prize of Rs 12 crore. The ticket bearing number TE 645465 was found to be sold at Tirpunithura near Kochi. The winner would get around Rs. 6.50 crore after taxes and agent's commission. Six other tickets were selected for the second prize of Rs 1 crore each. Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal who inaugurated the lucky draw said that a training session on fund management would be given to lottery ticket winners. A total of 54 lakh Onam bumper lottery tickets were sold out for a total of Rs. 126.5 crore this year, while around 44 lakh tickets were sold out last year. The price of the ticket was Rs. 300. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-rs-12-crore-onam-bumper-lottery-ticket-results-announced-1032123.html
19-09-2021||South||CPM's note, minister's remark backing bishop aggravate 'narcotic jihad' row in Kerala||The row over the 'love and narcotic jihad' remarks of a bishop in Kerala aggravated further with a note of the ruling CPM on extremism in the state and the statement of a minister calling the bishop 'a scholar' and his critics 'extremists'. A note prepared by the CPM as part of the ongoing party conferences stated that attempts were being made to lure women in professional colleges to terrorism. It added that extremist forces were infiltrating mainstream Muslim outfits to create unrest in Kerala. State cooperation minister and CPM leader V N Vasavan called on the Pala bishop and told the media that the bishop was a scholar and those opposing him were extremists. Muslim outfits and the opposition Congress are accusing the Left Front government of making the issue that already snowballed into a communally sensitive row, worse. Much to the embarrassment of the ruling Left government, Congress leaders in Kerala including KPCC President and MP K Sudhakaran called on various religious heads for conciliatory talks since the government "failed to take up responsibility". The remarks of Bishop of Pala Joseph Kallarangatt that jihadis were trying to destroy non-Muslims through 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad' triggered the row. Though Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as well as the opposition parties initially flayed the bishop's observations, political parties later toned down their objections and maintained a dilly-dallying stand, probably due to concerns over minority vote banks. The Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama, a supreme body of  Islamic scholars of Kerala, stated on Sunday that the government should not back statements that trigger communal sentiments. Samastha leader Sayyid Muhammad Jifri Muthukkoya Thangal said that religious heads should keep from statements that could hurt religious sentiments. All India Sunni Jamiyyathul Ulama general secretary Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musliyar demanded that the bishop withdraw his statement. Kottayam Taluk Mahallu Muslim Coordination Committee also strongly objected to minister Vasavan's remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpms-note-ministers-remark-backing-bishop-aggravate-narcotic-jihad-row-in-kerala-1032141.html
19-09-2021||South||PoP Ganesha idols immersed in Hussain Sagar, likely for the last time||Hundreds of Plaster of Paris made idols of Lord Ganesha, including the 40 feet tall Khairatabad Ganapati were immersed in the Hussain Sagar lake on Sunday. This could be the last time that the large water body in the heart of the city serves as the 'visarjan' venue as the Supreme Court allowed the PoP idol immersions there for the last time while directing the Telangana government and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation to make alternate arrangements without fail by next year festivities. Earlier, the state and the Hyderabad civic body officials were in a fix as the Telangana high court had passed orders on September 9, a day before the beginning of the 10-day Ganesh puja, prohibiting immersion of Plaster of Paris Ganesh idols in the Hussain Sagar lake and other such water bodies in the city. While the GHMC filed a review petition requesting relief this year stating that there was no time to make alternative preparations, the court refused to modify its orders. The GHMC then approached the apex court, which granted permission for this year while expressing concern over the pollution caused to the lake. The court was assured that the immersed idols would be removed within 24 hours. Hussain Sagar is a large water body in the heart of the city where thousands of Ganesh idols are immersed every year to mark the culmination of the 10-day festival. Ganesh puja this year commenced on September 10. Though concerns were raised and court cases filed about the environmental impact, water pollution caused by the PoP, chemical-laced colours and other materials used to make idols, successive state governments and the GHMC have apparently failed to offer a feasible alternative. Small ponds were built for the immersion purpose in some places but they were not enough for the vast number of idols set up across the city. Meanwhile, the Ganesh idol immersion was carried out on Sunday in the city in a cheerful atmosphere and rain. Covid-19 had cast its shadow on the festivities last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pop-ganesha-idols-immersed-in-hussain-sagar-likely-for-the-last-time-1032150.html
19-09-2021||South||YSRCP clean sweeps Parishad polls in Andhra Pradesh||The ruling YSRCP is continuing its election-winning streak in Andhra Pradesh and is headed for a massive victory in the Mandal and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency elections. Till 7:30 pm, the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led YSRCP has reportedly won 547 ZPTCs out of the declared 553 seats and 7,284 MPTCs out of 8,083. Projecting the results as a clean-sweep, the YSRCP leaders pointed out that the main opposition TDP was trounced even in Kuppam, the assembly constituency represented by former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu. The local body polls were held in April but the counting of votes was withheld on the orders of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. The opposition TDP, Jana Sena parties had petitioned that due procedure was not followed by the State Election Commission in holding the elections. The court had last week allowed the declaration of results, following which the counting was taken up on Sunday. Days ahead of the 8 April poll, Naidu had announced that the TDP would keep away from the Parishad polls, stating that they have lost faith in the poll process. Naidu, who is demanding a fresh election notification, had accused State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney of becoming a rubber stamp in the hands of the Reddy government. The notification for the polls was issued in March last year by the then SEC Ramesh Kumar and nominations were also filed. The polls were not held at that time citing the spread of Covid-19 infections. But despite Naidu's announcement, the TDP candidates remained in the fray in many places. Following the results, Panchayati Raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said the outcome is indicative of the people's trust in Jagan's “welfare-oriented good governance.” TDP leader Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy termed the YSRCP claims as 'laughable.' “The TDP boycotted the local body elections after its representation against the election irregularities fell on deaf ears. Everyone knows how the ruling party has resorted to threats, intimidation and has forced unanimous results in many places. They have blatantly misused the police and other official machinery,” said the former minister. YSRCP minister Anil Kumar said that “the TDP staged a poll boycott drama anticipating the results.” After winning 151 out of the 175 assembly seats and forming the government in 2019, the YSRCP has swept the urban and local body polls and also retained the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency improving its victory margin. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrcp-clean-sweeps-parishad-polls-in-andhra-pradesh-1032184.html
19-09-2021||South||Catholic priest in Kerala apologises to Eazhava community for controversial remarks||A catholic priest in Kerala on Sunday tendered an apology to the Eazhava community following a social media uproar over his recent statement targeting youths of the state's numerically strong section of the Hindu religion. While handling a virtual class for catechism teachers of a Syro Malabar Church diocese, Fr Roy Kannanchira alleged that Eazhava youths had recently lured nine girls from a parish under the Syro-Malabar Church near Kottayam. His statement was recorded and leaked to the media allegedly by someone who attended the class. Although the SNDP yogam, the outfit of the Eazhava community did not react to his remarks, it was widely condemned by the social media users in the state. "I have realized that my remarks have caused pain for my brothers of the Eazhava community," Kannanchira said and tendered an unconditional apology. The priest said he made the comments as he was talking about the instances in which men from other communities marry women belonging to the Catholic community without the permission of their parents. He also claimed many priests were receiving complaints in this regard. Applying to end the controversy, Kannanchira said his word's should not become a cause to disrupt the secular fabric of the state. Talking to the catechism teachers, the priest had said, "We are discussing love jihad and narcotic jihad but along with that our kids are being attracted to other communities also and we have received information that youths are being strategically trained for the purpose." Such incidents are happening as religious teachers, parents and priests, who have set aside their lives for this purpose, have failed in their duty. "This is a major crisis faced by the Catholic Church today," he had said. The priest's statement comes amid a raging row in the state over controversial 'love and narcotic jihad' jibe of Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/catholic-priest-in-kerala-apologises-to-eazhava-community-for-controversial-remarks-1032213.html
19-09-2021||State||Khadi Board property to be protected||Khadi and Gramodyog Board Chairperson N R Krishnappa Gowda said that measures were being taken to protect the property belonging to the Khadi Board and compound wall constructed at all the places in the state. Speaking to reporters after visiting Badanavalu Khadi Gramodyog centre in Nanjangud taluk, he said, "The Badanavalu centre, which was visited by Mahatma Gandhi twice, would be developed into a heritage centre. A compound wall would be constructed at a cost of Rs 61.5 lakh across five acres and five guntas of land." "Most of the places allotted by the government to the Khadi Board have been encroached as no step was taken so far to protect it. The encroachments will be cleared and a compound constructed around the property. There are plans to have an office in every district. At places where it is not possible, government offices would be utilised," he said. Khadi Board district officer Kantharaju was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/khadi-board-property-to-be-protected-1032108.html
19-09-2021||State||'Deep fake' video, says DV Sadananda Gowda; files complaint||Former Union minister and BJP’s Bangalore North MP DV Sadananda Gowda on Sunday said he filed a complaint with the cybercrime police after a sleaze video purportedly showing him went viral on social media. "A morphed (deep fake) video of mine has been making rounds on social media. I would like to inform that, it is not me in the video, it's created to malign my impeccable image by my adversaries with a vested interest (sic),” Gowda said in a tweet. Dear well wishers,A morphed (deep fake) video of mine has been making rounds on social media. I would like to inform that, it is not me in the video, its created to malign my impeccable image by my adversaries with vested interest. 1/3 “I have also filed a complaint with the cybercrime police. I have faith, the culprits will be nabbed soon," he said. I have also filed a complaint with the cyber crime police. I have faith, the culprits will be nabbed soon. 2/3 Earlier in the day, a video purportedly of the minister soliciting a woman over a video call was uploaded on Facebook and subsequently went viral. Gowda recalled that a Bengaluru Court had issued an injunction order restraining media from publishing or circulating, fake and baseless reports against him."... anyone forwarding/uploading the content will be punishable as per the relevant sections of the law. If you know of anyone doing the same, kindly inbox me," he said. He subsequently tweeted the copy of a complaint filed in Cyber Crime Police Station, North Division, by one Thamme Gowda M, on behalf of the MP. "Malefactors, who are upset by my rise on the political front, have brought out a fake, lewd video of mine for my fall. The video has become viral on social media, which pains me. A complaint has been filed with the concerned authorities, to arrest and punish the guilty parties immediately," he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deep-fake-says-dv-sadananda-gowda-on-sleaze-video-files-complaint-1032140.html
19-09-2021||State||Karnataka reports 783 new Covid-19 cases, 16 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday clocked 783 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 29.67 lakh, while 16 deaths pushed the toll to 37,603. The day also saw 1,139 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29.15 lakh. Active cases stood at 15,383, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 267 cases and seven fatalities, it said. Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major Covid-19 hotspot with 97 fresh infections and one death. Other districts too reported fresh cases with Udupi logging 82, followed by Mysuru (69), Kodagu (41), Chikkamagaluru (36) and Hassan (34). Bagalakote, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagara and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero deaths. Twenty-five districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 1,29,874 samples were tested in the state on Sunday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 4.63 crore. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 5.20 crore, with 58,509 people being inoculated on Sunday, it said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-783-new-covid-19-cases-16-deaths-1032142.html
19-09-2021||State||Karnataka-CET, II PU results on Monday||The results of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) and II PU examinations will be announced on Monday. Over 18,000 candidates had appeared for the II PU exams. This included 592 freshers, 351 repeaters and 17,470 private candidates. The results will be available on www.karresults.nic.in. This year, the department cancelled the II PU exams, considering the spike in Covid cases and promoted all fresh and repeater candidates. However, the department provided an opportunity for the students to write the exams if they are not satisfied with the results. Two lakh candidates appeared for KCET 2021 and the results will be available after 4 pm on Monday. Students can get their results at https://cetonline.karnataka.gov.in/kea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cet-ii-pu-results-on-monday-1032162.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt keen on full-day classes, to seek TAC opinion||The department of public instruction is keen on allowing schools across the state — or at least government and aided ones — to conduct classes for the entire day and has sought the opinion of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on the matter. Sources in the department told DH that the issue was discussed during a recent meeting with Education Minister B C Nagesh. "Currently, we are conducting classes for grades 6 to 12 for half a day and on alternate days for some grades depending on the available infrastructure. But there is a demand from parents and students to extend the class hours," said a senior official from the department. The official also said there has been no major outbreak of Covid-19 infections among kids since the resumption of physical classes, an important factor behind the government's reasoning to allow full-day classes. "Keeping all this in mind and in the interest of students, we have decided to discuss with TAC experts," he said. Currently, classes are held from 10.30 am to 2.30 pm and schools are allowed to conduct classes in shifts, batches and on alternate days. However, private schools feel the move will trigger logistical problems. "If schools are opened for a full day, there will be logistical problems as we need to accommodate space during lunch hour and transportation will be another issue. But, it is good if the government decides to extend the classes," said D Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka.  But Shashikumar also expressed concern over reports about the recent spike in paediatric cases. "We have no idea if the cases reported are just viral fever, flu or Covid infections. If the infection rate is low, then we can definitely conduct classes for a full day adhering to all the safety measures," he added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-keen-on-full-day-classes-to-seek-tac-opinion-1031917.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt restrains officials from going before media||The Karnataka government on Saturday restrained officials from going before the media to air their grievances or share opinions, other than for bonafide official purposes. It also put a stop on officials using social media as a platform to project government or department achievements as personal achievements and asked them to use accounts or handles created in the name of the administration to share official information. "Government officials making unwarranted statements through press statements and press conferences have come to the government's notice. As such incidents will have ill-effects on the administrative system and cause embarrassment to the government. The government has viewed such conduct of the officials seriously," an official circular said. Signed by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, it said, officials have hence been prohibited from making unwarranted statements through press statements and press conferences, other than for the purpose of performing bonafide official duties. Citing service rules, the government said disciplinary action would be taken against officials found making use of unwarranted platforms to express their personal opinion and indulging in any act that causes embarrassment to the government in violation of rules and policies . It further said officials can only use the media to share official information on government programmes and for necessary official duties, but not to air their grievances. Use of social media platforms to project government or department achievements as personal achievements have been strictly prohibited, the circular further said. At the time of publicising information on department achievements and government programmes, officials, instead of using their personal social media accounts, should use accounts or handles created in the name of the government or administration, it added. The circular has come after Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Thursday had told the legislative assembly that the government will instruct the Chief Secretary to take action against "overacting" officials who directly go before the media to level charges or air grievances. He was responding to an issue raised by JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy and his party MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, accusing some IAS officers of making allegations against legislators before the media. Mahesh was referring to IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri, who was previously the Mysuru Deputy Commissioner, both of whom had accused each other of irregularities.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-restrains-officials-from-going-before-media-1031940.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP to face next polls under Bommai, Kateel: K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that the party would face the next assembly polls under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, he said the Central leaders have made it clear that the party would face the next polls under their leadership. There is no issue over this. Referring to the state executive committee meeting to be held in the city on September 19, he said the main objective is to discuss strategies to get complete majority in the next assembly polls. Though BJP has come to power in Karnataka thrice, it did not get majority even once. "We had to form the government with the help of others. But our workers and followers of BJP want the party to come to power on its own in Karnataka in the next assembly polls," he said.  When questioned on Congress leaders opposition to the passage of Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill that will empower the state government to form a Delimitation Commission for rural local bodies, he said many Congress legislators phoned to him and expressed their happiness over it. They told that it was a much-needed bill. They told that delimitation of rural local bodies is need of the hour and over 2,600 applications with regard to it are pending before the election commission. When questioned MLA Renukacharya's demand for Gujarat model cabinet, he said the Central leaders are wise enough to take a call on it. They will have separate strategy for each state. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-to-face-next-polls-under-bommai-kateel-k-s-eshwarappa-1031953.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Four teams of BJP leaders to start Karnataka-wide tour from October||A closed-door state BJP core committee meeting attended by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh who is also in-charge of party affairs in Karnataka, held in a private resort on Saturday evening, decided to form four teams under the leadership of four leaders-former chief ministers B S Yediyurappa, Jagadish Shettar, D V Sadananda Gowda and state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel to take out state-wide tour from October to see in which region the party lacks political strength and measures to be taken to address it.  Speaking to DH, senior leader of BJP told that the four panels will comprise legislators, ministers also and the main objective is to ensure that BJP gets complete majority and form its own government without relying on others in 2023.  The leader also stated that temple demolition incident that took place in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district was also discussed and leaders expressed their disappointment over the incident. It was decided that the Bommai-led government must take suitable steps to ensure that religious worship centres are safeguarded without fail and such incidents are not repeated in Karnataka again. The leaders who were present in the meeting also expressed their concern that such incidents tarnish the image of the party at the national-level.  He also stated that the fourth-coming elections for 25 local bodies and elections for graduates and teachers constituencies to legislative council were also discussed and how the party has to select candidates and strategies to win them.  Former chief minister Jagadish Shettars, B S Yediyurappa, Union Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, State ministers R Ashoka, K S Eshwarappa, Govind Karjol, C N Ashwath Narayan, State BJP Unit vice-president Nirmal Kumar Surana,  State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel, State Organising General Secretary Arun Kumar and others were present in the meeting.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-teams-of-bjp-leaders-to-start-karnataka-wide-tour-from-october-1031954.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa cautions party workers against taking opposition lightly||Former Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday cautioned his party colleagues against taking the opposition lightly in the upcoming elections. "I have a suggestion to all of you. None of you should take the opposition lightly. They have their own calculation and strengths," Yediyurappa said at the BJP Core Committee meeting here. The Lingayat strongman claimed that a few Congress leaders are in touch with some BJP leaders. "You need to tread with confidence without giving chance to such incidents (defection). We have to make a sincere effort for the BJP to come back to power with 140 seats in the next assembly elections," Yediyurappa, who stepped down as the Chief Minister on July 26, said here. He said the party can be strengthened by inducting into the BJP leaders from SC/ST and OBC communities. Further, he asked to include a team of 20 to 25 women and the BJP youth wing leaders at the booth level organisation. Yediyurappa also appealed to the party functionaries to make the welfare programmes of the Centre and the state government reach every household. He also told the gathering that he would take up a state-wide tour shortly to strengthen the party base. Yediyurappa reminded the core committee members that the BJP has to win both Hanagal and Sindagi assembly bypolls because its failure will send the wrong signals. "No one here should assume that Hanagal and Sindagi are easy turfs," Yediyurappa said. Speaking about the demolition of temple in Nanjangud in Mysuru recently, which drew widespread criticism, Yediyurappa said a decision has been taken not to allow destruction of any temples anywhere. He also said that the BJP government will file a review petition in the Supreme Court seeking "correction" in the judgment. "Whatever has happened is now over. It will not be repeated. Those party workers who are upset should take note of this," Yediyurappa said. BJP state chief Nalin Kumar Kateel and BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh too addressed the gathering. In his address, Kateel took a dig at Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah regarding his criticism of temple demolition in Nanjangud. He said this is one instance which occurred without the knowledge of the government but the Congress government turned a blind eye to the attacks and murders of many BJP workers in Karnataka. Senior party functionaries such as union ministers Pralhad Joshi, Shobha Karanjlaje and D V Sadananda Gowda, Karnataka ministers, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, his son and BJP state vice-president B Y Vijayendra, BJP MLAs, MLCs, MPs and district level BJP functionaries are attending the event. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-cautions-party-workers-against-taking-opposition-lightly-1032113.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru, 3 more cities to participate in mega Covid genome sequencing||An ambitious programme to conduct large-scale and in-depth genome sequencing of samples from Covid-19 patients in four cities — Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Pune and Delhi — is set to begin. Scientists say the project, which will sequence samples independent of the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium (Insacog), will not only boost India’s genomic efforts, but will deliver near real-time insights to municipal authorities in these four cities about how the novel coronavirus has been evolving. Professor Rakesh Mishra, former director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, who is the project advisor, explained that eight national labs will sequence 60,000 samples over the course of the next 12 months. The three-year project has been endowed with Rs 70 crore in funding from the Rockefeller Foundation. “Out of this, Rs 25 crore will be provided for the initial first year. The project will be extended by an additional two years if the first year is successful,” explained Professor Satyajit Mayor, director for the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), also an advisor for the project. “There was some coordination required to get all eight national labs on board. We are now ready to start,” added Professor Mishra. That the project will boost India’s sequencing efforts is without a doubt. As per authoritative sources, India has only done about 50,295 sequences in total since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is also an exercise to build capacity and to make it a model to be replicated in other places,” explained Professor L S Shashidhara of the Pune Knowledge Cluster. “The model can be used for other diseases, such as tracking the new variant of dengue, which was recently reported.” The 60,000 initial sequences will be split across the four cities. Professor Shashidhara said the sequencing strategy will be two-pronged. About 35,000 samples will be retrospective, sequencing samples from December to June 2021. The rest will be current samples. “The retrospective samples are to assess the genomic makeup of the epidemic based on the test positivity rate. We want to determine viral factors that contributed to the dynamics of the pandemic, specifically through the first and second waves,” Professor Shashidhara said. According to Surabhi Srivastava, Research Coordinator, Genomics and Bioinformatics at CCMB, Hyderabad, between 10 to 15,000 sequences will be done from samples in Bengaluru. “Local state and city health authorities have been very supportive. “In Bengaluru, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has provided us with the entire line lists of patients, so we can pick and choose whose samples we want to sequence. This gives us the ability to conduct broad-spectrum sequencing, which will give us the necessary data to conduct analysis,” added Mishra. While this project is outside of Insacog’s existing sequencing efforts, all the results will be aligned with the consortium, Mishra explained. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-3-more-cities-to-participate-in-mega-covid-genome-sequencing-1032161.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CAG flags Karnataka's gender budget as a 'mere allocation exercise'||Despite an increase in allocation under gender budget for the welfare of women, it has not translated into higher investment for women-specific schemes, a Comptroller Auditor General (CAG) report has found. “Gender budgeting is reduced to a mere allocation exercise,” the report noted, recommending the government to “assess policy impact and formulate need-based policies” for women’s welfare. The allocation for Women and Child Development Department increased annually from 2016-17 onwards with a slight dip in 2019-20. “...With respect to Education and Health sectors, there was no increase in the allocation for women-specific schemes in the last five years,” the CAG audit report on state finances said. Analysis of gender budget documents showed that higher allocations did not guarantee higher spending on women, the report said, citing Mathrushree scheme - aimed at improving the nutritional health status of pregnant and lactating mothers, and SABALA scheme as examples. Allocation for Mathrushree, for instance, increased from Rs 350 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 470 crore in 2019-20. However, the expenditure in 2019-20 was only Rs 78.24 crore - 16.64% of the total allocation. Similarly for SABALA - a scheme for empowerment of adolescent girls - allocation grew from Rs 4.23 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 9 crore in 2019-20, but the expenditure was only Rs 76 lakh. The CAG also delineated between Category A - specific schemes with 100% allocation for women, and Category B - which are pro-women schemes with more than 30% of the budget meant for women. Social services constituted more than 99% of the total allocation under Category A, (while) the economic services accounted for less than one per cent. “This indicated that schemes for training and skill development, provision for credit, infrastructure, marketing etc, which are critical to women’s independence and autonomy (but) did not receive adequate focus,” the report noted. Task force Though a task force was constituted in 2013 to monitor and suggest improvements in implementing gender budgeting, it met only twice between 2015-16 to 2019-20. The CAG has recommended the state government to evaluate the policies and budget allocations aimed at women. The evaluation needs to be done “along with the benefit incidence of various schemes and allocations in order to under the progress being made,” the report added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cag-flags-karnatakas-gender-budget-as-a-mere-allocation-exercise-1032164.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt schools face acute shortage of teachers||Government schools across the state are facing severe shortage of teachers at all levels. In several schools, lack of teachers for some subjects has left the available teachers struggling to run the show. According to data available from the department, more than 41,000 teachers posts are vacant at government primary and high schools. The highest number of vacancies are at the primary schools with 25,813 posts remaining vacant as against the 1,88,540 sanctioned posts. The vacancy is 15,907 in high schools against the 52,630 sanctioned posts. Though the state government agreed to fill 5,000 posts at primary schools this year, the schools have to depend on guest teachers for the rest. A senior official from the department of public instruction told DH, “This is the situation every year. At the local level, the authorities have been given a free hand to hire guest teachers.”  “We have even submitted a proposal to the government seeking permission to recruit 5,500 teachers for the high schools. The proposal is before the Finance department. Hopefully, we will get permission to fill the vacant posts,” the official explained. Speaking about the difficulties, a teacher, working with a high school at Bengaluru Rural, said, “I have to handle at least three classes as there are only two teachers in the school and this is really stressful.” H K Manjunath, president of the Karnataka state government secondary schools assistant masters association, said, “Every year, we are facing shortage of teachers, but this year we are feeling the heat as the number of enrollment at government schools has increased. We have requested the government to retain the teachers who retire in the middle of the academic year and also to expedite the recruitment process.” Manjunath said the process to hire guest teachers was hit badly at some districts due to technical issues. “We request the department to hire guest teachers immediately,” he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-schools-face-acute-shortage-of-teachers-1032167.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka continues to see dip in weekly Covid cases, testing||The state’s Covid-19 numbers continued their descent - a trend which first set in eight weeks ago. In the last seven days, Karnataka registered 6,131 cases, which is 6.6% lower than the 6,571 cases recorded the week before. The decline allayed fears that cases were on the rise again between September 15 to 17, when case numbers increased to beyond a thousand per day, after days of a decline. Considering weekly averages, Karnataka’s Covid-19 numbers fell by 29% over the last 30 days, but of equal concern is that the statewide testing numbers, which despite getting a boost in the middle part of last week, have been steadily declining. In the last seven days, the state government conducted 9.78 lakh tests, which was 9.84 lakh the week before. The average number of tests conducted has declined by 20.4% over the course of the last 30 days. The state’s declining case numbers are due to abrupt drops in case registrations on some days. Sunday was one of these days with Karnataka recording 783 new cases. Out of these, Bengaluru Urban disclosed that it had identified 267 new cases, comprising 34% of the statewide total for the day. The decline in the number of new cases in the city has been less steep. Over the last 30 days, the average number of cases have fallen by 8.6%, with testing rates having plummeted by 12.9%. The next highest cases were recorded in Dakshina Kannada (97), Udupi district (82) and Mysuru district (69). The new statewide cases, coupled with 1,139 discharges, leave Karnataka’s active caseload at 15,383. Health officials also announced 16 new fatalities. Barring two of the deaths which happened on Sunday, six were backlog deaths which had occurred in July and May. Covid-19 among children Between September 12 and 18, the state recorded 247 new cases of Covid-19 of children aged below 11. Among teens (11 to 19), it recorded 827 new cases. In contrast, 289 pre-teen and 888 teen cases were reported in the week before last (5-11 September). Over the last 14 days, pre-teen cases comprise 4.1% of daily Covid-19 cases. Vaccination scenario Armed with the boost provided by over 31.77 lakh doses administered on a single day on September 17, the state’s first dose coverage jumped by 3.52% to 75.11% over the course of the last four days. Karnataka’s second dose coverage also jumped by 3.52% to reach 29.27% over four days as per data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-continues-to-see-dip-in-weekly-covid-cases-testing-1032209.html
19-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Glaucoma test provides potential pathway for Covid-19||A common eye test, conducted hundreds of times at eye clinics daily, could be sending tear droplets up to a meter away from the patient, potentially helping to spread the Sars-CoV-2 virus. In June 2020, Victoria Hospital, following pioneering research in China, confirmed that the viral RNA of the virus can spread through tears. Now, researchers in the city have found that a tonometer test, which ophthamologists described as the most common test to check for glaucoma, can eject tear drops into the air to transmit the virus from infected people. The finding has implications for test subjects infected with Covid-19 or other pathogens, said Prof Saptarshi Basu of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), an author of the study, which was published in Physics of Fluids, the journal of the American Institute of Physics. Ophthalmologists use a tonometer to measure eye pressure, which indicates the risk of developing glaucoma. The instrument works by emitting a puff of air that hits the surface of the eye. Researchers modeled the eye’s response to this puff and took high speed images of eyes undergoing the procedure at Narayana Nethralaya hospital in the city. When the air puff hits the eye, researchers found that a film of tears on the surface expands into a sheet that spills out over the eyelids. “The cornea is like an elastic surface. So, as it deforms and as it recovers its shape, it gives the eye an additional kick,” Dr Basu said. “A capillary wave merged with this corneal deflection gives rise to a consolidated wave, and that is what makes the tear fluid expand and go out.” The waves moving within the eye and tear liquid eventually become unstable, and the tears break up into droplets. The team tracked the speed of those droplets and predicted they could travel up to a meter away from the patient - depending on air flow within the room. “So, what you think is a safe, non-contact procedure, actually carries some risk,” Dr Basu said. Abhijit Sinha Roy, head of imaging and biomechanics research at the Narayana Nethralaya, said that the research was influenced by a desire to determine how far fluids from the eye could be dispersed by glaucoma testing. Scientists recommend not using eye drops before a glaucoma test unless medically necessary. At Dr Agarwal’s Eye Hospital, opthamologist Dr Bindiya Hapani, speaking in an independent capacity, said that no infections through tear droplets have been recorded from glaucoma test subjects at the hospital. “But that is only because we have a strict screening process. Anyone found to have symptoms of the disease are tested in a separate room. Every day, I see 30 to 40 patients - nearly all of whom require a tonometry test,” she said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/glaucoma-test-provides-potential-pathway-for-covid-19-1032221.html
19-09-2021||West||Goa casinos to start from Sept 20 as Covid-19 positivity rate declines||The Goa government on Saturday said casinos will resume operations from Monday on the condition that they adhere to strict Covid-19 protocols, said an official. The decision was taken during a Task Force Committee meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. The positivity rate is below two per cent and it was decided that the state should start economic activities, especially those related with tourism, the CM said. "Casinos will start from Monday with 50 per cent capacity and strict pandemic protocols. Those who are fully vaccinated or those carrying RT-PCR negative certificates will be allowed to enter. The ban on spas, massage parlours, river cruises, EDMs, night clubs will continue," Sawant said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-casinos-to-start-from-sept-20-as-covid-19-positivity-rate-declines-1031941.html
19-09-2021||West||Sharad Pawar frowns over new language of politics||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday expressed disapproval about the "new type of discourse" in politics, referring to a phrase which refers to disembowelment. The Marathi word `kothala' (intestines) was recently used by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut figuratively while rebutting former Sena ally BJP's accusation of `stabbing in the back'. Pawar was speaking at the inauguration of an art gallery named for late socialist leader Mrinal Gore in suburban Goregaon. “When Mrinal-tai was the leader of opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly, I faced severe criticism (from her), but we would set aside our differences after the session was over. We would discuss issues related to the welfare of the state," Pawar said. "Nobody in those days would use words like 'kothala'. Now a days, one is seeing a different type of discourse," he added. Raut, who is incidentally considered to be close to Pawar, had said during a function on September 4 that Shiv Sena does not stab in the back; it attacks from the front and "disembowels" the enemy. He was responding to Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil's jibe that `back-stabbing' is now associated with a new face. Patil was apparently referring to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray who severed ties with the BJP in 2019 and formed alliance with NCP and Congress. Pawar had in the past faced allegations of "back-stabbing" when he defected and pulled down a Congress government led by Vasant Dada Patil in 1978 and became the youngest chief minister of Maharashtra by forming alliance with other parties.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-frowns-over-new-language-of-politics-1031942.html
19-09-2021||West||National Defence College team visits naval facilities||The importance of aircraft carriers, search and rescue operations, replenishment at sea, weapons firing, submarine operations, action against asymmetric threat at sea are some of the major aspects that a team from the New Delhi-based National Defence College (NDC) witnessed in the Arabian Sea along the Western seaboard.  The 61st National Security Studies Course of the NDC, comprising 113 officers and led by Air Marshal D Choudhury, the Commandant, visited Goa, Karwar and Mumbai, last week and witnessed the capabilities of the blue-water three-dimensional force - as part of their study tour and familiarisation visit. It was a unique opportunity for them to witness the naval operations of the Western Naval Command, the sword arm of the Indian Navy. The NDC team comprised officers from the Indian armed forces, Indian civil services and military and civilian officers from friendly foreign countries. The group, besides other warships and naval platforms, also boarded INS Vikramaditya. The NDC is a globally renowned defence institute, concentrating upon ‘security’ as a whole, rather than having limited scope to ‘defence’ alone. It is the highest Institution of advanced studies, not just for the armed forces but also for civil services officers. During the course of the visit, they met top Indian Navy officers including Rear Admiral K Swaminathan, Chief of Staff, WNC, Rear Admiral Mahesh Singh, Flag Officer Commanding Karwar Naval Area and Captain CR Praveen Nair, the Commanding Officer of INS Vikramaditya.  From September 13-15 in Mumbai, the officers visited Headquarters, Western Naval Command, Naval Dockyard, Mazagon Docks Ltd, Maritime Warfare Centre and were provided with a briefing on the role and responsibilities of these organisations. They also embarked on warships of the Western Fleet for a demonstration of combat and rescue helicopter operations, actions against asymmetric threat by Fast Attack Crafts, submarine operations, replenishment at sea and weapon firing drills to get a first-hand experience of naval operations.  On September 16, the NDC team visited Goa and were briefed on the activities at Goa Naval Area. They were informed about different types of aircraft and were made to witness various air demonstrations viz. flypast, sling operations and trap-on by MiG-29K at Shore Based Testing Facility (SBTF). Thereafter, the officers visited the Naval Aviation Museum.  On September 17, the NDC team visited naval facilities at Karwar and were briefed about Project Seabird. They embarked on aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya for a guided tour and were also provided with capability demonstration at the ship lift facility at Naval Ship Repair Yard.  The NDC, which was founded in 1960, provides a forum for holistic studies on security for senior defence and Civil Services officers from India and a number of friendly foreign countries. Focused upon strategy, geopolitics and the higher direction of warfare, it seeks to provide decision-makers with the necessary skills and knowledge required in senior positions in national security and allied government organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/national-defence-college-team-visits-naval-facilities-1031988.html
19-09-2021||West||Iranian boat with huge drug stock, seven crew members apprehended off Gujarat coast||An Iranian boat with seven crew members and a huge consignment of heroin was apprehended in Indian waters off the Gujarat coast, in an operation carried out jointly by the state Anti-Terrorist Squad and the Coast Guard, officials said on Sunday. The boat, seized during the operation conducted on Saturday night, carried an estimated 30 to 50 kg of the contraband, worth about Rs 150 to Rs 250 crore in the international markets, but the exact amount of the drug present in the vessel will be known after its rummaging, they said. The seven crew members, all Iranian nationals, were apprehended, the officials said. "On an intelligence based joint act, @IndianCoastGuard with ATS #Gujarat apprehended #Iranian boat in #Indian waters with 07 crew carrying #drugs. The boat is brought to the nearest port for further rummaging and investigations," a defence PRO of Gujarat said on their official Twitter handle. Gujarat ATS DIG Himanshu Shukla told PTI that the operation was launched on the basis of an information that an attempt was being made to smuggle in heroin through the sea route. "A joint operation was launched with the Indian Coast Guard, and the Iranian boat and its seven crew members were apprehended. We presume that somewhere between 30 and 50 kg of heroin, worth Rs 150 crore to Rs 250 crore, was loaded on the boat. The consignment may be more, as the exact amount can be known only after rummaging of the boat," Shukla said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iranian-boat-with-huge-drug-stock-seven-crew-members-apprehended-off-gujarat-coast-1032011.html
19-09-2021||West||BJP raking up 'outsider' card with eye on UP Assembly, Mumbai civic polls: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday hit out at the BJP for opposing Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's directive to state police to keep a record of migrants coming here from other states, claiming the BJP was raking up the 'outsider' card with an eye on the Uttar Pradesh Assembly and Mumbai civic elections due next year. Raut in his weekly column 'Rokhthok' in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said Thackeray (during a law and order review meeting with top police officials on September 13) did not name any particular state while referring to migrants, "but the BJP declared that the CM meant North Indians". "This is nothing but an attempt to create divisiveness, and cases should be filed against such people," said the Rajya Sabha member, who is the executive editor of 'Saamana'. Mumbai is home to Bengali, Odiya, Assamese, Tamil, Telugu-speaking people, and the city's Matunga and Dharavi areas are dominated by South Indians. They never call themselves outsiders, he said. Raut said Bengalis hold Durga Puja celebrations at the Shivaji Park around the same time as the Shiv Sena's Dussehra rally, and Bengalis never fear and call themselves outsiders. He further said the Tamil, Telugu people and Muslims celebrate their festivals here, and Gujaratis, Marwaris, Jains have become an integral part of Mumbai's life. Then whom does the BJP consider as outsiders? Raut asked. "The country may be one, but maintaining law and order is a state subject. It is the job of the state government to take action. Without understanding what Thackeray meant, the BJP raked up the outsiders and migrant card with an eye on the UP and Mumbai civic polls," he said. He said "if the "BJP's love is for outsiders who help in terrorist activities, atrocities against women and make life miserable for the 'sons-of-the-soil', it is not right". Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, said no one considers the rich as outsiders. Only those who migrate in search of livelihood are called outsiders and this is sad, he added. Those playing the 'outsider' politics in Maharashtra should learn a lesson from the West Bengal Assembly election results where (Trinamool Congress head) Mamata Banerjee used the Bengali pride to defeat Modi-Shah, the Sena's chief spokesperson said. Raut said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil asked why only outsiders were being blamed and whether Marathi people do not commit crime. "This shows the deep-rooted hatred the BJP has for Marathi people," the Sena leader claimed. "The answer to Patil's question is, why is the ED after the Shiv Sena and NCP leaders, are BJP leaders clean?" he sought to know. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-raking-up-outsider-card-with-eye-on-up-assembly-mumbai-civic-polls-raut-1032033.html
19-09-2021||West||Maharashtra ATS arrests one more person in connection with terror module busted by Delhi Police||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad has arrested one more person in connection with the Pakistan-supported terror module busted by Delhi Police recently, an ATS official said on Sunday. The man, whose identity was not revealed by the ATS, was nabbed from Mumbra town in neighbouring Thane district on Saturday night after information received about him from Zakir Hussain Shaikh (45), an accused who was arrested by the ATS from Jogeshwari in Mumbai on Friday, he said. Based on information revealed by Shaikh, the state ATS conducted multiple raids and nabbed the man from Mumbra, the official said, adding that they were probing his role into the terror module. The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Tuesday busted a 'terror module' with the arrest of six men, including two terrorists trained by Pakistan's intelligence agency ISI. The module was allegedly planning to carry out blasts across the country. Jan Mohammad Shaikh, one of the six suspects, is a resident of Dharavi in Mumbai. Zakir Shaikh, whose name cropped up during the interrogation of arrested suspects, was in touch with Jan Mohammed Shaikh, sources earlier said. A separate FIR under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was registered against Zakir Shaikh in Mumbai. The ATS told a Mumbai court on Saturday that Zakir Shaikh was arrested in connection with a criminal conspiracy to carry out terror attacks using explosives in Maharashtra and elsewhere. He was in touch with one 'Anthony' from a "neighbouring country", and the ATS wanted to find out who was this person and what was his role in the conspiracy, it had said. The court on Saturday sent Zakir Shaikh in the ATS custody till September 20.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ats-arrests-one-more-person-in-connection-with-terror-module-busted-by-delhi-police-1032062.html
19-09-2021||West||Gujarat: Mild tremor in Kutch, no casualty||A tremor of 3.1 magnitude hit Gujarat's Kutch district on Sunday, but there was report of any casualty or property loss, officials said. The tremor was recorded at 8.38 am, with its epicentre 26 km North-North East (NNE) of Dudhai, at a depth of 9.3 km, the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said in its update. There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, officials of the Kutch district disaster management unit said. Kutch, located in a 'very high seismic zone', over 300 km from Ahmedabad, witnesses mild tremors regularly. On August 21 this year, the district recorded a 4.1 magnitude earthquake, with its epicentre near Dholavira, officials earlier said. As per the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority, the 2001 earthquake in Kutch was the third largest and second most destructive in India over the last two centuries, killing around 20,000 people.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-mild-tremor-in-kutch-no-casualty-1032068.html
