20-09-2021||First Edit||Raids on critics misuse of State power||The line that runs through the raids by government departments and enforcement agencies on media houses, individuals and other organisations is a note of warning to everyone that State power could be wielded against anyone who is not seen to be on its side. The latest to be targeted are former civil servant and human rights activist Harsh Mander and actor and social worker Sonu Sood. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted searches at some premises linked to Mander in connection with an alleged money-laundering probe last week. Sood’s premises in Mumbai and a Lucknow-based realty company, which did business with him, were raided by Income Tax officials. Mander has been a critic of the Modi government and the ruling party. The raids on Sood were launched a day after he met Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and was appointed the Aam Aadmi Party’s brand ambassador.  While governments in the past have misused their machinery and agencies, too, none has deployed them so systematically against critics, dissenters and political opponents as the present one has. A statement signed by over 700 intellectuals and activists has said that “the current raids…are to be viewed as part of a continuing chain of abuse of State institutions to threaten, intimidate and try to silence every critic of the present government.” A number of media organisations that were critical of the government were raided in recent weeks. The Editors Guild of India has expressed concern over them. Relatives and associates of opposition leaders like Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee were subjected to raids in the last few months. These and such other actions by government agencies send out the message that critics of the government would be harassed and punished by its agencies. Criticism of such actions has not deterred the government and it has nonchalantly continued with them. That shows that they are part of a policy adopted by the government and would continue, whatever the criticism. Such actions have also resulted in the arrest of protesters and critics and the foisting of most serious charges like involvement in “anti-national’’ activities against them. Courts have criticised such actions, too. They shrink the democratic space and make the State more and more authoritarian and lawless. The State should protect and enforce the rule of law but it is seen as acting beyond the law. By misusing and suborning State agencies and making them act according to its wishes and political needs, the government is also destroying the institutional framework of the State. That exposes the citizens to the marauding State, robbing them of their rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/raids-on-critics-misuse-of-state-power-1032541.html
20-09-2021||In Perspective||Read to grow, grow to read||Covid’s learning loss has a universal lesson; learning how to learn is more important than knowing and the most powerful tool for lifelong learning is reading. I make the case for three things; our children must read more, must increase the share of books that reflect their daily Indian lives, and it’s time for a truly global children’s book award. The case for children reading was scientific and believable before Covid. But our record pandemic school closures offer strong evidence for NEP 2020’s observation that Grade 3 children who are not reading get left behind. Research identifies Grade 8 as the next crucial milestone where readers often stop challenging themselves in reading and lose out as young adults to develop the level of comprehension necessary to become an informed citizen. Pope Francis and the Dalai Lama believe reading is an antidote to the growing global culture of indifference. MIT scholar Sherry Turkle attributes research that suggests a 40% decline in young people’s empathy over the last two decades arises from their inability “to navigate the online world without losing track of their real-time, face-to-face relationships”. A wise child once said ‘Books slow me down and make me think, the internet speeds me up. Now more than at any other time, we need our children to read physically, read deeply and read widely. The case for raising the share of Indian children’s books is built on too many ‘Ideas of India’ missing from global narratives. The stories we tell ourselves and whisper to the world are an important component of changing our children’s aspirations, confidence, and place in the world. On one hand, Guru Gobind Singh’s counsel “Recognise all humanity as one” echoes in Professor Martha Nussbaum’s belief that hearing stories about the lives of others lets people imagine how they feel and learn something about themselves. On the other hand, a confident, grounded, and secure identity requires stories that reflect your everyday experience; every educator knows the wisdom of “life being a series of daring adventures from a secure base”. An education that includes stories with local traditions addresses the gnawing feeling that you don’t have to be Western to be Modern. Reading is needed to become a lifelong learner, but reading books that reflect different identities including our own is needed to develop humanity, originality and imagination. This is wonderfully reflected in the global liberal arts education delivered by new-age universities like Ahmedabad, Krea, and Ashoka. India is reaching critical mass in library practice, curation, and reading habits. Indian children’s writers are experimenting confidently with genre, themes, format, medium, and language, offering kids the chance to move beyond reading their parent’s or teacher’s favourite childhood books of adventure, nostalgia and mythology. They capture our geographic diversity - Chennai, Mumbai, Delhi, Ooty and Deolali come alive in the stories - and reflect the spectrum of children’s lives from relationships to beliefs, expectations to aspirations while acknowledging loneliness, anger, fear, hope, and love. They showcase new role models, break stereotypes, and create space for stuff traditionally denied a place in history. Book awards that recognise great writing are a simple, handy navigation aid. The gold standard of book prizes for adults is the Booker, for three reasons: the high visibility of the shortlist and winner, improved industry economics, and a truly global shortlist. Their recent shortlist carries three American authors, one Sri Lankan, one South African, and one British author (of Somali origin). But most big children’s book awards are local. 2019 was the first and only time Newbery honour was awarded to an Indian-American author for an Indian story. Other awards go across cultures in the US with specific callouts from groups like African Americans and Hispanics. The International Board on Books for Young People (IBBY) last had important Indian books on their honour list in 2012, for a touching story contextualising female foeticide by Ranjit Lal, and before that in 2008, for an incisive Kashmir story by Bal Sahitya Akademi award winner, Paro Anand -- both were truly global award-winning quality, but remained on an honour list. Maybe India could host a truly global children’s writing award; it would not only raise India’s soft power but befit a country with the third-largest English language printing for children and the largest school education system in the world. Indian schools are becoming more deliberate about building the reading habit because it is acknowledged as the only unfair advantage that persists, grows, and compounds through life. This demand is creating supply; Indian children’s writers are responding with stories, settings, and characters that feel familiar (fewer daffodils, scones and midnight feasts!). This virtuous cycle makes me believe that the next decade for Indian children’s literature will be wonderful. (The writer is Head of School, Neev Academy, and co-founder of the Neev Children’s Literature Festival and Book Award)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/read-to-grow-grow-to-read-1032548.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man poisons wife, child; kills self over debt||A man belonging to a family of three at Bharath colony in the city poisoned his wife and child and later killed himself on Monday. According to police, Krisha Naik, a lorry driver(35), his wife Suma (30) and son Dhruva are the deceased. The man poisoned his wife and son before hanging himself from a fan in the house. It is said that Suma was suffering from a disease for the past few years and had not recovered from it despite consulting many doctors. Unable to bear the medical expenses, they took the extreme step. RMC police registered a case. Check out latest Dh videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-poisons-wife-child-kills-self-over-debt-1032363.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Material Recovery Facility to come up at Dakshina Kannada village||If everything goes as per the plan, a material recovery facility (MRF) will come up at Thenka Edapadavu in Mangaluru taluk. The tender has been finalised and work on the facility will begin soon, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat (DKZP) Chief Executive Officer Dr Kumar told DH when contacted. Initially, land for MRF was identified in Gunjimutt on city's outskirts. Following stiff opposition from the public, officials had to shift the MRF to Thenka Edapadavu. In fact, the government had proposed to set up a MRF under the Swachh Bharat Mission at four places including Dakshina Kannada district. The facility in Udupi had begun functioning from Nitte recently. The third MRF was to come up in Ramanagaram and fourth MRF in Ballari. The MRF would reduce the burden of dry waste segregation at gram panchayats besides adding value to dry waste. Gram Panchayats at present segregate dry waste at their solid waste management facility using manual labour and later sell it to scrap dealers. Once MRF is set up, the processed waste at the facility will directly reach the end user for recycling. MRF facility has different machines like bailing machine, shredder machine, among others and the dry waste will be segregated into various categories, said sources. CEO Kumar said no wet waste will be stored in the facility. Once commissioned, it can process around 10 tonnes of dry waste per day. “The dry waste will be collected from 35 to 40 villages in the nearby gram panchayats enroute to the MRF,” the CEO added. Department of Rural drinking water and Sanitation, department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj had declared that authorities should ensure that no inflammable items were stored. The dry waste should be kept in an organised manner and no waste should be burnt at the facility. As part of the setting up of MRF, volunteers from Saahas from Bengaluru had taken up a survey at gram panchayats in Mangaluru and Bantwal taluk, sources added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/material-recovery-facility-to-come-up-at-dakshina-kannada-village-1032375.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers take out rally, seek govt-run MySugar factory||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha members took out a motorbike rally in Mandya and made an effort to lay a siege to the deputy commissioner's office on Monday seeking the state government to run the MySugar factory. The protestors gathered near the Silver Jubilee Park and took out a motorbike rally on Bengaluru-Mysuru highway raising slogans against the state and Union governments. They culminated at the DC's office and tried to barge in when the police intervened. This led to heated arguments between the protestors and the police. They urged the state government to exert pressure on the Centre demanding a Fair Remunerative Price (FRP) of Rs 4,000 per tonne of sugarcane. The government should immediately fulfill the demands of the farmers or it would become inevitable to stage a protest in Mysuru city and surrounding districts during Dasara celebrations, they warned. They demanded that mining be permanently banned in a radius of 20-km around Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam and withdrawal of anti-farmer policies. They extended support to the Bharat Bandh called by Samyukta Kisan Morcha on September 27. Association president Badagalapura Nagendra and honorary president Puttaswamaiah were present. Meanwhile, MySugar Sugarcane Growers Federation members staged a protest in front of the DC's office demanding the factory to be run by the state government. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-take-out-rally-seek-govt-run-mysugar-factory-1032442.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sri Sri Ravishankar pays visit to M M Hill||The Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravishankar Guruji paid a visit to Male Mahadeshwara Hill and offered prayers to the deity on Monday. The guruji reached the place via helicopter and landed at the helipad at Haleyuru near M M Hills. He also paid a visit to Salur Bruhan Mutt and interacted with the Gurukula students. He lauded the efforts taken by the temple management to make the M M Hills plastic-free. He also viewed the making of a 108 feet Madeshwara statue at the foothill. Sri Mutt seer Shanta Mallikarjuanaswamy and M M Hill Temple Development Authority Secretary Jayavibhavaswamy accompanied him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sri-sri-ravishankar-pays-visit-to-m-m-hill-1032445.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Unauthorised vendors attract wrath of visitors atop Chamundi Hill||Most unauthorised vendors are seen on Chamundi Hill on the paths leading to the temple attracting wrath of visitors. R Senthil, a tourist from Coimbatore, said, “I am a tourist to Mysuru and visit various tourist attractions in the city. I also shop at some outlets in the city. When I come to Chamundi Hill, I come as a devotee. There is no space to move freely up to the temple due to the presence of vendors. They have commercialised the hill shrine and cheat the devotees with cheap items at exorbitant prices.” A L Madegowda from Mandya said, “I learnt that the then Mysuru District in-Charge Minister V Somanna directed the officials to shift 118 licensed shops to the newly constructed shopping complex, a part of the multi-level parking complex, and also convince unauthorised shopkeepers to relocate. Only a few shops are open in the complex. I also learnt that the shops open in the complex are just tokenism. The same shopkeepers have thriving businesses outside.” Recently, Mysuru district administration has approved the construction of a shopping complex with 196 shops and a food zone at a cost of Rs 3.81 crore. “Each politician and officer is using Chamundi Hill for promoting their fancies and interests. They plan to have a ropeway, construct lodges or develop the hill shrine into a commercial hub. In the process, they have destroyed the beauty of the temple,” said S Chidananda, a retired teacher from Hunsur. Lingaraju, from a village in KR Nagar taluk, said, "All items are exorbitantly priced. A single piece of roasted sweet corn costs Rs 30. A tender coconut costs Rs 40. Vendors take us for a ride. Only in the Nandini outlet the products are priced reasonably.” A vendor said that the vendors had to bribe many and hence they charged more. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unauthorised-vendors-attract-wrath-of-visitors-atop-chamundi-hill-1032455.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||University of Mysore slips to A grade in NAAC accreditation||The century-old University of Mysore (UoM) has slipped to the A grade in the fourth cycle of accreditation by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The grade is valid for five years from September 20, 2021. The UoM had secured A+ grade with 3.47 CGPA in the third cycle. Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said, “We had hoped to retain the A+ grade as we have good infrastructure and facilities for students. We lacked the strength of teaching faculty and research.” In May 2019, he had said that the state government had permitted to fill backlog posts and the posts reserved for Hyderabad-Karnataka region. “As many as 76 backlog and 54 posts under the reservation will be filled soon. The varsity is waiting for the government’s order. Even if these posts are filled, it will not match the NAAC guidelines. The varsity needs to appoint at least 200 teaching and 200 non-teaching faculties. If the appointment process is completed before December 2019, then the varsity has chances to get ‘A++’ grade by NAAC,” he had stated. However, since then no recruitment has been possible for various reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/university-of-mysore-slips-to-a-grade-in-naac-accreditation-1032458.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Reconstitute search committee for appointing RGUHS VC'||Former vice-chancellor K S Rangappa urged Governor Thaawar Chand Gehlot to direct the state government to reconstitute the search committee formed to recommend the names for appointment of VC to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). Addressing a media conference here on Monday, Rangappa, also president of Forum of Former Vice Chancellors of Karnataka State Universities (FVCK), said, "The nomination of non-medical academicians to the search committee for RGUHS is not right. Chairman of the committee, VC of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) S Vidyashankar, is from the Engineering stream. The Governor should direct the government to nominate those with good knowledge in Medical Sciences. FVCK has written a letter to the Governor and also Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in this regard,” he said. He said, "The search committee should comprise renowned academicians. In view of maintaining transparency, serving officials like VCs should be avoided. Members of FVCK can be considered for the committee.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reconstitute-search-committee-for-appointing-rguhs-vc-1032460.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru student achieves rare CET feat, tops all five streams||In a rare feat, H K Meghan, a student of Pramati Hill View Academy in Mysuru, has topped all five streams of Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) - Engineering, Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences, Agriculture, Veterinary Science and Pharmacy However, he might not opt for any of the courses under KCET, as he aspires to do Medicine and is waiting for the results of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) or NEET. Meghan, son of H K Krishnaiah and M S Leelavathy couple, residents of Ramakrishna Nagar in the city, said, he expected to be among the top 10 students in KCET, but did not expect the topmost slot. “Both my parents are Chemistry lecturers and are principals of pre-university colleges. Thus, they know the psychology of students well. They guided me and coached me well. There was neither pressure nor stress. I had a plan and never deviated from it. As my schedule for preparation was spread over two-and-a-half years, it was not stressful,” he said. Leelavathy, principal of Nrupathunga Kannada PU College, said, “Meghan worked hard. But, that does not mean that he did not enjoy life. He watched television and chatted with friends, but he ensured that his targets (of studies) were achieved each day. He plays guitar too.” Krishnaiah, a native of Hosakere village in Maddur, taluk of Mandya district, is the principal of KR Nagar Government PU College. Secretary of Pramati Hill View Academy H V Rajeev, also Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) chairman, said, Meghan had scored 494/500 in 12th standard. “He secured the 29th rank in Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY). He recently secured 99.517 percentile in Joint Entrance Examination and has qualified in International Biology Olympiad in both Stage I and II,” he said. Meghan said, coping up with the Covid-19 crisis and online classes was difficult initially. “But, I planned a schedule that suited the online classes and made good use of the time,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-student-achieves-rare-cet-feat-tops-all-five-streams-1032500.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Couple on treasure hunt digs 20-feet-deep pit at home in Chamarajanagar, finds nothing||Searching for treasure, a daily wage labourer dug a 20-ft deep pit at his house, only to find nothing, at Ammanapura village in the taluk. The man and his wife had dug the pit at a room of their house, without creating any suspicion among the residents of the village. They have dumped the removed soil in another room of the house. Police came to know about a suspicious activity two days ago and the incident came to light when they visited the spot. However, no complaint has been lodged. The police conducted an inquiry and sent the man away after warning him. Ramanna (name changed) was living with his wife and two children at Ammanapura village. They found a cobra inside their house two months ago, and Ramanna killed it. After a few days, two more snakes were found at his house. Out of fear, he contacted a Kerala-based sorcerer. The latter claimed that the movement of snakes in the house was due to presence of treasure below the ground. He also suggested to perform a puja and dig the ground for treasure, it is learnt. Believing this, Ramanna and his wife started digging the house, without raising any doubts among the neighbours. However, even after digging for 20 feet they could not find anything. Chamarajanagar police inspector Anand said, “As soon as we came to know about this, we visited the spot. The house owner claimed that he had dug the room to check for any anthills below, as snakes were being found frequently. He has been warned to close the pit. No complaint has been lodged”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/couple-on-treasure-hunt-digs-20-feet-deep-pit-at-home-in-chamarajanagar-finds-nothing-1032506.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Students from Dakshina Kannada excel in CET||Students from Dakshina Kannada district have excelled in CET, according to results made public on Monday. Out of the top 10 ranks, six ranks in BSc agriculture, Bachelor of Veterinary Science, BNYS and BPharma and D Pharma were secured by students of Expert PU College. Reetham B from Expert PU College had secured second rank in BSc Agriculture, third rank in Bachelor of Veterinary Science, third rank in Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences (BNYS) and 10th rank in BPharma. While Thejas from the same college had secured fourth rank in BSc Agriculture, Sanjana Kamath Panchmal from Expert PU college had secured seventh rank in BSc Agriculture. Sujnan R Shetty from Alva’s PU College in Moodbidri had secured fifth rank in BSc Agriculture. Sathvik G Bhat from Excellent Science and Commerce PU College in Moodbidri had secured eighth rank in BNYS, seventh rank in Bachelor of Veterinary Science. Reetham B from Kolar who studied in Mangaluru said that he was happy over his results in CET. “It was consistency in studies which helped me to excel. As my focus is on MBBS, I am waiting for NEET results. The mock tests which the college used to conduct frequently helped me a lot to prepare for the entrance exam. The teachers were also very supportive and would motivate us regularly. All the doubts were cleared via WhatsApp during the online classes.” Sujnan Shetty from Kundapura said; “I am happy that I am in the top 10 in BSc agriculture. I had not even checked CET results. My focus is on NEET results which I am eagerly awaiting for. I used to study whatever was taught in the classrooms daily. It was hard work, guidance from the teachers which helped me throughout.” Elated Sathvik Bhat who hails from Ujire said that hard work, and strong knowledge on basics had helped him to excel in the CET. “I am now eagerly waiting for NEET results. The lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic helped me to be strong in my basics of the subjects. If the basics are strong, then it is easy to solve the problems.” A total of 8,088 had appeared for the CET in Dakshina Kannada, of whom 7,386 are eligible for engineering, 5,557 for BNYS, 5,170 for BSc Agriculture, 5,552 for bachelor of Veterinary Science, 7,774 for BPharma and D Pharma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-from-dakshina-kannada-excel-in-cet-1032520.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard sighted again in Hubballi; patience running out for residents||Patience is running out for the residents of Raj Nagara, Shiradi Nagara and surrounding areas as the leopard was spotted again on Monday. However, this time the leopard was much nearer to human habitation than the last two sightings. This is for the third time that the leopard has been directly sighted by citizens and officials in the last five days. On Monday, Anil Kumar Koparade and his family saw the leopard climbing down a tree next to their house, which is bordering the Nrupatunga Betta, at around 6:10 pm. Earlier, his neighbour claimed that he saw the big cat carrying a piglet into the bushes near Shiradi Nagar. “The Forest Department officials are stationed at Kendriya Vidayala, and it took them more than one hour to come to our house, which is just 300 metres away,” said Anil and added that looking at the officials' plan of action they do not intend to catch the leopard unless it attacks humans. Tens of residents of Shiradi Nagar stood guard, with sticks and logs, at the spot where the leopard was last sighted. Meanwhile, several forest officials, including Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Kshirsagar entered the betta firing crackers. “As per the rules, we can not tranquillise the leopard after dusk. So we have decided to push the leopard away from the human habitation,” said Kshirsagar. Since morning the forest officials have been combing the forest patch behind the Kendriya Vidayala in Raj Nagara without much success. They also failed to trance any pug marks or kill leftovers of the leopard. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-sighted-again-in-hubballi-patience-running-out-for-residents-1032522.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Classes for VI, VII students commence in Dakshina Kannada||Clad in new uniforms, students of class VI and VIII enthusiastically entered their classrooms across Dakshina Kannada district on Monday. The classes for sixth and seventh begun after the district administration gave the nod for resumption of classes due to decline in covid-19 positivity rate. Arrangements were made to sanitise all classrooms ahead of the opening of the schools for the children. Some of the schools were decked with green leaves and flowers to welcome the students. Teachers had even made arrangements to welcome each and every child by offering them a rose as well. The classes had remained suspended since April 2020. Later, the teachers were conducting class via online mode. After the decline in Covid-19 cases, the classes for class 6 and 7 had resumed from January 2021 till March. Owing to second wave of Covid-19, the schools remained closed. To avoid chaos, classes for eighth standard was held in the noon from 1.30 pm to 4.30 pm. Volunteers had carried out shramadaan in school premises ahead of the reopening day. Uppinangady Government Model Higher Primary School which was surrounded by weeds and slush due to stagnant rain water was cleaned by members of SKSSF Viqaya team to welcome students from Monday. As many as 45 members of Viqaya team cleared the weeds that had grown around the school and its ground. Later, they cleaned the roof of school building. School head teacher Devaki said that weeds had grown all over the school building that had remained closed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The Viqaya team has cleaned the school premises to welcome students. Schools had even made arrangement to check the body temperature of the students using thermal scanners and sanitisers. Even social distancing was maintained inside the classes. Students were asked to get hot water for drinking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/classes-for-vi-vii-students-commence-in-dakshina-kannada-1032526.html
20-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||87 bedridden endosulfan victims given vaccines||Health assistants from Kaniyoor Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Belthangady administered Covid-19 vaccines to 87 beneficiaries by visiting their houses during the mega vaccination drive. “All these beneficiaries, who were bedridden or victims of Endosulfan poisoning in 12 villages, could not visit the vaccination centres. Due to the poor road connectivity to houses, the family members could not take them to vaccination centres,” informed a medical officer of PHC in report submitted to Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. The health assistants had to reach houses by crossing delicate bridges. Kaniyoor PHC jurisdiction has a population of 48,752 people. There are five junior health assistants, and one doctor working in PHC. In the age group of 18 to 45, there are 15,133 beneficiaries for vaccines, of whom, 12,503 had received first dose and 2414 had received second jab. Out of targeted 7,971 beneficiaries in the age group of 45 to 59, a total of 6,265 had been administered with first dose and 2,759 with second dose of vaccines. In above 60 years category, a total of 2,848 had been administered with first dose of vaccine, the letter to the DC informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/87-bedridden-endosulfan-victims-given-vaccines-1032530.html
20-09-2021||Main Article||What China wants in Afghanistan||The geopolitical location of Afghanistan has been the focal point of Great Power rivalries. Beijing has been waiting on the sidelines for long, and perhaps now hopes to fill the power vacuum left behind by the United States (US). China has come a long way since the 1990s, when it extended support to the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance. Of late, China’s strategy towards the Taliban was to start warming up to it even before the US formally withdrew from Afghanistan. Beijing did not get embroiled in counter-insurgency operations on the Taliban. Rather, it adopted a hedging strategy. Chinese leaders have consistently pointed out that they respect Afghanistan’s territorial sovereignty and integrity and believe in a policy of non-interference in its internal affairs. After two decades of involvement in Afghanistan’s affairs, the US has called it quits. China’s strategy at this point seems to be the following. Beijing is keen to avoid a civil insurgency and war in Afghanistan to the extent that it adversely affects its interests in the Xinjiang province. Moreover, China is conscious of the potential backlash from the Taliban for its treatment of the Muslim Uighurs. Chinese officials have demolished mosques and set up ‘re-education’ camps to ‘reform’ the Uighurs so that they can contribute to the ‘motherland’. China even began to engage the Taliban to ensure that they do not cooperate with their Uighur counterparts. Needless to say, Beijing has the wherewithal, politically and otherwise, to crack down on any such possibility, too. China has been worried about the role of the Turkistan Islamic movement which has been pushing the cause of an independent Xinjiang state. Uighur militants with combat experience in Syria are another cause for worry for Beijing. China could also take Russia’s assistance to prevent the Islamic State from developing leverage and influence in the Central Asian region. Moscow has clearly increased its military presence in the region.  The importance of the Russia-backed Collective Security Treaty and the Chinese-backed Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, of which India is a member, will be critically important in this context. Moscow and Beijing are aligned more than ever before. Beijing is also keen to see how it could promote intra-Afghan dialogue. Hence, Beijing seems to be falling back on Moscow, Islamabad, and Tehran too, to facilitate this process. Similarly, Iran also seems to perceive an Afghanistan under the Taliban as both a threat as well as an opportunity. Tehran’s interest in the Afghan and Central Asian markets is quite evident. Needless to say, it has been interested in promoting Shia ideology, too. Iran has always desired a diminished US role in the region.  Under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), both Afghanistan and China already have mutual interests and ongoing dialogues. China and Afghanistan share a narrow border high in the Wakhan Valley. Whether to reconnect Afghanistan with China by linking the 50-km distance from Bazai Gonbad with the Wakjhir Pass is something the Taliban will have to decide. This is a project which was being financed by the former Karzai government. As far as China is concerned, connectivity holds out opportunities as well as risks. It’s for China also to take a call on this. Beijing is Kabul’s second-largest trading partner. Hence the Sino-Afghanistan Special Railway Transportation Project could be a flagship project in the days to come. Connecting Afghanistan to the CPEC through Pakistan could make a difference to Afghanistan’s fortunes, too.  One strategy of China would be to offer the new Taliban regime a variety of economic sops to stabilise the situation and build bridges. Beijing is bound to throw carrots at the Taliban in the form of a variety of infrastructure projects and other possibilities for investments. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has consistently spoken about the need for communication and cooperation between China, Pakistan and Afghanistan.  China also wants to exploit the rich rare-earths deposits of Afghanistan. This has been a long-standing goal of China, which seems achievable now, given that China will be one of the few countries to have diplomatic engagement with the Taliban regime. Estimates suggest that its potential is almost $3 trillion. Afghanistan possesses huge resources that are waiting to be exploited — copper, iron, mercury, gold, cobalt, thorium, lithium, and coal and gas. Even before the Taliban rode into Kabul, Beijing had been negotiating with the Taliban to invest in Afghanistan’s infrastructure through BRI. China seeks to establish one of the largest copper mines in the world. Key issues of the future will revolve around the evolving equations — China-Pakistan, China-Russia and Afghanistan-Pakistan relations. The future is full of potential opportunities and challenges for each one of these actors. These evolving geopolitical equations have already created turbulence in the Indo-Pacific region, which impacts India’s interests. Until recently, India’s strategy was to focus on the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Beijing will be conscious of the challenges and opportunities that a Taliban regime in Afghanistan holds out. It will be keen to ensure that it learns from the experiences of the US and Russia in Afghanistan. All seems set for China to fill the void in Afghanistan. Yet, the Chinese are known to hold their diplomatic cards close to their chest. As a geopolitical strategist recently commented, the Chinese are more vicious and have a better chance of achieving their goals in Afghanistan. It does not mean they will necessarily succeed, but just that they may take a longer time to fail. Whether China will get trapped in the ‘graveyard of empires’ called Afghanistan, only time will tell.  (The writer is professor, Department of International Studies, Politics and History, Christ (Deemed to be) University.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/what-china-wants-in-afghanistan-1032539.html
20-09-2021||National||No one becomes great by dressing scantily: UP Assembly Speaker||Uttar Pradesh Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit Sunday said if one could become great just by dressing scantily, then Bollywood actor "Rakhi Sawant would have become greater than Mahatma Gandhi", drawing flak from social media users. He made the remarks at the 'prabuddh varg sammelan' (meeting of intellectuals) organised by the BJP in Bangarmau assembly constituency of Unnao district. "In our opinion, no one has become an intellectual by writing a book on any topic. If that was the case for so many years, I have read at least 6,000 books," Dixit said. He continued, "Gandhiji used to dress scantily. He used to wrap just a dhoti. The country called him Bapu. If somebody could become great just by taking their clothes off, then Rakhi Sawant would have become greater than Mahatma Gandhi." A video clip of his speech went viral on social media, following which he put out a series of clarificatory tweets in Hindi. "Some friends in social media are showing the clip of a video of my speech with an otherwise meaning. This was the part of my speech at the 'prabuddh sammelan' in Unnao, in which the moderator of the 'sammelan' introduced me saying that 'I am an enlightened writer'." "I took this point forward saying that no one becomes an intellectual by writing some books. Mahatma Gandhi used to dress scantily. The country called him 'Bapu'. But, that does not mean Rakhi Sawant will become a Gandhi-ji," Dixit said. "Friends, take my speech in the right context," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-becomes-great-by-dressing-scantily-up-assembly-speaker-1032242.html
20-09-2021||National||Four labour codes unlikely to be implemented this fiscal||The four labour codes are unlikely to be implemented this fiscal in view of slow progress on the drafting of rules by the states and also for political reasons like elections in Uttar Pradesh, a source said. The implementation of these laws assumes significance because once these are implemented there would be reduction in take-home pay of employees and firms have to bear higher provident fund liability. "The Ministry of Labour is ready with the rules under the four labour codes. But the states have been slow in drafting and finalising those under new codes. Besides, the government is not keen to implement the four codes due to political reasons, which are mainly elections in Uttar Pradesh (due in February 2022 onwards)," the source said. The four codes have been passed by Parliament. But for implementation of these codes, rules under these must be notified by central as well as state governments for enforcing those in respective jurisdictions. "It is likely that the implementation of the four labour codes may be dragged beyond this fiscal year," t he source said. Once the wages code comes into force, there will be significant changes in the way basic pay and provident fund of employees are calculated. The labour ministry had envisaged implementing the four codes on industrial relations, wages, social security and occupational health safety & working conditions from April 1, 2021. These four labour codes will rationalise 44 central labour laws. The ministry had even finalised the rules under the four codes. But these could not be implemented because many states were not in a position to notify rules under these codes in their jurisdictions. Labour is a concurrent subject under the Constitution of India and therefore both the Centre and states have to notify rules under these four codes to make them the laws of the land in their respective jurisdictions. According to the source, some states have worked on draft rules on four labour codes. These states are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttarakhand. Under the new wages code, allowances are capped at 50 per cent. This means half of the gross pay of an employee would be basic wages. Provident fund contribution is calculated as a percentage of basic wage, which includes basic pay and dearness allowance. The employers have been splitting wages into numerous allowances to keep basic wages low to reduce provident fund and income tax outgo. The new wages code provides for provident fund contribution as a prescribed proportion of 50 per cent of gross pay. After the implementation of new codes, the take-home pay of employees would reduce while provident fund liability of employers would increase in many cases. Once implemented, employers would have to restructure salaries of their employees as per the new code on wages. Besides, the new industrial relation code would also improve ease of doing business by allowing firms with up to 300 workers to go ahead for lay-offs, retrenchment and closure without government permission. At present all firms with up to 100 employees are exempted from government permission for lay-off, retrenchment and closure. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-labour-codes-unlikely-to-be-implemented-this-fiscal-1032244.html
20-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Rahul hai to mumkin hai!'||Three-time Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor on Saturday said there should be a new leadership of the Congress party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rahul-hai-to-mumkin-hai-1032248.html
20-09-2021||National||Mumbai: 3 boys feared drowned in sea at Versova during Ganesh idol immersion, 2 rescued||Three boys were feared drowned in sea at Versova jetty here during the Ganesh idol immersion on Sunday night, while two others accompanying them were rescued, a fire brigade official said. "We received a call about the incident around 9 pm and reached the spot in half an hour, where we were told that five boys had ventured into the sea for immersing a Ganesh idol. But two of them were rescued by the people present there and some local residents before our team went there," he said. The rescued boys were taken to the Cooper Hospital, the official said. "However, three boys are still missing, and a search operation is on with the help of lifeguards and members of the Flood Rescued Team. LED lights and a ferry boat is being used for the operation," he said. The help of Navy divers has been sought, the official said, adding that a fire engine, one boat, some lifeguards and other personnel are present at the spot. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-3-boys-feared-drowned-in-sea-at-versova-during-ganesh-idol-immersion-2-rescued-1032257.html
20-09-2021||National||Centre mulls restructuring Railway operations based on Sanyal committee suggestions||The Centre is planning a major reorganisation of companies functioning under the ministry of railways as part of an exercise to professionalise the Indian Railways and make it a self-sustaining organisation. As part of this initiative, a proposal is being considered to merge Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) into the Indian Railways Construction Ltd. (IRCON) and also rolling stock entity Braithwaite and Company Ltd (BCL) with Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES). The proposals form part of a set of recommendations given by Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic advisor in the finance ministry in a report titled Rationalisation of Government Bodies under MoR. The report had been forwarded by the cabinet secretariat to the railway board for immediate action. Sanyal in his report has recommended the merger of RVNL with IRCON due to similarities in their operations. IRCON is a specialised infrastructure construction company while RVNL implements projects related to creation and augmentation of capacity of railway infrastructure on a fast track basis. Both IRCON and RVNL have similar business functions: construction of railway infrastructure. While IRCON bids for private contracts and has significant international presence, RVNL functions as a sub contractor of the Indian Railways (IR) by getting works from railways on a nomination basis without having borrowing power of its own. On the other hand, Sanyal has recommended that RITES takeover BCL as both are into manufacture and exports of rolling stocks and with BCL turning profitable for the last two years, the synergised operations of both entities would give necessary scale to RITES to expand its global footprint. RITES is already exporting rolling stocks and providing consultancy services. The restructuring of IR would also look at its IT operations being handled through a set of three different organisations. These include Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), Railtel Corporation and Centre for Railway Information System (CRIS). The recommendation is to wind up Cris after handing over all its work to IRCTC and then merge Railtel with IRCTC. The Bibek Debroy Committee on Restructuring Railways (2015) had also recommended for integration of all IT initiatives in the railways. The Sanyal committee has also recommended one public sector in IR for rolling stocks and manufacture of locomotives rather than having a set of eight different facilities as it exists now. This, the report has said can be done by transferring assets and deploring employees of the existing production units to a proposed CPSE in a phased manner. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulls-restructuring-railway-operations-based-on-sanyal-committee-suggestions-1032272.html
20-09-2021||National||PE major Advent snaps up Eureka Forbes for Rs 4,400 crore||After a long wait, the Shapoorji Pallonji Group has closed the sale process of its consumer durables business under the Eureka Forbes label by picking the American private equity fund Advent International’s Rs 4,400-crore offer for a 72 per cent stake. The sale process, which began in November 2019, will help the over 156-year-old SP Group pare the debt pile and sharpen the focus on the flagship construction and engineering business under Afcons. The valuation of Rs 4,400 crore for a 72.56 per cent stake is is at an enterprise level and subject to closing adjustments and also includes an open offer for the remaining stake after the demerger and listing of Eureka Forbes, the SP group said in a statement on Sunday. The 156-year-old-Shapoorji Pallonji Group, which owns over 18 per cent in the Tata Group, is sitting on a debt pile of over Rs 20,000 crore of which around Rs 12,000 crore are under the moratorium till 2023 allowed by the RBI to help borrowers tide over the cash flow issues arising from the pandemic. "Pursuant to a scheme of arrangement, Eureka Forbes, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Forbes & Company, will be demerged into a standalone company and will be listed on the BSE. Upon demerger and listing, Advent will purchase up to 72.56 per cent of Eureka Forbes then outstanding stock on a fully diluted basis from SP Group owned Forbes & Co, and will also make an open offer for the remaining stake. "The transaction is subject to closing conditions and receipt of the relevant statutory and regulatory approvals," the statement said without offering a timeline for the demerger and listing. When contacted, Jai Mavani, executive director at Shapoorji Pallonji & Company told PTI that the Rs 4,400 crore valuation is for the entire stake in the company, which means including the valuation cost of the open offer. But he could not offer a time-line for the process to complete as the demerger process is pending before the Mumbai NCLT. This transaction also reflects the company's stated objectives and strategy of significantly de-leveraging and focusing on core competencies and businesses, Mavani said. "We look forward to working with Marzin Shroff and his team to guide Eureka Forbes next phase of growth and solidify its market leadership," said Shweta Jalan, managing director, Advent India PE Advisors. "Having delivered innovative products and solutions for our ever-growing customer base, we are now buoyant about the opportunity to unlock further growth," Marzin R Shroff, managing director and chief executive of Eureka Forbes. Eureka Forbes leads in water purifiers and vacuum cleaners and also air purifiers and home security solutions. It had an annual sales of around Rs 3,000 crore in 2020. It pioneered the concept of direct sales with its Eureka Forbes labeled vacuum cleaners in the country decades back and has over 20 million customers, across 53 countries. The company put the asset on block in November 2019 as its bid to raise funds after pledging a portion of its massive holdings in Tata Sons was objected to by the Tatas and the matter is still pending with the apex court. Advent was competing with Warburg Pincus, and Swedish home appliance maker Electrolux, with which it had a long standing joint venture between 1982 and 2001. Sahil Dalal, a managing director at Advent India PE Advisors, said Advent has been investing in India since 2007 and opened its Mumbai office in 2009. Over the past 14 years, it has invested/committed $2.2 billion in 16 companies with headquarters or operations in India across sectors such as consumer products, financial services, healthcare, industrial and technology. Its recent investments include ZCL Chemicals, a leading manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients and advanced intermediates; RA Chem Pharma, a forward-integrated diversified API player; and Aditya Birla Capital, the holding company of the financial services businesses of Aditya Birla Group. Since its founding in 1984, the fund has invested $56 billion in over 380 companies in 42 countries, and as of March 2021, had $75 billion in assets under management. In India, Advent has made four consumer investments, including Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals, Dixcy Textiles, a leading men’s inner-wear brand; Enamor, a leading women’s inner-wear brand; and DFM Foods, a leading producer of packaged savory snacks. Eureka Forbes will be its fifth buy out in the consumer segment, strengthening its position as one of the leading retail and consumer, investors. The Shapoorji Pallonji Group has a rich legacy of 156 years and a presence in over 50 countries and delivers end-to-end solutions across industry segments in engineering and construction, infrastructure, real estate, water, energy and financial services with a strong focus on sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. Its popular Aquaguard range, extensive pan-India distribution network, and after-sales service are some of the key factors that made Eureka Forbes an attractive target for Advent. The firm also launched Forbes Coronaguard, a virus disinfectant device as well as robotic vacuum cleaners. Eureka Forbes was set up in 1982 as a joint venture between Forbes & Co and the Swedish whitegoods major Electrolux, which in 2001 exited the partnership as part of its global strategy of quitting direct marketing business. The original roots of Forbes & Co go back 254 years to 1767 when John Forbes of Scotland opened his business in the country engaged in manufacturing, trading and shipping, which was later taken over by the Tatas. In 1982, the Tatas roped in Electrolux to launch Eureka Forbes as a joint venture and in 2001 the Tatas sold their stake in Forbes & Co to the SP Group which also bought out the 40 per cent stake that Electrolux held in the JV. While Standard Chartered Bank was the sole financial advisor, Desai & Diwanji was the legal counsel for the SP group, which was also helped by Katalyst Advisors, Boston Consulting Group and KPMG India. Check out the latest DH vidoes:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pe-major-advent-snaps-up-eureka-forbes-for-rs-4400-crore-1032287.html
20-09-2021||National||India logs 30,256 Covid-19 cases, 295 deaths||With 30,256 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,34,78,419, while the active cases declined to 3,18,181, the lowest in 183 days, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,45,133 with 295 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,18,181 comprising 0.95 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.72 per cent, the health ministry said. A reduction of 13,977 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 11,77,607 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 55,36,21,766. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.57 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 21 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.07 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 87 days, according to the health ministry.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,27,15,105, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 80.85 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-30256-covid-19-cases-295-deaths-1032288.html
20-09-2021||National||12-digit unique IDs for farmers to access government schemes: Report||“The intent is to create a unified farmer service interface. The unique ID will enable them to seamlessly avail various Government schemes and credit facilities, and help the Centre and state governments in better planning of procurement operations,” Vivek Aggarwal, Additional Secretary, Ministry’s Digital Agriculture Division, told The Indian Express. The database will collate data from existing farmer schemes such as PM-Kisan, Soil Health Card and PM Fasal Bima Yojana and link them with land records. Aadhaar will also be used as a deduplication mechanism. So far, a database for 11 states including Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh has been developed by the government. The remaining states, including Telangana, Kerala and Punjab, will be completed within a few months.  “We have started internally generating unique farmer IDs and once we are ready with the database of 8 crore farmers, we will launch this,” the official is quoted as saying in the report. Linkage of land parcels through a Geographical Information System (GIS), where maps are digitised by states, will be used. The GIS data of land parcels will help farmers in getting precise advisories, Agarwal said. The plan to subject such an ID to farmers and the creation of a database was mentioned in the course of the Chief Ministers’ Conference earlier this month. On September 6, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had mentioned that his Ministry has created a database of 5.5 crore farmers, to be elevated to 8 crore by December. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-digit-unique-ids-for-farmers-to-access-government-schemes-report-1032298.html
20-09-2021||National||Over 79.58 crore Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs: Centre||More than 79.58 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Further, more than 15 lakh doses are in the pipeline. Over 5.43 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the ministry said. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7958-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-centre-1032314.html
20-09-2021||National||India administers lowest number of Covid-19 tests in a month||India conducted the lowest number of daily Covid-19 tests since mid-August on Sunday, but the health ministry urged local governments not to let their guard down during the September to November festival season. States and Union Territories carried out about 11.8 lakh tests on Sunday, government data showed on Monday, down from about 15.6 lakh on Saturday and against a capacity of more than 20 lakh. It comes as most states dropped compulsory testing for fully vaccinated travellers in recent weeks, as they try to boost their economies by making it easier for people to commute. New Covid-19 infections meanwhile have plateaued at around 30,000 a day as vaccinations surged but some health experts say this could also been down to reduced testing. The health ministry urged states and Union Territories on Saturday to step up testing, warning that the festival season could lead to another spike in infections. Local governments are responsible for local-level health policies in the country, as per the Indian constitution. After a meeting with state officials on Saturday, the health ministry said that there was "no room for any complacency" and that local authorities should urgently augment hospital infrastructure, oxygen supply, ambulance services and build up buffer stocks of critical drugs. India faced the world's worst explosion of Covid-19 cases and deaths between April and May when its hospitals ran out of beds, oxygen and drugs. Overall, it has reported the most number of infections after the United States. Some 64 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one Covid-19 vaccine dose and 22 per cent two doses. The health ministry aims to have administered at least one vaccine dose in nearly all of India's adult population by next month. So far, at least one dose has been given to about 60 crore adults. On Monday, India reported 30,256 new Covid-19 infections and 295 deaths, taking the total caseload to 3.348 crore and death toll to 445,133.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-lowest-number-of-covid-19-tests-in-a-month-1032323.html
20-09-2021||National||Come festive season, your air tickets might be cheaper||Noting that travel beyond 15 days of the booking period has picked up since July, experts told the publication that earlier many people travelled within a fortnight of bookings due to the Covid-19 restrictions. “For the sector to revive to pre-Covid levels, people who are travelling by trains will have to be lured into taking flights again... Corporate travel is also witnessing a slow recovery," he said. Since August 12 this year, this roll-over period was of 30 days and the airlines had been charging without limits from the 31st day. India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services were resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month Covid-triggered lockdown. The Civil Aviation Ministry on Saturday announced that the lower and upper limits on airfares will remain for 15 days at any given time and the airlines will be free to charge without any limits from the 16th day onwards. Owing to changes, airlines will most likely lower fares due to competition. The lower caps were imposed to help the airlines that have been struggling financially due to coronavirus-related travel restrictions. The upper caps were imposed so that passengers are not charged huge amounts when the demand for seats is high. In a fresh order issued on Saturday, the Civil Aviation Ministry explained the change in the rule: "If the current date is September 20, then the fare band shall be applicable till October 4. Any booking done on September 20 for travel on or after October 5 shall not be controlled by fare bands." Check out latest videos from DH:  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-festive-season-your-air-tickets-might-be-cheaper-1032335.html
20-09-2021||National||HC to hold virtual hearing in Tarun Tejpal case on Oct 27||The Goa Bench of the Bombay High Court on Monday said it will hear virtually on October 27 the Goa government's appeal against journalist Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in a 2013 rape case. A bench of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar adjourned the matter till October 27 after Goa's Advocate General Devidas Pangam and a lawyer representing Tejpal asked for a next date of hearing. Justice Sonak said the court will set up the facility for virtual hearing into the matter by the next date. The hearing into the matter would be held virtually as Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, representing the Goa government, will participate in the court proceedings from Delhi. Advocate General Pangam said the hearing on Monday was held to decide the next date (of hearing into the matter). Earlier, the HC had on August 31 adjourned the hearing on the Goa government's appeal against Tejpal's acquittal in the rape case till September 20, pending request before the Chief Justice for a hybrid (physical plus virtual) hearing into the matter. Before that, the matter was being heard online. On August 31, for the first time the matter was taken up physically, in the wake of the Goa government relaxing several Covid-19 curbs. Last month, Tejpal in a submission before the HC sought an 'in-camera' hearing of the Goa government's petition challenging his acquittal in the case, and sought its dismissal while raising preliminary objections on its maintainability. However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had at that time opposed Tejpal's request for the 'in-camera' hearing, saying the "country has the right to know how the institution dealt with the girl (victim)". On May 21 this year, a sessions court acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. Later, the Goa government filed an appeal against it in the HC.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-hold-virtual-hearing-in-tarun-tejpal-case-on-oct-27-1032349.html
20-09-2021||National||Haven't broken any law, Sonu Sood says on tax evasion allegations: Report||Actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood denied all allegations of tax evasion that were levelled against him by the Income Tax Department.  The actor who started his philanthropic efforts during the Covid-19 crisis has been accused of evading tax worth Rs 20 crore. Further, the I-T Department also said that the charity set up by him collected donations of over Rs 18 crore but only about Rs 2 crore was spent on relief work. Calling this allegation surprising, he said that all of the money is not just collected by donations, and that some of it was also remunerations from brand endorsements. He added that the money was not lying around for years but the last 3-4 months as he needed to do his due diligence before donating to a cause.  The I-T Department also accused him of received illegal foreign funding to which he replied that he "can't get a single dollar into his account." According to the actor, the I-T sleuths agreed that he had done “good work”. “Whatever documents, details they asked for, we gave. Whatever questions they asked, I answered. I did my part, they did theirs. Whatever questions they raised, we answered each and every one of them with documents. That's my duty. We are still providing documents…it is part of the process,” the actor said in the interview. While some parties have linked the raids to his recent collaboration with Aam Aadmi Party for an education mentorship, the actor said he is not allying himself with any political party. Sonu Sood also revealed that he had turned away offers of a Rajya Sabha membership because he was not yet ready for politics.  For now, he said, he would continue with his charity, no matter what. “I didn't start to stop. It's just the beginning.” Earlier on Monday, the 48-year-old took to Twitter on Monday to give his side of the story after last week’s raid at his Mumbai residence and office and at a dozen places in the country including Lucknow and Jaipur. "Every rupee in my foundation is awaiting its turn to save a precious life and reach the needy. In addition, on many occasions, I have encouraged brands to donate my endorsement fees for humanitarian causes too, which keeps us going,” the actor wrote in a statement. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/havent-broken-any-law-sonu-sood-says-on-tax-evasion-allegations-report-1032350.html
20-09-2021||National||In Indian mining hub, farmers bring polluted land back to life||For years, Indian farmer Chape Hanumaiya struggled to grow anything on his tiny plot of land - it was caked in the thick, red dust drifting from the iron ore mines that surrounded it. But today, Hanumaiya and his wife are about to harvest pearl millet and sesame crops thanks to a pilot project that seeks to fight migration and boost food security around the southern city of Hosapete, the heart of India's iron ore industry. "My father grew millet and cotton on this land decades ago," said Hanumaiya, 46, sitting in the shade of a tree near his one-acre (0.4-hectare) smallholding. "Then the mining grew and over the years, when we came to the field, our clothes, the grains and everything would be covered with mine dust. We slowly gave up farming." India is the world's fourth-biggest producer of iron ore, the key ingredient in steel-making, and demand for the commodity is expected to grow as the global construction sector rebounds from Covid-19. That could prompt a surge in output, putting additional strain on local farmers and fuelling environmental damage in mining areas. More than 6,000 hectares (about 15,000 acres) of land, both private and community-owned, have been blighted by iron ore mining in India, affecting nearly 30,000 people, according to data research agency Land Conflict Watch. Hanumaiya's land was revived under a sustainable co-operative agriculture scheme led by the Sakhi Trust nonprofit, which works with communities affected by mining in the area and encourages organic farming. So far, it has helped bring more than 200 hectares of barren farmland back into production - creating a safety net and shielding local people from the ups and downs of mining. "When the mines closed and agriculture failed, it forced people to migrate," said Nagesh R. Sannaveer, a coordinator at Sakhi Trust. "People were looking for food security and we started helping them get back to farming - from getting plots ready to cultivate to organising collective farming for the landless," he added. Red Earth The mineral-rich, red earth in the twin districts of Ballari and Vijayanagara - where Hanumaiya lives - has been mined since colonial times. But a decade ago, the Supreme Court banned mining in the region in an effort to stem illegal mines. Many pits closed - including those near Hanumaiya's plot, though villagers said activity was slowly picking up again. Conveyor belts ferrying ore from the pits to factories cut across the hills and long lines of trucks snake in and out of the mines. Like hundreds of other farmers from his district, Hanumaiya went to work in the iron ore mines when business was booming. Many found jobs as loaders, drivers or machine operators, leasing their fields to mining companies to build factories, dump debris or for use as storage yards. But when the Supreme Court ruling led to a massive slump in activity, some found their degraded land could no longer support their food needs, forcing them to join the ranks of India's migrant labour force. "Mining was booming - both legally and illegally, and it swallowed up fertile land," said M. Bhagyalakshmi, founder of Sakhi Trust. "People had no choice but to join the workforce at these mines. But when the illegal mines were suddenly closed following court orders, it left thousands jobless. It triggered a livelihood crisis that still haunts many families." Growing our food Bringing contaminated agricultural land back into production is a slow process, said G V Ramanjaneyulu, executive director of the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, a research organisation. "There are two critical issues - pollution and loss of fertile top soil ... Both issues cannot be resolved overnight via natural restoration. Reviving soil takes years," he said. Only farms that lie a certain distance away from active mines and have access to irrigation are eligible for the land revival project, which gives technical support to farmers as they embark on restoration work. That can involve building banks to tackle soil erosion, clearing wild vegetation, digging in manure and regular soil testing. It took Hanumaiya and his wife, Ningamma, two years to regenerate their field, where food crops now thrive a stone's throw from the railway lines that carry iron ore across India. When the couple were tilling their land and waiting for their efforts to yield results, Ningamma took jobs on construction sites or as a farm labourer to put food on the table. "Now we're able to grow our own food and I know my children will not sleep hungry," she said. "All our children are studying and I want them to get proper salaried jobs. We don't want them to go the mines, which took more than they gave us." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-indian-mining-hub-farmers-bring-polluted-land-back-to-life-1032353.html
20-09-2021||National||ED to grill three Uttar Pradesh politicians in separate money laundering cases||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) will begin the questioning of Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan, gangster Mukhtar Ansari and strongman Ateeq Ahmad from Monday in separate money laundering probes being conducted against them and their associates. Official sources said the federal agency is initiating the action after obtaining permission from special courts that try cases booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). They said the 72-year-old Khan, lodged in Sitapur district jail of Uttar Pradesh, will be questioned and his statement recorded between September 20 and September 24. Similarly, the 58-year-old Ansari, the BSP legislator from Mau seat, will be questioned at the Banda district jail in the state under the PMLA after a court in August allowed the ED to record his statement. An order on the same lines has been issued by the PMLA court authorising the ED to question the 59-year-old Ahmad, who is lodged in the Sabarmati jail of Gujarat in judicial custody, official sources said. They said the agency has filed separate PMLA cases against them and post their questioning, the ED may attach their assets under the criminal provisions of the same law, to take the investigation forward. The ED has initiated probe against Khan in 2019 after taking cognisance of at least 26 FIRs filed by the state police against him including allegations that a university run by him in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh has been raised over a land that has been grabbed from a 'enemy property'. Khan has been the urban development minister in the SP government headed by chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. Ansari is under the ED scanner in connection with at least 49 criminal cases booked against him including those on charges of land grabbing, murder and extortion. Ahmad, a former MP, has been previously associated with political parties including the Samajwadi Party and the Apna Dal (Sonewal faction). He is being investigated by the ED on the basis of as many as 196 FIRs lodged against him by various police stations in Uttar Pradesh on charges of murder, extortion and land grabbing. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-to-grill-three-uttar-pradesh-politicians-in-separate-money-laundering-cases-1032354.html
20-09-2021||National||Can't ask states to reopen schools amid pandemic: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said it cannot ask the states to open schools saying these issues are fraught with grave complexity as the country just came out of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and nobody knows when the spike would happen again. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna declined to consider a plea by a Class XII student from Delhi for directions to Centre and states to take a time-bound decision in connection with the physical re-opening of schools and conduct of offline teaching.  "We cannot direct states to reopen schools for physical teaching. We just got out of the second wave. We don't know where the spike is,” the bench said while acknowledging that children need to go back to school but it has to be decided by the states. The bench said that the court cannot take over governance and decide on these issues. "The government was wary of exposing children to possible infection. Vaccination has just received a pace. Let governments take a decision," the bench said, adding that it does not have scientific data nor complete information on the Covid spike in the country. An advocate, appearing for the petitioner, Amar Prem Prakash contended that malls and restaurants have been opened. There were mental and psychological fallouts on the students, he said. The bench, however, said that children should not be involved in these matters. “We don't think, we should enter here by judicial mandates," the bench said, asking the advocate to withdraw the petition. The petitioner said he is aggrieved by the indecision and vacillation on the part of the Centre, and many states and Union Territories in the matter of re-opening of schools and resumption of physical classes with adequate safeguards. Students were forced to take up tuition and coaching classes in the absence of physical schools. He contended if public places can be reopened for those vaccinated or not why should schools and other educational institutions be not given a priority. The deprivation of regular school and teaching in the congenial and academic environment of a student’s education institution, was leaving an indelible mark on the psyche of the student community. Virtual classes are proving to be not only detrimental to the interests of students, but also tantamount to discrimination and unfair treatment, his plea claimed. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-ask-states-to-reopen-schools-amid-pandemic-sc-1032362.html
20-09-2021||National||SC seeks Centre’s response on door-to-door Covid vaccination for differently abled||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Centre’s response on door-to-door Covid vaccinations for persons suffering with disability within two weeks. Issuing notice to the Centre, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna also sought the assistance of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta about steps taken so far to vaccinate the differently abled and the government's proposals on the matter. At the outset, advocate Pankaj Sinha, appearing for the NGO Evara Foundation, said there are two documents, including one by the Indian Medical Association that has said Covid-19 vaccination needs to be done door-to-door to ensure maximum coverage. He said Jharkhand and Kerala have successfully done so and it could therefore be carried out for for the differently abled. The bench noted that the plea seeks relief in the nature of door-to-door vaccinations to the extent feasible for the differently abled, preference in scheduling of vaccinations and a dedicated helpline for the differently abled apart from the CoWIN portal. It said the petitioner has relied on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, which envisages the principle of reasonable accommodation. Sinha submitted that notice be also issued to all the states and union territories. The bench told Sinha that if it does so, it will take two months to get their response. “We are at first issuing notice to Centre to see what their response is and if there is need for issuing notice to states/UTs in future, we can always do so in the future,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-for-differently-abled-1032364.html
20-09-2021||National||Tikait a ‘dacoit’, farmers’ protest receiving foreign funds: UP BJP MP||BJP MP from Bahraich Akshayavar Lal Gond has termed farm leader Rakesh Tikait a “dacoit” and alleged that the farmers’ agitation is receiving funds from abroad. The farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders against the three farm laws, which they fear will do away with the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday on the completion of BJP’s four-and-half-years of being in power in the state, Gond said, "(Rakesh) Tikait is a dacoit. There is no agitation by farmers. The protestors are not farmers, they are people from political parties who are motivated by 'Sikhistan' and Pakistan.” “Money is coming from foreign countries including Canada. This money is for terror funding and agencies are probing it," he added. Gond said people know the reality of the protesters. "If the real farmers were protesting, then there would have been a shortage of food items. Vegetables, milk, foodgrains, and fruits would not have reached the markets," he said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tikait-a-dacoit-farmers-protest-receiving-foreign-funds-up-bjp-mp-1032366.html
20-09-2021||National||Limca Book of Records honours Covid-19 frontline workers, innovators in latest edition||A special edition of the "Limca Book of Records" (LBR) honours the undefeated spirit of Covid-19 frontline workers and innovators who helped the country with their selfless acts. Released on Monday, the book pays tribute to accomplishments in "human endeavour, structures, education, defence, government, science and technology, adventure, business, cinema, the natural world, literature, and the arts". The book, which completed its 30 years of publication in 2021, puts spotlight on the Vande Bharat mission — the world’s largest repatriation exercise; Noccarc Robotics, a start-up by Nikhil Kurele and Harshit Rathore developed low-cost portable ventilators; Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) developed Covaxin while the Serum Institute of India manufactured Covishield. According to publishing house Hachette India, the 2020-22 combined edition also celebrates the achievements of India's green warriors for sustainability campaigns, waste management and recycling among other environment-friendly missions. "Along with fascinating new records, the 2020-22 edition also includes Record Rewind capsules of earlier records and Super 30 features highlighting milestones and achievements over the past three decades," they said in a statement. Launched in India in 1990, LBR, an Indian equivalent of Guinness World Records, focuses on the unique achievements of Indians within the country and worldwide. "Despite the interruptions and disruptions of the past two years, the Limca Book of Records is back and is celebrating a landmark. I am particularly delighted that I was part of this journey from inception of the book and am now once again a part of its journey as it leaves 30 editions behind. India at its best marches on," said Thomas Abraham, managing director, Hachette India, who was also the former project editor LBR (1988–94). From Major D P Singh becoming the first differently-abled skydiver from Asia and Mayank Nagpal the first to complete BASE jumps during day and night, to Narthaki Nataraj as the first trans person to be awarded the Padma Shri, the latest edition features over 4,000 individual and group records in a range of fields. "This year's edition of LBR marks a great milestone. Right from its inception, LBR received instant recognition across multiple fields and instilled a ray of hope among people," said Vijaya Ghose, editor emeritus, LBR. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/limca-book-of-records-honours-covid-19-frontline-workers-innovators-in-latest-edition-1032384.html
20-09-2021||National||India to resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines next month: Mandaviya||India is set to resume the export and donation of Covid-19 vaccines five months after the country stopped such transnational shipments as the demand for vaccine had skyrocketed following the ferocious second surge. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday that the government would take the Vaccine Maitri (exporting the Covid-19 vaccine to friendly countries) programme forward and fulfill India’s Covax responsibility from the fourth quarter of 2021 as vaccine production is on a rise. The Centre received 26 crore doses in September from Indian manufacturers and more than 30 crore doses are expected in October. Health Ministry sources said that nearly 100 crore doses are likely to come between October and December. “Vaccine production is increasing. Vaccination pace is speeding up. In October, we expect over 30 crore doses. Beyond that, the production is expected to grow as Biological Evans and other companies will also start delivering the doses,” he said. Between January and April, according to the Ministry of External Affairs, India exported more than 6.6 crore doses to 95 countries. The last consignment was sent to Albania on April 16. The exports were carried out following three routes – (1) grants (2) commercial deals and (3) donation under Covax – a UN supported international vaccine supply arrangement. Covax is co-led by Gavi, an international alliance on vaccine promotion; the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and World Health Organization. India has so far administered nearly 82 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccines of which 61 crore doses have been administered as the first dose, while 21 crore adults are fully vaccinated. The target is to vaccinate 94.47 crore Indians by December. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-resume-export-of-surplus-covid-19-vaccines-next-month-mandaviya-1032385.html
20-09-2021||National||'Racist, offensive': Jairam Ramesh, Tharoor slam UK's Covid travel rules||The United Kingdom's Covid-19 travel rules treating Indians vaccinated with Covishield as unvaccinated has triggered a backlash with Congress MP Shashi Tharoor pulling out of events related to the launch of his book and Rajya Sabha Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh saying the British regulation "smacks of racism". The UK's regulation says that a person vaccinated in Africa, or South America, or countries, including UAE, India, Turkey, Jordan, Thailand and Russia among others would be considered "unvaccinated". This would mean that such persons will have to take a pre-departure test, further PCR tests on Day 2 and Day 8 of arrival, and self-isolate at their given address for 10 days upon entry. Ramesh tweeted, "Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the UK and The Serum Institute, Pune has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism." Slamming the restrictions, Tharoor tweeted, "Because of this I have pulled out of a debate at the @cambridgeunion and out of launch events for the UK edition of my book #TheBattleOfBelonging (published there as TheStruggleForIndiasSoul). It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine. The Brits are reviewing!" From October 4, according to PTI, the current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of Covid-19 risk will be scrapped in the UK and replaced with one red list only. The scrapping of an amber list, which is what India is currently on, means reduced cost burden for travellers -- especially for the Indian diaspora vaccinated in the UK -- related to compulsory PCR tests. However, an expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in England does not include India, which means that Indians vaccinated with Covishield -- the Serum Institute of India produced Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine -- would still be subjected to the restrictions mandatory for those unvaccinated. This new two-tiered system in the UK is expected to stay in place till the end of the year, with a further review planned for early new year. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/racist-offensive-jairam-ramesh-tharoor-slam-uks-covid-travel-rules-1032387.html
20-09-2021||National||Covid-19 wrap-up: Lower testing behind low numbers?||Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-lower-testing-behind-low-numbers-1032389.html
20-09-2021||National||NCW launches programme for college girls to face job market||The National Commission for Women (NCW) is launching a new programme for girl students in colleges across the country aimed at capacity building and personality development so that they could confidently face the job market. The programme will give training to degree and post graduate students on interpersonal skills, time management skills, documentation of critical ideas, identifying career opportunities, building resume and preventing and handling cyber crimes among others. Aimed at helping girl students at "every step of employment and prepare them to face challenges with confidence", the programme will have three components — personal capacity building, professional career skills and digital literacy and effective use of social media. Launching the first such programme in collaboration with the Central University of Haryana, NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said, "we want more women leaders who, in their journey of empowerment will enable other women to come forward and achieve economic independence. NCW, through this course will help the students at every step of their employment including resume making and facing interviews and prepare them to face all the challenges with confidence." Officials said the course will focus on learning and applying the use of intuitive, logical and critical thinking, communication and interpersonal skills to enhance employability. The session on personal capacity building would help students enhance skills such as time management, stress management, and communication. The objective of the session is to make women learners engage in effective communication by respecting diversity and embracing good listening skills. It is expected that this session would help students in practicing interpersonal skills for better relations with peers and stakeholders and understand the importance of documentation of key critical ideas and action points to be implemented. It will also help the students to learn effective time management skills, thereby avoiding unwarranted stress. The second one on professional career skills will focus on identifying career opportunities, building resume and presentation skills and empower women students in exploring career opportunities. It will also help students in preparing an appropriate resume, addressing the necessary gaps for facing interviews and effectively presenting their skill sets. The third session on digital literacy and effective use of social media aims to generate awareness among women on safe usage of internet and social media platforms. It will raise awareness about cyber crimes among women and advise them about the resources and recourse available to them for preventing and handling cyber crimes. After completion of all the three sessions, students will take an online quiz organised through MyGov where they will be tested for their understanding of the subject. The test will be based on the booklet and training sessions conducted under the programme. All the participants will receive certificates upon completion of the quiz and the top 25 participants will be provided with 'Certificate of Commendation' signed by NCW, MyGov and the Head of the Institute. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-launches-programme-for-college-girls-to-face-job-market-1032390.html
20-09-2021||National||Mumbai court grants bail to Raj Kundra in pornography case||Businessman Raj Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor-model Shilpa Shetty, who was arrested and chargesheeted in the pornography case was granted bail by a Mumbai court on Monday. Kundra was given conditional bail on a surety of Rs 50,000 by a Magistrate’s court. On Saturday, he moved the bail plea through lawyer Prashant Patil, who claimed that he was falsely implicated despite not being named in the original FIR and is being dragged into the case by the police.  Kundra's close associate Ryan Thorpe was also granted bail. The Mumbai Police had initially chargesheeted nine persons in the case and the supplementary chargesheet named Kundra and Thorpe. Kundra allegedly used his company’s Mumbai offices to manage daily operations of a sleaze content racket to upload it through the HotShots and Bollyfame apps for paid viewers. More details to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-court-grants-bail-to-raj-kundra-in-pornography-case-1032400.html
20-09-2021||National||NRI claims Kerala lottery bumper prize of Rs 12 crore||Mystery shrouds the winner of Kerala government's Onam bumper lottery ticket with prize money of Rs 12 crore as a Malayali working in UAE claimed that one of his friends had purchased the prize winning ticket on his behalf. Sayedalavi, a native of Wayanad in Kerala, who is now working as a hotel employee in Dubai, told a section of media that he had the habit of taking lottery tickets and this ticket was taken by his friends in Kozhikode district in Kerala. A picture of the ticket was sent to him over WhatsApp and he paid the ticket cost through Google Pay. He also said that his friend would be handing over the ticket to his family in Wayanad soon. However, the lottery agency that sold the ticket said that the ticket was sold out through their outlet at Tripunithura near Kochi. The results of the Kerala government's Onam bumper lottery was announced on Sunday. The ticket bearing number TE 645465 was selected for the bumper prize of Rs 12 crore. The winner would get around Rs 6.50 crore after taxes and agent's commission. Six other tickets were selected for second prize of Rs 1 crore each. The price of the ticket is Rs 300. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nri-claims-kerala-lottery-bumper-prize-of-rs-12-crore-1032434.html
20-09-2021||National||SC seeks Centre’s reply on plea for vaccinating pregnant, lactating women against Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre within two weeks on a plea to declare pregnant as well as lactating women as a high-risk category for the purpose of Covid-19 vaccination. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna issued notice to the Centre on the plea of Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR). Advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for DCPCR, said the Centre has issued some guidelines for vaccination of pregnant women and lactating mothers but now it is being stated that they may experience some adverse effects due to the vaccination. She said there is a need to declare women in these conditions as high-risk categories and since people are dealing with a virus that they do not know much about. There is a need to conduct continuous research on the effects of vaccination on them. There is also a need to create a plartform for registry of pregnant and lactating mothers for proper monitoring, she said. The court noted that the petition instituted by DCPCR under Article 32 of the Constitution was filed in May earlier this year amid the second wave of Covid-19 and operational guidelines were subsequently issued for vaccination of pregnant women and lactating mothers. The court also sought assistance of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to apprise the court about the policy which has been formulated for the vaccination of pregnant women and lactating mothers and what further steps could be taken. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-plea-for-vaccinating-pregnant-lactating-women-against-covid-19-1032438.html
20-09-2021||National||All Indian students safe at Perm university after shooting: Indian embassy in Russia||All Indian students studying at Russia's Perm medical university, where at least eight people were killed in a shooting incident on Monday, are safe, the Indian Embassy here has said. Expressing shock at the "horrific" attack, the embassy also offered its deep condolences for the loss of lives in the shooting at the state university. "Shocked at horrific attack at Perm State University in Russia; our deep condolences for the loss of life and best wishes for early recovery of those injured," the Indian Embassy in Russia tweeted. "Embassy is in touch with local authorities and representatives of Indian students. All Indian students at Perm State Medical University are safe," it said. At least eight people were killed and 24 injured in the shooting, Russia’s state-affiliated news service Sputnik reported, citing the latest data provided by the Russian Ministry of Health. Russian President Vladimir Putin deeply condoled with the relatives of the victims of Monday's shooting at the university in Perm, the report quoted Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov as saying. The president was informed about what happened in Perm, at the university. He instructed Prime Minister [Mikhail] Mishustin to send the ministers of education and health to Perm to organize assistance to the victims and relatives of those killed in the tragedy," Peskov said. According to the Russian Investigative Committee, a student opened fire when he entered the territory of one of the university campus buildings. The shooter was apprehended and identified. A criminal case was launched on the count of a murder of two or more people, Russian news agency Tass reported. Students and staff at the varsity locked themselves in rooms during the attack while videos posted on Russian news sites showed some students jumping out of second-story windows, according to a media report. The university, which has 12,000 students enrolled, said about 3,000 people were on the campus at the time of the attack. The varsity is in the city of Perm, which is about 1,100 kilometers east of Moscow with a population of about 1 million, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-indian-students-safe-at-perm-university-after-shooting-indian-embassy-in-russia-1032447.html
20-09-2021||National||Covid may be heading towards endemicity in India, local flare-ups may form 3rd wave: Vaccinologist||Noting that Covid-19 may be heading towards endemicity in India, vaccinologist Dr Gangandeep Kang on Monday said local flare-ups that will be smaller and spread wider across the country may add up to form a third wave of the pandemic, but the scale will not be like before. The endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus. It is very different from the epidemic stage when the virus overwhelms a population. In an interview with PTI over the Covid-19 situation in India, Kang said after the second wave, maybe a quarter of the country's population continues to be susceptible to the virus. "So will we be able to achieve within that quarter the same numbers and the same patterns that we saw in the second wave? That I think is unlikely. What we will see is local flare-ups that will be smaller and spread wider across the country. Now if that will collect to form a third wave, that may happen if we have a lot of behaviour change around festivals, but the scale is not going to be anything like what we saw before," she said. Asked if Covid may be heading towards an endemic stage in India, Kang said, "Yes." "When you have something that is not going to go away in the near future, it is heading towards endemicity. Right now, we are not looking at eradicating or eliminating SARS-CoV2, which means it has to become endemic," Kang, who is a professor in the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said. "We have a lot of endemic diseases like influenza, but you can have a pandemic layered on top of an endemic disease. So for example, if you get a new variant that completely escapes the immune response, you could have a pandemic again but that would not mean that SARS-CoV2 is only a pandemic and has stopped being endemic. "There is both, because one set of variant will be doing something while another would be doing something else," she explained. Kang stressed on the need for developing better vaccines that can deal with new variants of Covid. "We designed vaccines based on the ancestral variant of SARS-CoV-2. Is that the best possible vaccine we could have in terms of the quantity, quality and longevity of immune response? So will it be better for us to have a vaccine based on a newer variant, should we be thinking about combining the two -- like one dose with the older variant and one with the new -- what will that mean in terms of immune response? "I think these are things for us to think about and we should focus on making the product -- new variant-based vaccines, new platform vaccines -- and test those very carefully in clinical trials, so we can maximise the value that vaccines bring. And we can only do that if we experiment enough of what we have and what we can potentially make," she said. Speaking about how the pandemic overwhelmed the medical system and affected other diseases, she said what needs to be done is rationalising the approach. "What we need to do is rationalise our approach. What we did during the height of the pandemic is that we took people, laboratories, testing away from the regular medical system and devoted all these resources to Covid-19...we cannot be doing the same thing we did 18 months ago...we need to think that in the future, if we need to ramp up SARS-CoV2 activity, what will we do so that we will not lose what we lost this time around," she said. Kang said in many states, the maternal mortality rate went up because women did not get care, the immunisation programmes were affected, people with cancer did not get chemotherapy, those diabetic could not get medicines, the TB programme, which needs high compliance with therapy, struggled. "What we need to do is build resilience in the healthcare system so we do not lurch from damage to damage," she said. She said the time has come to rethink about the attitude towards testing. "I think we also need to change what we are measuring about Covid-19 and should measure what matters -- what puts people in hospitals, what puts people in the risk of dying, not just the fact that the test is positive. And then, another thing to remember is that with any test, you can potentially have false positives...so the imperative to understand what testing is really showing us matters more and more now," she added. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-may-be-heading-towards-endemicity-in-india-local-flare-ups-may-form-3rd-wave-vaccinologist-1032449.html
20-09-2021||National||Top seer Mahant Narendra Giri found dead at Allahabad Muth||Mahant Narendra Giri, the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth, police said. The Parishad is the largest organisation of sadhus in India. According to Inspector General of Police K P Singh, Mahant Giri's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples. A purported suicide note was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. He had also delegated various responsibilities to his disciples in the note, the police said. The IGP said that police had received a call at 5.30 PM from the Muth that Giri had hanged himself. Prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide but things will be clearer after the post-mortem and forensic tests, the police said. The influential Hindu seer was hospitalised in April after he tested positive from Covid-19. Several political and religious leaders condoled the demise of Giri. "The death of Mahant Narendra Giri ji, President of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, is an irreparable loss to the spiritual world. I pray to Lord Shri Ram to grant the departed soul a place at his feet and strength to the bereaved followers to bear this sorrow. Om Shanti," Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-seer-mahant-narendra-giri-found-dead-at-allahabad-muth-1032456.html
20-09-2021||National||India climbs up two spots to 46th rank in Global Innovation Index 2021||India has climbed two spots and has been ranked 46th by the World Intellectual Property Organization in the Global Innovation Index 2021 rankings, an official statement said on Monday. It further said India has been on a rising trajectory over the past several years in the Global Innovation Index (GII) and rose from a rank of 81 in 2015 to 46 in 2021. According to the statement, the consistent improvement in the GII ranking is owing to the immense knowledge capital, the vibrant startup ecosystem and the amazing work done by the public and private research organisations. The Scientific Departments like the Department of Atomic Energy; the Department of Science and Technology; the Department of Biotechnology and the Department of Space have played a pivotal role in enriching the National Innovation Ecosystem, it said. The statement said the GII is the fulcrum for the governments – across the world – to assess the social and the economic changes in their respective countries. Over the years, the GII has established itself as a policy tool for various governments and helped them to reflect upon the existing status quo, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-climbs-up-two-spots-to-46th-rank-in-global-innovation-index-2021-1032462.html
20-09-2021||National||SC notice to National Medical Council, others on change of pattern in NEET-SS exam||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the National Medical Council and others to respond to a plea questioning last-minute changes in examinations pattern for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test 2021 for super speciality courses in medical colleges across the country. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna also issued notice to the National Board of Examination, by agreeing to examine on September 27 the petition filed by Prateek Rastogi and other 40 Post Graduate qualified doctors. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that the notification for the examination, scheduled to be held on November 13-14 this year, was issued on July 23, 2021. However, on August 31, 2021, another notification was issued changing the pattern of the exam, putting the candidates at a great disadvantage due to lack of time for preparations. Maintaining that the rules of the game cannot be changed after it has begun, the counsel said as per the prevailing pattern from 2018 to 2020, 60 per cent marks were allotted from questions in the super speciality section, while 40 per cent were distributed for questions from feeder courses.  However, as per the proposed pattern, the entirety of questions for the critical care super speciality will be drawn from general medicines, leaving the candidates from other disciplines in a difficult situation.  Terming the decision as manifestly arbitrary, the petition contended the National Board of Examination and the National Medical Council have given a complete go-by to the specific directions of the central government to notify the students well in advance on change in the pattern of examinations. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-national-medical-council-others-on-change-of-pattern-in-neet-ss-exam-1032476.html
20-09-2021||National||Giving punishment to wrongdoer heart of the criminal delivery system: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said a compromise deed entered between the victim and the convict cannot be the solitary basis to mould a sentence, which has to be decided in facts and circumstances of each case, as giving punishment to the wrongdoer is the heart of the criminal delivery system. A bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka dismissed an appeal filed by Bhagwan Narayan Gaikwad against the Bombay High Court's order awarding five years jail to him and Rs 2 lakh compensation to the victim whose leg and hand were chopped off by him along with others. The court said the acts of the appellant were unpardonable as he made the victim permanently disabled. Gaikwad, led by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, submitted that he is now 65 years old and had attacked the victim 28 years ago due to misunderstanding and at the spur of the moment. The relationship between them has become cordial and all grudges have vanished due to a huge time gap.  The petitioner also submitted to make him suffer a substantive sentence of five-year jail would be unjustified. The victim's counsel also asked the court to compound the offence and release the convict by reducing his sentence to the five months of jail already undergone by him.  The bench, however, said it cannot record its satisfaction to the compromise affidavit filed on July 13, 2021 since the victim has suffered for such a long time. He was crippled for life as his leg and arm were amputated in the incident on December 13, 1993.  "Since then he has been fighting for life and is pursuing his daily chores with a prosthetic arm and leg and has lost vital organs of his body," the bench said. The bench also said the compromise if entered at the later stage of the incident or even after conviction can indeed be one of the factors interfering with the sentence to avoid bitterness in the families of the accused and the victim. "But the compromise cannot be taken to be a solitary basis until the other aggravating and mitigating factors also support and are favourable to the accused for moulding the sentence which always has to be examined in the facts and circumstances of the case on hand," the bench added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/giving-punishment-to-wrongdoer-heart-of-the-criminal-delivery-system-sc-1032480.html
20-09-2021||National||Calls for UK to review Covid vaccine protocol for Indian travellers||The UK government is under increasing pressure on Monday to review its Covid-19 vaccine protocol in place for travellers from India, after its updated rules effective from next month failed to recognise Indian vaccines under an expanded list of countries. From October 4, the current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of Covid-19 risk will be scrapped and replaced with one red list only. The scrapping of an amber list, which is what India is currently on, means reduced PCR test cost burden only for some travellers. With an expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in England not including India, it means that Indians vaccinated with Covishield – the Serum Institute of India produced Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine – would still be required to undergo compulsory PCR tests as well as self-isolation at a designated address. “Indian students are disturbed by what they feel is a discriminatory move as they are being treated differently to their counterparts from America and EU,” said Sanam Arora, Chair of the National Indian Students and Alumni Union (NISAU) UK, whose patron Congress party parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor cancelled his planned UK visit in retaliation of the "offensive" rules. “At NISAU we have been calling out this issue of vaccine recognition, particularly in the case of Covishield, for weeks. Indian students are a huge contributor – being the second-largest to the annual GBP 28.8 billion revenue for the UK economy – and we are concerned about the signals such a move sends to Indian students and to India on the whole,” she said. Another NISAU UK patron, veteran British Indian MP Virendra Sharma, had also raised the issue earlier. From October 4, travellers from 17 additional countries with eligible vaccines, including Australia, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia, will fall under the UK’s list of recognised jabs of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines. The UK government’s Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said this list is reviewed fortnightly. The DHSC, however, maintains that the India-made version of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine so far approved by the UK’s Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is branded as Vaxzevria and therefore the only one currently eligible. “We recognise there are a large variety of Covid-19 vaccines being administered worldwide and work is ongoing to determine which non-UK vaccines and certification solutions to recognise,” a DHSC source said. The Indian government has previously said it is working with several countries to recognise India’s vaccine certification on a “mutual reciprocal basis”. The Indian High Commissioner to the UK, Gaitri Issar Kumar, had flagged this issue during the inaugural session of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) annual summit last week. “Our governments have agreed that for early economic recovery it’s absolutely necessary to work on recognition of vaccine certificates to facilitate free movement of our people, like before, including for professional and business reasons,” Kumar said. Under the new rules from October 4, unvaccinated Indian travellers or those vaccinated in India must take a Covid test three days before departure and book in advance for two Covid tests to be taken upon arrival in England. On arrival in England, the passengers must self-isolate in the place they have confirmed on their passenger locator form for 10 days. A privately paid-for "Test to Release" option does exist at day five, which allows an early end to the 10-day quarantine with a negative PCR test.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/calls-for-uk-to-review-covid-vaccine-protocol-for-indian-travellers-1032513.html
20-09-2021||National||'India set to get first batch of J&J Covid vaccine doses in October'||India expects to get its first Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine doses from next month, filled and finished in India by a partner of the US drugmaker, a source with knowledge of the matter told Reuters on Monday. It could receive as many as 43.5 million doses of the single-shot vaccine in October, said the source - a big step towards helping India meet its target of producing more than 300 million doses in the month. India is the world's biggest centre of vaccine manufacturing. Once it has met its own needs, it plans to resume exports, which it stopped in April. India's drug regulator last month gave emergency authorisation  to the J&J vaccine, whether imported or locally filled and finished by J&J's Indian partner, Biological E. However, the Indian government has not yet signed any supply deal with J&J. "J&J doses are expected from next month," said the source, who declined to be named as he was not authorised to talk to the media. "Bio E will do the formulation and make 5 ml vials." India's health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A J&J India spokesperson said it was "premature for us to speculate on the timing of our vaccine deliveries".  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-get-first-batch-of-jj-covid-vaccine-doses-in-october-1032518.html
20-09-2021||National||India says its relation with China depends on three 'mutuals' of respect, sensitivity and interests||With the military stand-off along Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations not yet completely resolved, India on Monday said that its relations with China will depend on mutual respect, sensitivity and interests. New Delhi made it clear to Beijing that peace and tranquillity in border areas was essential for development of the bilateral relations between the two nations, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, speaking at the 6th J P Morgan “India Investor Summit”. “Development of India-China relationship can only be based on ‘three mutuals’ – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests,” the Foreign Secretary said – just days after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart in the Chinese Government Wang Yi that the relations between the two neighbours would determine the fate of solidarity in Asia. Jaishankar also told Wang during a meeting in Dushanbe on September 16 that China should avoid viewing its bilateral relations with India from the perspective of its ties with third countries. Shringla on Monday said that an essential basis for the largely positive trajectory of India-China relations during the last 40 years had been the agreement between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. But the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s attempt to alter the status quo along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector – seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas. “These acts are in violation of our bilateral agreements and have inevitably impacted other aspects of the bilateral relationship,” added the Foreign Secretary. The military stand-off started in April-May 2020 after the Chinese PLA deployed a large number of soldiers along the LAC in an apparent bid to push the disputed boundary westward and the Indian Army too had to respond by mobilizing a large number of troops to eastern Ladakh. A series of talks between Jaishankar and Wang as well as between the senior diplomats and the military commanders over the past several months succeeded in mutual withdrawal of troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in February and from the Gogra Post a.k.a ‘Patrol Point 17 A’ on the LAC in August. The stand-off however is still continuing on several face-off points along the LAC. The bilateral relations between New Delhi and Beijing hit a new low over the one-and-a-half-year-long stand-off. New Delhi has been rejecting Beijing’s call for restoring the normalcy in India-China bilateral engagements, irrespective of the continuing stand-off. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-its-relation-with-china-depends-on-three-mutuals-of-respect-sensitivity-and-interests-1032519.html
20-09-2021||National||Nothing like good or bad terrorism; Serbia backs India on fight against terror, says Serbian Foreign Minister||Serbian Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic on Monday said there is nothing like good or bad terrorism and that his country supports India's position on the fight against terror. Speaking on India-Serbia relations at the Indian Council of World Affairs, he said both countries were focused on taking their bilateral ties to a higher level. His remarks come a day after he held wide-ranging deliberations with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar who said that during the talks they agreed to take forward the long-standing cooperation between the two countries, especially on the economic side. Selakovic said he had excellent meetings in India that were focused on upgrading the bilateral relationship. "We (Serbia) are also respecting and supporting your positions in the fight against terrorism in which we cannot say one terrorism is good and another terrorism is bad, no, terrorism is the same, it is bad and it is something we have to fight against," the Serbian foreign minister asserted. He said India and Serbia share common goals and values and many of them are the ones around which the non-aligned countries had gathered. Asked about the Afghanistan situation following the takeover by the Taliban and his country's views, Selakovic said his country was among the rare European nations that had not been present in Afghanistan with troops. He, however, noted that some negotiations on the Afghanistan problem had been carried out in Belgrade earlier. "Our position is principled that we are devoted to peaceful and diplomatic solutions to problems. Is it possible to have that here (Afghanistan), I am not quite sure," he said, adding that one of the best conversations he has had on Afghanistan was with Jaishankar. Noting that there are hundreds of common interests and common goals between Serbia and India, Selakovic said that one of the aspects showing how friendly the two countries were was manifested in India's support to Serbia, especially in the political arena. "In the republic of India, we are having a strong, friendly country," he asserted. Selakovic also expressed his country's gratitude to the Indian government for the help given to his country during Covid-19. He asserted that Serbia is preserving its position as a military-neutral country and is not willing to become a member of the NATO.  Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-like-good-or-bad-terrorism-serbia-backs-india-on-fight-against-terror-says-serbian-foreign-minister-1032521.html
20-09-2021||National||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India crosses 81.73 crore||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 81.73 crore with over 94 lakh doses being given on Monday so far, according to data on the CoWIN portal. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night. Out of 81,73,95,763 doses administered so far, 64.8 per cent eligible population received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination and 22.2 per cent received the second dose. India on Friday administered a record number of over 2.50 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday. The daily Covid-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7. It then took just 11 days to reach 80 crore from 70 crore. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-crosses-8173-crore-1032523.html
20-09-2021||National||Soldier shot dead by colleague: Army||An Army soldier was shot dead by his colleague following an argument during a patrol in the Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. A defence spokesman here said the incident took place at Lassipura village in the Kupwara district this afternoon. "The patrol was on a tactical break, when two personnel entered into an argument leading to two rounds being fired and injuring one soldier," the spokesman said. “The injured soldier was immediately evacuated to the nearest military hospital, where he was declared brought dead," he added. He said an enquiry as per the laid down procedures has been ordered into the incident. "All necessary assistance is being provided to the local police in the investigation," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soldier-shot-dead-by-colleague-army-1032533.html
20-09-2021||National||Criticism should not be at cost of national dignity: Adani on India's Covid handling||Billionaire Gautam Adani on Monday defended handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, saying criticism should not be at the cost of national dignity and destroying the confidence of a nation. The fact that India fought back the pandemic should in itself be a lesson for all, that there can be no better defence than aatmanirbharta (self-reliance) to mitigate future black swan events, he said at Priyadarshini Academy's global awards event. Over the next two decades, the Adani Group chairman said, India will have the biggest and the youngest middle class that ever existed and the country will be the market that every global company will target. "In this euphoria, let us never forget that we were largely left alone to fight the pandemic. This does not mean that there cannot be any criticism. However, criticism cannot be at the cost of national dignity. It cannot be at the cost of degrading or destroying the confidence of a nation. It cannot be about dividing the society - else we play right into the hands of those that do not want to see a resurgent India," he said. Be it sustainable technologies for a greener world, digital technology for a more connected India, education solutions for a more literate India, medical solutions for a healthier India, agriculture solutions for the farmers and all the enabling infrastructure are all trillion dollar opportunities ahead in the not too distant future, Adani said. "They lay the foundation for our aatmanirbharta. This journey must be led by companies from our own nation that compete at some levels and yet collaborate at other levels," he added. He also said that the expansion, integration and deepening of trade and finance among nations is inevitable. "But the world is not as flat as Thomas Friedman has made out to be. There are bends to navigate. For instance, India had nothing to do with the virus, but sustained some of the most drastic consequences and criticism on the global stage. There was not a single major international voice of understanding. All this while we as a nation had the gravitas to not criticise any country as they fought their own battles to control the virus," he said. The pandemic has been the wake up call for every nation and it has permanently changed geo-politics, he said adding the integration of new and the dis-integration of existing global alliances has a far-reaching implications. "A greater India must be an India that is visibly a more aatmanirbhar India, a greater India must be an India that is visibly a more muscular India, a greater India must be an India that is visibly a more India for Indians. Such an approach is not about politics, but is about the emerging world order. If there ever were a time when democratic India had a need and opportunity to stand strong and celebrate our Indianness, it is now - at the doorstep of decade of future growth," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/criticism-should-not-be-at-cost-of-national-dignity-adani-on-indias-covid-handling-1032537.html
20-09-2021||National||Congress names Rajani Patil for Rajya Sabha bypoll||Battlelines are drawn for the elections to the vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Maharashtra, where the Congress has fielded Rajani Patil while the BJP is nominating Sanjay Upadhyay. The seat had fallen vacant following the death of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s close aide Rajiv Satav, who passed away on May 16 because of Covid-related complications.  Upadhyay is the Mumbai BJP general secretary and fielding a north Indian leader was a strategic move ahead of the civic polls next year. Patil is a former Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha member and close to Congress President Sonia Gandhi. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-names-rajani-patil-for-rajya-sabha-bypoll-1032538.html
20-09-2021||National||Rajnath, US Defence Secretary discuss situation in Afghanistan, combatting terrorism||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his counterpart in the United States, Lloyd Austin, on Monday exchanged views on combatting terrorism in the region as well as the situation in Afghanistan. Austin called Singh amid speculation over the US seeking India’s support for carrying out aerial surveillance and drone strikes on terrorists in Afghanistan-Pakistan region. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the US President Joe Biden set to hold a bilateral meeting in Washington DC on Friday, they also discussed defence cooperation and looked forward to working closely, according to an official press release issued in New Delhi. They discussed the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban last month returned to power after occupying many provinces and finally the national capital through a military campaign across the country, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the US and its NATO allies. Austin and Singh discussed combatting terrorism in the region just about a week after a member of the House of Representatives – the lower house of the American Congress – suggested that the Biden Administration should ask New Delhi to allow the US to launch “Over-the-Horizon” strikes from bases in India to eliminate terrorists in and around Afghanistan. Responding to Representative Mark Green’s suggestion during a congressional hearing, Biden’s Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, said that the US was “deeply engaged” with India, but he would not like to discuss the details publicly. Green’s suggestion and Blinken’s response triggered speculation over the US seeking to use bases in India to launch drone strikes in the region as it could not longer carry out such strikes from the bases in Afghanistan. The US recently admitted that a drone strike it had carried out in the capital of Afghanistan on August 29 to neutralise an Islamic State suicide bomber had gone wrong and mistakenly killed 10 civilians, including seven children. The drone strike had been carried out just two days before the last contingent of the US troops had left Afghanistan, bringing to an end its 20-year-long military mission which had been launched in response to the 9/11 attacks in America in 2001. During the phone call on Monday, Austin and Singh appreciated the mutual cooperation in the recent evacuation operations in Afghanistan and agreed to remain in regular contact in view of the evolving situation, the Ministry of Defence in New Delhi stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-us-defence-secretary-discuss-situation-in-afghanistan-combatting-terrorism-1032544.html
20-09-2021||National||After launch of AUKUS, India underlines 'constructive' agenda of Quad||The Quad has a ‘constructive’ agenda, India said on Monday, as the four-nation coalition came under a shadow after two of its constituents – Australia and the United States – joined the United Kingdom to build a new trilateral security alliance, AUKUS, with the same objective of containing China. With the first in-person summit of the Quad set to take place at the White House in Washington DC on Friday, New Delhi stressed the ‘constructive’ agenda of the four-nation coalition, thus tacitly underlining that the four-nation coalition was different from the newly launched AUKUS, which would focus more on security and defence cooperation among the US, the UK and Australia to counter China’s hegemonic aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to Washington DC this week for Quad’s first in-person summit, which will be hosted by US President Joe Biden. Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan will also take part in the summit. “The agenda of cooperation under the Quad framework is constructive and diverse,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said while delivering a speech at the 6th JP Morgan “India Investor Summit” on Monday. New Delhi has been quietly working with Canberra, Washington DC and Tokyo to add military heft to the Quad, in view of China’s growing belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India but also in the South China Sea, the East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. But the Modi government last year resisted pressure from Biden’s predecessor Donald Trump’s administration to formally turn the Quad into a NATO-like military alliance for the Indo-Pacific region. New Delhi was concerned over the implication of such a move on India’s strategic partnership with Russia and on its negotiations with China to resolve the military stand-off in eastern Ladakh. But the Biden Administration last week went ahead and launched with Australia and the UK the AUKUS, which appeared to be more like a security alliance, focussed on development of joint military capabilities and defence technology sharing. The AUKUS will create a framework for the US and UK to support Australia in acquiring a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines. The latest move by the US, the UK and Australia to launch the AUKUS fuelled speculation about the fate of the Quad. Shringla, however, on Monday said that the four Quad countries were engaged on issues of connectivity and infrastructure, emerging technologies, climate action, education, and most important of all, the Covid-19 responses, including vaccines collaboration and cooperation to ensure resilient and reliable supply chains. New Delhi has been insisting on keeping the Quad as a benign coalition of democratic nations to counter China’s geopolitical influence in Indo-Pacific, primarily by promoting connectivity, funding infrastructure development projects, supplying anti-Covid-19 vaccines and supporting post-pandemic economic revival in the countries in the region. India repeatedly stressed that its own vision for the region remained inclusive in nature, not targeted at any country, but supportive of freedom of navigation and overflight and peaceful settlement of territorial disputes. “Outside the immediate concentric circle of our neighbourhood, our SAGAR – Security and Growth for All in the Region – policy underpins our vision of the Indian Ocean region and the greater Indo-Pacific region,” the Foreign Secretary said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-launch-of-aukus-india-underlines-constructive-agenda-of-quad-1032551.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Congress plays Dalit card in Punjab with eye on UP, Uttarakhand||After the surprise announcement of the name of Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit leader, for the Chief Minister's post in Punjab, the Congress looks at the larger aim of Uttrakhand and Uttar Pradesh which are also going to polls early next year. Rahul Gandhi, after the announcement of the new Chief Minister's name, congratulated Channi, saying: "Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfill the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance." Channi, who was also a bitter critic of outgoing Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, has been appointed to tap not only around 32 per cent Dalit votes in the state but also in neighbouring Uttarakhand and UP which go to polls early next year along with Punjab. After a Dalit CM in Punjab, the Congress is eyeing gains in Uttarakhand but it is unlikely that the party will get much traction in UP as Mayawati is a formidable force in the state and non-Jatav Dalits have mostly aligned with the BJP. Sources say that Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa's name was proposed by majority of MLAs but Rahul Gandhi decided in favour of Channi who was the leader of opposition for a brief period during the previous Akali government. Apart from other names, Congress wanted even former Union Minister Ambika Soni to become the Chief Minister but she refused. However, she emerged as the main trouble shooter in the Punjab episode in the aftermath of the resignation of Amarinder Singh. Soni held late night meetings with party chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi at least twice and has some role in the appointment of the new Chief Minister. It was her statement in favour of a Sikh Chief Minister that went against the top choice, Sunil Jakhar. Sensing Soni could be the Chief Minister, the state leaders made a consensus that the Chief Minister should be among the MLAs, and hence Randhawa's and Channi's names emerged but Rahul Gandhi who has special focus on Dalit leadership decided in favour of Channi. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-plays-dalit-card-in-punjab-with-eye-on-up-uttarakhand-1032274.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Hours ahead of Channi's swearing in, Rawat says Congress to fight 2022 Punjab polls under Sidhu||AICC general secretary Harish Rawat on Sunday said that the upcoming state Assembly elections will be fought under "popular" Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. "It (Congress's face for upcoming polls) will be decided by the Congress president, but given the circumstances, elections will be fought with the Chief Minister's cabinet under Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, whose chief is Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is very popular," Rawat told ANI. The Congress on Sunday picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab, making him the first Dalit to hold the post in the state, a day after Amarinder Singh resigned following a bitter power tussle in the party. Sidhu's predecessor Sunil Jakhar, whose name was also doing the rounds as next CLP leader, termed Rawat's statement as 'baffling'. "It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position," he tweeted. "This decision (Charanjit Channi as CM) is party high command's decision not just Harish Rawat ji's decision," he said. The leadership switch in Punjab – and the not so smooth manner in which it was executed – could have a bearing on Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, the only two other states where the party is in power on its own. Meanwhile, BJP leader Amit Malviya took to Twitter to comment on the issue. "This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame", said Malviya.   This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hours-ahead-of-channis-swearing-in-rawat-says-congress-to-fight-2022-punjab-polls-under-sidhu-1032295.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Congress a divided house in Punjab as new CM takes oath||Congress appeared to be a deeply divided house in Punjab, where the party in a sort of gamble changed its strongest face -- Captain Amarinder Singh --- just a few months before the polls and annointed a relatively lesser known Dalit face Charanjit Channi as the new Chief Minister, a close aide of Navjot Singh Sidhu. While Sidhu's shadow loomed large over the change of guard in the state and in the selection of the new CM, the discomfiture over Sidhu's protege taking over the CM's post for the time being, raised many heckles in the party. Former Punjab PCC chief Sunil Jakhar, who was also in the race for CM's post, made it known first by declining the Deputy CM's post under Channi and then slamming AICC in-charge for Punjab, Harish Rawat, for the latter's remarks that polls would be fought under the leadership of Sidhu. "On the swearing-in day of Shree Charanjit Channi  as Chief Minister, Mr Rawat’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu,'' is baffling. It’s likely to undermine the CM’s authority and also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position," Jakhar tweeted about one-and-half hours before Channi took oath as CM. That Channi, whose swearing-in was attended by Rahul Gandhi, became CM through the process of the intriguing elimination round in the AICC's decision-making was evident in the sudden announcement of his name when the candidature of a Jat Sikh CM candidate Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was almost final and his supporters had begun celebrations. While the party high command was wary of announcing Sidhu's name for chief ministership, fearing a massive campaign against it by Captain Amarinder Singh, Rajya Sabha MP and senior-most leader from Punjab Ambika Soni declined the offer for chief ministership saying a Sikh should become the Chief Minister of Punjab. Randhawa's name had come after that but Sidhu, himself a Jat Sikh and tipped to be the next CM of the state after the poll, was learnt to have put his weight behind Channi. The Congress's flip-flops over the issue continued for a month and its Punjab in-charge Rawat has repeatedly landed in a row over his remarks. This time after he remarked that Congress will fight the next Assembly polls in Punjab with Sidhu as its face. In the last week of August, Rawat had said the 2022 Assembly polls in the state will be fought under the leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh and Sidhu was given a clear idea that the party has not been handed over to him. Soon after, Rawat had to clarify that the Punjab polls would be fought under the leadership of Gandhis and tried to reach out to both Sidhu and Captain calling for a united fight. But then again he had to tender an apology and sweep a Gurudwara's floor to atone for his casual "panj pyare" remarks to hail the new Punjab Congress team. After Channi's name was finalised for CM, Captain Amarinder Singh made a cryptic comment saying that he hopes Channi will be "able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border." Kapil Sibal, a prominent leader from the G-23 Congress group that had sought drastic changes in the central leadership of the party, tweeted "Changing Guard Uttarakhand , Gujarat , Punjab Age old saying : A stitch in time saves nine. Will it ?" He appeared to raise questions on the change of guard in Congress-ruled Punjab.   Changing Guard Uttarakhand , Gujarat , Punjab Age old saying : A stitch in time saves nine Will it ?  That the party is looking much beyond Punjab by appointing Channi as CM was evident in the remarks of Congress Communication Department Chief Randeep Singh Surjewala -- "Let times record that this decision will singularly fortify social justice & open new doors of empowerment for our Dalit, Backward & disadvantaged brothers & sisters across India". Even Sidhu did not forget to tweet "Historic !! Punjab’s first Dalit CM-Designate … Will be written with Golden letters in History. A tribute to the spirit of the Constitution and the Congress !!"   The catch is will Congress be able to replace Channi and make Sidhu the CM if it wins the Assembly polls in 2022 given the kind of campaign around annointing a Dalit as the Chief Minister that the Congress is making now? In Bihar, JDU's Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had faced a similar problem in coming back to the CM's chair for few months after having appointed Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Maha Dalit as Chief Minister after JDU's massive poll debacle in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-a-divided-house-in-punjab-as-new-cm-takes-oath-1032325.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Will continue to work with Punjab govt: PM Modi congratulates CM Channi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi on being sworn in as Punjab chief minister and said the Centre will continue to work with his government for the betterment of the people of the state.  Congress leader Channi was sworn in as chief minister of Punjab, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state. Modi tweeted, "Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn in as Punjab's Chief Minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab."  Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn-in as Punjab’s Chief Minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-continue-to-work-with-punjab-govt-pm-modi-congratulates-cm-channi-1032331.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Mayawati terms Congress' choice of Dalit CM in Punjab 'electoral stunt'||Apparently wary of Congress' possible attempt to make a dent into her scheduled caste (SC) vote bank in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, BSP supremo Mayawati on Monday termed anointment of Charanjit Singh Channi — who hails from Dalit community — as the chief minister of Punjab an 'electoral stunt'. Speaking to reporters here, Mayawati said that the Congress had made a Dalit the CM of Punjab with the hope of garnering the votes of the community and cautioned 'Dalits' against supporting the grand old party. ''It is nothing but an electoral stunt....Congress never did anything good for the Dalits....it turned to the community as it is now in difficulty in the state (Punjab),'' she said. Sources in the BSP said that Congress might try to woo the SC community in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand through Channi. Sources also said that Mayawati had instructed her party leaders to reach out to the community leaders in different parts of UP and ensure that the Congress' attempt to make a dent into her vote bank did not succeed. A senior UP Congress leader here hinted that the party would publicise its decision to make a Dalit the CM of Punjab. ''Congress has always taken up the issues of the Dalits.....Mayawati has used the community as a vote bank....Channi's anointment will certainly be part of our election campaign in UP,'' said the Congress leader while speaking to DH here. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-terms-congress-choice-of-dalit-cm-in-punjab-electoral-stunt-1032344.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Opposition should introspect over their 'irresponsible' remarks about Covid vaccination drive: Nadda||The Opposition parties should introspect over their "irresponsible" statements about the Covid vaccination programme of the Modi government that has proved to be the "biggest and fastest" in the world, BJP president JP Nadda said on Monday. In a visit to a vaccination centre at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here, he congratulated and thanked a team of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, state health ministers, medical fraternity and people for making the vaccination campaign a "success". Over 2.5 crore people were vaccinated on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday on September 17, setting a world record in vaccination. It proves that this campaign is the "biggest and fastest" in the world, Nadda said. "The Opposition parties should introspect over their silence on 2.5 crore vaccinations on September 17 and their irresponsible and laughable statements in the past one year on the vaccination drive. They should think what impression they have left on the society and their role in a democracy," he said. It was his second visit to the AIIMS vaccination centre since the drive began earlier this year. He interacted with people who had come for vaccination at the centre and the medical staff and thanked them for making the drive a success. The visit by the BJP president was part of the party's 20-day mega campaign, titled 'Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan', launched on Modi's birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-should-introspect-over-their-irresponsible-remarks-about-covid-vaccination-drive-nadda-1032352.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Bureaucrats there to pick up our slippers, says Uma Bharti; later expresses regret||In controversial remarks against bureaucracy, senior BJP leader Uma Bharti has said government officials are there only to "pick up our (leaders') slippers". As a video containing Bharti's critical comments against bureaucracy surfaced on social media on Monday, the former Union minister expressed regret over her intemperate language used during an interaction with a delegation. The video was shared by several social media users. “Aapko Nahi Pata Bureaucracy Kuchh Nahi Hoti, Chappal Uthanewali Hoti Hai. Chappal Uthati Hai Hamari. Hum Log Hi Raji Ho Jate hai Uske Liye. (You do not know that bureaucracy is nothing. Bureaucracy is there to pick up our chappals (slippers). They pick up our slippers. We only got agreed for that)," she is heard saying in the video. The former Madhya Pradesh CM further said that government files move only after a discussion between ministers concerned and bureaucrats. “Do you think bureaucracy controls the leader?..no, first they talk (with us) in private, then bureaucracy makes a file and process it. I have been a minister at the Centre for 11 years, I have been a Chief Minister. First we (leaders and bureaucracy talk) discuss then a file moves.," she said. After the clip surfaced, Bharti issued a clarification in a series of tweets, saying it was an informal interaction with a delegation of representatives from other backward classes (OBCs) at her home in Bhopal and the video of the same went viral on social media. “I am thankful to the media that they showed my complete video because I was speaking only in defence of bureaucracy… Some of the leaders, the incompetent ones sitting in power, take the cover of bureaucracy to avoid their inefficiency to show that we are very good but bureaucracy does not allow us to do good work,” she said. "According to my experience, honest bureaucracy supports a strong, true leader sitting in power having good intentions", she added. The BJP leader then went on to express regret for the kind of language she used against bureaucracy. “I regret that I used unrestrained language while my sentiments were good. I learned this lesson from today that modest language should be used even in informal conversations among limited people,” she said in another tweet. Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh, in a tweet in Hindi, termed her comments as "highly objectionable". Singh, a former CM, said bureaucracy is committed to work impartially under the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bureaucrats-there-to-pick-up-our-slippers-says-uma-bharti-later-expresses-regret-1032511.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee told me I will get full liberty in TMC: Babul Supriyo||Following her meeting with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday, former BJP leader Babul Supriyo said that he had a very “good discussion” with her. The singer-turned-politician who jumped ship to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday also said that it was the Chief Minister’s prerogative to decide which role he would play in his new party. “I had a very good discussion with the Chief Minister. She told me that I will get full liberty at work in the TMC. I am ready to take up whichever role the party assigns to me,” said Supriyo. He was speaking to reporters after the meeting with Mamata. As for the State BJP leadership’s jibe at him for using central security, Supriyo said that he wrote to the Union Home Ministry asking it to withdraw his security. “I have come to meet the Chief Minister today driving on my own and without any security,” said Supriyo. He joined the TMC on Saturday prompting the BJP to dub him as a “traitor.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-told-me-i-will-get-full-liberty-in-tmc-babul-supriyo-1032536.html
20-09-2021||National Politics||'Eye on Dalit votes, not their welfare', BJP hits out at Congress over Channi's appointment as Punjab CM||BJP on Monday accused the Congress of paying “lip service” to Dalits with the sole aim of appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab Chief Minister to grab their votes in the assembly elections next year. Latching on senior Congress leader Harish Rawat's remarks that the Punjab election campaign would be led by state unit chief Navjyot Singh Sidhu, BJP national secretary Vijay Sonkar cited previous ocassions when the Congress had appointed Dalit leaders as chief ministers, only to dump them after elections. Sonkar said Dalit leaders - Jagannath Pahadia and Sushilkumar Shinde - were appointed chief ministers of Rajasthan and Maharashtra ahead of polls and were replaced after the elections were won. “The Congress mentality with regard to Dalits has been exposed by Harish Rawat’s statement. Channi has been made the Chief Minister ahead of the polls, and Rawat has declared Sidhu as the face of the campaign,” Sonkar said. Congress had appointed Shinde as the chief minister of Maharashtra in 2003 and replaced him with Vilasrao Deshmukh after winning the 2004 elections. In 1980, Pahadia was appointed as Rajasthan Chief Minister with one year to go for the polls only to be replaced by Shiv Charan Mathur. BSP supremo Mayawati also hit out at the Congress saying that the party remembered Dalits only in times of crisis or helplessness and dubbed Channi's appointment as an “electoral gimmick”. “Dalits need to be very alert to their double standards. I have full faith that Dalits of Punjab will not fall for this stunt,” Mayawati said. In a quick damage control exercise, AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said Rawat’s remarks were “misrepresented” and that both Channi and Siddhu would be the face of the party's election campaign in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eye-on-dalit-votes-not-their-welfare-bjp-hits-out-at-congress-over-channis-appointment-as-punjab-cm-1032543.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||8-year-old girl found murdered in her home with throat slit: Police||An eight-year-old girl was found murdered with her throat slit in her house at a village near here with the victim’s mother accusing her former husband and seven others of being behind the killing, police said on Sunday. Two people have been arrested for their alleged role in the crime, Bulandshahr’s Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said. The incident occurred in Jollygarh village under the Agauta police station area in the district, said Singh. In her complaint to the Agauta police, the girl's mother said she left her village home on Sunday morning to go to Bulandshahr to purchase some groceries and had asked her daughter to bolt the door from inside. On returning home, she said, she found her daughter in a pool of blood with her throat slit, SSP Singh said. The woman has taken divorce from her husband, who has already married for a second time and stays in Delhi but the woman lives in her ex-husband’s village home, Singh said. There is a lingering dispute between the woman and her ex-husband’s family and she has alleged in her complaint that her ex-husband and his accomplices killed her daughter to drive her out of the home, the SP said. Earlier in September 2018, the woman had also accused her ex-husband of throwing acid at her but on the investigation, the case was found false and two purported journalists were arrested for filing a false case, the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-year-old-girl-found-murdered-in-her-home-with-throat-slit-police-1032236.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab likely to have 2 Deputy Chief Ministers||As Charanjit Singh Channi takes oath as new Chief Minister, Punjab will likely get 2 Deputy Chief Ministers, the party's state-in-charge Harish Rawat said. Charanjit Singh Channi was designated the CM after the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh amid a bitter scuffle with Navjot Singh Sidhu. "There will be two Deputy Chief Ministers in the Punjab government. There is a Sikh community in the state, so now one Deputy Chief Minister will be from Jat Sikh community and the other will be from the Hindu community", Rawat was quoted telling ANI. According to sources, one will be a Jat Sikh for which MLA from Dera Baba Nanak Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa's name is under consideration. The Hindu Deputy CM options include Brahm Singh Mohindra who is an MLA from Patiala rural, Vijay Inder Singla, MLA from Sangrur, and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who is the state's Food, Civil Supplies, and Consumer Affairs Minister. Another Congress leader, Pawan Kumar Bansal , had tweeted 'best wishes' for the 2 posts to Brahm Singh Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Once the names are finalised, they are to take oath with Channi at 11 am. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-likely-to-have-2-deputy-chief-ministers-1032299.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi likely to attend oath-taking ceremony of new Punjab CM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to attend the oath-taking ceremony of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister of Punjab on Monday, party sources said. Channi, who is set to take oath at 11 am, paid obeisance at a gurdwara in Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district on Monday morning. He will be the first Dalit to hold the post in the state. The Congress on Sunday picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab. After having picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab, the Congress is likely to pick two senior leaders from the state as Deputy CMs. A tweet from senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal, who is AICC treasurer, revealed the names of two senior leaders and outgoing ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh's cabinet -- Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa -- as the party's choice for the Deputy chief minister's posts. While Mohindra is the Hindu face of the party, Randhawa is the Jat face. Mohindra was considered a close confidant of former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. “Heartiest congratulations to @Charanjit channi for elevation as#PunjabCM and@Brahm Mohindra & @Sukhjinder INC as Dy CMs. Best wishes for their grand success in the services of Punjab under the leadership of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Sh @ Rahul Gandhi,” Bansal, a former MP from Chandigarh, tweeted. Channi on Sunday had met Governor Banwarilal Purohit to stake claim to the top job in the poll-bound state soon after being elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party. Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his “failure” to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-attend-oath-taking-ceremony-of-new-punjab-cm-1032302.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||Charanjit Singh Channi takes oath as 16th Chief Minister of Punjab||58-year-old Charanjit Singh Channi, a leader from the Dalit community became the 16th Chief Minister of Punjab, the first scheduled-caste Chief Minister in the state as Congress leadership sought to fire-fight the near rebellion from former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. While the Congress is hopeful of gains from this move-in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, BSP chief Mayawati, a four-term Dalit Chief Minister of the state, while congratulating Channi also trained guns on Congress for this last-minute decision saying it looked like a "political gimmick". She also expressed confidence that "Dalits will not fall for such a stunt". Channi, close to Sidhu, was among the four ministers – Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria – who had raised a banner of revolt against the Captain last month and had met Rawat seeking the CM's replacement. Along with Channi, who is considered close to Sidhu, two more leaders -- Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa from the dominant Jat community and OP Soni, a Hindu leader -- were also sworn in. Both of them have been designated Deputy Chief Ministers.   All three were administered oath to office by Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan here. On Sunday, Channi had met Governor Banwarilal Purohit to stake claim to the top job after being elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party hours a day after the resignation of Captain from the Chief Minister's post.   Soni appeared in another last-minute choice in which Sidhu had a role. Earlier the party had decided on Brahmin leader Brahm Mohindra. Senior party leader from Punjab and Congress treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal had in fact tweeted on Sunday night "heartiest congratulations" to Channi for his elevation as CM and Randhawa and Mohindra as Dy CMs, wishing them "best wishes for their grand success in the service of Punjab" under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. On Monday morning after the oath ceremony, he corrected it tweeting his "regrets for yesterday’s tweet, based on incorrect information" and wishing "heartiest congratulations to Soni for taking oath as Dy CM with Channi and Randhawa saying Punjab Congress "emerges stronger". Both Mohindra and Soni were supporters of Captain Amarinder. That Channi's appointment as CM created quite a ripple was evident as the BJP, which was promising to make a Dalit Chief Minister in the state if it was voted to power, vacillated between congratulating Channi to castigating him, latching on to issues like #MeToo. BJP also latched on to comments of AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat about Sidhu being the face of 2022 Punjab polls, calling it an "insult" to Dalits. "This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by Congress. Shame, " BJP IT department head Amit Malviya said sharing a screenshot of former Punjab state chief Sunil Jakhar, who found fault with Rawat's remarks saying this negates the very purpose of his selection. This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. Jakhar's nephew Ajay Vir Jakhar on Twitter announced his resignation from the post of  Chairman, Punjab State Farmers and Farm Workers Commission "due to the changed circumstances in the state". Have tendered my resignation as Chairman, Punjab State Farmers and Farm Workers Commission due to the changed circumstances in the state.🙏 Congress is trying to work out a social combination of Dalit, Jat Sikh and Hindu voters ahead of the state polls after replacing its prominent leader Captain Amarinder Singh and not being able to make its PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, another Jat Sikh leader CM. At the height of Captain-Sidhu rivalry, party MP from Punjab Manish Tewari had talked about the community dynamics of Punjab politics in a tweet saying while Sikhs comprise of 57.75 per cent of electorate, Hindus are 38.49 while Dalits, who are found among both are 31.94 per cent. Tewari had also stressed Punjab was Manish Tewari in his tweet said Punjab was “both progressive and secular” where Sikhs formed 57.75 per cent, Hindus 38.49 per cent, and Dalits — who have presence across beliefs — 31.94 per cent of the population. Meanwhile Jakhar tweeted Channi's words from Sunday saying that 'Being a Hindu or Sikh is secondary' Congress is trying to work out a social combination of Dalit, Jat Sikh and Hindu voters ahead of the state polls. Will Congress address these constituencies through the new team, with a Dalit CM and a Jat Sikh PCC chief besides one Dy CM from Jat Sikh and one from Hindu communities, can be answered only after the polls but the threat of an open rebellion by Captain, who had dominated the state politics like a colossal, will continue to worry top leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/charanjit-singh-channi-takes-oath-as-16th-chief-minister-of-punjab-1032307.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||New Punjab CM Channi urges Centre to repeal farm laws||Newly sworn-in Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday urged the Centre to repeal the farm laws and said his party stands firmly behind farmers agitating against the "black" farm laws. Thanking the party leadership, Channi told reporters here that the party has given a common person a great honour. He also described Rahul Gandhi as a "revolutionary leader". Channi, the first Dalit chief minister of the state, said he will become the voice of the common people of Punjab and will always remain accessible to the people. “Together, we have to make Punjab prosperous. Punjab is primarily an agrarian state. This government is a pro-farmer government, this is Congress government,” he said. Farmers in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have been protesting against three contentious farm laws. Several rounds of meetings between the Centre and farmer leaders have ended in a deadlock. This government is of the people of Punjab, he further said, adding Congress' ideology is to take everyone along. On his predecessor, Amarinder Singh, Channi said he did good work as CM.       “He is also known as protector of water rights. He is our party leader,” he said.         The party high command has given an 18-point programme and we are committed to it, said Channi, adding promises made will be fulfilled.       “We will ensure a transparent government,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-punjab-cm-channi-urges-centre-to-repeal-farm-laws-1032338.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||No ceasefire violation along LoC in Kashmir since February agreement: Army officer||The Army on Monday said that there has been no increase in ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir and not even a single incident took place in 2021. This was revealed by General Officer Commanding (GOC) of Srinagar-based 15-Corps, Lt General D P Panday on the sidelines of an event to reporters.  Before India and Pakistan recommitted themselves to a ceasefire across the LoC and other contested sectors on February 25 this year, incidents of shelling from across the border in J&K had been on the rise. He said there have been some infiltration attempts by militants along the LoC, among which only two succeeded. "One group was neutralised in Bandipora district, and we are looking for the second one," he said.  The GOC said that an operation was underway in Uri area along the LoC in North Kashmir's Baramulla district for the last 24 hours.  Lt General Pandey said that an infiltration attempt in Uri has not been verified on tthe ground. "I can assure you that we are quite alert on ground and will ensure that minimal infiltration takes place whenever an attempt is made," he asserted.  Responding to a question about the presence of foreign militants in the Valley, he said that according to the DGP and IGP Kashmir, around 60-70 foreign militants are active in the Valley. He also said that only Pakistani militants in the name of foreign militants are active here "who involve local youth to carry out militant attacks". "Their (Pakistani militants) strategy is to involve local youth in militancy, give them weapons and carry out attacks through them," the GOC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-ceasefire-violation-along-loc-in-kashmir-since-february-agreement-army-officer-1032374.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||NCW chief seeks Punjab CM's resignation over #MeToo allegations||The allegations of 'Me Too' have returned to haunt the new Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi with National Commission for Women Chairperson Rekha Sharma on Monday saying that it is a "betrayal" and demanded that he be removed from the post. Sharma said allegations were levelled against Channi during 'Me Too' movement in 2018 and the State Women Commission had taken a suo moto cognizance of the matter. "He has now been made the Punjab Chief Minister by a party that is headed by a woman. It is betrayal. He is a threat to women's safety. An enquiry should be conducted against him. He is not worthy to be Chief Minister. I urge (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi to remove him from the Chief Minister post," she said. Congress chose Channi as the replacement for Amarinder Singh who quit the Chief Ministership on Saturday. Channi took the oath on Monday. Sharma's comments came a day after BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted, "Congress' CM pick Charanjit Channi faces action in a 3-year-old #MeToo case. He had allegedly sent an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer in 2018. It was covered up but the case resurfaced when Punjab Women's Commission sent notice. Well done, Rahul." Several others also tweeted against Channi. The 'Me Too' case against Channi had resurfaced in May this year when Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati threatened to go on a hunger strike if the state government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the case. Channi had allegedly sent "inappropriate text" messages to an IAS officer in 2018. The Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter in 2018 after the incident came to light and had sought the government’s stand even then. The then Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked Channi to tender an apology to the woman officer and had said he believed the matter had been “resolved” to her satisfaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncw-chief-seeks-punjab-cms-resignation-over-metoo-allegations-1032391.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||Petty-minded people trying to divide Punjab on race, caste, identities: Jakhar||Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar hit out at attempts by the party leadership to work out a social engineering in the poll-bound state by appointing Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister, saying that "petty-minded small people occupying high positions are trying to divide Punjab on basis of race/caste/identities". In what could be the beginning of implosion in Punjab Congress after the change of guard, Jakhar's remarks on Twitter came soon after Channi took oath as Chief Minister after replacing Captain Amarinder Singh and hailed Rahul Gandhi as a "revolutionary leader". "Sagacious words of Jathedar of Shri Akal Takht Sahib couldn’t have come at a better time when petty-minded small people occupying high positions are trying to divide Punjab on basis of race/caste/identities-forgetting eternal message of Guru," Jakhar tweeted latching on to the remarks of Giani Harpreet Singh, acting Jathedar of the Akal Trust, that whether the CM is Sikh or Hindu is secondary and one should rather be a better human being. Jakhar, who was also in the race for CM's post and appeared to have the support of Captain Amarinder Singh, declined the offer for Deputy CM's post under Channi on Sunday. Just one-and-a-half hours before Channi took over as CM, Jakhar also slammed the AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat over the latter's remarks that polls would be fought under the leadership of Sidhu. "On the swearing-in day of Shree Charanjit Channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu'', is baffling. It’s likely to undermine the CM's authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position," Jakhar tweeted. The remarks reflect the discomfiture in a section of Punjab Congress over the high importance given to Sidhu. Sidhu's stamp on the new CM and its team was clear. Channi's name was cleared for chief ministership at Sidhu's behest at the last minute even after the party decided to make Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa from the dominant Jat community the Chief Minister. Randhawa was later administered the oath as Deputy CM. Similarly, Sidhu got OP Soni, a Hindu leader, as another Deputy CM in place of Brahm Mohindra. Earlier, Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari, both from Punjab voiced their issues over the change of guard through their cryptic tweets wondering whether the change will benefit the party and recall the old Congress. Former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar also appeared apprehensive about the ramifications of Captain's exit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/petty-minded-people-trying-to-divide-punjab-on-race-caste-identities-jakhar-1032403.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||Jharkhand man beats wife to death over delay in serving dinner, held||A 70-year-old man was arrested for allegedly beating his wife to death over delay in serving dinner in Jharkhand's Khunti district, police said on Monday. The incident happened in Kalamati village under Khunti Police Station limits when the person hit his wife Hiramani with a stick, a senior officer said. The couple, who were in an inebriated condition, had an altercation over delay in serving food and the man started beating her in a fit of rage on Saturday night, Sub-Divisional Police Officer (Khunti) Ajay Kumar said. She died on the spot and her body was recovered on Sunday morning, he said. The woman's body was sent for post-mortem examination, and an investigation has been initiated, the officer added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-man-beats-wife-to-death-over-delay-in-serving-dinner-held-1032413.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||Under attack over Rawat's comments, Congress says both Channi, Sidhu to be party's faces for Punjab polls||The Congress on Monday said it will fight Punjab elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and both will be faces of the party. The Congress went into damage control after it came under attack from various parties over the statement of its general secretary in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat that the party would go to polls with Navjot Singh Sidhu as its face. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the next Punjab assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of both Channi and Sidhu and attacked the BJP, Akali Dal, BSP and Aam Aadmi Party for insulting a Dalit chief minister. He also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership why they had not named any Dalit as their chief minister and why they and other leaders of BSP, AAP and Akali Dal were undermining the young Congress Dalit leader. "Our faces will be Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu as also ordinary Congress workers and leaders who will be supporting them. If anybody says one or the other will be the face, intentionally or otherwise, it is being misinterpreted by the media," he told reporters. "I want to tell all our friends in the media, please, you also do not grudge the young Dalit leader and the role assigned him as chief minister of Punjab. He will be our face along with Navjot Singh Sidhu which is natural," he said alleging that Rawat's statement has been misinterpreted. "We urge the BJP, Akali Dal, BSP and AAP to stop insulting Dalits and spread lies about them," Surjewala also said. He alleged that the BJP, SAD, AAP and BSP have "unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably" attacked the candidature of Channi. "May I ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi that you have been in power for seven long years and in a dozen states, have you ever appointed a Dalit as chief minister of BJP? No," he said, adding that Channi is the only Dalit chief minister sworn in by the Congress party. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/under-attack-over-rawats-comments-congress-says-both-channi-sidhu-to-be-partys-faces-for-punjab-polls-1032422.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||Mobile internet services suspended in J&K's Uri after infiltration attempt: Report||Mobile internet services have been suspended in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri after an infiltration attempt, according to NDTV. More to follow... Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-internet-services-suspended-in-jks-uri-after-infiltration-attempt-report-1032440.html
20-09-2021||North and Central||With an eye on AAP, new Punjab CM Channi promises free water, reduction in power tariff||New Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday hit the ground running, with a slew of populist announcements such as free water supply to smaller homes and reduction in power tariff in the poll-bound state. The announcements by Channi, shortly after taking charge as the chief minister, appeared to be aimed at taking the wind out of Congress' key challenger Aam Aadmi Party's pre-poll promises of free water and free power in Punjab, where elections are scheduled for February next year. Channi said decisions on free water, reduction in power bills and waiver of sewage charges will be taken at the meeting of the new cabinet soon. At his first press conference, Channi, broke into tears recalling his humble beginnings as a rickshaw puller to support his father's business as a tent house vendor. “I come from a family that had a house made of mud and straws. I am the aam aadmi sitting here. This is aam aadmi sarkar,” the chief minister said in an apparent dig at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which is presenting itself as a serious contender in Punjab assembly elections early next year. The new chief minister hailed Rahul Gandhi as a “revolutionary” leader for “honouring” a common person. Channi said the state cabinet will also take a decision on dealing with sand-mining mafias, which was a key pre-poll promise of the Congress in 2017. The new CM said his government will remain committed to the Congress leadership’s 18-point agenda for the state and the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 election will be fulfilled. The party agenda includes justice in the case of the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015, combating drug trafficking and scrapping power purchase pacts signed earlier. Channi also urged the Centre to repeal agricultural laws and said his party stands firmly behind farmers protesting against the “black” farm laws. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-an-eye-on-aap-new-punjab-cm-channi-promises-free-water-reduction-in-power-tariff-1032515.html
20-09-2021||Oasis||Explaining self-realisation||The purpose of life in Sanatana Dharma is self-realisation. It lies in realising the divine presence through persona; experience and not through the intellect. It is about transcending sensory experiences to reach the stillness within. It is about using the mind to commit deliberate suicide of the mind. What is self-realisation and what does that state consist of in real terms? This subject has been extensively explored in spiritual traditions all over the world and yet it is not an easy question to answer, in part because, it is hard to put in words as it is an out-of-the-body experience. My Guru once told me when we were in Birmingham more than a decade ago that when God reveals himself to a devotee, he takes away the power of speech. And sometimes even memory. This followed a certain incident in the Balaji temple in Birmingham and I was stunned to hear it. Sri Ramana provided us with two other extraordinary clues. He said that just as an ordinary individual cannot do without thought, the jnani (the realised soul) finds it difficult to entertain a thought! Clearly, this refers to a qualitatively different orbit of being. The second clue he gave was even more interesting. He said just as we are used to the triad of seer seen and sight in our daily engagements in the world, the jnani sees only subject; the triad is destroyed. To an enlightened sage, the whole universe is only subject in that they cannot see the other as being apart from themselves! This is an extraordinary statement and merits explanation? There are similar passages in the Yoga Vashishta as well. It means that while ordinary individuals experience themselves in an objective world, the Realised Master experiences the world inside them! Such is the power of realization! One of Amma’s devotees records the fact that he offered her something to eat, She opened Her mouth wide and the devotee was shocked to see the earth in her mouth! The realised Master does not experience the world as ordinary individuals experience it. The jnani experiences the world as a subject alone and not as an object! In practical terms, this means they do not or cannot experience other humans as being apart from them. The other is an extension of their own selves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/explaining-self-realisation-1032547.html
20-09-2021||Opinion||How US helped, hampered escape of Afghan journalists||By Ben Smith, As American news organisations scrambled to evacuate their Afghan journalists and their families last month, I reported that those working for The New York Times had found refuge not in New York or Washington, but in Mexico City. The gist of that column was that even outlets like The Times and The Wall Street Journal had learned that the US government would not be able to help at critical moments. In its place was a hodgepodge of other nations, led by tiny Qatar, along with relief groups, veterans associations and private companies. Some State Department officials took umbrage at the idea that the US government had abandoned Afghans who had worked alongside American journalists during the 20-year war. In telephone interviews last week, Secretary of State Antony Blinken and two other officials closely involved in the evacuation of journalists and many others from Afghanistan made the case to me that the US exit should be seen as a success. They pointed to the scale of the operation — 124,000 people evacuated, in total — as the ultimate American commitment to Afghanistan’s civil society. “We evacuated at least 700 media affiliates, the majority of whom are Afghan nationals, under the most challenging conditions imaginable,” Blinken said in an interview Friday. “That was a massive effort and one that didn’t just start on evacuation day.” When it came to the government’s role, Blinken said he was referring, primarily, to the fact that the United States was able to operate Hamid Karzai International Airport, to the courage of military and State Department employees who worked there and to the decision in early August to include journalists among the “at risk” groups eligible to leave Afghanistan. (A spokesperson later called to say Blinken wasn’t trying to take full credit for evacuations.) Blinken also said the United States was still trying to bring out more Afghan journalists, particularly those who have worked for Voice of America and other media outlets funded by the US government. But people at major news organisations and others who pushed to get journalists out of the country told me they were incredulous that the United States would claim to have played a pivotal role in the exodus. And further reporting bore out their contention. Major American news organisations ended up dealing directly with Qatar’s government, which had cultivated a relationship with the Taliban. A Qatari official said that his government had led the evacuations of people working for The Times, The Journal, The Washington Post, CBS News, NBC News, ABC News, NPR, Vice and CNN, as well as the Committee to Protect Journalists group. Several people at those organisations confirmed that account, though they spoke on the condition of anonymity because they are still trying to get other journalists out of Afghanistan. Many Afghan journalists who worked for media outlets funded by the US government, including Radio Free Europe, also had to make other arrangements. Jamie Fly, the president of Radio Free Europe, told me that about 10 journalists from the outlet flew with their families on a private charter to another country in the region over the weekend without US help, and many more remain in Afghanistan. “The US government has yet to fulfil its commitment to evacuate vulnerable Afghan journalists,” Fly said. Blinken said he was “really disappointed, frustrated that we were not able to evacuate all the Afghan staff” of the US government outlets. He added that “the commitment to bring them out is enduring.” Blinken said his current goal was to work with the Taliban on enacting “a normalised system of emigration,” which, he said, would be “a much better way of dealing comprehensively with those who wish to leave than doing one-off efforts.” The experience of one Afghan reporter, Ahmad Wali Sarhadi, offers a glimpse of the roles played by the United States and its allies, private organisations, nonprofit groups and sheer chance. Sarhadi had been freelancing for Afghan television outlets, The Financial Times, The Associated Press and Der Spiegel. He also did work for a project, Salaam Times, that was funded by the Defense Department. In addition, Sarhadi had appeared on television accusing the Taliban of human rights violations in rural villages. On the morning of August 12, moments after he had filed a television report on the situation in Kandahar, he learned that the Taliban had entered the city, he said in an interview. He fled out the back of his house and lied his way through checkpoints all along a day’s drive to Kabul. There, he sent panicked emails to the international news media outlets he had worked for and to anyone else he thought could help. The only promising response came from the Committee to Protect Journalists, a well-connected American nonprofit organisation that helps journalists in the world’s trouble spots. “You are not alone — we are going to support you,” the email said, according to Sarhadi. “That’s an email I will never forget,” he said. Maria Salazar Ferro, the emergencies director of the Committee to Protect Journalists, had already been putting together a list of Afghan journalists who weren’t being helped by other organisations, and her team had vetted Sarhadi’s documents. The nonprofit’s Washington lobbyist, Michael De Dora, was also part of the effort, having taken part in conversations in July and August with State Department officials. Those talks began hopefully, and on August 2 the State Department announced that it would extend to journalists a priority visa, intended for Afghans who did not work directly for the US military but were nonetheless at risk. Then, obstacles began to mount. On August 5, a US official using only a first name sent an email from an account staffed round-the-clock by different employees that offered an important clarification: It said that freelancers and contractors, a category of worker that made up the bulk of those working with US organisations, would not be eligible for the visa. A copy of the email was shared with me by the Committee to Protect Journalists. On August 12, the Committee to Protect Journalists began sharing its list of at-risk Afghan journalists, which would ultimately grow to more than 400, with the State Department. Three days later, on August 15, Kabul fell to the Taliban. On August 16, the State Department reversed course and told news organisations that it would broaden the visa program to include freelancers and contractors. By then, however, it was too late to easily move journalists to third countries to apply for visas. Sarhadi joined the dense crowd at Hamid Karzai International Airport, trying and failing to get through a gate. On August 20, Joel Simon, the head of the Committee to Protect Journalists, and De Dora met via Zoom with Uzra Zeya, the undersecretary of state for civilian security, democracy and human rights. They said they left the meeting convinced that the US would do nothing to help. They went looking for help elsewhere, and met the same day with the deputy director of the Qatari government’s communications office, Sheikh Thamer bin Hamad Al Thani. Al Thani asked for a list of the Afghan journalists it considered most in danger, then sent word that a convoy should assemble at a safe location near the Kabul airport. On August 23, the Qatari ambassador to Afghanistan led 16 journalists and their families from the safe house to the airport. They flew to Doha the next day. Many of the other journalists on the list are still in Afghanistan. “We didn’t see any policy here,” Simon said of the US government’s role in the evacuation. “Our experience was that powerful media organisations were able to leverage their own relationships and use their own resources,” he said. Others involved in rescue efforts had similar experiences, finding that formal US government channels were at best useless and at worst an obstacle. The leader of one rescue effort spoke with me on the condition of anonymity to reveal details of sensitive dealings with the State Department. On August 29, this group leader emailed a State Department official to say that they were prepared to fly 181 people, including some Afghan journalists, out of Mazar-e-Sharif, a city in northern Afghanistan. The group, whose charter was paid for by the Facebook Journalism Project, according to the email and a Facebook official, had gained approvals from the airline operating the flight, Kam Air, as well as from the United Arab Emirates, where the plane would land, and Mexico, the flight’s ultimate destination. The group had also gotten the go-ahead from the Taliban, according to the email, which was shared with me, but that approval came with the condition that the US government sign off on the plan. Instead of offering formal approval, State Department officials suggested the group direct its request to a Gmail account used by officials approving air traffic for the airport in Kabul, 200 miles away. In another email, a State Department official said that while the US was “appreciative of all efforts to assist in the relocation efforts out of Afghanistan,” the organisers would be responsible for the details. Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, who was among those pushing for evacuations out of Mazar-e-Sharif, said he was told the US government wouldn’t approve the flights because it did not have officials in place to vet travellers — even if they were not headed for the United States. “The planes could have left if there were sufficient clearances,” Blumenthal said. The Facebook-funded flight finally got off the ground after its organisers reached out to a different State Department official, Zalmay Khalilzad, who had managed US negotiations with the Taliban. US officials pointed out that paperwork wasn’t the main obstacle in Afghanistan. “The issue was not the back end organisation in Washington,” said John Bass, the former US ambassador to Afghanistan who returned to manage the evacuation from the airport. “We could have had 10 times as many people sorting and sifting inquiries and creating great manifests, a great plan for how we were going to move people in 10-minute segments through gates, and all of that still would have crashed up against the reality of human desperation outside the airport and this very capricious set of security checkpoints the Taliban set up.” The story of evacuating US journalists is a microcosm of the larger evacuation and of the wider debate over the withdrawal. Journalists, critics suggested, were too close to the story, bound up in the lives of their Afghan friends, to see the wisdom in getting out. But the correspondents on the ground were largely depicting what was in front of their eyes — both chaos, and the surprising absence of American organisational capacity. Sarhadi, for his part, remains stuck in a housing complex built for next year’s World Cup in Doha. He is far better off than he was in the jumble outside the Kabul airport, but his next destination is uncertain. The Qatari government is now operating some flights in the other direction. A foreign ministry spokesperson, Ibrahim Al Hashmi, told me the country now has a different task: “securing trips for foreign reporters wishing to return to Afghanistan.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-us-helped-hampered-escape-of-afghan-journalists-1032292.html
20-09-2021||Opinion||Can the world’s most painful telecom market reform?||By Andy Mukherjee  Just as Vodafone Idea Ltd. was about to drown under the weight of its $30 billion debt, India has thrown a lifeline to the UK operator’s local joint venture. The rescue is only one of the tea leaves Group CEO Nick Read will read as he weighs the all-important question: Has India stopped being what Deutsche Bank AG analysts recently described as “the most painful market” to operate a telecom? The answer will decide if it’s time to make a fresh play for the 1.4-billion-person market. A moratorium on New Delhi’s bloated back-fee claims, extra time to pay for the spectrum purchased in past auctions, and a relief from onerous bank guarantees add up to at least Rs 31,600 crore ($4.3 billion) in liquidity support, according to Investec Capital Services. That would keep Vodafone Idea going, though stabilizing a business that has lost more than a third of its 400 million-plus subscribers in three years will need a lighter debt load, and a thicker equity cushion. In other words, a true revival will require an optimistic view of the future. That may be hard to muster given the industry’s checkered past. The unfailing regularity with which India has sprung negative surprises on its wireless firms will make it hard for Read — and his board — to be persuaded that this time may be different. Investors like Norway’s Telenor ASA, which had entered India a little later than Vodafone, got burned when the Supreme Court canceled 122 telecom licenses in one fell swoop in 2012, suspecting irregularities in their award. This was also when New Delhi, after losing a tax case against Vodafone, retrospectively changed the law to hound the operator with a $3 billion demand. That messy quarrel dragged on until an international arbitration panel threw out the government’s claim last year; it destroyed the firm’s chances of going public in India. Then five years ago, Mukesh Ambani upended the economics of the business by entering the fray with free voice calls and cheap data. A field of a dozen operators effectively shrank to just three. To survive, Vodafone merged its network with Indian billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s publicly traded Idea Cellular Ltd., creating what was then the country’s largest wireless service. But it got whacked again. The industry and the government had been at loggerheads over the definition of the revenue that had to be shared with New Delhi under India’s 1999 telecom policy. In 2019, the Supreme Court upheld the government’s very broad claim, which included all sorts of non-telecom revenue. The burden of past dues, which came to $7.8 billion in Vodafone Idea’s case, threatened to sink it. With neither of its two main equity partners wanting to throw more good money after bad, it looked like banks would have to take haircuts and the government might have to nationalize the operator to prevent the market from turning into a duopoly, led by Ambani. The rescue has averted that fate. As part of the plan, New Delhi is prepared to take equity. But only in lieu of interest payments in case Vodafone chooses the option of paying its dues later. There’s no reduction in the debt load. In fact, the bailout may give a leg up to Bharti Airtel Ltd., the No. 2 player. As Investec says, its investment in Indus Towers Ltd. — India’s largest owner of mobile towers — will now dodge the hit it would have taken had Vodafone Idea, a key tenant, run out of cash. Besides, Bharti will also qualify for all the concessions. Yes, it would have won a whole lot of customers in one shot had Vodafone gone under. But some of them will migrate to it anyway. For the 255 million Vodafone Idea customers who’re still sticking around, it’s not enough to know that improved liquidity will allow their telco to survive. Can it invest aggressively enough to give them a good 4G service now, and 5G later? For employees, too, it will be important to have confidence in the firm’s long-term survival. That’s where Read enters the picture. Courts won’t allow the government to revisit the past, but the bailout package promises a narrower definition of revenue in determining the government’s take in the future. Read is also being told that 100% foreign ownership is fine, with no prior approvals required. Will Vodafone, together perhaps with some deep-pocketed private equity firms, buy Birla’s shares and take control? Setting off on an Indian adventure all over again is a daunting — but tempting — prospect. Demand for data is exploding amid growing smartphone use and rapid digitization. Also, India has finally consigned retrospective taxation to where the awful idea always belonged: the trash can. These are all encouraging signs, and even Bharti Airtel Chairman Sunil Mittal is coaxing his rival Read to grab the precious opportunity and “retake what has been a lost cause.” For the economics to improve, though, Ambani’s Jio Infocomm — the new leader — has to call off the brutal price war. Operators need to garner at least $3 from an average customer every month; right now, Vodafone isn’t even making half as much. But all that’s well into the future. For now, global investors are afraid to look at the blue skies of Indian telecom, lest the ground under their feet turn out to be quicksand. Read can change that. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/can-the-world-s-most-painful-telecom-market-reform-1032312.html
20-09-2021||Opinion||Bad bank: Too little, too late||Bad loans of Indian banks started rising from 2011-12 following the easy lending policy adopted in the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008. Non-performing assets (NPAs) kept on growing till about March 2018, following which there was a steady decline, notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic of the last one and half years. According to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data, gross non-performing assets of commercial banks were at their peak at the end of March 2018 when they reached 11.5 per cent of gross advances. Since then, gross NPAs started declining and reached 7.5 per cent in March 2020 and stayed there for another year. During her budget speech in February this year, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced to set up a bad bank that would buy non-performing assets from Indian banks. Last week, the finance minister announced that the government would provide guarantees worth Rs 30,600 crore to the security receipts issued by bad banks. The bad bank, the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), will buy bad loans from banks for 15 per cent cash. The remaining amount will be paid in Security Receipts (SR) – a standard practice for purchasing toxic loans by asset reconstruction companies. The government will guarantee the SRs that NARCL issues for five years. The NARCL will get equity funding from public sector banks which will have a 51 per cent stake. The NARCL plans to buy bad loans worth Rs two lakh crore – 1.8 per cent of the total loan book of banks in India. Of the Rs two lakh crore, Rs 90,000 crore will be bought in the first phase, which will likely start during January-March 2022. These are the loans which these banks mostly write off after making full provision. "…creation of a bad bank would have been most fruitful just after the AQR [asset quality review] or earlier when the stress was just building up, and banks were looking to delay recognition for various reasons," Kotak Securities said in a note. "Today, the NPL recognition and provisions cycle is largely complete with some of the largest bad loans already resolved," it said. The banks' slippage ratio, which is a percentage of NPA to standard advances, was at its peak at the end of March 2018 when it touched 7.1 per cent. According to the Kotak Securities note, the ratio has since fallen to 2.5 per cent at the end of March 2021. In the last six financial years, banks have recovered Rs five lakh crore from stressed assets, Rs 3.1 lakh crore recovered since March 2018, including Rs 1.2 lakh crore recovered in FY19. Banks have cumulatively recovered Rs one lakh crore from written-off assets. The Kotak note said the cash component is a smaller proportion and divided across public banks and a few private banks. As a result, the short-term impact is negligible. The reversal of larger provisions will only happen when the cash is received on sale of these receipts or redemption of security receipts. Along with the NARCL, the government has incorporated the India Debt Resolution Co Ltd (IDRC). The NARCL will work with the IDRC – the operational entity managing the assets and engage with debt resolution professionals and turnaround experts. The public sector banks will have a 49 per cent stake in the IDRC, and the remaining will be with the private sector lenders. "The success of the bad bank, however, will depend on the implementation and management of the transferred NPAs, and the government will likely keep a close eye on the management of the IDRC that will be tasked with the same," said Anish Mashruwala, Partner, J Sagar Associates. How quickly and efficiently resolution professionals carry out the process becomes the key to the scheme's success. The process involves finding buyers, transferring assets, formalizing write-downs and re-working terms of the debt.  "Resolution will be key – how efficiently the professionals are resolving the stressed assets is to be monitored," said ICICI Securities in a note. "One can argue that the bad bank is likely to become a warehouse for stressed loans without expected recovery as it will be difficult to find buyers for legacy assets. If initial cash receipts are more or less equivalent to the amount invested by banks, would it then merely amount to shifting the problem from one place to another without fundamentally solving it?" the note said. Rating agency Crisil said the Rs two lakh crore NPAs which the bad bank plans to acquire is 45 per cent of the NPAs that the asset reconstruction companies collectively acquired till March 2021, estimated at Rs 4.5 lakh crore. "The move also underscores the critical role NARCL and the IDRC are expected to play in the management and resolution of large-corporate bad assets in the domestic banking system. Their success will be a function of time-bound resolutions and extent of recoveries," said Krishnan Sitaraman, Senior Director and Deputy Chief Ratings Officer, CRISIL Ratings. Another issue is with the quality of assets. Many stressed assets where investors saw value were resolved through the bankruptcy process in the last few years. "… quality of asset matters the most. We saw this in NCLT cases (40 cases) where good ones in steel-sector got resolved with negligible haircuts for banks, but tough ones in power, auto, consumer are yet to find resolution," the Jefferies note said. While the move to set up the bad bank is in the right direction, the success will depend on how soon resolution can be reached as the SRs are guaranteed for five years. As the saying goes, the proof of the pudding is in the eating.  (The writer is a Mumbai-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bad-bank-too-little-too-late-1032356.html
20-09-2021||Opinion||UP: Opposition absent amid Yogi's aggressive Hindutva||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has already set the tone for a more communally charged Assembly polls five months from now than Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "kabristans" getting priority over "shamshaans" speech in the run-up to the 2017 Assembly elections. In his speech at a rally in Kushinagar last week, the UP CM patted his back for providing "free rations" to the poor. But he insinuated that before 2017, people who utter "Abba Jaan" were swallowing all the ration. Sure enough, it could not have been a more direct way of accusing Muslims of eating up rations meant for the poor before he became chief minister in 2017. The message was loud and clear - the forthcoming polls would be fought on Hindu-Muslim lines, and all other issues would remain on the fringe. Interestingly, both Adityanath and other leading lights of the BJP go about insisting that "development" alone was going to be their poll plank. They also assert their commitment to the PM's tenet of "sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, and appeasement of none." However, actions of the party leadership and unabated targeting of Muslims by lumpen elements in frontal Hindu organisations, like Bajrang Dal and Hindu Sena, speaks volumes of the real intent of the saffron brigade. That Hindu polarisation is at the root of the party's campaign, and it is evident that the party leadership is ready to go to any extent to achieve that goal. From the time Adityanath took over as the chief minister, he has taken several steps aimed at the polarisation of Hindus. It started with changing names of certain UP towns, and Allahabad became Prayagraj, Faizabad became Ayodhya, and Mughal Serai was renamed Deen Dayal Upadhaya Nagar. Now, the BJP ranks demanding renaming Aligarh as Harigarh, Sultanpur as Kush Bhavanpur, Firozabad as Chandra Nagar and Mainpuri as Mayan Nagar. Agra, too, may get a new name of Agravan, while Muzaffarnagar may get renamed Lakshmi Nagar.  Earlier, as an MP from Gorakhpur, Adityanath succeeded in renaming local markets and localities. Thus, Urdu Bazar became Hindi Bazar, Humayunpur became Hanuman Nagar, Miya Bazar was renamed Maya Bazar, to name a few.  When the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) agitation was going on in 2019, most of the protestors arrested, fined and punished happened to be people belonging to the minority community. Their names with pictures and heavy fines levied on each was displayed on hoardings at various crossroads in the state capital. No one knows what could have been their fate if it were not for the courts that came to their rescue.  But without a doubt, Adityanath has dealt with criminals with an iron hand; some gunned down in police encounters, others jailed. There cannot be either be denying that a relatively large number of the notorious ones hailed from the minority community. On the other hand, several equally dreaded criminals and outlaws from other communities have gone scot-free. All such measures have paid rich political dividends to the saffron-clad chief minister. Meanwhile, no opposition party has cared to take on Adityanath on his aggressive Hindutva ride. Instead, most opposition leaders have begun to play their own "soft-Hindutva". Both Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati have got down to proving their respective Hindu credentials. Neither seems in the mood to take the bull by its horns. Instead, they appear to be falling into the trap the BJP has laid. Who does not know that it is not easy to defeat the BJP on the Hindutva turf, which it has skillfully nurtured over the decades. Perhaps the only opposition leader who did not seem to be bitten by the Hindutva bug so far was Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. But her frequent zooming in and out of the state takes away from whatever little impact she makes. The ruling dispensation has already labelled her a "political tourist", and there was precious little that she was doing to obliterate that image the saffron brigade had cast about her. No one knows why the SP, seen as the salient opposition outfit, has avoided taking on the ruling dispensation for its falsehoods on issues like "love-jihad", population growth, CAA, or even triple talaq, systematically directed against the minority community. Now the BJP and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) focus is likely to remain on the "Abba Jaan" line, taken up by Adityanath, who keeps springing up something or the other to keep the communal embers simmering. It is learnt that the BJP and RSS cadres down the line have been told to spread this word down to the grassroots level. Perhaps the BJP leadership is hopeful that aggressive Hindutva would eventually draw a curtain on real issues, like price-rise, increasing unemployment, the plight of migratory labour returning to their homes due to corona and above all, the mismanagement of Covid-19 in UP.  After all, people are angry as they lost their kin due to a shortage of oxygen or absence of treatment. Many were unable to perform the last rites of their dear ones due to lack of funds or the long queues at cremation grounds. Many others were compelled to immerse dead bodies in the Ganga or other rivers, and also those who had to hastily abandon bodies on river banks covering them with whatever little sand they could dig out with their hands.   Already, the BJP's top leadership was leaving no stone unturned to bombard its propaganda that no one died of a shortage of oxygen. The PM announced that no one died of oxygen shortage and praised Adityanath for "unprecedented and unparalleled" corona management in UP. There could not have been a better certificate than this for Adityanath, who went on to issue deterrent threats, "anyone who says that there were deaths due to oxygen shortage should be booked under NSA."  The BJP is set to launch a blitzkrieg that the pain and plight of the common people get drowned in the din proclaiming, "All is well". The political bosses seem to be hell-bent on impressing all and sundry that the minority community was at the root of all prevailing ills. And that is where the "Abba Jaan" narrative is likely to come in handy for the saffron party whose star leader and CM Adityanath have already predicted his return to power with a bang. (The writer is a journalist based in Lucknow) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-opposition-absent-amid-yogis-aggressive-hindutva-1032388.html
20-09-2021||Opinion||The case against Vaccine Maitri||In early 2021, India received gratitude from countries around the world for its vaccine altruism. With the number of cases in India on the decline then, New Delhi veered towards vaccine diplomacy as a soft power tool to regain support and confidence in its neighbourhood and faraway nations. It supplied vaccines to neighbours Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Bhutan along with allies like Brazil. What looked like a pragmatic decision then was considered a significant policy failure two months down the line when the second wave of Covid-19 infections hit the country. New Delhi changed its vaccine policy later. The Narendra Modi government halted vaccine exports and got down to vaccinating the adult population of the country. With a gradual increase in vaccine stocks and a centralised system controlling the vaccination process, there was an uptick in daily doses. Now, three months past the peak of the second wave of infections, the vaccination figures finally meet the government's goals with additional supply for any unforeseen contingencies. There are also reports that the PM will discuss the possibility of India's role in vaccine exports with the US President during his visit to that country later this week. The Americans could ask India to release doses as humanitarian aid to other countries to combat the spread of the virus and its deadly variants. But is it time to go back to vaccine diplomacy, or should India take time to assess the situation better and make a rational decision? There are reasons to suggest that India, a compassionate nation-state, should adopt a wait and watch approach to exporting vaccines. Lessons from the second wave  The exponential rise in the number of cases per day, an acute shortage in oxygen cylinders and a complete breakdown of the public health system in India during the second wave of Covid-19 made the decision to export vaccines look like political than a humanitarian one. It had come on the back of already dwindling numbers of vaccinations per day. When vaccinations were the key to mitigating the pandemic's effect, India was reeling under an immense shortage of vaccines with little or no accessibility to common people. India, with its population of 1.3 billion people, will take a while to achieve herd immunity. As of September 16, 20 per cent of the country's population have been fully vaccinated, while around 60 per cent have received at least one dose. There is still a long way to go to ensure the safety of the Indian population.  The rapid rise in the infection rates during the second wave should serve as a reminder for the government to expect the unexpected. While cases have flattened now with ample vaccine supply, a kick start of the export of vaccines might again put the unvaccinated at significant risk with a new wave of infections around the corner.  The current situation in the US showcases the risk of a large number of unvaccinated people. Massive spikes in infection rates have been reported, with most hospitalisations attributed to those not taking the shot. Vaccinations remain the primary way to tackle the pandemic, and any obstacle to the process will prove detrimental to the recovery process. Fewer incentives in India Historically, India has suffered due to vaccine hesitancy which has stymied the efficient distribution of vaccines to the masses. While Covid-19 vaccinations have generally been voluntarily taken, especially in the urban areas, the penetration of vaccines into the rural areas is still a work in progress. Neither does India offer any incentives for taking the vaccine to persuade people to be less apathetic towards the process. Moreover, unlike countries like the US, France and Canada, India does not have an official vaccine mandate. While other countries have categorically mandated only the vaccinated to access public spaces, India has no restrictions.  With no mandatory vaccinations required, a section of society might tend to avoid getting the jab, which makes it imperative for the Indian government to ensure an adequate supply of vaccines that can reach the country's hinterlands and increase vaccine coverage. Increased vaccine exports at this juncture might again result in less coverage and more susceptibility to the virus. Booster shots? There is speculation whether India will provide an additional shot of vaccine to increase immunity against the virus. Singapore decided to give an extra dose of vaccine to its citizens recently. But considering India's massive vaccination drive, there remains the question of when to administer the booster shot to the people. The government is still mulling the necessity of a booster shot and whether it might be feasible at the current pace and supply of vaccines. With new and emerging strains of the virus popping up, the requirement for an extra dose looms large, which would effectively mean that the supply and demand for the vaccine would rise, and exporting vaccines might cause a shortage to those taking the booster shot. Vaccine diplomacy was at its peak early this year. But India, a supplier of vaccines, suffered significant losses during the second wave of infections that hit the country. Earning diplomatic brownie points at the expense of the lives of Indians would be committing the same mistake all over again.  The government should not bow down to external pressure but be more cautious. The government should ensure that sufficient stocks of vaccines will be there for people in India post exports, unlike the last time. (The writer is a research analyst for Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-case-against-vaccine-maitri-1032415.html
20-09-2021||Opinion||Punjab: All eyes on Amarinder's next move||On the day of his ignominious ouster, Amarinder Singh proudly said he was wearing his regimental olive green turban, perhaps more to reassure himself that he at 79 remains a fighter. He later said he has a lot of "dum" (strength) still left in him. But the embattled Amarinder Singh can neither claim his ouster to have been a coup by the high command nor a move that took him by surprise. He saw it coming, but four-and-a-half years in the saddle as chief minister; it was too late for this scion of the erstwhile Patiala royals to make amends. His abrupt humiliating exit indicated that he had fallen out of favour with the Gandhis. His long-drawn equation with Sonia Gandhi proved worthless in the end, as it underlined a decisive generational shift, rightly or otherwise, in decision making by the junior Gandhi siblings - Rahul and Priyanka.  Amarinder Singh claims Sonia Gandhi initially did not want him to resign. But things changed dramatically, and the writ of the junior Gandhis prevailed. A senior Congressman hailed Rahul Gandhi's bold decision on Punjab akin to the "Alexandrian solution to this Punjabi version of the Gordian knot."  But did the Congress find a scapegoat in Amarinder Singh to tide over the prospect of anti-incumbency with just a few months left for the Assembly polls in this border state? That may unravel, but it has arguably made the situation slip from bad to worse. The Congress is bound to lose political traction with Amarinder Singh's exit, and rapprochement appears bleak. Amarinder Singh asserts he is not hanging his boots anytime soon, and his opponents can't be more in error to assume that Amarinder Singh can be written off. Off late, the Congress high command had been impatient with Amarinder Singh. His party men's escalating dissent against him, including hordes of Congress MLAs in Punjab, did not come about overnight. The anointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state Congress president in the face of belligerent resistance by Amarinder Singh was the writing on the wall for him. Amarinder Singh's ministerial colleagues couldn't care less in slamming him over his alleged failures and below-the-mark performance. They even accused him of colluding with the Shiromani Akali Dal's Badals. Amarinder Singh's war on drugs had left much to be desired. His poll promises are still works-in-progress, and justice in the sensitive sacrilege cases still eludes. His accessibility to the public remained poor, and the governance of the state was outsourced to the bureaucracy. His select coterie had increasingly become an eyesore in the public perception. Amarinder Singh's ratings had plunged. But despite the odds stacked against him, the Congress was still seen as a frontrunner to regain power in 2022 and Amarinder Singh its best bet, at least until Sidhu, his principal detractor, arrived to challenge him. Amarinder Singh's ouster will not help the party square the circle in a short span ahead of the polls. The Akali Dal - BJP alliance had split, and the farmers' movement was there to advantage the Congress. The formidable Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is likely to reap the harvest of Congresses internal strife. Amarinder Singh, for now, has chosen to keep his ammunition dry. His next move will determine to what extent his ouster might damage the Congress party. (The writer is a journalist based in Chandigarh) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/punjab-all-eyes-on-amarinders-next-move-1032479.html
20-09-2021||Panorama||Farmers are united, BJP is trying to divide them into big and small: Rakesh Tikait||Rakesh Tikait of the Bhartiya Kisan Union has emerged as the face of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. Tikait accuses Prime Minister Narendra Modi of dividing the farming community by talking about the welfare of small farmers. Tikait, in an interview with Sagar Kulkarni of DH dismissed the minimum support price (MSP) announced by the Centre for Rabi crops, contending that the MSP remains only on paper. The farmers’ agitation will complete 10 months soon. Where do you see the protests going? We have nothing to see or plan. It is for the government to respond. Farmers have been camping in protest to put forth its demands. The government is not ready to listen. So, the responsibility lies with the government. Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat drew a huge crowd. Do you think the gathering has breathed new life into the agitation? Muzaffarnagar saw a big gathering. More than 20 lakh people attended the Mahapanchayat. The government should take note of it. If 20 lakh people are gathering against the government, it should get the message. Such meetings will be held across the state in the coming days and months. There will be more such meetings. Some will be small, others will be large. We will go to the people, we will also go to the villages. The government says you are indulging in politics under the garb of raising farmers’ issues... Do you expect the government to speak in our favour? It is the job of the government to level allegations against us. Let it level allegations. BJP leaders also claim that the agitation will last only till the elections? Will the government dictate everything? This agitation will continue till the time the government agrees to talk to the farmers to resolve our issues and concerns. The agitation will continue. Will you contest elections? A section of the farmer leaders such as Gurnam Singh Chaduni of BKU Haryana appears keen on contesting elections. We will not contest elections. If some leaders want to contest elections, like Chaduni, let them contest. Have there been any efforts from either side to resume the talks? Our last meeting happened on January 22. There have been no talks after that. Our demand is the same even today — the three farm laws should be repealed. After Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat, BJP has been alleging that Tikait and other farmer leaders have resorted to appeasement of Muslims... Right now, the Constitution grants us the right to raise slogans, follow every form of worship. Will the political parties tell us which slogans to raise? These people are trying to divide the nation, we are working towards uniting the nation. Have the wounds of the 2013 communal riots in Muzaffarnagar healed over the past eight years? The riots were engineered. It was a conspiracy of the BJP. We are working for the unity of the people. The riots were not targeted at a particular caste. Everyone is together now. There is unity among all farmers’ organisations in the region. Do you think Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s ‘abba jaan’ remarks are fresh attempts to polarise the electorate ahead of elections? Polarisation is their sole purpose. Through such statements, they want to take the nation back on the beaten track. Their only intention is how to garner votes. They keep on fooling the people, they play with the sentiments of the people. Any nation where religion plays a dominant role in politics has never progressed. A section of the BJP believes that farmers, at least in western Uttar Pradesh, can be won over by giving adequate price for the sugarcane crop this coming season... This agitation is not limited to western Uttar Pradesh. It has found resonance across the country. If farmers get proper support prices, the entire country will benefit. Sugarcane is just one crop. This agitation is not for a single crop, this is for the entire nation. Since Uttar Pradesh elections are viewed as a semi-final to the Lok Sabha polls, there is a focus on farmers of western Uttar Pradesh... Our fight is for farmers across the country. The government may have its own approach to issues. The Rabi MSP was announced recently. Do you feel it was adequate? The increase in MSP is only on paper. The farmers will benefit only when they get the promised returns. This can be ensured only through an appropriate law that guarantees MSP to the farmer. Do you think farmers can claim partial victory if the government brings a law that guarantees MSP to farmers? No. There are three clear demands. First, roll back the three farm laws. Second, enact a law that guarantees MSP to farmers, and third, set up a committee of farmers’ organisations and the government to take decisions on issues related to agriculture. Once these three demands are agreed to, the agitation will end. Recently, the prime minister said that his government will stand with the small farmers, who constitute 86% of the total farmers in the country. The BJP also dismisses your agitation as backed by middlemen or arthiyas... Is Modi the prime minister only of small farmers? These people only work towards dividing the nation. They divide the farmers into big and small. Give the guarantee that the crops grown by the small farmers will be bought at MSP. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/farmers-are-united-bjp-is-trying-to-divide-them-into-big-and-small-rakesh-tikait-1032545.html
20-09-2021||Panorama||Teach children first-aid practices||Smitha is a working mom who must juggle household responsibilities and office work during these pandemic times. Her six-year-old daughter gets out to play with her friends in the play area. One day, one of her daughter’s friends slipped from the slide and had a fall. Smitha’s daughter came home running to get a bandage for her friend’s wound. Smitha was happy with this response but she was also worried about the child’s safety. In these times, children must learn survival strategies that human beings should know. Moreover, thinking and talking about potential worst-case scenarios are often helpful. We want to protect our children from fears and allow them to “just be kids”. However, preparing and training them in first aid practices is essential. All we need to do is combine learning with our day-to-day slips and falls. The first step to do so is to understand the fundamentals of first aid. Mentioned below are the three main aspects: 1. First aid is an application of skills to preserve life, prevent deterioration and promote recovery 2. It is a vital skill that requires learning 3. Golden rules of first aid include safety first, perform tasks in a logical order. The fundamentals are simple. If while playing or by any reason a child gets injured or experiences any bleeding, it’s vital to do the following: 1. Applying pressure to the bleeding wound 2. Icing a swollen injury 3. Applying cold running water or a wet towel to a burn 4. Pinching the nostrils for 10 minutes for a nosebleed 5. Draping a blanket over a person in shock 6. Gently rolling a person into the recovery position Implement these approaches to educate your child on first-aid practices. The world is your classroom: This starts when they’re toddlers. Any scrape, nosebleed, or fall from the mango tree is a teaching moment. You can verbally describe every step you’re taking. Teach them how much pressure must be applied to stop the bleeding. Then show them how to gently wash the dirt out of the cut with clean water and then apply a bandage with a bit of compression. Play doctor: Kids learn best when they feel relaxed and playful. Engage with their natural love of playing doctor by pretending to be their imaginary patient and telling them your symptoms. Switch roles and let them practise being the calm, reassuring caregiver. Be explicit about what your child is learning. Go through the first aid kit together. Make sure your family kit is well organised so a child can find the required items quickly. Teach the child how to get help and how to describe the situation: A child must know where to find the emergency numbers. If these can be memorised with them, even better. Let kids use the phone to practise and memorise the sequence of the emergency numbers, but don’t forget to stress how important it is never to use emergency numbers for play or curiosity. Train older children in the following: Kids should get familiar with a basic primary assessment, sometimes abbreviated with the acronym DRAB. Danger: Take a moment to make sure it is safe to approach the injured person - are there any hazards such as electrical wires, damaged structures, moving vehicles, or falling objects? If the surroundings are dangerous, get help right away before trying to assist Response: Talk to the injured person. Do they answer questions? Do they appear to be awake or unconscious? The emergency operator will need to know how they respond Airway: If unconscious, gently tip the head back to ensure the tongue is not blocking the airway. If your child can practice on you several times, it won’t feel awkward if they ever have to do it in reality Breathing: Practice checking for breathing with role-plays as the ‘patient’, ask your child to assess you while you either breathe quietly or hold your breath for 10 seconds. The child can then call for emergency help. Part of our job is to assure our kids that they never need to be heroes or overstep their abilities. Make sure children know that their first and most important job is to stay safe, and then help others. (The writer is a physician based in Mulund)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/teach-children-first-aid-practices-1032546.html
20-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Meddling with affairs of nature||While helping my sister’s family shift home, we discovered a tiny bulbul nest with a pair of even tinier pink dotted eggs, hidden amongst the hibiscus branches of their new home. The couple must’ve chosen the spot when the house was sapiens-free, we inferred. In about a fortnight, we heard that the nest hosted the hatchlings along with their mommy. Every evening while visiting my sister, I made it a point to show the birds to my 1.5-year-old niece. ‘Shh... Look!’, I used to whisper, ‘Bulbul!’ she used to whisper back with a smile. Time flew and so the chicks learned too. We named them 'Peter' and 'Paul'. It was their first flying lesson, and I must say they were law-abiding babies, with the law here being the “Two little dickey birds” rhyme, albeit with a slight (South) Indian middle-class family touch. Peter flew under his parents’ sharp watch. I know you expected me to say so did Paul. But that was not the case. Paul instead protested the parents’ partiality towards Peter by sitting (literally) at the base of the flowering shrub. ‘Fly away Paul!’ I said. ‘Po!’ ('Go' in Telugu) my niece followed. But nothing deterred the birdie that day. We were back to minding our own business when I saw the parent Bulbuls frantically chasing a crow twice their size, out of their home. “The crow must’ve come for the babies.” my mum said. Later in the day, to our utmost surprise, we discovered Paul in one corner of the kitchen, with the mother cajoling him to move out of there. My niece went a step further, causing the mother to fly out. ‘Here Paul, come on, let’s get you out,' I said holding out my palms. When he didn’t move even after 10 minutes, my sister’s mother-in-law scooped him in a soft cloth and put him back in the nest. In the evening, my sister told us that the Bulbul family vacated their home. Saddened by this, I learnt an important lesson: Never let curiosity get the better of you. The birds must have left because we meddled with their affairs or due to the threatening crow. Either way, curiosity killed the cat. In this case, the peace of the little birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/meddling-with-affairs-of-nature-1032542.html
20-09-2021||Second Edit||Congress’ risky gambit in Punjab||The Congress has taken too many risks with a change in the Punjab government barely five months before the state is to face Assembly elections. The dramatic developments of the last few days saw the ouster of Capt Amarinder Singh as Chief Minister and his replacement by Charanjit Singh Channi. The change was orchestrated by the party high command, though as usual the motions of consultations and the holding of legislature party meetings were gone through. A crisis was created, and then it was mismanaged. Disgruntlement with Amarinder Singh’s leadership and dissidence against him has been there for long, and the party would have had to fight a serious anti-incumbency sentiment if it faced elections under him. Most of the party’s promises made before the last elections were yet to be acted upon. In fact, a committee to implement the manifesto promises was set up only last year. Amarinder Singh was seen as aloof and inaccessible, though he is still considered a tall leader who has a mind of his own.  Facing the election under a new leader who does not have the time to settle down in office is fraught with risks. Channi is a Dalit Sikh and the party may have thought that that would have electoral appeal in a Sikh-majority state where about one-third of the electorate is made up of SC communities. It has also fortified itself with two deputy chief ministers from the Hindu and Jat Sikh communities for wider appeal. But Channi may only be considered as a proxy for former cricketer and state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu who has run an open campaign against Amarinder Sigh and has the blessings of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. Sidhu has ambitions of being chief minister, but is known to be a maverick who, even after many years in politics, is yet to show he has the maturity to take on the role. He also has BJP antecedents.   So, the credentials and the credibility of the new leadership will be questioned and it will be difficult for the party to explain the recent developments, especially why it acted so late on the complaints and grievances against Amarinder Singh. The change of guard will also be an admission of the non-performance of its government. The Akali Dal, which is the main opposition, is weak, but the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is a potent electoral force. Amarinder Sigh can do harm to the party, because he and his supporters are left to feel that he was humiliated. The mutual denunciations within the party will continue to ring out and the factional warfare is bound to have an impact on the party’s electoral prospects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/congress-risky-gambit-in-punjab-1032540.html
20-09-2021||South||TN government to bear tuition fees of students getting admission into professional courses under 7.5% quota||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Monday announced that his government will bear the tuition and hostel fee for government school students who get into engineering colleges through the 7.5 per cent quota. The Assembly had last month passed a bill to provide 7.5 per cent reservation in admission to professional courses like engineering, agriculture, and law for students from government schools. The move come a year after the then AIADMK dispensation brought in legislation to provide 7.5 per cent quota for government school students who have cleared NEET in admission to medical and dental colleges.  Stalin made the announcement at an event held at Anna University, the premier engineering institute in the state, to hand over admission orders to students under the new quota.  “I would like to make an announcement that would make both the students who get admission under the 7.5 per cent quota and their parents happy. The announcement is the government will bear the tuition and hostel fee of students who get admission into professional courses under the quota. We will even waive the counselling fee,” Stalin said. The Chief Minister said he is making the announcement after listening to views expressed by students in a media interview about their worry about completing the course. “I saw the interview while getting ready for this event. I came here only after listening to their demands,” Stalin added. 10,000 students who will get admission to engineering colleges and another 350 into law, fisheries, veterinary, and agriculture courses will be benefitted from the government’s move, Stalin said.  The government decided to bring in a quota for government school students after it was found that the number of such students getting into engineering, veterinary, agriculture and law courses was “very low.” According to statistics released by the government, of the 8.5 lakh students who passed out of plus-two in 2019-2020, 3.45 lakh are from government schools. Of the students who joined the prestigious Anna University in various engineering streams in 2020-2021 academic year, only 0.83 percent were from government schools.  The percentage of students from government schools who got admission in government engineering colleges is 6.31, while it is just 0.44 percent in government-aided colleges. Only 3 percent of those who joined veterinary courses are from government schools, and the percentage for agriculture courses is 4.89, the statistics say. The legislation was drafted after considering the recommendations of the Justice D Murugesan Committee which suggested that reservations up to 10 percent can be accorded to students from government colleges. The committee’s mandate was to suggest ways to increase enrollment of government school students in professional courses.  The Commission, according to the legislation, reported that Government school students being in a disadvantageous position, require more facilities to pursue their school education and “preferential treatment” in joining various professional courses. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-government-to-bear-tuition-fees-of-students-getting-admission-into-professional-courses-under-75-quota-1032446.html
20-09-2021||South||Sabarimala airport's future hangs in balance; Kerala still hopes to overcome hurdles||With the land acquisition of the Sabarimala airport project in a legal tangle and the objections raised by central government agencies, the Kerala government has a herculean task ahead, but it hopes to overcome the hurdles. Apart from the Sabarimala pilgrims, the airport project, proposed to be in Cheruvally estate in Kottayam district, about 50 kilometres from Sabarimala, also aims to cater to the considerable NRI population from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts of Kerala. There are also many tourists visiting nearby destinations like Kumarakom backwaters and high ranges tourist spots of Idukki district. Special officer for the Sabarimala Airport project V Thulasidas told DH that the queries by central agencies were only part of the normal process for approval for airports. Similar queries were raised for the Kannur International Airport and those were resolved by convincing the central agencies of the feasibility, said the former chairman and managing director of Air India. Of the Director General of Civil Aviation's (DGCA) many queries over the project proposal by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation, the major one was that the Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi international airports were only 110 kilometre and 88 kilometre respectively from the proposed site. As per Green Field airport policy, new airports should be at least 150 kilometre away from existing international airports. Ownership of the land was also caught up in a legal tangle with the Kerala-based Believers Church of India claiming ownership of the 2,263-acre Cheruvally estate. A government committee had earlier found that the Harrison Malayalam plantations sold out the estate to the Believers Church of India using forged documents as the Harisson Malayalam plantations only had possession rights and no ownership over the land. There were also reports that the Income Tax authorities recently confiscated the estate along with other properties of the Believers Church of India following charges of income tax evasion. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-airports-future-hangs-in-balance-kerala-still-hopes-to-overcome-hurdles-1032452.html
20-09-2021||South||NEET thwarts medical dream of underprivileged groups: Tamil Nadu panel||NEET seems to have “undermined the diverse social representation” in medical studies by favouring the “affordable and affluent segment” of the society, thereby “thwarting “ the medical dream of those from underprivileged social groups, a committee appointed by the Tamil Nadu government to study the exam’s impact has concluded.  In a 165-page report, the high-level committee headed by Justice (retired) A K Rajan said NEET is successful mainly for the repeaters (71 per cent in 2021) and those students who have gone through coaching (99 per cent in 2020) while opining that Tamil Nadu’s robust health care system will go back to “pre-independence era“ if NEET continues for a few more years. The report formed the basis of a “legally sound” legislation that the DMK government got passed in the Assembly earlier this month seeking exemption from NEET for students from Tamil Nadu. The Bill needs assent from President, which is unlikely given the BJP’s stand on NEET. ‘NEET will take Tamil Nadu to pre-Independence days’ NEET is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with over 14 students ending their lives by suicide over the fear of attending the exam. Doing away with the exam was one of the poll promises of the DMK, which appointed the A K Rajan committee to go into the issue in detail. Contending that there may not be enough doctors and experts to be posted in rural areas and in government hospitals if NEET continues, the panel said the rural and urban poor may not be able to join the medical courses. “Further, ultimately Tamil Nadu may go back to pre-independence days, where, in small towns and in villages only “barefoot‟ doctors were catering for the needs were available. Tamil Nadu as a state would go down in the rank among states, in the Medical and Health Care system,” it concluded.  The committee, which received over 86,000 comments, a majority of which were against NEET, came down heavily on the exam model saying it promotes “coaching” rather than “learning” relying on data to drive home the point that those who undergo coaching or repeat the exam are at an advantageous position in clearing it.   Drastic fall in the number of Tamil-medium students in MBBS after NEET Data released by the committee also showed that the number of Tamil-medium students getting into government and private medical colleges has taken a huge hit after NEET came into being in the state in 2017.  While 456 students from the Tamil medium got into MBBS in 2010-2011 when the admission was based on marks scored in plus-two exams, it witnessed a steep fall in 2017 when just 56 students from the Tamil-medium secured admission. The number of Tamil-medium students who had secured admission in 2016, a year before NEET, was 537. Though 119 Tamil-medium students got into medical colleges in 2018, it came down to 71 in 2019. But the number increased in 2020 as the then AIADMK government introduced a 7.5 per cent quota for government school students who clear NEET in medical admissions. Percentage-wise, the number of students from Tamil-medium who got into medical colleges came down to 1.6 per cent in 2017 from 19.79 per cent in 2010. In contrast, the number of students from English-medium who secured admission in medical colleges went up to 98.41 per cent in 2017 from 80.2 per cent in 2010.  The share of government school students has fallen from 14.44 per cent on average in the pre-NEET period to a negligible 1.7 per cent in 2020- 21. “This is a clear indication that NEET is medium biased, and it favours only the English medium students as they increased their share from 56.02 per cent (average) in the pre-NEET to 69.53 per cent in 2020-21,” the report said. ‘7.5 per cent quota for government school students is a boon’ The “main culprit” for the seven-fold fall in the share of government school students in medical courses is mainly because of the NEET, such that, “their failure cannot be attributed to the popular claims made by some critics that both the Tamil-medium students and their state syllabus are substandard.”  “Because, with only the same standard, they managed to get at least 14.44 per cent in the pre-NEET period. Historical educational backwardness of the Tamil medium students, and their predominant rural location and their socio-economic conditions, all may be the causes for their overall educational performance. But evidently, the NEET has punished them further for the matters for which they are not responsible,” it said.  The panel also noted that the government school students “were at far remote in getting their due share in the MBBS seat,” till government intervention of reservation.  “When the percentage (of) students who got admitted under this category is considered as regards their repetitive appearance for NEET, which is 70.71 per cent, it clearly indicates that they were not first-timers but after repeated attempts, they succeeded,” the committee added. Share in rural students go down, urban students go up The panel also found a 12 per cent (from 61.45 per cent to 49.91 per cent) drop in the share of rural students and a 12 per cent rise in the share of urban students after NEET. This shows that the exam “has pushed the rural lot down in their admission” probably because of inaccessibility to coaching for the NEET exam.  “As coaching and prior preparation are the preparatory factors that are known for success in the NEET, and naturally, when a rural student is deprived of these un-educational activities, how can one expect them to win the race, especially, when it is so an expensive and sophisticated affair,” the committee observed.  It also said the growing repeated NEET test-takers bagging most of the MBBS seats is a “great cause of concern for a developing country". “If NEET continues, only the affluent well-off families would have the privilege to have doctors in India,” the committee said. Coaching culture should end Coming down heavily on coaching culture, the committee said this has led to large scale “establishments mushrooming throughout India with retail coaching franchise offering a variety of coaching services like 5-year packages, 2-year packages, 1-year packages, 3 months, and 2 months crash courses, with various slabs of the fee”.  “This coaching market has become a multi-billion industry, having enough financial muscle to even interfere into policy matters in its favour. This has now led to a situation where the medical and health services are largely market-driven and as a result, the medical profession has been transformed from its noble status to a commercial one,” the committee said.  The committee also said NEET, to the majority of students (both successful and unsuccessful), is an “excruciating experience” that creates anxiety and stress and inculcates diffidence among the students aspiring for MBBS.  “Further, with prevailing malpractices, dual domicile exploitations, and impersonation facing a great threat to the genuine contenders, the NEET in totality reduces the confidence of the students and affects their psyche. The NEET does not seem to ensure merit or standard of the students being offered MBBS under its purview,” it said.  The findings indicate that the NEET has only enabled and empowered comparatively the low-performing (in NEET scores and HSc scores) students to get admission to MBBS, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neet-thwarts-medical-dream-of-underprivileged-groups-tamil-nadu-panel-1032475.html
20-09-2021||South||Give 50 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to Tamil Nadu every week: Stalin tells Modi||Blaming distribution of “lower quantities” than other states in terms of per capita vaccine allocation as the reason for Tamil Nadu being placed below the national average vis-a-vis Covid vaccination, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Monday asked the Centre to allot 50 lakh vaccines doses every week to ensure the entire eligible population receives their jab by October. The Chief Minister’s demand made to the Union Government in a letter that he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi comes amidst two key developments – the state vaccinating 45.34 eligible persons in just two Sundays by conducting special camps and a marginal increase in the daily Covid-19 cases. While the number of fresh cases on September 18 stood at 1,653, the figure rose marginally on Sunday with as many as 1,697 persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus. Though the increase is marginal, sources in the Health Department said district administrations have been asked to monitor the situation closely and impose local restrictions if such a need arose. The government had last month authorised district collectors to come out with their own local containment efforts and restrictions to keep the Covid-19 cases under check. In the letter, written a day after 16.43 lakh doses were administered in a single day on Sunday, Stalin said Tamil Nadu continues to be below the national average in many parameters of Covid vaccination, primarily due to the “inadequate pace” of vaccination in the first four months of the programme. Informing the Prime Minister that the state has administered over one crore doses in the first 19 days of September, Tamil Nadu remains below the national average since the State continues to get much lower quantities than the other states in terms of per capita vaccine allocation. “Unless the allocation is increased substantially, the State will always be below the national average for those indicators, let alone go above it,” Stalin told Modi while mentioning the steps his government took after assuming office in May. Considering the capacity of the state and the uncovered eligible population, Stalin said Tamil Nadu has no option but to hold special camps at regular intervals in addition to daily vaccinations. “Only this can help us to overcome the low vaccination numbers achieved in the first four months of the vaccination programme. In our estimation, the State is easily capable of utilizing 50 lakh vaccine doses every week,” Stalin said, adding that this will enable the state in vaccinating the uncovered eligible population by October 31, 2021, apart from administering the second dose to persons who are due to receive them. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/give-50-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-tamil-nadu-every-week-stalin-tells-modi-1032497.html
20-09-2021||South||TDP alleges 'Taliban-Tadepalli' links as seized heroin worth Rs 9,000 crore linked to Vijayawada firm||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has alleged a “Taliban-Tadepalli nexus” after it emerged that the huge heroin consignment seized at Mundra port last week was imported by a firm registered with a Vijayawada address. The contraband, shipped in the guise of talcum powder, was reportedly from Afghanistan and is estimated to be worth about Rs 9,000 crore. It was seized at the Gujarat port on September 15, by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence sleuths. Tadepalli, an area adjacent to Vijayawada, is the location of the camp-office from where Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy functions. “This is the biggest heroin capture. Some reports state that already heroin worth about Rs 72,000 crore reached the state over the last two years, in 22 containers. This is not a small issue and we suspect the involvement of some big heads. Such operations could have been carried out only with the help of some police officers, and other persons in the government,” alleged Dhulipalla Narendra, a senior TDP leader, speaking to reporters on Monday at Amaravati. “Where is this heroin going from Vijayawada, and who has profited from this? Who is the big-boss behind? The Taliban to Tadepalli links should be probed (by the Centre),” the former TDP legislator said. While the opposition party made the grave allegations and some news reports claimed that the illegal consignment was meant for transport to Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu stated that the “smuggled heroin was intended to reach Delhi, not Vijayawada.” The Aashi trading company has its registered address located in Satyanarayanapuram in the city. Police said that the firm’s proprietors – a wife and husband duo - Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and Machavaram Sudhakar have been residing in Chennai for the past many years. “On verification with the concerned investigation agencies, it is learnt that Vaishali, a Chennai resident, took the GST registration in August 2020, on the address at Door No 23-14-16, Satyanarayanapuram, Gadiyaramvari Street, Vijayawada. Sudhakar, also residing in Chennai, is the husband of Vaishali. The building is owned by Govindaraju Taraka, Vaishali’s mother. Vaishali took the import and export license from the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT),” the commissioner said in a press release on Monday. The central investigating agencies have conducted searches in Ahmedabad, Delhi, and Chennai among other places in connection with the contraband. “So far no activity except using the Vijayawada house address for obtaining the above licenses has come to our notice. However, further inquiries are on,” the commissioner said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-alleges-taliban-tadepalli-links-as-seized-heroin-worth-rs-9000-crore-linked-to-vijayawada-firm-1032550.html
20-09-2021||South||'Narcotic jihad' row: Religious heads in Kerala call for harmony||In a bid to settle the communally toned row over a bishop's 'narcotic jihad' remark, Major Archbishop of Syro-Malabar Malankara Catholic Church Cardinal Baselios Cleemis initiated a meeting of leaders of various religions. The meeting that was attended by heads of various Christian, Muslim and Hindu forums and political parties urged the religious leaders to keep off from statements that hurt other religions. Cleemis said that religious heads should be able to respect other religions. The need to strengthen the communal harmony of the state was stressed by all the participants. Meanwhile, a Catholic priest in Kerala tendered an apology for a statement he made against the Hindu-Ezhava community with regard to inter-faith marriages. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/narcotic-jihad-row-religious-heads-in-kerala-call-for-harmony-1032553.html
20-09-2021||South||Telangana Congress chief Revanth asks KTR to undergo drug test; TRS Minister files defamation case||Telangana's Minister for IT, industries and municipal administration KT Rama Rao has initiated a defamation suit against Revanth Reddy, the state Congress chief, for allegedly dragging his name into the Tollywood drugs case. Earlier, Reddy had asked KTR, as the minister is popularly known, to take the #WhiteChallenge, an initiative under which the opposition leader wants celebrities, politicians, etc. to undergo a test proving that they do not take drugs, and to send out a strong message to the public, especially the youth against the menace. Addressing a Congress rally in Gajwel on Friday, Revanth had reportedly associated KTR with “cinema stars, who use drugs.” A statement from KTR's office on Monday said that the minister has “instituted a civil suit for defamation and for grant of perpetual injunction against Revanth Reddy.” “The suit is a result of various baseless, scurrilous, and manifestly false statements and allegations made against KT Rama Rao by Revanth Reddy seeking to falsely link him with the ongoing investigation being conducted by the Enforcement Directorate against allegations of drug and psychotropic substances abuse by certain named accused,” the statement said adding that further criminal proceedings could be initiated and “for payment of compensatory damages for such serious and malicious acts of defamation.” While several Tollywood celebrities are under probe by the state government agencies and also the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly dealing with drugs, the Congress party has charged that such substances have become all pervasive in Telangana, “leading to rise in crime, including the rape-murder of a 6-year-old girl in Hyderabad recently.” To begin with, Revanth had nominated the names of former TRS MP Vishweshwar Reddy and KTR. Vishweshwar accepted the challenge for such a test, and appeared alongside Revanth at the Telangana martyrs' memorial in-front of the state assembly on Monday. While not declining the #WhiteChallenge, KTR has tweeted that he is “ready for any test and will travel to AIIMS Delhi if Rahul Gandhi is willing to join.” “It is below my dignity to do it with Cherlapally jail alumni. If I take the test and get a clean chit, will you apologise and quit your post? Are you ready for a lie-detector test on #Note4Vote?” KTR questioned Revanth. Revanth was arrested in the cash-for-vote scam during the 2015 MLC elections in Telangana, when he was a TDP legislator. Following up on the infamous 2017 Tollywood drugs case, the ED recently questioned several celebrities like Ravi Teja, Puri Jagannadh, Rana Daggubati, Rakul Preet Singh, Charmi Kaur to probe the money laundering aspect in drug peddling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-congress-chief-revanth-asks-ktr-to-undergo-drug-test-trs-minister-files-defamation-case-1032557.html
20-09-2021||State||Monsoon drenches arid regions in Karnataka; Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu see deficit||The south-west monsoon has officially drawn to a close, quenching the thirst of traditionally rain-deficit areas even as Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu — districts that are drenched during the rainy season — recorded a 20%-30% shortfall. Between June 1 and September 16, the state received a total of 736 mm of rainfall against the normal range of 766 mm, though officials consider the 4% deficit normal. A majority of 21 districts recorded normal rainfall whereas 8 districts recorded excess rainfall. Worryingly, coastal Karnataka and Malnad regions saw a shortfall in rain. The districts of Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu recorded a deficit of 26% and 21% respectively, according to data from the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Center (KSNDMC). Belthangadi, Puttur and Bantwal saw deficit of about 30%. On the positive side, Kolar and Chikkaballapur have received 48% and 29% excess rain. Kolar's Mulbagal taluk received 533 mm against the normal average of 347 mm, an excess of 54%. A similar rate of increase was witnessed in Srinivasapura. “North interior Karnataka received abundant amount of rainfall this time”, said Rajavel Manickam, scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), noting that the amount of rainfall considered normal in the Western Ghats is very high. Following trends first observed in 2018, this year too monsoon patterns were quite erratic. The months of June and July received excess rainfall but August saw a deficit of 38%. September has been normal so far. “We could see extreme events like heavy downpour for a week and then dry spells in the following weeks in many parts of the state. This is not a regular phenomenon,” said G S Srinivas Reddy, former director, KSNDMC. Although there is a dry spell due to the absence of systems in both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, Reddy said the interior regions can still expect 50% of the total annual rainfall from the north-east monsoon between the months of October and December. “North-east monsoon contributes to 40% rainfall in Bengaluru, Kolar and the regions below Tumakuru.” “Coastal Karnataka and Malnad regions, on the other hand, have already received 70% of the annual rainfall and unless any active systems form, the intensity of monsoon will come down gradually," he added. Monsoon activity is expected to pick up by the last week of September or the first week of October during the withdrawal phase. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/monsoon-drenches-arid-regions-in-karnataka-dakshina-kannada-kodagu-see-deficit-1032231.html
20-09-2021||State||Only 29% students who opted for II PU exams clear it||Only 29 per cent of the II PUC students, who had opted for examinations, have managed to clear the exams. The state government on Monday announced The results of the II PUC examinations and of the 18,414 registered candidates, a total of 5,507 students have cleared the exam including 4,768 private candidates, 184 repeaters and 556 freshers. Releasing the results in Bengaluru, the state primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh said, "The results will be sent to all colleges through SATS portal and the results are also available on www.karresults.nic.in portal.” This year the department of pre-University Education had cancelled the examinations for II PUC courses considering spike in Covid-19 cases across the state and promoted all fresh and repeater candidates. However, the department had provided the opportunity for students to take the examinations if they were not satisfied with the grades and following which as many as 592 fresh candidates had rejected the results and appeared for exams. As many as 580 candidates passed with distinction and 1,939 with 'first class' and 1,578 with 'second class'. Around 1,410 candidates secured 'pass class'. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-29-students-who-opted-for-ii-pu-exams-clear-it-1032339.html
20-09-2021||State||Central Sahitya Akademi award for Nataraj Budalu, Srinath Perur||Noted Kannada writer and cultural thinker S Nataraja Budalu has won the 'Sahitya Akademi Prize for Translation 2020'. Nataraj's work in Kannada 'Sarahapada'—a translation of collections (works, philosophy and dohas) Apabhransh Devanagri Sarahapada is one among the 24 books in various Indian languages chosen for the Akademi's annual translation awards, last week. The works were chosen based on the recommendations made by a three-member selection committee comprising Chandrakanth Pokale, Laxmi Chandrashekar and O L Nagabhushana Swamy and the selections were approved by Akademi president Dr Chandrashekhar Kambara. Budalu, who retired from the first-grade college in Tumakuru as a professor, has also written books such as 'Nagarjuna-Allama Prabhu', 'Hindana Hejjeyanaritallade' 'Matina Modalu', 'Samskrutu Meemamse'. Similarly, Srinath Perur has also won the award in the English section for his translation of the Kannada novel 'Ghachar Ghochar' by Vivek Shanbhag. This apart several Kannada works including the work of Dr Chandrashekhar Kambara's 'Shikhara Surya' that was translated to other languages has been chosen for the award. While Dr Kambara's work was translated to Malayalam as 'Shikharasuryan', Gopalakrishna Pai's work 'Swapna Saraswatha' has been translated to Konkani. Yet another Kannada work 'Om Namo' by Shantinatha Desai has also won the award for its Telugu translation. The award carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000 and a copper plaque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/central-sahitya-akademi-award-for-nataraj-budalu-srinath-perur-1032517.html
20-09-2021||State||99% speed breakers aren’t scientific: Karnataka Minister||Karnataka Public Works Minister CC Patil admitted that 99 per cent of speed breakers on highways and major roads are unscientific, an issue that witnessed a heated debate in the Legislative Assembly on Monday.  This came up during question hour when former Speaker KR Ramesh Kumar asked Patil for details on authorised road humps/speed breakers on the 52-km Hoskote-Madikeri Crossroad and 82-km national highway 234 connecting Mulbagal and Chikballapur.  Patil, in his written response, said the 52-km road has 33 authorised ‘raised pedestrian crossings’ and that 70 out of 84 road humps on NH 234 are unscientific.  Kumar was livid at the answer. “It’s not 33, but the 52-km road has 47 humps,” he said. “Is there a process to this? Who puts these road humps? Don’t your officials inspect roads? This is the second time this House is discussing the issue. Why should we come here?” he asked, demanding the minister to suspend the engineers concerned. “If you suspend officials, then such speed humps will go. Do officials think we are buffoons?”  Patil admitted that road humps have become a menace. “I suffer from this in my own constituency, but suspending officials isn’t the solution,” he said. The minister explained that unscientific road humps come up at the behest of locals. “They get contractors directly to have speed breakers installed. They want a speed breaker wherever there are accidents. This is abnormal, I agree. Of all speed breakers, 99 per cent won’t be scientific,” he said, adding that he would direct officials to remove unscientific road humps.  “This problem wasn’t created overnight,” Patil said.  Kumar was far from being convinced. “I will withdraw this question. Expunge the answer. This is an insult I will not take,” he said.  Kumar took on Patil further on why he was not applying his mind, citing the example of the road leading to the Kempegowda International Airport. “You have the police to check the speeding. You also allow tempos, rickshaws and scooters. People wanting to catch their flights on time get late,” he said.  Even Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, too, pitched in on the issue and asked Patil to do something about the arbitrary use of road humps. “Officials should find a way to rise above pressures at the local level.”  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/99-speed-breakers-aren-t-scientific-karnataka-minister-1032535.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers' protest around Delhi is 'sponsored' by Congress: Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's remarks, terming the farmers' protests around Delhi as 'sponsored,' during his reply in the assembly on Monday over the issue of price rise, saw heated exchanges between the ruling and opposition benches. "It (farmers' protest) is sponsored by you (Congress) in Delhi. Farmers' protest happened around Delhi. It did not happen anywhere else in the country because it is sponsored," Bommai said. Congress leaders and legislators took strong exception to this, with party state president D K Shivakumar even terming the statement as an "insult" to the farmers and demanded that he apologise to them. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah too termed it as the "most irresponsible" remark. Bommai's "sponsored protest" comments led to a heated exchange between ruling BJP and opposition Congress legislators, throwing the house into chaos for some time. The CM, however, stood by his comments, saying the protest by farmers, who claim to be from Punjab and Haryana, was sponsored. "It has a political background, it has your sponsorship. It is for the sake of MSP (Minimum Support Price) politics," he said. Alleging that commission agents at the markets were also behind the protest as they are worried by the new farm laws, he asked Congress not to 'mislead' the people of the country. Countering senior Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar's query to spell out whether the protest was sponsored by 'foreign hands' and who was behind it, Bommai pointed that during Indira Gandhi's tenure in 1972-75 these forces were blamed for every protest in the country, whether it was farmers or labourers. "But we are not saying foreign hands, as foreign agents have already been close to the administration....foreign agents and commission agents who want to control APMCs are sponsoring this protest," he added. Rebuking Siddaramaiah for his recent comments, accusing BJP governments in the state and Centre of "criminal loot", Bommai, while initiating the debate, asked "does this mean governments of all parties in the past that increased prices have indulged in criminal loot?" In response, the LoP said the CM, by this statement, has admitted that criminal loot has taken place and pointed out that he had borrowed these words from former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had used it when he was Jana Sangh MP in 1973 and Indira Gandhi was Prime Minister, in protest against the seven paise increase in fuel prices. To Bommai's query on why he was in "pain" hearing his reply, Siddaramaiah said "why should I be in pain? Narendra Modi and you should be pained as you people have indulged in criminal loot," resulting in heated exchanges between treasury and opposition benches. Continuing his attack on Congress, Bommai said, "during our time there has been 30 per cent rise (in petrol price)...they (Congress or UPA) had raised 60 per cent during their time." "If you are upset with the word criminal loot, lets call it Congress loot...there is no issue." This irked Congress members and Siddaramaiah raised slogans like "BJP loot", "BJP is indulging in criminal loot", "Narendra Modi government is looting the country". Bommai, reacting to it said, "what Congress and Siddaramaiah is doing is nothing but scriptures in the devil's mouth. With what authority are they saying such things at us? What moral right do you have after looting the country for so long?" Both party members then shouted slogans, accusing each other of looting the country. Noting that the price rise issue has been discussed several times in the assembly, irrespective of which party was in power or in the opposition, Bommai said rise in prices of petroleum products began in the 1960s-70's and there were various reasons for it. "India is an importer and consumer of crude oil and not the producer.. 85 per cent we import, so price fluctuation in the international market will have its impact on consumer countries like ours," he said. Pointing out that during the discussion, opposition MLAs targeted only the Narendra Modi government on the issue of price rise, the CM listed out the petrol price rise from 1973, which varied from 60 to 150 per cent. "From 2014-2021 the price has risen from about Rs 77 to 100, almost 30 per cent. Whichever party is in power the prices have consistently risen.. so blaming the current party in power is not right," he said. Bommai said out of Rs 36 lakh crore revenue gained from 2014-21 from petroleum products, the Centre has given almost 40 per cent of it to states. He also said that procurement of paddy and wheat has exponentially increased during the NDA rule compared to UPA. MSP for various crops have also been increased and the benefits have been transferred to farmers. The CM also charged the Congress with increasing excise duty over the years. Stating that monetisation does not mean sale, he hit back at Congress' opposition to National Monetisation Pipeline, saying it was also done during UPA rule. He cited the amount of Rs 80,000 crore raised by monetising Bombay-Pune highway. Bommai also hit out at Siddaramaiah and Congress on the issue of sales tax and said they do not have any moral right to question the government as it was they who raised it and did not slash it, despite demands. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-protest-around-delhi-is-sponsored-by-congress-bommai-1032419.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai cites idli-dosa rates to counter Cong on price rise||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai read out prices of idlis and dosas at a popular Bengaluru hotel to counter Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s claims on price rise in the Legislative Assembly on Monday. Bommai was replying to the debate on price rise, in a speech that scoffed at the Congress and showered praises on PM Narendra Modi.  “I have with me the prices of idlis from Janardhan Hotel, which Siddaramaiah raised. He said the prices had doubled in this hotel. As CM, I’m not interested, but since I also eat in this hotel I checked the prices for my own interest,” Bommai said. “The cost of two idlis at Janardhan Hotel in 2017 was Rs 35. It became Rs 26 in 2019 and Rs 38 in 2021. One masala dosa was Rs 80 in 2019 and it is Rs 90 now.” “This is a natural increase. What’s the big deal? To say this happened because of [BJP] is wrong...there's no need to mislead this House,” Bommai said. According to Bommai, fuel prices have risen consistently since the 1960s and 1970s. “We import crude oil. We’re a consuming nation. So, the fluctuation in the international market affects consuming nations,” he said.  Defending the Modi administration, Bommai gave a period-wise increase in petrol prices. “The price of petrol went up 150 per cent from Rs 1.25 to 3 in 1973-79, 122 per cent from Rs 3.60 to Rs 8 in 1979-86, 125 per cent from Rs 8 to Rs 18 in 1983-93, 55 per cent from Rs 18 to Rs 28 in 1993-2000, 70 per cent from Rs 28 to Rs 48 in 2000-07, 60 per cent from Rs 48 to 77 in 2007-14,” Bommai said. “Between 2014-21, petrol price is up from Rs 77 to about Rs 100, which is a 30 per cent increase.” According to Bommai, this price rise cannot be blamed on the current government. “[Siddaramaiah] used Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s words ‘criminal loot’ on price rise. But whoever has caused this price rise over the years also did criminal loot. Is 30 per cent loot more or 60 per cent loot? We can call it Congress loot,” Bommai said, adding that Congress had no moral right to speak on price rise.  This led to a din as Congress took objection to this statement.  Bommai also said nearly 40 per cent of the revenue from excise duty on fuel is given to the states. He added that procurement of food grains, MSP for farmers and highways development had seen a considerable increase under the Modi regime.  Asserting that fuel prices will be reigned in, Bommai said inflation stood at a “manageable” 6 per cent as against 16 per cent when the UPA was in power.  The CM, who is also the finance minister, said sales tax is the only resource available for the states in a post-GST world. “Siddaramaiah, when he was the CM, hiked sales tax. He did not slash even a single rupee,” Bommai said, ruling out any downward revision as demanded by Congress.  During the din, Siddaramaiah said Bommai’s speech is “the most irrelevant reply”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-cites-idli-dosa-rates-to-counter-cong-on-price-rise-1032420.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government tables Bill to protect illegal religious structures||On the defensive after a temple was demolished in Mysuru, the BJP government in Karnataka on Monday tabled a Bill in the state Assembly to 'protect' all religious structures that are illegally occupying public places.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai tabled the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill after it was approved in the Cabinet meeting he chaired earlier in the day. The passage of the Bill will virtually circumvent a 2009 Supreme Court order for demolition, relocation or regulation of unauthorised religious structures from public places.  The Bill is expected to protect 1,242 illegal religious structures that have come up across the state after the Supreme Court issued its order 12 years ago.  The definition of a religious structure, according to the Bill, includes "temple, church, mosque, gurudwara, bodh vihar, majar etc, constructed in a public place without authority of law". According to the government, the Bill is necessary "to provide for protection of religious constructions on a public place...in order to protect communal harmony and not to hurt the religious sentiments of the public".  The proposed legislation, as if anticipating punitive action from Supreme Court, also offers protection for "action taken in good faith" from any suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings. However, the Bill adds that no religious structure will enjoy protection "if any case relating to their removal is pending in any court of law and in such other circumstances as may be prescribed". Also, no religious structure or its construction will be allowed in a public place in the future, the Bill states.  The ruling BJP was caught on the backfoot after the Mysuru district administration razed the Ucchagani Mahadevamma temple recently. This snowballed into a major political issue as the BJP's own members went up in arms against the Bommai administration. Even Congress dubbed the government as "anti-Hindu". Bommai had to step in by ordering deputy commissioners to halt the demolition of illegal religious structures.  According to sources, the Cabinet discussed the legal tangle for the government to reconstruct the demolished Mysuru temple, leaving that to the BJP that has announced funds to build back the temple.   The government is expected to inform the Supreme Court of the new law. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-tables-bill-to-protect-illegal-religious-structures-1032457.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC fines petitioner Rs 10 lakh for suppressing facts||The Karnataka High Court on Monday imposed a cost of Rs 10 lakh on a businessman from Udupi district for suppressing facts in a public interest litigation (PIL). The petitioner, Prashanth Amin, had made allegations that a fish processing industry, owned by former minister Pramod Madhwaraj, was operating in violation of environmental laws. However, the petitioner had concealed the fact that he had business relations with the very company and a suit filed by him against the company is pending for adjudication. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma directed the petitioner to transfer the cost amount to the Advocates Clerks Association within a period of one month. The bench said the cost amount shall be utilised for the benefit of the members of the association who faced severe financial constraints during the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench directed the deputy commissioner of Udupi district to take steps to recover the cost amount as arrears of revenue by launching suitable proceedings, if the amount is not deposited within the stipulated time. In his PIL, Prashanth Amin had sought directions to the authorities for appropriate action against Raj Fishmeal and Oil Company for polluting the ecosystem. In the statement of objections, the company said that the petitioner had begun his career as a sub-agent and later as a main agent supplying ‘rotten fish’ to the company till March 2020. The company stopped buying fish from the petitioner after he started demanding more money during the pandemic. It was further claimed that the company is one of the oldest factories in fishmeal industries that produces fishmeal and fish oil. The company has set an example to almost all other fishmeal industries in the country by installing the most advanced technology. The company also claimed that there are four other industries in Udupi district involved in manufacturing of fishmeal and fish oil against whom the petitioner has not raised any objections regarding violation of pollution laws. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-fines-petitioner-rs-10-lakh-for-suppressing-facts-1032501.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC bins plea against Mangalore Airport privatisation||The High Court has dismissed the PIL filed by Airports Authority Employees Union challenging the privatisation of Mangalore International Airport. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma said that the petitioner-union had suppressed the fact that it had filed a petition before the Kerala High Court, challenging the privatisation of Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. The Union government had taken a decision to privatise Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and Mangaluru Airports under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP). The petitioner challenged the proceedings in respect of Mangalore International Airport, including the Concession Agreement dated February 14, 2020. Adani Enterprises had bagged all six tenders. The petitioner’s contention was that the decision was contrary to the statutory provisions under the Airports Authority of India Act. It said that only certain functions of the Airport can be leased out while the concession agreement executed is much beyond the scope of provisions. The court noted that Kerala High Court had dismissed various petitions, including the one filed by the union, on October 19, 2020. The bench observed that the petitioners should have disclosed this fact. “The petitioner-AAE Union has suppressed the vital information that the policy decision which is the subject matter of this petition was also challenged before the Kerala High Court and therefore, the present petition deserves to be dismissed on account of suppression of facts,” the bench said. Watch latest videos by DH here:  The bench also cited judgments of the Supreme Court and said the petitioner has not made out a case for interference in respect of the policy decision. The Supreme Court has held that a policy decision of the executive is best left to it and a court should not interfere with it unless the decision is mala fide, arbitrary, irrational or unreasonable. “The courts are ill-equipped to substitute the decisions and in the present case also it is purely a policy decision of the Government of India to lease out the airports for better management and functioning. Therefore, as the petitioner-AAE Union has not been able to point out violation of statutory provision of law and the constitutional provisions, the present writ petition deserves to be dismissed and it is accordingly dismissed,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-bins-plea-against-mangalore-airport-privatisation-1032502.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||37,000 died of Covid in two years in Karnataka, says K Sudhakar||The state has seen more than 37,000 deaths due to Covid-19 over the last two years, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Monday. The minister’s statement came even as the government has been accused of under-reporting Covid-19 deaths in the state. According to government data, between March 2020 and August 31, 2021, as many as 37,423 people have due to Covid-19, the minister said, responding to a question in the Legislative Council. In all, during this period, 9.4 lakh people have died due to various causes across Karnataka. The birth and death registry lists 46 different categories of death and about 221 various types of diseases are taken into account, he said. However, Congress member Prakash Rathod raised concerns about government data. “I am sure the number of deaths is far more than what the government has recorded,” he alleged, demanding a Covid death audit. Many people in rural areas have not come for tests or have not been hospitalised. Yet, they have died of Covid. Some have even died by suicide fearing Covid. All these must be added to the government data, he demanded. Also, such cases should be considered for the government’s Covid monetary compensation, he added. The minister said that the government has been conducting death audit right from the first wave of Covid. Finding cases of those who have died due to Covid but without hospitalisation is technically difficult, Sudhakar said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/37000-died-of-covid-in-two-years-in-karnataka-says-k-sudhakar-1032503.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid relief, package soon: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that Rs 1 lakh compensation for Covid victims from BPL families will be sanctioned in 2-3 days and said the government is thinking of a new relief package. He said that around 35,000 people had perished due to Covid and the government had received 7,000-8,000 applications seeking relief. It can be recalled that his predecessor B S Yediyurappa had announced Rs 1 lakh compensation for BPL families which lost an adult member during the pandemic. Earlier, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the relief amount was not released as the Central government too announced a similar initiative, but for which guidelines were yet to be issued. Bommai said that the state government was keen on assisting people and businesses as economic activity was witnessing a gradual increase following the second wave. "We will announce a package in the coming days," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-relief-package-soon-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1032504.html
20-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 677 new Covid cases, 24 deaths||Karnataka on Monday logged 677 new Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,68,543 and the toll to 37,627. The day also saw 1,678 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,16,530. Out of 677 new cases reported on Monday, 213 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 362 discharges and seven deaths. The total number of active cases stood at 14,358. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.60 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 3.54 per cent. Behind Bengaluru Urban in the number of deaths was Belagavi and Udupi (4 each), Hassan (3), Dakshina Kannada (2), followed by others. In cases in districts, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 102, Udupi 63, Uttara Kannada 41, Mysuru and Hassan 37, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,43,693, followed by Mysuru 1,77,329 and Tumakuru 1,19,937. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban headed the list with 12,20,278, followed by Mysuru 1,74,408 and Tumakuru 1,18,351. Cumulatively a total of 4,63,85,349 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,12,160 were on Monday alone Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-677-new-covid-cases-24-deaths-1032514.html
20-09-2021||West||BJP leader Somaiya stopped on way to Kolhapur||Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya on Monday claimed he was stopped by police at Karad in Maharashtra's Satara district while he was on his way to Kolhapur. Somaiya had on Sunday claimed he was barred from entering Kolhapur with the district authorities citing law and order as well as security concerns following his allegations of corruption against Maharashtra Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif. A few days back, Somaiya had accused Mushrif, the MLA from Kagal in Kolhapur, of indulging in corruption and holding 'benami' entities in the name of his kin, allegations dismissed as baseless by the latter. Somaiya, who boarded the Mahalaxmi Express in Mumbai on Sunday night to go to Kolhapur, in a tweet on Monday said, "Police stopped me at Karad under prohibitory order." He also said in his post that he would address a press conference in Karad to expose "one more scam" of Mushrif. Police stopped Me at Karad under Prohibitory order 9am Press Conference at Karad Circuit House I will expose 1 more scam of Hassan Mushrif पोलिसांनी मला निषेधाच्या आदेशान्वये कराडल थांबवले 9 वाजता कराड सर्किट हाऊसला मी पत्रकार परिषदेत हसन मुश्रीफ यांचा आणखी एक घोटाळा उघड करणारं Kolhapur Superintendent of Police Shailesh Balkawde told PTI that a team of district police reached Karad, and Somaiya was stopped at Karad railway station and served a copy of the (prohibitory) order. "After we told him that he was prohibited from entering the district, he cooperated and will now return after addressing a press conference in Karad," the official said. Somaiya on Sunday displayed an order from Kolhapur Collector Rahul Rekhawar that said the former had been prohibited from entering the district under section 144 of the IPC "in view of the threat to his life and possibility of law and order situation due to his visit".   The order also said the police would be occupied with Ganpati immersions and it would not be possible to provide security to Somaiya. Senior Inspector Sunil Kamble of Navghar police station in Mumbai had also issued a notice to Somaiya, asking him to follow the Kolhapur administration's order. Somaiya's residence at Mulund in Mumbai falls within the jurisdiction of Navghar police station. Somaiya had called the development as the "dadagiri" of the Uddhav Thackeray government. BJP Activists at Pune Station... I am on way to Kolhapur in Mahalakshmi Express Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had termed the move "dictatorial" and said the Thackeray government would not be able to stifle Somaiya's voice. Patil had said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was trying to suppress the voice of Somaiya, who was exposing the "corrupt" ministers. The Delhi Police recently arrested terrorists who were planning to execute subversive activities in Mumbai, the BJP leader had said, alleging that "while terrorists roam freely under the MVA-led government, around 150 policemen surround the house of Somaiya".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-leader-somaiya-stopped-on-way-to-kolhapur-1032275.html
20-09-2021||West||Over 34,000 idols immersed on last day of Ganpati festival in Mumbai; 3 boys who ventured into sea still missing||A total of 34,452 idols of Lord Ganesh and Goddess Gauri were immersed in water bodies across Mumbai on the last day of the Ganpati festival held under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic for the second year in a row, civic officials said on Monday. Three boys, who were swept away in the sea waters at Versova jetty here during the Ganesh idol immersion on the culmination of the 10-day festivities on Sunday night, were still missing. Two others accompanying them were rescued, they said. No other untoward incident was reported in the city during the final day immersions, the officials said. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said of the 34,452 idols immersed on Sunday, 13,442 were immersed in artificial lakes which were created across the city to avoid crowding at natural water bodies. Out of the total immersed idols, 5,043 were of 'sarvajanik' (public) mandals, 29,060 household Ganesh idols, and 349 idols of Goddess Gauri. Among the idols immersed in artificial lakes here, 11,387 were household Ganpati idols, 1,890 of public mandals and 165 of Goddess Gauri, the official said. The famed idol of the 'Lalbaug Cha Raja' Ganesh mandal in the metropolis was immersed at Girgaon Chowpatty by around 3 pm on Sunday, an official earlier said. The BMC also deployed 715 lifeguards at various natural and artificial immersion sites, he said. The festival began on September 10 across the state and was celebrated in a low-key manner for the second year in a row in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, more than 41,000 idols were immersed in various water bodies in the city on the second day of the festival, 66,000 on the fifth day and 15,000 on the seventh day. The BMC had capped the height of household Ganesh idols to two feet and of public mandals to four feet. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-34000-idols-immersed-on-last-day-of-ganpati-festival-in-mumbai-3-boys-who-ventured-into-sea-still-missing-1032324.html
20-09-2021||West||Javed Akhtar defamation case: Kangana Ranaut appears before Mumbai court||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut appeared before a Mumbai court on Monday in connection with a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The court had last week said it will issue a warrant against Ranaut if she fails to appear on the next date of hearing on September 20. Ranaut appeared before the metropolitan magistrate's court on Monday for the first time since summons was issued to her in February this year. Earlier this month, the Bombay High Court dismissed a plea filed by Ranaut seeking quashing of proceedings initiated against her by the local court on the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akhtar. Revati Mohite-Dere had said in the order that there was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the metropolitan magistrate's order initiating the proceedings. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the court in November last year, claiming Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/javed-akhtar-defamation-case-kangana-ranaut-appears-before-mumbai-court-1032337.html
20-09-2021||West||Javed Akhtar defamation case: Kangana says she has lost faith in magistrate Court||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut appeared before a Mumbai court on Monday in connection with a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar, and said she had "lost faith" in the magistrate's court as it indirectly "threatened" her of issuing a warrant if she failed to appear before it in a bailable offence. Ranaut also moved a counter complaint in the court against Akhtar for alleged "extortion and criminal intimidation", and her lawyer informed the court that they had filed an application before chief metropolitan magistrate, seeking transfer of hearing into the complaint to another court. The court had last week said it will issue a warrant against Ranaut if she fails to appear on the next date of hearing on September 20. Ranaut appeared before Andheri metropolitan magistrate R R Khan on Monday for the first time since summons was issued to her in February this year, and completed the bail formalities. As the matter came up for hearing, her lawyer Rizwan Siddique told that court that Ranaut does not want to proceed with this court (in connection with the complaint). Siddique said they have "lost faith in the court as it seems to be biased". The court has indirectly "threatened" her of issuing a warrant on two occasions in a non-cognisable, compoundable and bailable offence, where as per law regular presence is not required, the lawyer claimed. Ranaut has been called before the court without any cause or reason, he said. He further submitted that till today, there is no order as to why she is required to be present regularly for the bailable, non-cognisable and compoundable offence. Akhtar's lawyer Jay Bharadwaj termed Ranaut's plea for transfer of complaint to another court as "extremely bizzare". "They have neither given any notice nor a copy of the (transfer) application to us," he said. The court will hear the matter next on November 15. Earlier this month, the Bombay High Court dismissed a plea filed by Ranaut seeking quashing of proceedings initiated against her by the local court on the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akhtar. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere had said in the order that there was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the metropolitan magistrate's order initiating the proceedings. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the court in November last year, claiming Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/javed-akhtar-defamation-case-kangana-says-she-has-lost-faith-in-magistrate-court-1032355.html
20-09-2021||West|| AIMIM chief Owaisi denied nod to meet ex-MP Atiq Ahmad in Sabarmati jail||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi was on Monday denied permission by authorities here to meet former Uttar Pradesh MP Atiq Ahmad, who is lodged at the Ahmedabad-based Sabarmati Central Jail, in the wake of Covid-19 guidelines and other reasons, a party leader said. Owaisi is on a day-long visit to Ahmedabad to meet party workers, office bearers and supporters. He had also planned to meet Ahmad, the jailed gangster who recently joined the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). "The Sabarmati jail authorities denied permission to Owaisi to meet Atiq Ahmad on the ground of Covid-19 protocols and also since he is not Ahmad's blood relative," AIMIM Gujarat president Sabir Kabliwala said. The AIMIM had sought permission from jail authorities for a meeting between Owaisi and Ahmad in the jail premises, but it was denied at last moment, he said. Ahmad, who has several criminal cases lodged against him, was in June 2019 transferred to the high-security Sabarmati Central Jail here from the UP's Naini jail, where was lodged for allegedly kidnapping and assaulting a businessman, on directions of the Supreme Court. Owaisi's party had forayed into Gujarat politics with local body polls earlier this year and plans to field its candidates in state Assembly elections due next year. Earlier this month, Ahmad's wife Shaista Praveen joined the AIMIM at a press conference in Lucknow, while the jailed former MP joined the Owaisi-led party party in absentia. Ahmad was previously associated with various political parties, including the Samajwadi Party and the Apna Dal (Sonewal faction).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aimim-chief-owaisi-denied-nod-to-meet-ex-mp-atiq-ahmad-in-sabarmati-jail-1032370.html
20-09-2021||West||Kirit Somaiya puts up front against MVA govt||Amid a tussle between the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and opposition BJP, former lawmaker and senior leader Kirit Somaiya put up a front against the Thackeray-Pawar families.  Somaiya, who was convinced to disembark from the Mahalaxmi Express at Karad in Satara district while on way to Kolhapur, said that he would not stop and will continue to expose the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, its ministers and senior leaders.  “Who is running the government?… Who all are behind this?” Somaiya, a former MP asked, referring to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar. Earlier, Somaiya had targeted leaders including the then home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh, Shiv Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab, rural development minister Hasan Mushrif of NCP.  Somaiya said that he would soon visit Korlai in Alibaug vis-a-vis 19 bungalows of Rashmi Thackeray, the wife of the chief minister.  Besides, he would also go to Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Pvt Ltd, a sugar cooperative linked to Pawar’s nephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.  The MVA, however, refuted the allegations.  "I have been seeing what is happening... it was done to prevent a law and order situation," Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said, referring to Somaiya’s plan to visit Kolhapur.  "The chief minister’s office has nothing to do with it... the home department has taken a call looking at the law and order issue," he said.  Raut said that some of the “select people from the opposition” are making a “barrage of allegations” on ministers, however, it would be the courts that would take cognisance. "There is a move to destabilise the government... however, the government is absolutely stable... we must not pay heed to such allegations,” he said. Asked about the allegations against the chief minister’s wife and Somaiya’s plans to visit Korlai, he said: “Let them make allegations... let him go to Mars and find out.”  According to him, allegations are being made against prime minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. "There are allegations against BJP chief ministers, BJP-ruled states," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kirit-somaiya-puts-up-front-against-mva-govt-1032378.html
20-09-2021||West||Concerned about media reports on Shilpa Shetty's kids after Kundra's arrest, says Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Monday said it was concerned about media reports on actor Shilpa Shetty's minor children following the arrest of her businessman husband Raj Kundra in connection with the production and distribution of pornographic movies. Justice Gautam Patel was hearing a suit filed by Shetty against the alleged defamatory articles and videos published against her and her family after Kundra's arrest in July. Shetty, in her plea, had sought that the media be restrained from publishing “incorrect, false, malicious and defamatory” content. The court had, in July, said it cannot pass a blanket gag order on the media on reporting anything against Shetty. However, it had directed for three videos uploaded on YouTube to be deleted. On Monday, Shetty's counsel, Abhinav Chandrachud, told the court they were in talks with most of the defendants (media outlets and private persons running blogs and vlogs), and many of them had agreed to remove objectionable posts. The bench, while posting the matter for further hearing on October 1, directed the plaintiff to segregate the defendants into two categories – private vloggers and bloggers, and traditional media outlets. “Traditional media will understand rationale and competent advice. We cannot say the same about these private vloggers and bloggers,” Justice Patel said. The court also asked Chandrachud why the plaintiff was in a rush for the plea to be heard. “You (Shetty) are not going to be able to get a permanent injunction (against media reports), then why are you in a rush? This matter pertaining to Raj Kundra is going to go on for some more time,” Justice Patel said. “I am not concerned about Shilpa Shetty…she will handle herself. I am more concerned about her minor children. Media reports on Shetty's personal life with her children are of concern…in such matters, it is the children who are in the centre,” Justice Patel said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/concerned-about-media-reports-on-shilpa-shettys-kids-after-kundras-arrest-says-bombay-high-court-1032451.html
20-09-2021||West||Maharashtra register FIR against absconding terrorist in Pakistan-backed terror module||Taking investigations further into the Pakistan-based terror module, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has registered an FIR against the foreign-based handler of the three Mumbai-based persons arrested so far.  The person was identified as Antony alias Anwar alias Anas, who is based abroad.  Last week, the Delhi Police Special Cell busted the terror module and arrested six persons who were planning to target several important cities including Mumbai.  One of those arrested was Jaan Mohammed Shaikh alias Sameer Kalia, a resident of Dharavi in Mumbai, who was picked up by the Delhi sleuths from Jaipur as he was travelling in a train to the national capital.  Following the arrest, the Maharashtra ATS and Mumbai Police’s Crime Branch-CID swung into action, managing to arrest Zakir Hussain Shaikh, a resident of Jogeshwari. After his interrogation, Rizwan Momin was located in Mumbra. “During the search of his rented house, certain incriminating documents were seized,” ATS officials said. The mobile phone of Zakir Hussain Shaikh which was broken into three pieces by Rizwan and thrown into a drain near his residence has been recovered by ATS on Sunday afternoon, they added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-register-fir-against-absconding-terrorist-in-pakistan-backed-terror-module-1032529.html
20-09-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh case: I-T department detects alleged hidden income of Rs 17 crore||The Income Tax Department has detected "concealment of income" to the tune of Rs 17 crore after recent raids on institutions linked to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his family members, official sources claimed on Monday. The tax department also found alleged financial irregularities in a Nagpur-based Trust linked to the NCP leader that runs three educational institutions, they said. "Evidence found during the search clearly indicates concealment of income to the extent of about Rs 17 crore," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) claimed. While the CBDT said the raids were carried out on September 17 on 30 premises in Nagpur, Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata against a "prominent public figure in Nagpur and his family members", official sources identified the action as being conducted against Deshmukh. It added that "several" bank lockers found during the course of the search operation have been put under prohibitory orders. The 71-year-old former home minister of the state is being investigated by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on charges of alleged money laundering and payment of purported kickbacks in the police establishment of Maharashtra. He had to resign from his post in the cabinet of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in April after these allegations came to light. The ED recently moved a local court in Mumbai, seeking action against Deshmukh as he refused to appear before it in response to five summons for physical questioning. The CBDT said the business group has "wide business interest spanning the fields of education, warehousing and agri-business in Nagpur and other parts of Maharashtra". It claimed "many incriminating documents, loose sheets and other digital evidences were found and seized" during the searches. "These evidences clearly indicate the involvement of the group in unaccounted financial transactions made outside the regular books of accounts including inflation of expenses, money laundering, bogus donation receipts, unaccounted cash expenses etc," it said. The CBDT said evidence for receipt of "bogus donation" in the hands of the Trust run by the assessee group through money laundering using Delhi-based companies "to the extent of Rs 4 crore has been found". "This clearly substantiates the laundering of the unaccounted income of the assessee routed as donation to the Trust. "Specific evidences have been unearthed which reveal that three educational institutions of the Trust have indulged in inflation of expenses in which salaries paid to the employees were partly collected back in cash," it alleged. Such evidences, the statement claimed, were found for several financial years and amounted to more than Rs 12 crore. "The Trust, apart from suppression of receipts, has paid substantial amounts to brokers for arranging admissions. "Such payments, to the tune of about Rs 87 lakh have been paid in cash and are completely unaccounted," it stated. It said the "evidence" gathered during the searches is being examined and further investigations are in progress. The CBI first booked Deshmukh in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribe made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh had maintained that Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of the Mumbai Police commissioner.  Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-case-i-t-department-detects-alleged-hidden-income-of-rs-17-crore-1032531.html
20-09-2021||West||BJP will win Goa polls by historic majority, says Fadnavis; plays down threat of rebellion||Former Maharashtra chief minister and in-charge of Goa for the 2022 state assembly polls Devendra Fadnavis, on Monday, played down the threat of rebellion in the party's rank and file, expressing confidence that the ruling party would win a historic majority in the upcoming state assembly elections. Fadnavis also urged the media not to raise questions about the commitment of the members of former Chief Minister late Manohar Parrikar's family, especially his elder son Utpal, towards the BJP. When asked about the numerous anti-party comments made by BJP workers over the choice of party candidates for the upcoming polls, Fadnavis claimed that the ground reality was in fact something else, and that the BJP was heading towards the elections as a united force. "The BJP is a united face. The CM, the Ministers and party office bearers will work together and we will get a historic majority. People can see how much help you get from the Centre when there is the same government," Fadnavis told reporters at a press conference in Panaji, his first since he was appointed as the party's in-charge for the Goa polls. When asked about the BJP's penchant for poaching MLAs from other parties, especially the Congress in Goa, to form governments, Fadnavis said that the party will register a "historic majority" in the 2022 polls, which would do away with the necessity of poaching MLAs from opposition parties in the near future. "We will not face this situation in 2022. We are coming with a full majority in 2022. We are not complacent. Each election is a challenge. We will overcome all the challenges and I am confident," the Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra state legislative assembly said. When asked about the absence of former Union Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal's absence from the party's election campaign, Fadnavis said: "First of all, campaigning has not started. You can ask this question after campaigning begins. He (Utpal) will meet me. We have met in the past. There is no anger. At least do not raise questions about Parrikar's household. This is my request". Utpal Parrikar has been critical of the administration as well as the decisions taken both by the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led government and the BJP state unit. Soon after the death of his father in office, Utpal had also said that the BJP in Goa had deviated from the path of his late father, who was one of the tallest BJP leaders in the state. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-will-win-goa-polls-by-historic-majority-says-fadnavis-plays-down-threat-of-rebellion-1032554.html
