21-09-2021||First Edit||AUKUS changes everything||The newly announced military partnership ‘AUKUS’ between Australia, the UK and the US will have far-reaching implications for the strategic balance of power in Asia. Although the announcement of the alliance saw no mention of China, AUKUS is a response to Beijing’s increasingly assertive and aggressive rise in the Asia-Pacific. Biden administration officials have cited the need for the US to focus on the China threat as one of the main reasons for its decision to withdraw from Afghanistan. With the announcement of the AUKUS alliance, the US has wasted no time in putting in place a robust alliance to take on China. If in the wake of the US’ ignominious exit from Afghanistan it did seem that US influence in Asia was in terminal decline, AUKUS signals that Washington is acting swiftly and robustly to assert its power in the region. The new alliance indicates how much has changed in the world over the past few years. Three years ago, Australian leaders stated that they did not have to choose between the US and China. Given its strong trade ties with Beijing, Australia was reluctant to enter into a security arrangement with the US. But a nasty trade war that China unleashed on Canberra seems to have changed the latter’s mind. It has not only thrown in its lot with the US, but also a submarine deal will see Australia armed with nuclear-powered submarines. So, where does that leave the Quad and India? Did the US, tired of India’s hesitation in entering a military alliance, simply decide to move on to more willing partners? However, it does seem that Quad and AUKUS are parallel tracks that the US is undertaking to counter China, with the former involving co-operation among countries in non-military areas such as vaccine diplomacy, and the latter being an overtly military alliance. Whether the two tracks remain separate or the Quad merges with AUKUS in future remains to be seen. Meanwhile, AUKUS will take the pressure off India for a while to submit to a military alliance with the US. It will give New Delhi time to think through the need to join one or not against China. There are issues of concern, however, that India must plan for. For one, AUKUS could occupy America’s attention, paving the way for Quad to wither away, which could leave India without security arrangements to lean on in times of need. Additionally, military alliances have always triggered arms races, and AUKUS is unlikely to be different. China can be expected to strengthen its military ties with allies like Pakistan, perhaps gift them nuclear submarines. This would have grave implications for India’s security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/aukus-changes-everything-1032894.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 13.88 lakh seized at Mangalore International Airport||The officials from Mangaluru customs seized 293.62 grams 24-carat gold at Mangalore International Airport on Tuesday. According to the officials, the seized gold is worth Rs 13,88,823. A passenger hailing from Kasargod had arrived at the airport from Dubai. The bag of gold was concealed between two layers of black cloth inside a floral design blanket. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-1388-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-international-airport-1032748.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Admissions open for BVA at CAVA||Admissions are open for BA in Visual Arts for the academic year 2021-22 at Chamarajendra Government College of Visual Arts (CAVA), affiliated to the University of Mysore (UoM), states a press note from Dean B R Poornima. The Bachelors of Visual Arts (BVA), four year, eight semester, courses are offered in painting, graphic designing, photography, photo journalism, history of art and applied arts. Application may be submitted to the college office before September 30. Eligibility test and interview will be held on October 4. For details call : 0821-2438931. Visit: http://www.mysore.nic.in or http://www.cavamysore.karnataka.gov.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/admissions-open-for-bva-at-cava-1032766.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Inter-school health quiz held in Mysuru||St Joseph’s Central School emerged winner in the inter-school health quiz competition season 3 organised by Columbia Asia Hospitals, Mysuru, a unit of Manipal Hospitals, in association with Mysuru chapter of Cardiology Society of India (CSI) to mark World Heart Day. Sadvidya School emerged runners-up. The winners and runners-up get a trophy and cash prize. “It was one of the first digital versions to be organised in Mysuru with 11 schools participating comprising 37 teams and 74 participants. It was held to test and enrich the student’s knowledge on health,” said Dr Sasirekha, consultant interventional cardiologist. “It is important to instill healthy habits among children. The quiz enabled them to get basic knowledge on how the human body works, current affairs and global emerging patterns and changing lifestyle in a fun and learning environment,” she said. “Many students would pursue healthcare in future. Such events help them to know more about healthcare issues. It creates awareness on World Heart Day and its purpose,” said Dr Veena and Dr Veenu of CSI. “Columbia Asia School Quiz is an opportunity for the students to get an exposure in the field of healthcare. It is an enriching experience even for us,” said Dr Gautam Das, general manager, Columbia Asia Hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/inter-school-health-quiz-held-in-mysuru-1032769.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Residents of Kalalawadi face transportation woes||Residents of Kalalawadi village off HD Kote Road on the outskirts of Mysuru are facing transportation issues as bus services have stopped for the last two years due to the poor condition of the road from Gurur to Kalalawadi village. The villagers have to walk a distance of about 2 kilometres to reach the bus stop. Most of the villagers depend on bus services to commute to work for education, hospital, shopping, etc. The absence of a safe road adds to the agony in the life of the residents, especially school-going children and elderly people as they are afraid of wild animal attacks, mostly of leopards. "Petitions have been given to the KSRTC bus depot for extension of bus services from Kalalawadi Gate on HD Kote Road up to Kalalawadi village. But, the officials have not taken any step in this regard," said Shivaram, Grama Panchayat Member. There are 80 families in the village and agriculture is the main source of their livelihood. However, they commute to Mysuru city for some jobs. The students have to walk a total of about 4 kilometres up and down to go to school as the village school has only up to class 7. The parents are struggling to drop them to the bus stop and also to pick them up on their return after their school hours. The road is poorly lit during the night as there are no street lights. The Grama Panchayat officials said that the lights had been sanctioned and were yet to be installed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/residents-of-kalalawadi-face-transportation-woes-1032771.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three cows die mysteriously in Belur||Three cows died under mysterious circumstances at their cow shed after returning from grazing at Ballenahalli near Belur on Tuesday. The cows belonged to Rangaswamy. He had tethered the cows at the shed after they returned from grazing. He found the cows dead when he went to milk them in the evening. Alleging that the cows have been poisoned, he said they were giving around 40 litres of milk every day and the family was dependent on them. Only two calves have been left, he said. Senior veterinary officer Dr A L Jagadish of Sankenahalli said that the cows might have consumed poisonous plants and died instantly after consuming water upon returning. The exact reason will be known after the post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-cows-die-mysteriously-in-belur-1032776.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Raitha Sangha supports Bharat Bandh on Sept 27||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene have extended support to the 'Bharat Bandh' called by Samyukta Kisan Morcha on September 27 against the amendment to farm laws. The members of the outfits will stage a protest in Mysuru city. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, Raitha Sangha district president Vidyasagar T Ramegowda said that the farmers would take out a protest rally from the Gun House and pass through Mysuru City Corporation office on Sayyaji Rao Road, Dhanvantri Road and culminate at the DC's office. They would submit a memorandum to the Prime Minister and Chief Minister through the DC urging to withdraw the anti-farmer policies. Association convenor Manju Kiran said that the sales of agricultural lands after lockdown had increased by around 67%. Agricultural lands were being sold to capitalists. The policies of the government had turned difficult for the farming community. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/raitha-sangha-supports-bharat-bandh-on-sept-27-1032778.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Auto driver killed in mishap near KB Palya||An auto driver was killed on the spot in a collision between a car and his autorickshaw near KB Palya on Hassan-Holenarasipur Road on Tuesday morning. It is reported that the car driver took an U-turn on the highway when he hit an unregistered car and then the autorickshaw. The auto driver was thrown out from the vehicle and died on the spot. The car and the auto toppled due to the impact of the collision. Both the car drivers have abandoned the cars and fled the spot. The police have seized the vehicles and a case is registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/auto-driver-killed-in-mishap-near-kb-palya-1032780.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt yet to name invitee to inaugurate Dasara||The government is yet to choose the invitee to inaugurate the 412th annual 10-day festival (nine days this year) atop the Chamundi Hill on October 7 with just 15 days left for 'Naada Habba Dasara 2021'. The name of Saalu Marada Thimmakka is being speculated. However, the onus is on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who has been given the authority to choose the dignitary. Dr C N Manjunath, Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, inaugurated the festival last year, which was dedicated to Covid warriors. Dasara celebrations have been scaled down for the second consecutive year due to Covid. The 'Jamboo Savari' will be held on October 15 within the Palace premises like previous year instead of a 6-km procession till Bannimantapa grounds. The Mysuru Palace, housing the pachyderms brought from the wild to Mysuru to participate in the Vijayadashami celebrations, continued their second day rehearsal carrying sand bags. While Abhimanyu, 43 years, from Mathigodu camp, was given weight training on Monday, Dhananjaya from Dubare camp was chosen on Tuesday to carry the sand bags weighing 400 kg. Abhimanyu carried around 200 kgs and was taken on two rounds inside the Palace premises with other six jumbos. Thirty eight-year-old Gopalaswamy from Mathigodu will be trained on Wednesday, according to Forest department sources. Cannon firing The mock drill for cannon firing was held on the Palace premises on Tuesday. Around 15 personnel, belonging to City Armed Reserve (CAR) took part in the drill. The rehearsal of cannon firing will be held thrice before the festival to acclimatise the jumbos and the horses to the deafening sound. The first round of rehearsal will be held in the next four to five days, it is said. Palace jumbo A Palace jumbo allegedly broke the chain and created ruckus on the Palace premises on Monday evening creating panic among the people. However, it was brought under control with the help of Dasara elephants Abhimanyu and Dhananjaya. It might have got uneasy watching the new elephants on the premises or might have got disturbed which is common among animals, said a mahout. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-yet-to-name-invitee-to-inaugurate-dasara-1032781.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hundreds watch mock drill of rescue at railway station in Mysuru||Hundreds of people, mostly from the families of the employees of the Railways and from the neighbourhood thronged Ashokapuram railway station in Mysuru, on Tuesday to watch a full-scale mock drill of a train derailment-induced rescue and relief operation. Mysuru division of South Western Railway (SWR), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Railway Protection Force, Railway Police, State government personnel from the civil administration and the Police conducted the mock drill. The scenario: derailment and capsizing of two general second class passenger coaches SWR 91604 and SWR 92665 of Train No 06220 Tirupati-Chamarajanagar Express around 9.56 am. On receiving the message, the railway officials rushed to the accident site to carry out rescue operations as per the standard protocols. The NDRF team, led by Harish Chandra Pandey, Inspector, General Duty, and 20 personnel, reached the site within 20 minutes. Personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services department, doctors and nursing staff from the railway hospital along with ambulances were at the spot to provide first aid and assist in taking out about 15 passengers trapped in two coaches. The operation lasted for about 70 minutes and was completed by 11.40 am. Divisional Railway Manager Rahul Agarwal said, “Train accidents and natural disasters cause widespread destruction of infrastructure and property. The economic and environmental costs can be devastating. If fail-safe management systems are in place, a great deal of relief would be possible to victims of such disasters.” “The drill was held to test the efficacy of the Disaster Management Plan that includes a range of activities enabling the personnel from different departments of the railways to practice safety-related measures during an emergency. Disaster management aims to reduce the potential loss of human lives and property by assuring prompt and appropriate assistance at the earliest possible time,” he said. Agarwal said,"The correct methods of conducting mock exercises will go a long way in improving the preparedness to deal with and also to prevent disasters due to human factor. Minimising the impact, loss of human lives or damage to infrastructure are of paramount importance. Preventive measures are assigned the highest priority during such drills to mitigate the sufferings of victims as mandated by the Ministry of Railways,” he said. The DRM said, "Adequate maintenance schedules of all relief and rescue equipment including those in accident relief trains and cranes are being ensured as laid down in the rules to ensure operational readiness at all times. Mysuru division of SWR is equipped with necessary relief requirements like Self-Propelled Accident Relief Train (SPART), locomotive hauled accident relief trains, 140 tonne crane and medical relief train with trained personnel.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hundreds-watch-mock-drill-of-rescue-at-railway-station-in-mysuru-1032786.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Viveka Memorial: Karnataka HC dismisses writ petition||A movement launched to save Maharani's New Type Model (NTM) School faced a setback with the High Court dismissing the writ petition filed by a few students on Tuesday. A few students of NTM School had filed the writ petition before the High Court against the State and Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama. They had alleged that the shifting of NTM School infringed upon their fundamental Right to Education and challenged the transfer of land to Ramakrishna Ashrama. With the dismissal of the writ petition, all the contentions the students raised have been rejected by the Court. In view of this, there is no impediment for the State to implement the government order dated January 9, 2013 and subsequent orders passed in continuation of the same, according to a press release from Swami Muktidananda of Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama. Member of Maharani New Type Model School Horata Samiti, Sa Ra Sudarshan said,"The verdict has been given. This is not the end of the legal battle. We will continue with the next option." The activists have been opposing the construction of a Viveka Memorial by Ramakrishna Ashrama at the school site. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/viveka-memorial-karnataka-hc-dismisses-writ-petition-1032788.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||It's curtains down for Mysuru's Saraswathi theatre||Saraswathi theatre, that was entertaining the cine buffs for around three decades, has downed its shutters citing heavy loss due to Covid pandemic. Saraswathi theatre in Saraswathipuram was one of the big theatres in the city. This has met the same fate of Shantala and Lakshmi theatres. No films were screened for the last one and a half years. Screening popular Kannada films, the theatre was sought after by those coming to the city from rural pockets and also to the residents of Kuvempunagar, Ramakrishnanagar, Jayalakshmipuram, Bogadi, Paduvarahalli and other places. It also attracted more people as the show timings of Saraswathi theatre were different from other theatres. While a few films have completed 50 days, Dr Vishnuvardhan's Aptamitra ran for more than 100-days in the theatre. Most of the films starring Puneeth Rajkumar were screened here. Theatre owner C G Narayana told DH, "As most of the films are released via OTT platform people have got used to watching films from their houses. We are facing losses for the last two years. As it was not profitable to run the theatre, it has been closed." "The tax policy of the corporation has been causing loss to the theatre owners. It is 300 % more in Mysuru than in Bengaluru. We have to pay Rs 4.5 lakh per year without any income. It is doubtful for the people to return to theatres even if Covid comes under control. It has become difficult to manage the bills, salaries to the workers and other expenditures."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/its-curtains-down-for-mysurus-saraswathi-theatre-1032796.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former Legislative Council V R Sudarshan condemns Bommai's stand on farmers' protest in Delhi||Former chairman of the Legislative Council V R Sudarshan said that he did not expect a comment by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai deemed to be sensitive that the agitation in Delhi against the farm laws was sponsored by the Congress. Addressing a media conference here on Tuesday, Sudarshan said, "It was not right on the part of the CM to speak so lightly about the agitators. Does this mean that Bommai has never participated in protests in favour of farmers? Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa is always remembered as the champion of farmers. He always strived for the rights of farmers. Bommai, who was a choice of Yediyurappa, should not issue such statements on protests concerning farm laws.” He said, "No government can fulfill all demands of the agitators. However, the NDA government led by the BJP at the Centre could have lent an ear to the agitators and could have cleared the confusions. It could have fulfilled at least a few of the demands. But, the Centre did not bother to take the agitators into confidence.” On the State government, he said that the developments in the BJP indicated early elections to the Assembly. The election to Karnataka Assembly would probably be held simultaneously with Uttar Pradesh. This was heard in the BJP circles itself. On the chief minister candidate in the Congress, Sudarshan said, "Now the question on the CM candidate is irrelevant. When the Congress wins a majority in the Assembly polls, the Legislative party meeting will be held to choose a leader and his or her name will be sent to All India Congress Committee (AICC) for approval. The party high command will finalise the CM candidate.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-legislative-council-v-r-sudarshan-condemns-bommais-stand-on-farmers-protest-in-delhi-1032800.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest officials see similarities between killer tiger and carcass found||Assistant Conservator of Forest Sathish Kumar said that there were similarities between the tiger that killed a tribal boy of Ayyanakere and a carcass that was found recently. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, he said that the stripes on the body of the tiger that was found in camera trapping in July was similar to the tiger that had killed the tribal boy and the carcass found recently. 20-year-old Ganesh was killed in a tiger attack on September 8. Based on the pug marks, cameras were placed at 20 places. The pictures of the tiger that killed the youth were captured in two cameras. Following this, a cage was also placed to trap the tiger. "Combing operation was launched with the help of elephants Ganesh, Arjuna, Balarama and Bheema to trace the tiger. The wild cat could not be spotted anywhere in the forest. However, jumbo Ganesh was helpful in tracing the carcass near Kallakere," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-officials-see-similarities-between-killer-tiger-and-carcass-found-1032812.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Flash flood: Pregnant woman waits 3 hours for an ambulance in Kalaburagi||A pregnant woman had to wait for about three hours in an ambulance near a submerged low-lying bridge between Pattan village and Kalaburagi in the early hours of Tuesday. However, the deft driver of the 108 ambulance managed to ferry the woman to the a hospital braving flood waters. Heavy showers lashed Pattan, Gola and Kadaganchi villages of Aland taluk in the wee hours of Tuesday. A flash flood submerged the bridge connecting Pattan and Kalaburagi, thus cutting off road connectivity. As Rasika Patil of Pattan developed labour pain in the morning, her family members called a 108 ambulance to ferry the pregnant woman to Savalagi Primary Health Centre. As the water was gushing above the low-lying bridge, the ambulance ferrying the pregnant woman had to wait for three hours. However, Mohammed Ali, the driver of the ambulance was worried that any more delay may result in deterioration of the woman's condition, and took the risk of navigating across the submerged bridge. Over 20 girl students headed to the high school in Pattan neighbouring villages returned home since there was no sign of the floods receding. Tur crop has been damaged as water entered the agricultural lands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flash-flood-pregnant-woman-waits-3-hours-for-an-ambulance-in-kalaburagi-1032842.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard scare: Holiday for 12 schools in Hubballi||Holiday has been declared for 12 schools in areas surrounding Nrupatunga Betta in Hubballi, where a leopard was sighted. A ;leopard was sighted at Kendriya Vidyalaya No 1 ground at Raj Nagar on Saturday last after which offline classes in the schools in the vicinity were suspended. The leopard was found again at Shiradi Nagar on Monday. On Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh patil issued an order declaring holiday for 12 schools at Shiradi Nagar, Chamundeshwari Nagar, Santosh Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Vishweshwar Nagar and surrounding areas. Classes should be conducted online till the leopard is caught, Patil said. Meanwhile, entry of citizens to the pyramid meditation centre adjacent to the Betta is also prohibited. The leopard was first sighted at Nrupatunga Betta on September 15 night, and entry of visitors to the Betta has since been stopped.The Forest department has launched a search operation to trap the leopard. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-scare-holiday-for-12-schools-in-hubballi-1032845.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere records first dengue death||A 13-year old girl reportedly died of dengue in Bapuji hospital in the city on Tuesday, triggering fear among people in the district. Sumaya Kousar, native of Kerebilachi village in the taluk. daughter of Mujahid, had been suffering from dengue for the past 15 days. She was given treatment in general hospital in the village and in Channagiri town. As her condition worsened, she was shifted to Bapuji hospital in the city where she breathed her last. She was studying in class 8 in a government school in the village. Mujahid, father of the girl, complained that the absence of cleanliness was the reason for the outbreak of dengue in the village and that claimed the life of her daughter. He demanded gram panchayat staff to clean the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-records-first-dengue-death-1032900.html
21-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress, JD(S) MLCs walk out over Local Funds Authorities Bill||Opposing the Karnataka Local Funds Authorities Fiscal Responsibilities Bill, on the grounds that it would pave way for financial irregularities, the Congress and the JD(S) MLCs staged a walkout from the Upper House on Monday. The Bill was eventually passed. The Bill seeks to recognise the Urban Development Department (with respect to Urban Local Bodies) and RDPR department (with regard to Panchayat Raj institutions) as competent authorities to oversee the compliance of the Act and for periodical review reports. Until now, the Accounts department was the competent authority for the same. Raising objection to the Bill, Congress MLC PR Ramesh said that the proposed legislation paved way for financial irregularities. “By handing over the power to these departments, basically the government is ensuring that there is no financial accountability as there will be no one to monitor how these funds are being used. This will be an administrative disaster,” he said. The MLC’s view was backed by other Opposition legislators too, who feared that by making this switch, these funds will be out of the purview of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) and the Accounts department. However, ruling party leader Kota Srinivas Poojary assured that the proposed legislation was only meant for administrative decentralisation, but it would not be out of the purview of the CAG to review finances. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-jds-mlcs-walk-out-over-local-funds-authorities-bill-1032839.html
21-09-2021||Main Article||Draupadi, DU and inconvenient truths||Delhi University enjoys the stature of an ‘Institute of Eminence’ in the Indian educational set-up. In less than a year from now, the university, established in 1922 with just four colleges, will celebrate its 100th Foundation Day. Its motto is “Nishta Dhriti Satyam”, which translates to mean dedication, steadfastness and truth. With some 6.5 lakh students (conventional and distance-mode) enrolled across more than 500 programmes and over 90 colleges affiliated to it, DU stands out as a premier institute of higher learning. It is this prestigious university with its rich history that has now decided to drop some inconvenient truths from its syllabus. Of those erased from the BA (Honours) syllabus is the late Dhaka-born author Mahashweta Devi, a winner of the Jnanpith award, the Padma Vibhushan, the Indira Gandhi Award for National Integration, the Sahitya Akademi award for Bengali writers and the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Journalism, Literature, and Creative Communication Arts. The axe has fallen on Mahashweta Devi’s short story Draupadi, which is a raw, chilling and explicit story of a tribal woman brutalised by Indian security forces. The English translation from the Bengali original by post-colonial theorist Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak has now been dropped from the BA (Honours) course, stirring a controversy after 15 Academic Council members protested, but a rival group endorsed the change. The changes were ordered by DU’s Oversight Committee, which also dropped from the syllabus the works of two Dalit writers, Bama Faustina Soosairaj and Sukirtharani. The changes, and their enthusiastic endorsement by the DU administration, have led to new fears of political control on academia and what this might mean for an education system that is already under strain. This is not the first time that political considerations are determining what the universities should teach, or which books should be banned. But the action this time is blatant, and worse, is explained away in equally blatant language on what these stories do to “India’s image”. Consider the DU registrar saying that the “gruesome” details in the sexual assault of Draupadi in the story are “uncomfortable” and also show the Indian forces in a very poor light. “We don’t want our students to hate them (Indian security forces) based on fictional stories,” he has been quoted as saying. Later, in a signed statement, the DU registrar Vikas Gupta said: “The university subscribes to the idea that the literary content forming part of the text in a language course of study should contain materials which do not hurt the sentiments of any individual and is inclusive in nature to portray a true picture of our society…(this) is important for young minds who imbibe the content…” The university statement has come in for severe criticism. Three members of the Delhi University Academic Council and the Delhi University Teachers’ Association said the administration was “complicit in the unethical and the unacademic chopping of authors”. Among other changes, two poems by the Dalit poet Sukirtharani and selections from Bama’s Sangati were excluded from the syllabus. Some 1,500 writers, academics, artists and celebrities who petitioned DU against the step argued that these writings are essential readings, noting that “Bama and Sukirtharani articulate the lived experience of being Dalit women in contemporary India. They illumine how caste oppression colludes with modes of patriarchy to produce gendered oppression and exploitation.” The dropped writers were part of a core paper of the final year English (Honours) syllabus, titled ‘Women’s Writings’ that aims to explore past and contemporary lives of women in India and elsewhere. Both Bama and Sukirtharani are Tamilian Dalit authors, and are therefore important for a central university, located in Delhi, to teach the regional diversity of contemporary India. They also bring out the complex, discriminatory socio-cultural realities of India, both past and present. Another text that has been removed is a feminist reading of the Ramayana, which had been part of a DSE (Discipline Specific Elective) paper titled “Pre-colonial Indian Literature.” The university’s Oversight Committee has instructed the English department to replace Chandrabati’s Ramayana with Tulsidas. Chandrabati, who lived in what is now Bangladesh, is believed to be the first Bengali woman poet. Chandrabati wrote a woman-centric version of the Ramayana, which has been translated into English by the noted academic Nabaneeta Dev Sen. Little is known about the author, except that her version of the Ramayana is believed to be sung even today by peasant women in Bangladesh. But Chandrabati’s work is a unique example of looking at the Ramayana from Sita’s point of view, and it also comes well before works that questioned the undisputed place of Lord Rama in India. Nineteenth century Bengali poet Michael Madhusudhan Dutt, who followed some 300 years after Chandrabati, challenged the position of Rama over Ravana. The Lankan monarch is the hero of Dutt’s works and not portrayed as a demon king. His Meghnad Badh Kavya about the killing of Ravana’s son Meghnad, while he is unarmed and worshipping at a Lankan temple, is portrayed as an act of cowardice by Rama’s brother Lakshmana. Lionising Ravana is not new in India. While his effigies are burnt across the country on Dussehra, his devotees worship at the five temples dedicated to Ravana in India. The village Ravangram in Vidisha has one of the most famous temples of Ravana, whose wife Mandodari is believed to be from the place. There is also a temple at Mandsaur, where they are believed to have been married. Both Vidisha and Mandsaur are in the state of Madhya Pradesh. In her original introduction to the collection of stories, of which Draupadi is one, Mahashweta Devi wrote: “Life is not mathematics, and the human being is not made for the sake of politics. I want a change in the present social system and do not believe in mere party politics.” It is the misfortune of DU to have to show that the system isn’t changing and politics will rule, more forcefully and blindly than ever before. (The writer is the Managing Editor of The Billion Press) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/draupadi-du-and-inconvenient-truths-1032897.html
21-09-2021||National||Threats to Hinduism 'imaginary', says Union Home Ministry in RTI reply||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre has dismissed all claims pertaining to any perceived threats to the Hindu religion, stating such apprehensions as merely 'hypothetical' or 'imaginary'. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) headed by Amit Shah has categorically stated that it has no records or evidence concerning any so-called 'threats' to Hindu religion, in a recent RTI reply to Nagpur-based activist Mohnish Jabalpure. In an RTI query on August 31, Jabalpure had sought proof of "threats to the 'Hindu religion' in the country" that the MHA had in its possession. After a month, the MHA's CPIO (Internal Security) V S Rana responded to the effect that they are neither aware of nor possess any evidence suggesting alleged dangers to 'Hindu religion'. The reply said that as per the RTI Act rules, the Public Information Officer (PIOs) can only provide information that is available with them, or which is falling within their jurisdiction. However, since the Centre has no records concerning this, Rana contended that it was not possible to respond to the query of Jabalpure and hence it was treated as void. "This is the first time a key functionary of the MHA has said even any query pertaining to 'threats to Hindu religion' is imaginary and admitted on record that they have been no records to support any such speculation...," said Jabalpure. Despite this, he alleged that the BJP and its affiliates, for vested political gains, continue to foment a fear psychosis among the Hindus that their religion and religious identity are in grave danger, he pointed out. "The RSS's flagship prayer in Sanskrit, 'Namaste Sada Vatsale Matrabhume', refers to saving Hindu religion and Bharatmata, which is chanted by all its activists across the country daily twice," Jabalpure said. He wondered how -- when the Centre has confidently assured that Hinduism is not at any risk from any quarters -- can the RSS drill such ideas through a daily prayer into the minds of its ordinary swayamsevaks, and said he plans to challenge it in the court as it goes against the tenets of the Indian Constitution. Nevertheless, Jabalpure says he is "extremely grateful" to the MHA officer Rana for his clear-cut reply -- which should bury all political controversies on this sensitive issue and spell relief to the majority and minority communities.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/threats-to-hinduism-imaginary-says-union-home-ministry-in-rti-reply-1032570.html
21-09-2021||National||Sidhu hails Channi's appointment as Punjab CM||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu hailed the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Punjab CM, saying it will 'reverberate' through India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidhu-hails-channis-appointment-as-punjab-cm-1032592.html
21-09-2021||National||UK says it is working with India on recognition of vaccine certificates||The United Kingdom is working with India on recognition of the Covid-19 vaccination certificates issued by Government of India, the British High Commission in New Delhi stated on Monday. The UK signalled its willingness to discuss the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi as its new travel rules drew flak in India. The issue is likely to come up when Modi and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will hold a bilateral meet during their visit to Washington DC for separate meetings with American President Joe Biden. The new travel rules recently introduced by the British Government refused to recognise people travelling to the UK as vaccinated even if they had received the both doses of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccines under the inoculation programme in India. This triggered widespread condemnation in India, with senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor protested, by pulling out of a debate at the Cambridge University as well as from another event to launch his new book in the UK. His party colleague Jairam Ramesh too said that the new UK travel rules smacked of racism. “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” a spokesperson of the British High Commission in New Delhi said. The UK is committed to opening up international travel “as soon as is practicable” and the new rules were a “further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health”, the spokesperson said. Covishield was developed by the AstraZeneca PLC and the Oxford University and is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in India. According to the British Government’s new travel rules, only the people who had been inoculated with the vaccines such as the ones developed by AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna or the single shot one developed by Johnson and Johnson’s “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas”, would be considered fully vaccinated. Besides, people inoculated under the programmes run by the public health authorities in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan would also be considered fully vaccinated. The new rules, which will come into force on October 4, implied that people who had received both doses of the Covishield in India would be considered unvaccinated and hence would have to go through quarantine procedures on arrival in the UK. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-says-it-is-working-with-india-on-recognition-of-vaccine-certificates-1032593.html
21-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Remember? We had promised change 5 years ago?!'||58-year-old Charanjit Singh Channi, a leader from the Dalit community became the 16th Chief Minister of Punjab, the first scheduled-caste Chief Minister in the state as Congress leadership sought to fire-fight the near rebellion from former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-remember-we-had-promised-change-5-years-ago-1032599.html
21-09-2021||National||Modi-Biden bilateral meet will strengthen India-US relation, boost Quad, says White House official||The maiden bilateral meet between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden on Thursday will allow taking the relationship between the two countries from strength to strength while helping in reinforcing and giving momentum to the Quad grouping, a White House official has said. Both Biden and PM Modi have spoken virtually on multiple occasions after the former, a Democrat, became US president in January. The last telephone conversation between Prime Minister Modi and President Biden took place on April 26. "The leaders will be focused on strengthening the deep ties between their people and shared democratic values that have underpinned the special bond between the United States and India for more than seven decades," a White House official told PTI. "The Biden-Harris administration has enhanced our partnership with India by working together to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, leading efforts to end the Covid-19 pandemic, and taking concerted action to address the climate crisis," the official said. Addressing a press conference earlier, a senior official of the administration said the Biden-Modi meeting would be an opportunity to go from strength to strength, from the point of view of the partnership with India. This can be done by working together to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, by taking steps to contribute to a global solution to the Covid-19 pandemic and by taking concerted action to address the climate crisis, the official said. "So, the bilateral discussion between the US and India will help reinforce and give momentum to the Quad discussion because many of the topics are very much interrelated," the official said. "Additionally, in the bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi, the two leaders will have the opportunity to talk about counter-terrorism, the Afghanistan situation and how we can work together to fight terrorism, our common enemy, as well as about a range of regional issues and developments where we'll have the opportunity to compare notes," said the senior administration official. The official noted that the relationship between the United States and India goes so much deeper than just a government-to-government relationship. "It is a relationship between the two peoples. I think Prime Minister Modi and President Biden want to talk about the ways of pulling our countries even closer together at basically every level of interaction between our societies," added the official. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-biden-bilateral-meet-will-strengthen-india-us-relation-boost-quad-says-white-house-official-1032613.html
21-09-2021||National||US Vice-President Kamala Harris to meet PM Narendra Modi on September 23||US Vice-President Kamala Harris will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on September 23, a day ahead of the maiden bilateral meet between him and President Joe Biden and the Quad Summit at the White House, officials have said. "The Vice President will meet with His Excellency Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India," a White House official told PTI. This will be the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone during the Covid-19 crisis. Harris is the first-ever person of Indian origin to be elected as the vice-president of the United States. During this week, when world leaders will gather in New York to attend the annual session of the UN General Assembly, Harris, according to the White House, is scheduled to hold meetings with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday, Zambian President Hakainde Hichilema on Wednesday and President of Ghana Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo on Thursday. On Wednesday, she will also lead a session at the President's virtual Covid Summit on building back better and preparing and preventing future pandemics, according to a senior White House official. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-vice-president-kamala-harris-to-meet-pm-narendra-modi-on-september-23-1032615.html
21-09-2021||National||Chinese PLA carries out night battle drill at 16,000 feet height near Indian border||Chinese People's Liberation Army carried out a night battle exercise at over 16,000 feet on the heights of Xinjian, near the Indian border amid the two countries' border dispute in eastern Ladakh and ongoing military and diplomatic talks to resolve it. The Western Theatre Command carried out the night battle exercise recently to boost their capabilities, sources said. The theatre command oversees the Xinjiang and the Tibet autonomous regions as well as the border with India, making it the largest geographical area under one command in the PLA. Earlier this year, China had brought troops from the Tibet Military region to the Xinjiang region that is responsible for Karakoram Pass down to south Uttarakhand. Further, they have deployed larger numbers of long-range artillery and are rapidly building infrastructure on the Tibetan plateau. After these troops were brought, the PLA has started carrying out military exercises in the region. Further, China has refurbished its existing airfields in Tibetan plateau that will allow twin-engines fighter aircraft to be stationed. They are currently revamping 30 airports built or under construction in Xinjiang and Tibet for military transportation. China has revamped infrastructure in Tibet, launching a high-speed bullet train connecting provincial capital Lhasa with Nyingchi, the Tibetan border town close to Arunachal Pradesh. The Chinese have also been rapidly enhancing military infrastructure at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after clashes with India last year. India too has reoriented around 50,000 troops whose main focus is now at the disputed border with China. Both the countries decided to resolve the issue through talks. Last month, in another major breakthrough, India and China withdrew troops from friction point, Patrolling Point (PP) 17 in Gogra at the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Both the countries have ceased forward deployments in this area in a phased, coordinated and verified manner. Indian military delegates will meet their Chinese counterparts to discuss disengagement at the other friction area, the Depsang plains. The build-up in Depsang was not being considered part of the current standoff that started in May last year as escalations here took place in 2013. India has insisted during recent military commander meetings to resolve all issues across the LAC. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-pla-carries-out-night-battle-drill-at-16000-feet-height-near-indian-border-1032621.html
21-09-2021||National||India sees 26,115 new Covid-19 cases, 252 fatalities||India added 26,115 new cases of coronavirus  infection in a single day taking the total tally to 3,35,04,534, while the active cases declined to 3,09,575, the lowest in 184 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,45,385 with 252 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.92 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said, adding the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.75 per cent. A reduction of 8,606 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.       As many as 14,13,951 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 55,50,35,717. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 22 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 88 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,49,574, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 81.85 crore with 96.46 lakh doses being given on Monday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23 The 252 fresh fatalities include 92 from Kerala, 31 from Punjab and 28 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,45,385 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,546 from Maharashtra, 37,627 From Karnataka, 35,360  from Tamil Nadu,  25,085 from Delhi, 23,683 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,664 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-26115-new-covid-19-cases-252-fatalities-1032639.html
21-09-2021||National||Jaishankar urges UK Foreign Secretary to recognise India’s Covishield vaccination certificates||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday urged his counterpart in the British government, Elizabeth Truss, to expeditiously ensure recognition of the certificates issued by the Government of India to people fully inoculated with the Covishield anti-Covid-19 vaccines so that they could visit the United Kingdom without any hassle. “Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interests,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Truss in New York, where both of them arrived to take part in the meetings related to the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. The issue is likely to come up again when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have a bilateral meeting with his UK counterpart Boris Johnson in Washington D.C. later this week. The new travel rules recently introduced by the British government do not recognise people travelling to the UK as vaccinated even if they received both the doses of the Covishield anti-Covid-19 vaccines under the inoculation programme in India. The new rules, which will come into force on October 4, implies that people, who received both doses of the vaccine developed by the AstraZeneca PLC and the Oxford University and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in India, will be considered unvaccinated and hence will have to go through mandatory quarantine procedures on arrival in the UK. What has irked New Delhi is that the UK government has decided to waive off the mandatory quarantine requirement for visitors, who are fully inoculated with the same vaccine developed by the AstraZeneca PLC and the Oxford University but manufactured in other countries. Shashi Tharoor, the Congress MP from Kerala, protested the new travel rules introduced by the British Government and pulled out of some events he was to participate in in the UK, including a debate at the Cambridge University and the launch of his new book. His party colleague, Jairam Ramesh, too said that the new UK travel rules smacked of racism. Jaishankar conveyed to Truss that the British government’s new travel rules had triggered widespread criticism in India and it was not in sync with the spirit of the new Roadmap 2030 Modi and Johnson had agreed upon during the last summit held virtually on May 4 last. This was the first meeting between the two after Truss took over as the new British Foreign Secretary, replacing Dominic Raab. According to the British government’s new travel rules, only the people, who were inoculated with the vaccines, such as the double dose ones developed by AstraZeneca PLC, Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc or the single-dose one developed by the Johnson and Johnson’s “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas”, will be considered fully vaccinated. Besides, beneficiaries of the inoculation programmes run by the public health authorities in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan will also be considered fully vaccinated. The External Affairs Minister and the UK Foreign Secretary discussed the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban last month returned to power through a military offensive across the country taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. They also discussed the developments in the Indo-Pacific region, where the UK recently joined Australia and the United States to forge a new security alliance AUKUS to counter hegemonic aspirations of China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-urges-uk-foreign-secretary-to-recognise-india-s-covishield-vaccination-certificates-1032650.html
21-09-2021||National||Shiv Sena demands CBI probe into death of Mahant Narendra Giri||Targeting the BJP over the death of Mahant Narendra Giri, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said “Hindutva has been strangulated” in Uttar Pradesh and sought a CBI probe into the “mysterious death” of the top seer. The influential Hindu seer was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh. He was the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the largest organisation of sadhus in India. Talking to reporters here, Raut said the reason cited for the seer's death is suicide, but his followers feel that he was murdered. “Someone has strangulated Hindutva in Uttar Pradesh. There should be a CBI inquiry (into the seer’s death) the way we (Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra) did in Palghar,” Raut said. Referring to the lynching of two sadhus and their driver in Palghar in April 2020, Raut said the BJP had at that time said that Hindutva had been attacked. On April 16, 2020, a mob lynched two sadhus Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35) - and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) at Gadchinchale in Palghar district, 140 km north of Mumbai. Recalling his party's links with the top seer, Raut said he was associated with the Kumbh Mela and the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and as a Hindutva organisation, the Shiv Sena received his blessings several times. According to Inspector General of Police K P Singh, Mahant Giri's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples. A purported suicide note of seven-eight pages was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. The seer had written he was upset with one of his disciples, the police said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-demands-cbi-probe-into-death-of-mahant-narendra-giri-1032682.html
21-09-2021||National||India's Covid R-value drops below 1 but it goes up in Bengaluru, Mumbai||Bengaluru and Mumbai are two of the six Indian metropolitan cities where the Covid-19 R-value or reproduction number has increased in the last one month, even though the R-value for the entire country currently is less than one, suggesting a shrinking Covid-19 pandemic. From August 15-17, Bengaluru reported an R-value of 0.94, which shot up to 1.06 a month later. Similarly for Mumbai, the R-value was 0.91 from Aug 6-9, but rose to 1.09 between August 25 and September 18, according to a disease prediction model being run by Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who is tracking the pandemic since last year. Reproduction number signals a pandemic's ability to spread. For instance, an R-value of 1.5 would mean that 10 Covid-19 positive persons can spread the infections to 15 others. For the pandemic to subside, the value of R should stay below one. For the overall country, including Kerala and Maharashtra – the two states with the maximum number of active cases – the reproduction number is now less than one. The only two states where R is greater than one are Tamil Nadu and Mizoram. “Not many states have R more than one (among the top 10 states, only two), while most of the metros namely Chennai, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata have R more than one. This is worrying, in the sense that we may be missing out on a rise in cases in the hinterland until it becomes too big to miss,” Sinha told DH. “There is always a possibility that different results for the metros and the states could be because of the different testing rates in the metros and the districts. An upward trend could be caught by the obtained data in one but missed in the other.” Currently there are 39 districts where the weekly positivity rate is more than 10 per cent. 13 of the 39 districts are in Kerala, while the rest is in the North East. There are another 25 districts where the positivity rate varies from 5-10 per cent. With the fear of a third Covid-19 wave rising its head in the wake of the Dasara-Diwali festive season, the Indian Council of Medical Research advised people to become fully vaccinated before participating in festive activities. The Centre asked the States to accelerate the pace of vaccination so that at least one dose is administered to 94.47 crore adults. More than 61 crore Indians received the first dose so far, whereas 21 crore are fully vaccinated. India’s cumulative vaccination coverage crossed the 82 crore-mark on Tuesday as more than 68 lakh doses were administered till 7 pm. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-r-value-drops-below-1-but-it-goes-up-in-bengaluru-mumbai-1032687.html
21-09-2021||National||Over 79.74 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs: Centre||More than 79.74 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Further, 33 lakh doses are in the pipeline. Over 5.34 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the ministry said. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, it said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them vaccines free of cost, the ministry said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7974-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-centre-1032692.html
21-09-2021||National||Quad to move forward production of 1 bn doses of Covid vaccines in India to counter China||With New Delhi planning to restart export of the Covid-19 vaccines, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to join his American, Australian and Japanese counterparts this week to move forward production of at least one billion doses of jabs by the Biological E Limited in India. Modi will join President Joe Biden of the United States, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan in Washington DC for the first in-person summit of the Quad next Friday. The leaders of the four-nation coalition had agreed during a virtual summit on March 12 that the US Development Finance Corporation would support Biological E Limited of India to augment capacity to produce up to one billion doses of the vaccine by the end of 2022, primarily for supply to the Indo-Pacific region. They will however discuss the possibility of moving it forward during the summit, which the US President will host at the White House in Washington DC next Friday. “In March, there was a commitment to producing a billion vaccines through the Quad, by the end of 2022. And there’ll be some announcements about moving that forward, as well as other forms of Covid-19 assistance,” a senior official of the Biden Administration told journalists in Washington DC while outlining the agenda of the forthcoming summit of the Quad. The Quad Vaccine Initiative was aimed at countering China’s bid to use the supply of the Covid-19 jabs developed by its pharmaceutical companies to South Asian and the South East Asian nations in order to expand its geopolitical influence in the region. The Modi Government had sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 22 this year, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses contributed to the COVAX, an initiative launched by the World Health Organization (WHO) for equitable distribution of the antidote against the SARS-CoV-2 infection. It, however, had paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore during the brutal second Covid-19 wave in India and slowed down the inoculation programme in the country itself. China stepped up the supply of its vaccines to countries in the region to take advantage of the void created by the restrictions imposed on export and donation of the jabs from India. The US, however, sent out a portion of its donation of surplus 80 million doses of vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region. The Biden Administration, however, has been nudging the Modi Government to restart sending out the Covid-19 vaccines produced in India. With the inoculation programme in the country accelerating, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced government’s plan to restart exporting and donating vaccines, including through the COVAX. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quad-to-move-forward-production-of-1-bn-doses-of-covid-vaccines-in-india-to-counter-china-1032694.html
21-09-2021||National||Jabbed with Covishield? Here's what you need to know before going to UK||However, with UK declaring those jabbed with the Covishield vaccine as 'unvaccinated', travel from India has become complicated once again. The Covishield vaccine, widely used in India's vaccination drive against Covid, is a version of UK's Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. Hence, the move has been called racist by many in India. So, what happens to travel from India now? 1. A passenger travelling to the UK from India after having been in the country for 10 days or more will have to undergo a Covid test 3 days prior to their travel date 2. Arriving without the test will result in a fine of £500 being levied 3. Upon arrival, one has to undergo a Covid test on day 2 and day 8 while in mandatory home quaranine 4. If positive for Covid, the person, along with people in the household would have to quarantine for 10 days Since those vaccinated with two doses of Covishield in India will be considered 'unjabbed', they would have to adhere to the guidelines mentioned above. What are the vaccines recognised in the UK? Those who have gotten the full course of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines from a relevant public health body in Australia, Antigua, and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan will be considered fully vaccinated. The UK also recognises mixing of two-dose vaccines (Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna), according to Indian Express.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jabbed-with-covishield-heres-what-you-need-to-know-before-going-to-uk-1032727.html
21-09-2021||National||How India flipped its Covid vaccine fortunes||Only months ago, India ran so short of Covid-19 vaccines that computer experts wrote software code to help people snag scarce immunisation slots and the then health minister had to constantly battle opposition criticism on social media. The minister later quit and in came a little-known but hands-on politician, Mansukh Mandaviya, who, according to a person close to him, communicates with vaccine producers on a near daily basis and tries to resolve their problems promptly. Vaccine supplies have surged Government officials say they are confident of fully immunizing nearly all adults by December, giving it the confidence to announce a gradual restart of vaccine exports in the October quarter, for the first time since April when a second surge in infections overwhelmed hospitals. That will help the sputtering global COVAX vaccine-sharing programme, which is far behind its pledge to deliver 2 billion doses this year following supply problems and India's export curbs. The GAVI vaccine alliance, which sponsors the programme along with the World Health Organization, UNICEF and the CEPI, this month cut COVAX's supply target by nearly 30 per cent to 1.425 billion doses. "This could have an immense positive impact on both health security within India as well as globally," a GAVI spokesperson told Reuters about the export announcement on Monday. "Our priority right now is to engage with the government of India and Serum Institute of India (SII) to understand the impact this will have on our supply schedule." The turnaround is chiefly thanks to the SII, which is cranking up more doses of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shot than the government's most optimistic projection. SII would supply 200 million doses of the vaccine, branded Covishield, to the government this month, compared with about 150 million the previous month, said a government source who declined to be identified. New production lines The government said in May that Covishield output could reach 750 million doses between August and December, but the actual output could be more than 900 million, said two other sources with direct knowledge of the matter. "The company added new lines, got quick approvals to divert a line meant for some other vaccine," said one of the sources. It now has five production lines making Covishield, up from just two in April, according to the source. The person said SII's monthly output could go as high as 215 million doses. The health ministry and SII did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Bharat Biotech, the producer of India's first domestically developed shot, Covaxin, told Reuters its monthly output would nearly treble to 100 million doses by the end of the year. SII also received funding and diplomatic help from the government that ensured supplies of raw material from the United States following a plea on social media and elsewhere. That enabled India, which has reported the most number of infections in the world after the United States, to ramp up its vaccination campaign, giving at least one dose to 65 per cent of its 944 million adults and the necessary two doses to 22 per cent. Health Minister Mandaviya told reporters on Monday that he expected overall domestic vaccine production to exceed 1 billion doses in the October-December quarter, which would be more than enough to meet domestic demand. India is the world's biggest vaccine maker and its companies including SII, Bharat Biotech and Biological E, which does bottling work for Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 shot, have trebled their capacity to make nearly 3 billion doses a year, much of which could be available for overseas sale from next year. "We will keep producing more to meet our needs and also export," Mandaviya said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-india-flipped-its-covid-vaccine-fortunes-1032731.html
21-09-2021||National||India’s largest e-ticketing platform fixes bug after school student raises alarm||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd. (IRCTC) fixed a bug on its e-ticketing platform after a plus two lad from the city raised an alarm over the presence of Insecure direct object references (IDOR) — a type of access control vulnerability in the booking site. The IT wing of the IRCTC which took note of the complaint, immediately resolved the vulnerability issue that has been reported, a senior official said on Tuesday. “Our e-ticketing system is well-protected (now). The issue was reported on August 30 and it was fixed on September 2,” he added. The IDOR, a type of access control vulnerability, arises when an application uses user-supplied input to access objects directly. “I accidently discovered a critical IDOR that leaks the transaction details of millions of travelers, when I was trying to book tickets on August 30. It was the most common bug. Immediately, I reported about it to the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In),” P Renganathan, a plus two student of a private school in Tambaram here, said. “I've discovered a critical IDOR that leaks the transaction details of millions of travelers. Go to your account ticket history, click on any ticket with burp suite turned on. Now change the transaction ID to gain access to another’s tickets, you will get all the sensitive details. You can also cancel someone’s ticket or do anything malicious,” he said in an email complaint to CERT-In, under the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. As a mitigation, Renganathan who identifies himself as ethical hacker and cyber security researcher, said that the booked user and ticket should be validated so that no one else can access it except the booked user. On September 11, 2021, he received a mail thanking him for reporting the incident to CERT-In and also a confirmation that the “reported vulnerability has been resolved” by the authorities concerned. Renganathan, currently pursuing commerce group, has been acknowledged by LinkedIn, United Nations, BYJU's, Nike, Lenovo, Upstox for reporting security vulnerabilities in their web applications. Schools across Tamil Nadu re-opened only for classes ninth to twelfth on September 1. “I have opted for online classes owing to the pandemic,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-largest-e-ticketing-platform-fixes-bug-after-school-student-raises-alarm-1032733.html
21-09-2021||National||UP: 7 get life imprisonment for burning alive Dalit sisters in Moradabad||A special SC/ST court on Monday awarded life imprisonment to seven people for setting two sisters belonging to the Dalit community on fire in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad in 2010. The sisters were burnt alive in Kothiwal Nagar on December 18 by a mob protesting a double murder for which their brother was accused. In a 26-page order, special SC/ST court judge Sandhya Choudhury found the seven accused guilty on the basis of evidences produced by Additional District Government Counsel (ADGC) Anand Pal Singh and charged them under the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. Sateesh Madan, Sagar Bhandula, Banti Malik, Asha Sachdeva, Amarjeet Kaur, Vinod Kajkad and Sania Kohli were convicted by the court and a penalty of Rs 1 lakh each was imposed on them. They were sent to districts jail Moradabad, Singh said. On the day of the incident, a mob gathered outside the house of Rajo and set it ablaze. While she escaped unhurt, her daughters Gita (22) and Monu (20) were burnt alive in the ensuing fire. Rajo’s son Rakesh, who worked as a sweeper, was accused of murdering a 30-year-old woman and her eight-year-old daughter during a robbery on December 9, 2010. Subsequently, Rakesh and his brother Rajesh were arrested by police. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-7-get-life-imprisonment-for-burning-alive-dalit-sisters-in-moradabad-1032735.html
21-09-2021||National||Mechanism for women's entry into NDA to be released by May 2022, Defence Ministry tells SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court it proposed to put in place all necessary mechanisms and infrastructure by May, next year to allow entry of women in three defence services in the existing streams through the prestigious National Defence Academy (NDA). In an affidavit, the Defence Ministry said: "A study group has been constituted by the defence services, comprising of experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at NDA and a Board of Officers has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at NDA incorporating all relevant aspects". While the education curriculum is well set, the remaining aspects of the training are required to be formulated separately for women candidates, it added. "Case in point is curriculum and parameters, inter-alia, outdoor training, viz, drill, equitation, swimming, games, sports etc, shall have to be formulated. Hence, the issue needs detailed analysis, including expert inputs to maintain operational readiness," the affidavit stated The number of women candidates to be inducted per course and per term would also have to be assessed and decided. "Determination of cadre strength in the existing arms and services would depend upon, inter-alia, the cadre ratio, capability of specific service academy to absorb the intake, the desired cadre structure and its downstream effect," it said The government's response was filed in a PIL by advocate Kush Kalra, seeking NDA to open its doors for women aspiring to join the Armed Forces With regard to infrastructure to accommodate women cadets, the Centre said assuming the process of UPSC notification to induct women cadets were to commence early next year, various preparatory actions have been envisaged for the implementation plan. The number of cabins for women cadets would have to be increased along with reconstruction of existing bathroom cubicles to maintain privacy. "Additional administrative and miscellaneous in terms of gender-specific kitting, ancillary requirement etc, shall also have to be worked out and executed simultaneously," the affidavit said The entrance exams for the NDA are held twice a year. The government proposed to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 2022. On September 8, the Centre informed the top court that it has taken a decision to allow women into NDA. On August 18, the court had passed an interim order allowing women to take up the NDA examination.  Watch latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mechanism-for-womens-entry-into-nda-to-be-released-by-may-2022-defence-ministry-tells-sc-1032736.html
21-09-2021||National||Nurse to doctor ratio in India estimated to be 1.7:1 on basis of NSSO data: Report||The nurse to doctor ratio in India is estimated to be 1.7:1 on the basis of NSSO data, while the ratio of allied health workers to doctors is estimated to be 1:1, according to a report by the WHO and the Public Health Foundation of India. Although there was no standard skill-mix ratio of different health workers, most OECD countries reported approximately 3-4 nurses per physician, the report stated. The Indian High Level Expert Group (HLEG) recommendation for the nurse-doctor ratio in India stood at 3:1, it said.  Moreover, there was also a need to strike a balance (right skill-mix) between doctors and allied health workers, it added.  The nurse to doctor ratio is estimated to be 1.7:1 in India on the basis of NSSO data, with Punjab (6.4:1) and Delhi (4.5:1) on the higher side even as the states of Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh have less than one nurse per doctor, the report stated. It recommended that India needs to invest in human resource for health (HRH) for increasing the number of active health workers and also to improve the skill-mix ratio which requires investment in professional colleges and technical education.  India needs to encourage qualified health professionals to join labour markets and ensure additional trainings and skill building for those who are already working but are inadequately qualified health workers, the report stated.  In addition to increased availability of and accessibility to quality health workers by the population in general, enhanced investment in HRH will lead to strengthening of the health system for dealing with pandemic situations like Covid-19 and any other epidemic, it added. It will lead to economic growth, increased women participation in the labour market, formalisation of the labour market and overall economic wellbeing, the study said. The study presents an updated estimate on the size and composition of stock of health professionals and active health workforce in the country.  Using the information available from the National Health Workforce Account (NHWA) on the stock of health professionals and Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) conducted by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO 2017–18) on active health workforce, the study estimated a total stock of 5.7 million health workers which included allopathic doctors (1.1 million), dentists (0.27 million), nurses (2.3 million), pharmacists (1.2 million) and traditional medical practitioners (AYUSH 0.79 million).  However, the active health workforce size is estimated (from NSSO 2017-18) to be much lower (3.04 million), with allopathic doctors and nurses estimated as 0.78 million and 1.36 million respectively.  "The right balance in the skill-mix ratio for health workers provides optimum healthcare conditions. Contrasting the skill-mix ratio with the density of doctors at state levels, an inefficient skill-mix is found to exist between doctor and nurse and doctor and allied health professional in most states in India," the report stated. The public sector is challenged by a high rate of vacancy of sanctioned positions. The Rural Health Statistics highlights this issue, the study said. While the shortage is most pronounced for specialists posted at Community Health Centres (CHC), India faces shortages across states for various positions. A review of the serially published reports of the Rural Health Statistics shows a slow but definite growth in the number of health providers at the overall country level.  The vacancies are attributed to diverse reasons that range from barriers in recruitment, litigations against recruitment processes and premature exits from the system, especially in contractual positions, the report stated.  Increase in the number of health workforce and the right balance in the skill mix requires a supply of health professionals at an increased rate. The supply side of health professionals is an important parameter in reaching the goals for minimal optimum density of the health workforce, it added. An analysis of the health workforce projections provides the estimated density of skilled health professionals (doctors, nurses and midwives) per 10 000 population. "Considering the current rates of growth are sustained, the required density of health workforce will still not be met as the rise in the number of health professionals will be balanced by a rise in the country's population. At the present level of growth on the supply side, the skill-mix ratio of doctor:nurse is unlikely to alter by 2030.  "A near 200 per cent growth on the supply side for nurses will improve the doctor:nurse ratio to 1:1.5 by 2030. This will require a further rapid scale-up of nursing programmes," the report said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nurse-to-doctor-ratio-in-india-estimated-to-be-171-on-basis-of-nsso-data-report-1032737.html
21-09-2021||National||Paediatric Covaxin: Bharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials||Bharat Biotech has completed the Phase 2/3 trials of Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin for use in children under 18 years of age and is expected to submit the data by next week to the DCGI, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech International Ltd, Krishna Ella said on Tuesday here. Speaking to reporters, he said Covaxin production would touch 55 million doses in October as against 35 million in September. He also said the Phase 2 trials of the firm's intranasal vaccine against Covis-19 is expected to be over by next month. “Paediatric Covaxin just completed phase 2/3 trials. The data analysis is going on. We will be submitting the data ( to the regulator) by next week.  The number of subjects ( volunteers) is touching 1000,” Ella said. Intranasal immunization can create an immune response in the nose, which is the point of entry for the virus—thereby protecting against the disease, infection, and transmission also, he noted. According to Ella, the intranasal vaccine trials are conducted on three cohorts in which one group is administered Covaxin as the first dose and intranasal as the second. Similarly intranasal-intranasal for the second group and Intranasal- Covaxin for the third cohort, 28 days apart. He said the trials will be conducted on about 650 volunteers. On the production levels of Covaxin, Ella said 100 million doses per month can be possible if the other manufacturing partners are fully geared up with safety and other parameters are in place. Other than its own facilities, Bharat Biotech has tied up with Indian Immunologiclas and Hester Biosciences, to manufacture Covaxin. “We are supplying 35 million this month. Next month we will be definitely supplying 55 million doses. Production at Bangalore is catching up very fast,” he said replying to a query. On exports of Covaxin to other countries, Ella said if the Centre permits, the firm is ready to export the jab, though the firm is not in a hurry to look for overseas markets. According to him, the government’s focus is to fulfill domestic requirements. India will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paediatric-covaxin-bharat-biotech-completes-phase-2/3-trials-1032741.html
21-09-2021||National||Centre allows IAS, IPS officers to retain gifts received from foreign dignitaries||The Centre has amended over a 50-year-old rule to allow IAS, IPS and IFoS officers to retain gifts received from foreign dignitaries while being members of the Indian delegation, according to an official order. Existing rules allowed these officers to accept gifts from their near relatives or from personal friends having no official dealings with them, on occasions such as weddings, anniversaries, funerals and religious functions when the making of gifts is in conformity with the prevailing religious and social practice. But they shall make a report to the government if the value of such gift exceeds Rs 25,000, the rules say. Gifts include free transport, free boarding, free lodging or any other service or pecuniary advantage when provided by a person other than a near relative or personal friend having no official dealings with the officer but does not include a casual meal, casual lift or other social hospitality. "No member of the service shall accept any gift without the sanction of the government if the value of a gift exceeds Rs 5,000," says the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968, applicable to the officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFoS). Member of the service shall avoid accepting lavish hospitality or frequent hospitality from persons having official dealings with them or from industrial or commercial firms or other organisations, these rules say. The Personnel Ministry has now amended these rules and inserted a new sub-rule under Section 11 of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. "…a member of the service, being a member of the Indian delegation or otherwise, may receive and retain gifts from foreign dignitaries in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Acceptance or Retention of Gifts or Presentations) Rules, 2012, as amended from time-to-time," read the recently amended rule. The Personnel Ministry had in March last year sought comments from state governments on the proposed rules. "…presently there are no provisions under the AIS (Conduct) Rules, 1968, with regard to receipt/retention of gifts from foreign dignitaries by members of the AIS being a member of Indian delegation or otherwise. Therefore, it has been decided with the approval of a competent authority to insert a new sub-rule…," it had said in a communiqué dated March 3 last year. They were asked to send responses by March 31, 2020, positively failing which would be "presumed that the state government has no objection to the proposed amendments". Gifts received from foreign dignitaries, from known or unknown sources, are usually deposited with the 'toshakhana' -- a repository of such articles -- in the Ministry of External Affairs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-ias-ips-officers-to-retain-gifts-received-from-foreign-dignitaries-1032754.html
21-09-2021||National||Pune group writes history, successfully climbs Mt Manda-1 for the first time||A new chapter in the history of Indian mountaineering was written after a team from Pune-based mountaineering and adventure club Giripremi scaled Mt. Manda-1 for the first time on September 18, one of the most technically-challenging peaks in the Himalayas. The 6,510 metre (21,358 feet) tall mountain is located in Garhwal Himalayas in the Uttarakhand state. Giripremi’s Sumeet Mandale, Vivek Shivade and Pawan Hadole along with Mingam Sherpa and Nim Dorje Sherpa scaled Mt. Manda-1 mentored by veteran mountaineer Umesh Zirpe and led by Anand Mali. "It was the first-ever successful expedition on Mt Manda-1 from India and only second successful expedition after the Japanese expedition in 1984 from the  North Ridge Route," Zirpe told DH over the phone from Uttarakhand on Tuesday. Mt Manda-1 is one of the three peaks of the Manda group located in Kedar Ganga Valley. It has witnessed seldom climbing expeditions.  Giripremi teams had tried climbing the mountain in 1989 and 1991 but couldn’t reach the summit.  “In 1989, I led the unsuccessful expedition to Mt Manda-1 and was part of another unsuccessful attempt in 1991. I understand the challenges Mt. Manda-1 possesses. In my opinion, Mt. Manda-1 is as challenging as Mt. Everest or Mt. Kanchenjunga. The unpredictable weather, steep climb, narrow ridge, the uncertainty of rock falls, ice falls and crevices make the climb difficult," said Zirpe.  After a long wait of 32 years, Giripremi’s younger generation of mountaineers managed to scale the mountain with a steep climb of 70 to 80 degrees above the altitude of 5,000 meters altitude. Interestingly, the climbers also did route opening and rope fixing along with Sherpas. This is a rare site in the current trend of commercial and guided mountaineering expeditions. Along with Mt. Manda-1, Giripremi’s team consisting of Anand Mali, Varun Bhagwat, Ruturaj Agawane, Ankit Sohoni and Rohan Desai climbed Mt. Bhrigu Parvat (6041 metres) on September 13. Coincidently, the first successful ascent on Bhrigu Parvat was also by Giripremi's team 30 years ago. Both the expeditions were successful due to the exceptional logistic support provided by White Magic Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-group-writes-history-successfully-climbs-mt-manda-1-for-the-first-time-1032761.html
21-09-2021||National||Income Tax department detects black money abroad after raids on textile group||The CBDT on Tuesday claimed that the Income Tax Department has detected black money worth crores stashed abroad after it raided a leading business group involved in manufacture of textile and filament yarn. The searches that were launched on September 18 are continuing at the premises of the group including at its corporate offices in Delhi, Punjab and Kolkata. "The group has maintained unaccounted funds of about Rs 350 crore in its foreign bank accounts and has also routed these funds back into its business through shell entities in tax havens," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) claimed in a statement. "The modus operandi detected was related to investment by foreign entities, under control of the group, in foreign currency convertible bonds, issued by its main concern, and subsequently under the garb of defaulting on payments, converting it into shares of the company," the CBDT said. It said many "incriminating" documents, loose sheets, diaries, digital evidences etc. were recovered which indicate involvement of the group in routing of "unaccounted" funds back into its Indian entities and possession of foreign bank accounts that were "not reported" to the tax department.  "Substantial evidence of transactions outside the books of accounts, cash transactions in land deals, bogus expenses debited in books of accounts, unaccounted cash expenditure and accommodation entries taken from entry operators have been gathered," it claimed. The CBDT said the department found that "foreign companies and trusts were being paid management fees for managing the unaccounted funds." "Though there is a specific requirement of disclosing foreign assets owned/managed in the form of companies and bank accounts in schedule FA in Income Tax Returns, the same has not been disclosed by the group to the department," it alleged. It said "details of accounts related to unexplained personal expenditure in cash were found to be meticulously maintained in one of the main offices of the company." The statement said the department has gathered "evidence" that cash of about Rs 100 crore was generated by debiting "bogus expenditure" in company accounts and cash transactions in land deals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-department-detects-black-money-abroad-after-raids-on-textile-group-1032782.html
21-09-2021||National||No respite in sight for south Bengal as Met dept predicts more rainfall till Wednesday||The Met department on Tuesday predicted more rainfall in south Bengal even as several low-lying localities and streets in the metropolis and its adjoining areas lay submerged on the account of the previous day's record downpour. The weatherman noted that thunderstorms with lightning, along with heavy rain, may lash all districts of south Bengal till Wednesday morning, with coastal South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and its neighbouring Paschim Medinipur likely to receive heavier downpour. The low-pressure area that has formed over the southern parts of Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Odisha with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level still persists, tilting south-westwards, the IMD stated. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated very heavy falls are likely over Gangetic West Bengal & Odisha on 21st; isolated heavy falls on 22nd September, 2021 and decrease in rainfall activity thereafter (sic)," the IMD tweeted. Kolkata had logged 142 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Monday, the highest in a day in September since 2007, according to the Met department. Waterlogging caused by torrential rain for several hours since early Monday in the metropolis and surrounding localities, including Salt Lake and New Town, threw life out of gear, as people remained stuck at home and those outside experienced a hard time to reach their destinations. Similar scenes were witnessed in in Sonarpur, Baruipur, Medinipur and Haldia. Sagar Island on the Bay of Bengal coast recorded West Bengal's maximum rainfall in 24 hours till Tuesday morning at 212.8 mm, while Kolkata, which received light to moderate showers, registered 60.6 mm. Dum Dum, on the northern outskirts of the city, recorded 134 mm rainfall, while Salt Lake received 118.2 mm rain, the Met department data stated. Other places which received heavy rain are Canning at 115 mm, Diamond Harbour at 105 mm and Barrackpore at 102 mm, it added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-in-sight-for-south-bengal-as-met-dept-predicts-more-rainfall-till-wednesday-1032785.html
21-09-2021||National||Swami Chinmayanand demands CBI inquiry into death of Mahant Narendra Giri||Former Union minister Swami Chinmayanand on Tuesday demanded a CBI inquiry into the death of Mahant Narendra Giri, the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad. Claiming that Mahant Giri could not commit suicide, Chinmayanad said the seer was in touch with the people belonging to a political party and they were very close to him. Chinmayanand, whose trust runs the Shahjahanpur law college where a woman had alleged sexual abuse, was arrested in 2019 under Section 376-C of the IPC, a charge short of rape. In March 2021, he was acquitted by a special court in the case. The former BJP leader said whatever happened to him also happened to defame the Yogi Adityanath government. "The death of Mahant Narendra Giri before the assembly elections in UP can be used against Adityanath as some political people want to defame him. They can use this incident as the failure of the government to protect the seer," Chinmayanand told reporters here. Mahant Giri's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples on Monday, according to police. A purported suicide note of seven-eight pages was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. The seer had written that he was upset with one of his disciples, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swami-chinmayanand-demands-cbi-inquiry-into-death-of-mahant-narendra-giri-1032794.html
21-09-2021||National||Hilsa lovers rejoice as Bangladesh to export more fish ahead of festive season||Hilsa, the darling of fish lovers across West Bengal, could make it to more households this year, with neighbouring Bangladesh announcing higher export quantity of the silver crop. The Bangladesh government will ship 30 per cent more Hilsa fish to India ahead of the festive season starting with Durga Puja, an official said. “Hilsa from the Padma river is a much sought-after delicacy for fish lovers and the neighboring country will export about 2,000 tonnes of the silver crop as against 1,400 tonnes last year,” he said. “The first shipment of around 20 tonnes of the Padma-Meghna river variety is expected to be available in local markets by Thursday or Friday,” an office bearer of the West Bengal Fish Importers’ Association said. The size will likely be between 800 gm and 1,500 gm and the price upwards of Rs 1,500, traders said. Hilsa, considered a nonpareil delicacy when fried, smoked or cooked in mustard sauce, typically travels up the rivers Ganga, Brahmaputra and Irrawaddy from the Bay of Bengal during the rainy season to spawn. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hilsa-lovers-rejoice-as-bangladesh-to-export-more-fish-ahead-of-festive-season-1032802.html
21-09-2021||National||Air Marshal V R Chaudhari to become next IAF chief||The Centre on Tuesday appointed Air Marshal V R Chaudhari as the next Chief of the Air Staff, who would take over from the incumbent IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria after he retires on September 30. Commissioned into the IAF's fighter stream on December 29, 1982, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari has a flying experience of more than 3,800 hours in fighter and training aircraft including missions flown during Operation "Meghdoot" to secure the control of the Siachen glacier and Operation "Safed Sagar" during the Indo-Pak conflict at Kargil. "The government has decided to appoint Air Marshal V R Chaudhari, presently Vice Chief of Air Staff, as the next Chief of the Air Staff after the retirement of Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on September 30," the defence ministry said in a brief statement. Air Marshal Chaudhari will have three full years as the Chief of Air Staff and would play a key role to realise the Centre's plan to come up with four theatre commands for better war fighting capability instead of 17 existing commands. An alumnus of National Defence Academy and Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, he commanded a frontline fighter squadron and a fighter base. Prior to his appointment as the Vice Chief, he headed the strategically important Western Air Command. As an Air Vice Marshal, he has been Deputy Commandant, Air Force Academy, Assistant Chief of Air Staff Operations (Air Defence) and Assistant Chief of Air Staff (Personnel Officers). He has also held the post of Deputy Chief of the Air Staff at Air HQ and Senior Air Staff Officer at Eastern Air Command. Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-marshal-v-r-chaudhari-to-become-next-iaf-chief-1032803.html
21-09-2021||National||India warns UK of reciprocal measures if discriminatory Covid-19 travel policy not discarded||If the British Government makes travellers fully inoculated with the Covishield vaccine in India undergo mandatory quarantine procedures upon arrival in the United Kingdom, New Delhi will respond with “reciprocal measures”, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla warned on Tuesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar raised the issue “strongly” during a meeting with his new counterpart in the British Government, Liz Truss, in New York. He urged Truss to expeditiously make changes in the British Government’s new travel rules and ensure recognition of the certificates issued by the Government of India to people fully inoculated with the Covishield Covid-19 vaccines so that they could visit the UK without any hassle. “Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interests,” the External Affairs Minister tweeted after his meeting with the British Foreign Secretary in New York, where both of them arrived to take part in the meetings related to the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. Discussed the progress of Roadmap 2030. Appreciated her contribution on the trade side. Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Hours after the Jaishankar-Truss meeting, Shringla said in New Delhi that the UK’s new travel rules were “discriminatory” towards travellers from India. “As we go along, we will have to see how it goes. If we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our right to impose reciprocal measures,” the Foreign Secretary told journalists. The new travel rules recently introduced by the British Government do not recognize people travelling to the UK as vaccinated even if they received both doses of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccines under the inoculation programme in India. The new rules, which will come into force on October 4, implies that people who received both doses of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca PLC and Oxford University and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in India, will be considered unvaccinated and hence will have to go through mandatory quarantine procedures on arrival in the UK. Shringla noted that Covishield was a licensed product of a UK company and manufactured in India. He also pointed out that India had supplied five million doses of Covishield to the UK at the request of the British government, which wanted the jabs for its National Health System’s inoculation programme. “Therefore, non-recognition of the Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact those of our citizens travelling to the UK,” the Foreign Secretary said, adding that India had offered some of its partner countries the option of mutual recognition of vaccination certificates. The issue is likely to come up again when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have a bilateral meeting with his UK counterpart Boris Johnson in Washington D.C. later this week. What has irked New Delhi is that the UK Government has decided to waive off the mandatory quarantine requirement for visitors who are fully inoculated with the same vaccine developed by AstraZeneca PLC and Oxford University, but manufactured in other countries. Shashi Tharoor, the Congress MP from Kerala, protested against the new travel rules introduced by the British Government. He pulled out of some events in UK which he was to participate in, including a debate at Cambridge University and the launch of his new book. His party colleague, Jairam Ramesh, said that the new UK travel rules smacked of racism. Jaishankar conveyed to Truss that the British Government’s new travel rules had triggered widespread criticism in India and it was not in sync with the spirit of the new Roadmap 2030 that Modi and Johnson had agreed upon during the last summit held virtually on May 4. This was the first meeting between the two after Truss took over as the new British Foreign Secretary, replacing Dominic Raab. According to the British Government’s new travel rules, only those people who are inoculated with vaccines, such as the double-dose ones developed by AstraZeneca PLC, Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc, or the single-dose one developed by the Johnson and Johnson’s “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas”, will be considered fully vaccinated. Besides, beneficiaries of the inoculation programmes run by the public health authorities in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan will also be considered fully vaccinated. The External Affairs Minister and the UK Foreign Secretary also discussed the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban last month returned to power through a military offensive across the country, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. They also discussed the developments in the Indo-Pacific region, where the UK recently joined Australia and the United States to forge a new security alliance AUKUS to counter the hegemonic aspirations of China. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-warns-uk-of-reciprocal-measures-if-discriminatory-covid-19-travel-policy-not-discarded-1032811.html
21-09-2021||National||Fertility rates reveal little has changed in India's religious makeup since 1951: Pew Study||Muslims in India still have the highest fertility rate among major religious groups, followed by Hindus, while Jains have the lowest fertility rate, a nonpartisan American think tank said in a report on Tuesday, according to which every religious group in the country has seen its fertility fall. In the latest report on the religious composition of India, Pew Research Center said that among Indian Muslims, the total fertility rate has declined dramatically, from 4.4 children per woman in 1992 to 2.6 children in 2015. “Every religious group in the country has seen its fertility fall, including the majority Hindu population and Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist and Jain minority groups,” it said. “Muslims still have the highest fertility rate among India’s major religious groups, followed by Hindus at 2.1. Jains have the lowest fertility rate (1.2). The general pattern is largely the same as it was in 1992, when Muslims had the highest fertility rate at 4.4, followed by Hindus at 3.3. But the gaps in childbearing between India’s religious groups are generally much smaller than they used to be,” said the report. For example, while Muslim women were expected to have an average of 1.1 more children than Hindu women in 1992, the gap had shrunk to 0.5 by 2015, said the report. “What do these trends mean for India’s religious composition? India’s Muslim population has grown somewhat faster than other religious groups because of fertility differences. But due in part to declining and converging fertility patterns, there have been only modest changes in the overall religious makeup of the population since 1951, when India conducted its first census as an independent nation,” Pew said. Hindus, it said, made up 79.8 per cent of India’s 1.2 billion total inhabitants in the most recent census, conducted in 2011. That is 0.7 percentage points less than in the previous census in 2001, and 4.3 points below the 84.1 per cent recorded in 1951. Meanwhile, the share of Muslims grew from 13.4 per cent in 2001 to 14.2 per cent in 2011 – up by a total of 4.4 percentage points since 1951, when the census found that Muslims comprised 9.8 per cent of India’s population. Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains, who together make up nearly all of the remaining 6 per cent of the population, were relatively stable in their shares since the 1951 census, it said. Statistical analysis of census and survey data shows that fertility has been by far the biggest driver of the modest amount of religious change in the decades since Partition, it added. According to Pew, in India and elsewhere, education is a primary factor in how many children women tend to have. Other prosperity indicators – such as life expectancy and average levels of wealth – also frequently correlate with fertility measures: Women who have better access to schooling, jobs and health care tend to have fewer children, it said. “Population growth is driven not only by how many children women have but also by the concentration of women of childbearing age. Younger populations have more women entering their prime childbearing years and, as a result, tend to grow faster than older populations,” it said. “In addition, where people live within India, as well as their history and cultural norms (which are harder to measure), play a role in the choices they make about family matters. In short, people’s religion alone does not determine how many children they will have. Religion is just part of a complicated picture,” Pew said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fertility-rates-reveal-little-has-changed-in-indias-religious-makeup-since-1951-pew-study-1032816.html
21-09-2021||National||BJP MP says UK travel rules may impact FTA talks||BJP on Tuesday slammed Britain's discriminatory vaccine-linked travel curbs and wondered how talks about a free trade agreement (FTA) could take place in such a “vitiated environment”. The sharp reaction from BJP Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta came even as External Minister S Jaishankar urged British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss for review of the travel curbs that consider Indian nationals vaccinated with Covishield as “unvaccinated”, forcing them to undergo a 10-day quarantine. “I hope the External Affairs Minister also conveyed the outrage in India over the bizarre non-recognition of the Covishield vaccine that, ironically, was developed in the UK & is widely used there. No wonder there are charges of ‘racism’,” Dasgupta said. “I wonder how this vitiated environment will help FTA talks,” the Rajya Sabha member added. After completing its exit from the European Union last year, Britain has been keen to secure trade deals, particularly with nations in the Indo-Pacific region, home to some of the fastest-growing economies. Britain is eyeing access to India's growing market as well as manufacturing hubs to ensure steady supply chains as it charts its path after exiting the European Union. Britain intends to secure FTAs covering 80 per cent of its trade by the end of 2022. Having concluded FTAs with the EU, Japan and Singapore post Brexit, India is the largest market with which Britain is keen on having an FTA. Earlier, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh had said that Britian's travel regulations as “absolutely bizzare” and one that “smacks of racism”. Another Congress leader Shashi Tharoor had pulled out of a visit to Britain to participate in a debate organised by the Cambridge Union Society. “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine. The Brits are reviewing,” Tharoor said. Britain said it was working with India on recognition of the Covid-19 vaccination certificates issued by Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-says-uk-travel-rules-may-impact-fta-talks-1032817.html
21-09-2021||National||CBSE waives off board exam fee, registration charges for students who lost parents to Covid||Students appearing for Class 10 and 12 board exams next year will not have to pay any registration or examination fees if they have lost their parents due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). "The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the country adversely and keeping in view its impact on students, CBSE, as a special measure for the academic session 2021-22, has decided that neither the examination fees nor the registration fees will be charged by the Board from the students who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian or adoptive parents due to Covid-19 pandemic," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. "The schools while submitting the list of candidates for class 10 and 12 examinations will provide the details of these students after verifying the genuineness," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-waives-off-board-exam-fee-registration-charges-for-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-1032818.html
21-09-2021||National||Government employees can not be allowed to change date of birth at fag end of career: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declared that a plea seeking change in date of birth by a government employee cannot be made as a matter of right. Such a request also cannot be allowed at the fag end of one's career. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna allowed an appeal filed by the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd against the High Court's order for change in date of birth of an employee. In its judgement, the court noted that the determination of the age of the state government employees is governed by the Karnataka State Servant (Determination of Age) Act, 1974. The law, among others, stated that an application for alteration in date of birth can be made within three years of entry of the details in the service book or within one year of the commencement of the Act. In this case, the court agreed to a submission by senior advocate Gurudas S Kannur, and advocates Chinmay Deshpande and Anirudh Sanganeria on behalf of the corporation.  The employee was not entitled to any relief or change in date of birth on the ground of delay and laches as the request for change of date of birth was made after a lapse of 24 years since he joined the service and 16 years after adoption of the 1974 Act by the employer, it said. "Being the employee of the corporation, he was supposed to know the rules and regulations applicable to the employees of the corporation. Ignorance of law cannot be an excuse to get out of the applicability of the statutory provisions," the bench said. Summarising the law in this regard, the top court said the application for changing date of birth can only be as per the relevant provisions or regulations applicable; and even if there is cogent evidence, it cannot be claimed as a matter of right. Further, such an application can be rejected on the ground of delay and latches also more particularly when it is made at the fag end of service and/or when the employee is about to retire on attaining the age of superannuation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-employees-can-not-be-allowed-to-change-date-of-birth-at-fag-end-of-career-sc-1032828.html
21-09-2021||National||Gauri Lankesh murder: SC reserves order on plea against dropping of organised crime Act against accused||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its order on an appeal filed by filmmaker Kavitha Lankesh, sister of slain activist Gauri Lankesh, against the High Court's decision to quash charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA) against one of the accused in the murder case.  A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar wrapped up hearing of arguments advanced by senior advocates Huzefa Ahmedi and Basava Prabhu Patil on behalf of the petitioner and the accused, Mohan Nayak respectively. Ahmedi contended that since the charge sheet categorically made out a case of a syndicate involved in the commission of the crime, the argument whether a particular person was not part of earlier crimes of the syndicate was irrelevant. He also submitted that charges were yet to be framed in the case, four years after the incident. Representing the accused, Patil, for his part, contended that there was a distinction between “abettor” or “harbourer” and “a member of a crime syndicate” under the KCOCA. An abettor cannot be necessarily equated to a syndicate member, he submitted.  He also asked if it was right to brand a person as a member of organised crime at the very stage of approval of registration of FIR against him, especially when there was no proof that he had earlier participated in unlawful activities of the syndicate. Ahmedi, on other hand, countered the argument that since the accused had harboured other accused, he was deemed to come under the organised crime. The top court had earlier ordered that the plea for bail moved by accused Nayak, a resident of Dakshina Kannada, after dropping of stringent charges, cannot be allowed until it decided the instant matter. The plea before the court claimed the investigation by SIT has revealed that Nayak was part of the syndicate led by Amol Kale which has committed multiple organised crimes apart from the murder of Gauri. The plea said charge-sheets have been filed with respect to the murders of Dr Narendra Dabolkar in 2013, Govinda Pansare in 2015, Dr M M Kalburgi in 2015 and conspiracy to murder Prof Bhagavan in 2018.  “Accordingly, the condition of at least 2 charge-sheets having been filed against the syndicate in the last 10 years along with cognisance by competent court stands fulfilled and invocation of KCOCA against the accused stands justified," it contended. The High Court had on April 22, quashed the order of Bengaluru Commissioner of Police passed in 2018 and the supplementary chargesheet filed thereafter. The plea claimed Nayak has been actively involved in providing shelter to the killers prior to and after committing the offence and has participated in a series of conspiracies, abetting, planning, providing logistics.  Lankesh, a leading journalist, was killed on September 05, 2017 outside her house at Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru. Kavitha is a complainant in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gauri-lankesh-murder-sc-reserves-order-on-plea-against-dropping-of-organised-crime-act-against-accused-1032865.html
21-09-2021||National||Kharif output pegged at 150.5 million tonnes for 2021-22, oilseeds production to dip||Despite indifferent rains, the Centre has pegged foodgrain output from summer (kharif) crops at 150.5 million tonnes, on the back of better production of paddy. The First Advance Estimates for major kharif crops for 2021-22, released by the Agriculture Ministry, peg the foodgrain output marginally higher than 149.56 million tonnes of the previous crop year. The production of rice is projected to be 107.04 million tonnes, as against 104.41 million tonnes achieved for the previous year, while the output of coarse cereals and oilseeds is estimated to be marginally lower during the kharif season this year. As per data, pulses production is likely to increase to 9.45 million tonnes in 2021-22 Kharif season from 8.69 million tonnes achieved in the previous year. Production of tur, the main Kharif crop, is estimated to increase marginally to 4.43 million tonnes from 4.28 million tonnes. Urad output is pegged at 2.05 million tonnes as against 1.60 million tonnes achieved in the Kharif season last year. Production of coarse cereals is estimated to decline to 34 million tonnes in 2021-22 from 36.46 million tonnes in the previous crop year. Among coarse cereals, maize output is estimated to slide to 21.24 million tonnes in the 2021-22 Kharif season from 21.44 million tonnes in the previous year. Similarly, the production of oilseeds is projected to be lower at 23.39 million tonnes from 24.03 million tonnes. Among oilseeds, production of groundnut is pegged marginally lower at 8.25 million tonnes as against 8.55 million tonnes, while that of soyabean at 12.72 million tonnes as against 12.89 million tonnes. India has received 3 per cent deficient rains this monsoon season so far. In August, rains had played truant in several parts of the country owing to a long break in the monsoon winds. In case of cash crops, sugarcane production is pegged at a record 419.25 million tonnes during the 2021-22 Kharif season compared with 399.25 million tonnes in the previous year. Cotton production is also likely to be a record at 36.22 million bales (of 170 kg each) as compared with 35.38 million bales in the previous year. Jute and mesta production is pegged slightly higher at 9.61 million bales (of 180 kg each) during this year as against 9.55 million bales last year, as per the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kharif-output-pegged-at-1505-million-tonnes-for-2021-22-oilseeds-production-to-dip-1032881.html
21-09-2021||National||PM Modi leaves for US for first meet with Biden; second foreign tour since pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will leave New Delhi on Wednesday for a visit to the United States. The Prime Minister’s visit to Washington DC and New York is going to be his second foreign tour after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. He had visited Bangladesh on March 26 and 27 – almost a year after the pandemic forced him to suspend all overseas tours. He will return to New Delhi on Sunday. Modi will hold a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden at the White House in Washington DC on Friday, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla told journalists in New Delhi. This is going to be the first in-person meeting between the two leaders after Biden took over as the US President on January 20. They, however, spoke to each other over the phone in February and April. Both the leaders also took part in several plurilateral video conferences over the past few months. A senior official of the Biden Administration told journalists in Washington DC that the Prime Minister’s meeting with the US President would be “an opportunity” for the two sides to further strengthen the global partnership between the two nations, which shared the vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific. They will discuss ways to step up bilateral cooperation to deal with Covid-19 and the climate crisis. They will also discuss counterterrorism cooperation and the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban returned to power last month through a military campaign taking advantage of the withdrawal of the US troops. The Prime Minister will also attend the first in-person summit of the Quad on Friday. The summit will be hosted by the US President and attended by Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan and Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia. Modi will address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly at the headquarters of the international organization in New York on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-leaves-for-us-for-first-meet-with-biden-second-foreign-tour-since-pandemic-1032884.html
21-09-2021||National||Two more Indian beaches get coveted 'Blue Flag' tag||Two more beaches in India have been awarded "Blue Flag" certification, an international eco-level tag, taking the total number of such beaches in the country to 10, the Environment Ministry said on Tuesday. The two beaches to receive the certification this year are Kovalam in Tamil Nadu and Eden in Puducherry, it said. The Foundation for Environment Education (FEE), Denmark, which accords the Blue Flag certification, has also given re-certification for eight nominated beaches - Shivrajpur-Gujarat, Ghoghla-Diu, Kasarkod and Padubidri-Karnataka, Kappad-Kerala, Rushikonda- Andhra Pradesh, Golden-Odisha and Radhanagar- Andaman and Nicobar, which were awarded the Blue Flag certificate last year, the ministry said. These eight beaches got the Blue Flag certification on October 6, 2020. Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav expressed happiness over the development and said it is another milestone in India's journey towards a clean and green India led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Happy to announce India now has 10 International Blue Flag beaches with the addition of Kovalam & Eden beaches this year and recertification for 8 beaches which got the tag in 2020. Another milestone in our journey towards a clean and green India led by PM Shri @NarendraModi Ji," Yadav tweeted. Blue Flag certification is a globally recognised eco-label accorded on the basis of 33 stringent criteria in four major heads which are environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environment management and conservation and safety and services in the beaches. The Blue Flag beach is an eco-tourism model endeavouring to provide the tourists/beach goers clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities, safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area. The recommendations are done by an independent national jury composed of eminent environmentalists and scientists. Blue Flag beaches are considered the cleanest beaches of the world, according to the ministry. The Blue Flag label is accorded by the international jury composed of eminent members - United Nations Environment Programme(UNEP), United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), Denmark-based NGO Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE) and International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). A waving Blue Flag is an indication of 100 per cent compliance to the 33 stringent criteria and sound health of the beach, the ministry had earlier said. India had started its journey of sustainable development of coastal regions on World Environment Day in June 2018 by launching its beach cleaning campaign – I-AM- SAVING-MY-BEACH simultaneously at 13 coastal states and thereafter implementing the ministry's coveted programme Beach Environment and Aesthetics Management Services (BEAMS). "The Ministry of Environment, in its pursuit of sustainable development of the coastal regions of India, embarked upon a highly acclaimed and flagship programme BEAMS, which is one of the initiatives under its integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) approach that the ministry has undertaken for the sustainable development of coastal regions of India, with a prime objective to protect and conserve the pristine coastal and marine ecosystems through holistic management of the resources,” the ministry said in a statement issued here on Tuesday. The objective of BEAMS programme is to abate pollution in coastal waters, promote sustainable development of beach facilities, protect and conserve coastal ecosystems and natural resources, and seriously challenge local authorities and stakeholders to strive and maintain high standards of cleanliness, hygiene and safety for beachgoers in accordance with coastal environment and regulations. "In the last three years or so, our ministry has achieved commendable results in environmental management of these 10 beaches which include sand dune restoration and nourishment of 95,000 sqm (approx.) with native plantation; reduction in marine litter by 85 per cent and marine plastic by 78 per cent in the last three years; scientific and responsible disposal of 750 tonnes of marine litter; improvement in cleanliness level from 'C' (poor) to 'A++(outstanding)' through scientific measurement system," the statement said. The Environment Ministry said it has also saved 1,100 ml/year of municipal water through recycling; educated around 1,25,000 beach goers about responsible behaviour at the beaches; provided alternate livelihood opportunities to 500 fishermen families through pollution abatement, safety and services and has also increased footfall for recreation activities at the beaches by approximately 80 per cent leading to economic development. The ministry said it is committed to develop and deliver 100 more beaches under its ICZM initiative in the ensuing five years. In December last year, the ministry had virtually hoisted the international Blue Flags in eight beaches across the country. The flags were also simultaneously hoisted on these beaches physically by state ministers and senior officials of the respective state and Union territories.  Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-indian-beaches-get-coveted-blue-flag-tag-1032887.html
21-09-2021||National||India, France express 'grave concern' over Afghanistan, discuss possible spread of terrorism||India and France on Tuesday expressed "grave concern" over the situation in Afghanistan with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Emmanuel Macron discussing the possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking. In a telephonic conversation, Modi and Macron discussed regional issues, including recent developments in Afghanistan, a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) here said. "In this context, they shared their concerns about possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking, as well as the need to ensure human rights, rights of women and minorities," the statement said. The French president's office also issued a statement over the Modi-Macron talks which stated that the two leaders expressed their "grave concerns" about the situation in Afghanistan.  "The authorities in power must cut their ties with international terrorism, allow humanitarian organisations to operate throughout the country and respect the fundamental rights of Afghan women and men. Evacuation operations should continue unhindered," the French presidency said. Prime Minister Modi on Friday had asked the global community to decide "thoughtfully" in recognising the new set-up in Kabul in view of questions about its legitimacy as the change of power was not "inclusive and happened without negotiation". In a virtual address at a meeting of the heads of state of the SCO and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation on Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover there, Modi had said the developments in the war-torn country will have the "greatest impact" on neighbouring countries like India and underscored the need to ensure that Afghan soil was not used to spread terrorism in any country.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-france-express-grave-concern-over-afghanistan-discuss-possible-spread-of-terrorism-1032898.html
21-09-2021||National||India is completely 'atmanirbhar' in missile technology: DRDO chief||India has achieved "complete self-reliance" in missile technology and the most advanced missiles can now be developed in the country, DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy said on Tuesday. Delivering a lecture during an online event hosted by the JNU, he also asserted that if a country has to become prosperous and 'Atmanirbhar' (self-reliant), "we need to work on advance technology" and that is where the role of academic institutions will come in a "big way". Reddy recalled the decades of 1980s and 90s in the evolution of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and hailed the role of scientists, including former president APJ Abdul Kalam, known as the 'Missile Man' of India, who worked on missile technologies that provided a "quantum jump" in development of advanced systems and platforms. He mentioned the five missiles -- Prithvi, Agni, Akash, Trishul Nag -- developed by India under the Integrated Guided Missile Development Programme (IGMDP). "We developed, Prithvi, Agni, Akash, Trishul, Nag under the IGMDP. Agni was also a technology demonstrator for the country in going out of the atmosphere and returning to the atmosphere. "And, then we joined a select club of countries with ballistic missiles which can intercept an enemy missile and kill it. And, then many more missiles with long-range and more capabilities," he said. "Today I can confidently say that we are having complete 'Atmanirbharta' in the missile technology, and we can develop the most advanced missiles in the country," Reddy said. He also spoke about the anti-satellite (A-SAT) test that India conducted in March 2019, shooting down one of its satellites in space with an A-SAT missile to demonstrate this complex capability, joining the elite club of countries -- the US, Russia and China -- which have such capabilities. The lecture on 'Defence Technologies for India's National Security' was organised by the School of Engineering of the JNU, and its vice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar, several faculty and students also attended the online event. Reddy, who is secretary, Department of Defence R&D, also asserted that in the last six-seven years, he has seen various students and innovators, going beyond ICT, and choosing subjects like material science that will be important in the sector of defence technologies. He pitched for academic institutions to play a larger role in achieving the vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. "Today, if our country has to be self-reliant, if we have to become 'Atmanirbhar' and prosperous, we need to work on advance technology and that is where the role of academic institutions will come in a big way," Reddy said. He spoke of the centres of excellence that have come up at various IITs, and opportunities for students to work as a junior research fellow and a senior research fellow at DRDO. In the advanced technology domain, he said, some of the areas in which DRDO is working include anti-drone system, artificial intelligence (AI), cyberspace, secure systems and communications. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-completely-atmanirbhar-in-missile-technology-drdo-chief-1032901.html
21-09-2021||National||DoT issues order to enable people to get mobile SIM delivered at doorstep||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) on Tuesday started working on telecom reforms approved by the Cabinet last week by issuing an order that enables customers to apply for a new mobile connection online and get the SIM delivered at their doorstep. The latest order enables customers to get the SIM delivered at their doorsteps after verifying themselves by using Aadhaar or any other eligible document stored in Digilocker. Customers will have to pay Re 1 for the process of authentication through Aadhaar-based e-KYC services of UIDAI for getting new mobile connections, according to the new rules. The government has issued an order allowing conversion of prepaid to postpaid and vice-versa using a one-time password (OTP)-based process. "The issuing of mobile connection to the customers is done through an app/portal-based online process wherein a customer can apply for mobile connection sitting at home/office and get the SIM delivered at his doorstep using documents electronically verified by UIDAI (Aadhaar) or Digilocker," The DoT''s order said. Currently, to obtain a new mobile connection or conversion of mobile connection from prepaid to postpaid or vice-versa, a subscriber has to undergo the KYC process that requires a visit to the retail shop along with the original documents of identity and address proof. "Online service delivery has become an acceptable norm in the recent past and most of the customer services are being offered through the internet with OTP authentication. "Contactless services in the Covid-19 era need to be promoted for subscriber convenience and also for the ease of doing business," the DoT said in a statement. It added that customer consent has been made compulsory in case the Aadhaar is being used and demographic details are being obtained electronically from UIDAI, said the statement. Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dot-issues-order-to-enable-people-to-get-mobile-sim-delivered-at-doorstep-1032902.html
21-09-2021||National||Elgar case: Court rejects Shoma Sen's medical bail plea||A special NIA court here on Tuesday rejected an application filed by academician Shoma Sen, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, seeking interim medical bail. Judge D E Kothalikar rejected 61-year-old Sen's plea. Her application had cited her age and claimed that she suffered from multiple ailments including osteoarthritis, glaucoma and high blood pressure which could make her vulnerable to Covid-19. Sen was arrested in 2018 and is lodged in the Byculla women's prison here since then. The court on Tuesday also extended till September 30 the interim bail granted to co-accused Rona Wilson. Wilson was granted bail to attend a mass arranged following his father's death. Sen, Wilson and some other activists were arrested following the Elgar Parishad conclave held at Pune on December 31, 2017. According to Pune Police, the conclave was backed by Maoists, and `inflammatory' speeches made there led to violence at Koregaon- Bhima war memorial the next day. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-case-court-rejects-shoma-sens-medical-bail-plea-1032905.html
21-09-2021||National||Modi calls Macron ahead of visit to US for Quad Summit amid sharp reactions by France over AUKUS||India-France partnership promotes stability and security in the Indo-Pacific region, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday, amid sharp reactions from Paris over the recent move by Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States to launch a new trilateral military alliance, AUKUS. Even as he is scheduled to join the US President Joe Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga for the first in-person summit of the Quad in the White House on Friday, Modi spoke to Macron and discuss India-France cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region – signalling New Delhi’s keenness to maintain a balance in its engagements with Paris as well as with Canberra, London and Washington. New Delhi on Tuesday also categorically stated that the Quad and the AUKUS were not “groupings of similar nature”. The AUKUS is neither relevant to the Quad, nor will the trilateral alliance have any impact on functioning of the four-nation coalition, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said in New Delhi, ahead of the Prime Minister’s departure for the US. The Biden Administration last week went ahead and, along with Australia and the UK, launched the AUKUS, which appeared to be more like a security alliance, focussed on development of joint military capabilities and defence technology sharing. The AUKUS will create a framework for the US and UK to support Australia in acquiring a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines. The latest move by the US, the UK and Australia to launch the AUKUS fuelled speculation about the fate of the Quad. The launch of the AUKUS triggered sharp reaction from Macron’s Government in Paris, as it scuttled a $ 37 billion deal inked in 2016 for France to provide Australia 12 conventional submarines. Paris already recalled its envoys from Canberra and Washington. Shringla said that the Quad was “a plurilateral grouping” of four countries with shared vision of a free, open, transparent and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The Quad has “a positive and pro-active agenda and a wide array of initiatives at the global level to address some of the issues of the day”, like dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, including supply of vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region, collaboration on new and emerging technologies, working on issues like climate change, construction of infrastructure, ensuring maritime security, education, humanitarian assistance, Foreign Secretary said, adding: “On the other hand, the AUKUS is a security alliance involving three countries”. Both the Quad and the AUKUS were intended to counter China’s hegemonic and expansionist aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. India, however, thwarted the US bid last year to turn the Quad into an NATO-like security alliance for Asia, as it was not keen to be part of a bloc with an overtly adversarial approach to China, notwithstanding the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. New Delhi was also concerned over the implication of any move to turn the Quad into a US-led military alliance on India’s decades-old strategic partnership with Russia. The US, however, went ahead and launched a new security alliance with the UK and Australia. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-calls-macron-ahead-of-visit-to-us-for-quad-summit-amid-sharp-reactions-by-france-over-aukus-1032907.html
21-09-2021||National||NGT asks CPCB, State PCBs to submit state action plans for air pollution by October 10||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards (SPCBs), including the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, to submit the status of State Action Plans (SAPs) to combat air pollution in cities by October 10. The Green Bench also said the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) is applicable to all cities and the state pollution control boards must submit status reports about steps they have taken to check rising pollution. The Programme is a national-level strategy launched by the Union Environment Ministry in 2019 for an effective ambient air quality monitoring network. According to the Programme, cities declared non-attainment if they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for PM 10 (Particulate matter 10 microns or less in diameter) or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) over a five-year period. The NCAP has identified 132 non-attainment cities across India. The states have to prepare an action plan to combat pollution. Earlier, the CPCB had informed the Tribunal that the formulation of 'Guidelines for State Action Plan' was due to Covid-19 and sought two more months for their preparation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-asks-cpcb-state-pcbs-to-submit-state-action-plans-for-air-pollution-by-october-10-1032908.html
21-09-2021||National||US Defence Secretary Austin thanks India for its cooperation on Afghan evacuation||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin in a phone call with his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh has thanked India for its cooperation during the recent evacuation from Afghanistan and the two leaders committed to continue monitoring the situation in the war-torn country, the Pentagon said on Tuesday. The conversation between Austin and Defence Minister Singh came ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the US this week to attend an in-person summit of Quad leaders in Washington and address the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York. “Secretary Austin thanked India for its cooperation throughout the evacuation and retrograde mission in Afghanistan, and both leaders committed to continue to monitor the situation in Afghanistan and to assist remaining at risk groups,” Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said in a readout of the call. India and the United States are in touch with each other on the Afghan crisis after the Taliban's takeover of Kabul on August 15. In reflection of India's views on the Afghan crisis, Prime Minister Modi, during a virtual address at a meeting on Afghanistan of the heads of state of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, on Friday said the global community should decide "collectively" and "thoughtfully" on according recognition to the new set-up in Afghanistan in view of questions over its acceptability as the change of power was not "inclusive". Kirby said, “they reiterated their commitment to ensuring the Indo-Pacific region remains free and open.” “Austin applauded continued progress in deepening the US-India defence relationship and said that he looks forward to hosting Minster Singh in Washington this fall for the 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue meeting,” said the Pentagon Press Secretary. The fourth annual 2+2 dialogue between India and the US would be held in November this year in Washington. The 2+2 ministerial dialogue takes place between foreign and defence ministers of both sides. The inaugural '2+2' Indo-US dialogue was held in New Delhi in 2018. The last meeting of the 2+2 was held in New Delhi and the next meeting is to be hosted by the US here. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would be hosted by their American counterparts Secretary of State Blinken and Defence Secretary Austin for the maiden India-US 2+2 meeting under the Biden administration. Earlier, Austin had paid a three-day visit to New Delhi in March. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-defence-secretary-austin-thanks-india-for-its-cooperation-on-afghan-evacuation-1032913.html
21-09-2021||National Politics||BJP to build temples where mosques were built razing temples, says BJP MLA Sangeet Som||The MLA from Sarshana made the remark while attacking Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav at a press conference which was held to mark 4.5 years of the Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, Som called Yadav a “seasonal Hindu" while responding to questions on Yadav’s recent jibe at the UP government for doing away with the Vishwakarma Puja holiday in the state, and even said that everyone in India, including Muslims, is Hindu. "Akhilesh Yadav is a seasonal Hindu. This won't work, in India everyone is a Hindu, a Muslim is a Hindu, a Hindu is a hindu and Hindustan belongs to Hindus," Som said. Earlier Yadav had said that he will build a Vishwakarma temple, if he gets elected in the next Assembly polls. Responding to Akhilesh’s statement, Som said, “People like Akhilesh Yadav are saying they will build a Vishwakarma temple, these are the people who got bullets sprayed on Ram Bhakts and ordered lathicharge on Sadhus in Banaras". “These people are now asking for forgiveness with folded hands. The people will not forgive them,” he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-build-temples-where-mosques-were-built-razing-temples-says-bjp-mla-sangeet-som-1032645.html
21-09-2021||National Politics||Backstabber Sharad Pawar can't be our guru, MVA government just adjustment: Shiv Sena's Anant Geete||Amid bonhomie between Shiv Sena and NCP, the saffron party’s senior leader Anant Geete has targeted Sharad Pawar saying that a back-stabber cannot be their guru.  Geete (70), a six-time Lok Sabha MP, is a senior leader of Shiv Sena and had been a minister of the BJP-led NDA government – having been a part of governments led by the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee and PM Narendra Modi.  Geete's statement has rattled the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), which is an alliance of Shiv Sena with Congress-NCP combine that has kept BJP out of power and Pawar is considered the chief architect of the alliance. The outburst of Geete has come as an embarrassment to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who has excellent familial and political relations with the Pawar family. The Shiv Sena-NCP has also indicated forging an alliance for the ensuing local bodies polls including that of Mumbai. “Sharad Pawar cannot ever be our leader as this government (MVA) is merely a sort of an adjustment. Let people use as many accolades for Pawar but our 'guru' is only (late) Balasaheb Thackeray…Pawar cannot be guru of Shiv Sainiks,” Geete said while addressing a meeting in Shrivardhan tehsil of Raigad district. "Pawar had formed his party by backstabbing Congress. If Congress and NCP cannot become one, the Shiv Sena also cannot toe the Congress policy entirely. Congress and NCP were not cordial always," the Sena leader said. The NCP, however, hit back at Geete with Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare saying that the Shiv Sena leader does not know the history. “He lost the elections and seems dejected and hence he has made such a statement,” said Tatkare. “Geete must know how a coalition government functions…he has been part of coalition…he was minister of state for finance, he was central power minister, he also served the heavy industries minister for five years, the ministry which gives maximum to the GDP,” said Tatkare. “We may have lesser seats in legislative bodies but the stature and importance of Pawar saheb is known to one and all,” he said. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut described Geete’s statement as personal. “I don't know what Anant Geete has said, I would only say that Sharad Pawar is a big leader, he is the main pillar of the government in Maharashtra. It may be someone's personal opinion but it is not the statement of the party,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/backstabber-sharad-pawar-cant-be-our-guru-mva-government-just-adjustment-shiv-senas-anant-geete-1032668.html
21-09-2021||National Politics||Will fight against 'Talibanisation' of West Bengal: State BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar||Newly appointed State BJP president of West Bengal Sukanta Majumdar on Tuesday attacked TMC and said that he will stop the “talibanisation” of the state. Speaking to reporters at the State BJP headquarters, Majumdar also took a dig at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s national ambition and said that first she should run Bengal "properly". “With the help and advice of my predecessors and the central leadership, I will continue my fight against the Talibanisation of the state.” said Majumdar. As for the defectors in the party, Majumdar sought to send a strong message to them saying that if they think that they can finish the BJP by switching to other parties, they are mistaken. He also said that those who are committed to the BJP’s ideology will never leave the party . “Our workers are our real asset. If we have made any mistake, we will rectify it,” said Majumdar. Taking a dig at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo, Majumdar said that despite her "eagerness" to become the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi will continue to lead the country as the Prime Minister after the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “Our Chief Minister is dreaming of becoming the Prime Minister. But with all due respect let me tell her that after the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, Narendra Modi will continue to serve the country as the Prime Minister,” said Majumdar. He also said that the State BJP will win more seats than it won in the 2019 Lok Sabha election to strengthen Modi. Mazumdar also targeted members of the civil society in the state accusing them of being silent on the issue of post-poll violence. “I want to ask the intellectuals why they are silent on the issue. They are very active when it comes to pointing out flaws in the speeches of our leader Dilip Ghosh and Tathagata Roy. A specific community was incited to attack our workers. Is this a sign of healthy democracy?” said Mazumdar. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-fight-against-talibanisation-of-west-bengal-state-bjp-chief-sukanta-majumdar-1032669.html
21-09-2021||National Politics||80% jobs for locals if AAP voted to power in Goa next year: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said if voted to power in Goa in the 2022 polls, his party will ensure that 80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, will be reserved for local people. He also assured a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 to families dependent on the mining and tourism industries till these sectors are normalised. Speaking to reporters in Mapusa town, Kejriwal further said that at least one unemployed person from each family in Goa would be given a government job and jobless youths will get a monthly allowance of Rs 3,000 till they find jobs. Assembly elections are due in Goa, currently ruled by the BJP, in February next year. This is the second visit of Kejriwal to Goa in the last two months. In his earlier visit in July, the Delhi chief minister had assured free electricity up to 300 units per month to people in Goa if his party forms the government after polls. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Kejriwal said, "80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, will be reserved for Goan youths. We will pass a law making it mandatory for private industries to employ 80 per cent of workers from local people”. Kejriwal also tried to woo the people dependent on the mining and tourism sectors, the major recruiters in Goa. While mining came to a standstill after the Supreme Court ban, the Covid-19 induced lockdown has adversely affected the tourism industry. "Families dependent on the mining and tourism industries will get a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 till these sectors are resumed," he said. In another promise, Kejriwal said a Skills University will be set up in Goa on the lines of Delhi where youth would be skilled and made employment-ready. He said if the AAP comes to power only the deserving people will get jobs in the state government only on merit. "The current practice of recruiting people in government through favours from MLAs or influential politicians will be discarded. The entire system of job recruitment in the government sector would be made transparent and accountable,” he added. Referring to the doorstep delivery of services introduced by the Pramod Sawant government, Kejriwal said a similar initiative was implemented by the Delhi government. “As per our scheme, government officers go to the doorstep of people with the required facilities. People don't have to move out of their homes,” he said. He claimed the Sawant government has been copying the Delhi government's initiatives. “Why choose duplicate when you have original,” he quipped. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the AAP had drawn a blank. The Congress had then won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in Goa restricting the BJP to 13. Surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/80-jobs-for-locals-if-aap-voted-to-power-in-goa-next-year-kejriwal-1032673.html
21-09-2021||National Politics||India facing new war paradigm on borders: Rahul Gandhi on China's infrastructure ramp up||India is facing a new war paradigm on its borders and ignoring it won't work, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday, citing a media report on China ramping up its border infrastructure. The former Congress chief's remarks came over a media report which quoted sources in the security establishment as saying that China appears to have built at least 10 new air bases along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh besides ramping up infrastructure close to the Indian frontier. "We are facing a new war paradigm on our borders. Ignoring it won't work," Gandhi tweeted with a screenshot of the media report. We are facing a new war paradigm on our borders. Gandhi has also repeatedly criticised the government for its handling of the border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries that erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-facing-new-war-paradigm-on-borders-rahul-gandhi-on-chinas-infrastructure-ramp-up-1032693.html
21-09-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM, Deputy CMs in Delhi to discuss Cabinet expansion, Sidhu tags along 'in line of duty'||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his two deputies and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu took a chartered flight to Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the expansion of the new Cabinet with the party’s central leadership, sources said. The team will meet AICC general secretary Harish Rawat, who is the Punjab affairs in-charge, in Delhi, they said. Sidhu uploaded a photo on Twitter showing him with Channi and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, one of the two deputy chief ministers, beside a chartered plane. “In line of duty !!” he tweeted. Channi, Randhawa and the other deputy chief minister, O P Soni, were sworn in on Monday, two days after Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of the poll-bound state. After hectic consultations, the party had picked Channi as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party. Randhawa, a Jat Sikh, and Soni, a Hindu, were apparently chosen to balance the caste equations. Sources said the cabinet is likely to see the induction of fresh faces after the Delhi meeting, where the probable candidates will be discussed. There are indications that those who rallied behind Navjot Sidhu in the power tussle with Amarinder Singh will find a place in the new cabinet. The names of Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Madan Lal Jalalpur, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Pargat Singh and Sangat Singh Gilzian are doing the rounds. Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, is at present the Punjab Congress general secretary and Gilzian is a working president of the party's state unit. There is speculation whether Amarinder Singh- loyalists -- like Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who was the sports minister, and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who held the ministry of social justice -- would retain their positions. Channi himself was part of the group of ministers who constantly targeted Amarinder Singh, making it clear that they were part of the Sidhu camp. Shortly before the swearing of the three ministers on Monday, Harish Rawat triggered a row by suggesting that the coming assembly elections will be fought under Sidhu’s leadership. Former state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, who was at one stage also seen as a CM candidate, said the “baffling” remark would undermine the new CM’s authority. In a damage-control exercise, the Congress then said both Channi and Sidhu will lead the fight in the next election.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-deputy-cms-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-expansion-sidhu-tags-along-in-line-of-duty-1032712.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Mobile telephony, internet services snapped in Uri in aid to combing ops||Mobile telephony and internet services were suspended in the Uri sector of Baramulla on Monday in aid of the Army’s ongoing combing operations in the wake of the detection of suspicious movement along the Line of Control (LoC), officials said. The Army also intensified its combing operation, they said. The Army had detected the “suspicious movement” along the LoC in Uri Sector on the night intervening September 18 and 19 following which an operation was launched in the area. The operation continued for the second day on Monday and it was intensified to track down the infiltrators, the officials said. They said mobile telephony and internet services were snapped in the sector. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-telephony-internet-services-snapped-in-uri-in-aid-to-combing-ops-1032562.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Infiltration bid: Army’s combing operation continues along LoC in Uri||A massive operation launched by the Army along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Uri sector of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district to flush out a newly-infiltrated group of militants continued for the second day on Tuesday with mobile and internet services being snapped in the area. The Army launched the combing operation after detection of suspicious movement along the LoC on the night of September 18, coinciding with the fifth anniversary of the Uri attack in which 19 soldiers were killed after two suicide attackers stormed a military installation in 2016. Sources said a group of six to eight militants infiltrated into the Gohalan area of Uri. “As soon as the Army got a clue about the infiltration, they rushed to the area and during a brief gun battle one soldier was injured. Four to six infiltrating militants may have fled to Pakistan and two are probably hiding in the area,” they said. Reports said that reinforcements including Special Forces have been sent to the area with internet, landline, and mobile phone services suspended in Uri. This is for the first time that mobile and internet services were snapped in the wake of a cross-border infiltration attempt. General officer Commanding (GoC) of Srinagar-based 15 Corps Lieutenant General D P Pandey on Monday said that only two successful infiltration bids were reported along the LoC this year. “One group was neutralised in Bandipora district, and we are looking for the second one, which has been successful”, he told reporters. While in recent years most of the local youths who join militant ranks are trained locally, those who infiltrate from across the border are mostly Pakistanis. According to official figures, there are about 50 to 60 Pakistani militants active in Kashmir. Most of the Pakistani militants are active in the north Kashmir districts of Baramulla, Bandipora and Kupwara that share the border with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK). While dismissing the apprehensions of Pakistani militant build-up in north Kashmir with the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, a senior police officer said, “Most of the Pakistani militants who are active in Kashmir, had infiltrated long before the Taliban takeover of Kabul.” He said that last year 32 Pakistani militants were killed in Kashmir while this year the number is just 10 so far. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/infiltration-bid-army-s-combing-operation-continues-along-loc-in-uri-1032640.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||SIT formed to probe UP seer's 'suicide'; disciples booked for abetment of suicide||Three disciples of top seer and All India Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri, who died allegedly by suicide on Monday evening, were booked on charges of abetment of suicide and were taken into custody by the police. A special investigation team (SIT) was formed to probe the alleged suicide of the Mahant, who was found hanging inside his room at Baghamabri Mutt in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj town, about 200 kilometres from here. An alleged eight-page ''suicide note'' was recovered from his room, according to the police sources. A section of the seers demanded a CBI probe into the 'suicide' and sources said that the state government was considering recommending a probe by the premier investigating agency. A senior police official said in Prayagraj that Mahant had accused three disciples of his of 'harassing' him. ''I have lived my life with dignity but now I am being harassed and forced to life of humiliation,'' he reportedly wrote in the alleged note. Sources said that Narednra Giri mentioned the names of the disciples, who, he said, had been harassing him. One of the disciples, identified as Anand Giri was detained in Haridwar town in Uttarakhand while two others, identified as Adya Tewari and Sandeep Tewari, were taken into custody from Prayagraj. All three were booked under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (abetment of suicide). Sources said that Narendra Giri and his disciple Anand Giri had been having some dispute and that Anand Giri had been expelled from the Baghambari Mutt recently. Anand Giri, however, claimed that he had tendered an apology to the Akhara Parishad president and the issue had been resolved. Narendra Giri enjoyed considerable clout among the seers and politicians, especially from the BJP, including ministers, used to make a beeline before his Mutt to meet him and get his blessings. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-formed-to-probe-up-seers-suicide-disciples-booked-for-abetment-of-suicide-1032649.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||NIA raids seven locations after IED recovered in Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday raided multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir in connection with the IED recovery case and the arrest of Lashkar-e-Mustafa commander Hidayatullah Malik. Reports said the premier probe agency sleuths accompanied by police and CRPF personnel, conducted raids at seven locations in Anantnag, Srinagar, Baramulla (Kashmir) and Doda and Kishtwar in Jammu region. They said some people, including an elected panch, were detained for questioning by the NIA while several electronic gadgets were seized during these raids. On June 27, hours after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport, two people were arrested by J&K Police with an IED from the neighbouring Narwal area. The accused identified as Nadeem Ayub Rathar and Talib ur Rehman, residents of Shopian and Baniwal, according to the probe agency, were under orders to carry out an IED blast at a major religious place of Jammu. On July 31, the NIA had raided 14 locations in J&K in the same case. The drone attack case was handed over to the NIA by the Union Home Ministry. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-raids-seven-locations-after-ied-recovered-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1032655.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Worth of 3000 kg heroin seized at Mundra port could go up to Rs 21,000 crore||In what appears to be one of the largest seizures of narcotics substances in the country, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has recovered nearly 3,000 kg of heroin consignment at Mundra port in Kutch district. The international value of the contraband is considered to up to Rs 21,000 crore. By Tuesday morning, DRI is said to have arrested four persons including a couple from Andhra Pradesh and two Afghan nationals.  "Specific Intelligence was developed by DRI that a consignment imported by M/s Aashi Trading Company, Vijaywada declared as semi-processed Talc stones originating from Afghanistan and shipped from Bandar Abbas Port, Iran to Mundra Port, Gujarat is suspected to contain Narcotics drugs,'' a statement released by the DRI said.  Based on the information, the DRI officials seized two containers weighing 40 tonnes for examination. The note stated that an examination conducted in the presence of experts from Forensic Science Lab, Gandhinagar confirmed the substance as heroin. "Accordingly, 1999.579 kgs recovered from the first container and 988.64 Kgs recovered from the second container totalling 2988.219 Kgs were seized under the provisions of NDPS Act, 1985," the note stated.  The statement also said that searches were conducted in Ahmedabad, Delhi, Chennai, Gandhidham, and Mandvi in Gujarat. As DH had reported on September 15, the consignment was exported by a firm identified as 'Hasan Husaai Ltd', located in General Sarak, Kandahar in Afghanistan. The Vijayawada-based importer has been identified as Aashi Trading Company, belonging to Vaishali and her husband Govindaraju. DRI officials said the husband and wife are originally from Chennai but had their export-import firm registered at Vijayawada. The duo was arrested by the DRI and was produced before a Bhuj court. They are granted DRI custody for ten days for questioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/worth-of-3000-kg-heroin-seized-at-mundra-port-could-go-up-to-rs-21000-crore-1032659.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Mahant Giri death: All aspects being probed, guilty will be punished, says Adityanath||All aspects related to the death of top seer Mahant Narendra Giri are being probed and the guilty will be punished, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday. The influential Hindu seer was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad. He was the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the largest organisation of sadhus in India. The police under ADG (Allahabad zone) and commissioner, Allahabad are working as a team, the chief minister who rushed to Allahabad to pay respects to the seer told newspersons there. Asserting that evidence has been collected in connection with the seer’s death, Adityanath said the case will be solved soon. Every single aspect connected with the case will be exposed and the guilty will be punished, he added. According to the wishes of the seer’s followers, the body will be kept for “darshan” (public viewing) on Tuesday so that people can pay their last respects, Adityanath said, adding that a five-member team will conduct a post-mortem examination on Wednesday. After that, he will be laid to rest in a ‘samadhi’ as per religious rites and beliefs, the chief minister said. According to the police, the seer's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples on Monday. A purported suicide note of seven-eight pages was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. The seer had written he was upset with one of his disciples, they said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahant-giri-death-all-aspects-being-probed-guilty-will-be-punished-says-adityanath-1032664.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Two pilots killed after Army helicopter crash lands in J&K's Udhampur||Two pilots were killed when an Army helicopter crash-landed in a dense forest near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district on Tuesday, officials said. "Today, during a training sortie in Patnitop area, Indian Army's Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area in the district," a Jammu-based defence spokesman said. He said that two pilots -- Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput -- were injured in the incident and evacuated to the nearest medical facility but they succumbed later. Army Commander, Northern Command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi paid rich tributes to the slain officers. "Army Commander, Northern Command, and all other ranks salute the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty on 21 September 2021 at Patnitop and offer deepest condolences to their families," the Army's Northern Command said in a tweet. Officials said the incident reportedly occurred between 10.30 am to 10.45 am when the chopper was caught in bad weather, officials said, adding the helicopter belonged to the Army Aviation Corps. There was a thick fog over Patnitop when the incident occurred, they said. Local residents were the first to reach the site and they pulled out the pilots from the severely damaged helicopter, they added. Police, along with the Army, rushed to the scene to join the rescue operation and evacuated the injured pilots to a hospital, the officials said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-pilots-killed-after-army-helicopter-crash-lands-in-jks-udhampur-1032667.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Ahead of bypolls, Madhya Pradesh CM Chouhan looks to strengthen his reputation||As four constituencies in Madhya Pradesh prepare for bypolls, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is looking to strengthen public perception of him as a proactive leader with no tolerance for corruption or wrongdoing. Chouhan has been visiting poll-bound constituencies as part of his ‘Jan Darshan Yatra’ where he suspended three municipal officers who had corruption complaints against them. Chouhan has also been questioning officers thoroughly to ensure the benefits of government schemes reach the beneficiaries. Raigaon, Prithvipur and Jobat Rajya Sabha constituencies and a key Lok Sabha constituency Khandwa will go to polls soon, the dates are yet to be determined. Raigaon’s BJP MLA Jugar Kishore Bagri died, necessitating a bypoll. Prithvipur and Jobat seats fell vacant when Congress MLAs Brijendra Singh Rathore and Kalawati Bhuriya died. Khandwa Lok Sabha seat’s bypoll comes after the death of BJP MP Nandkumar Singh Chauhan. These bypolls are crucial for Shivraj Singh Chouhan who seeks to test public support for his government, especially the BJP could only come to power in 2019 with help from Jyotiraditya Scindia and his supporters from Congress, leading to the fall of Kamal Nath’s government in the key BJP state. The polls will also help determine the four-time Chief Minister’s popularity throughout the state. The Jan Darshan Yatra started on September 12 to give Chouhan a chance to interact with people and find out their grievances regarding implementation of government schemes. Some BJP members believe that Chouhan tries to portray that he is not a part of the corrupt lower level of bureaucracy with such rallies and public addresses. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-bypolls-madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-looks-to-strengthen-his-reputation-1032703.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Samajwadi Party demands judicial probe into Mahant Narendra Giri's death||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge into the death of seer Mahant Narendra Giri. The influential Hindu seer was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad. He was the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the largest organisation of sadhus in India. "We demand a judicial probe by sitting a high court judge into the matter," Yadav told reporters here. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also visited Baghambari Math in Allahabad and paid homage to the seer. Mahant Giri's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples on Monday Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-demands-judicial-probe-into-mahant-narendra-giris-death-1032717.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Student groups mount pressure on Jamia to reopen campus||Various student groups have urged Jamia Millia Islamia to reopen its campus in view of the improved Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Although other central varsities like the Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University have initiated phase-wise reopening of their campuses, Jamia Millia Islamia has not yet made any announcement in the regard. In a joint statement, student groups like the All India Students' Association (AISA), Campus Front of India, Students' Islamic Organisation of India (SIO), Students' Federation of India and others have demanded that the campus of Jamia Millia Islamia be reopened at the earliest. “For almost two years since the establishment of a lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, students have been facing serious problems due to closure of schools, colleges and university campuses. At a point in time, it was necessary to close all campuses due to increasing Covid cases and health issues. But now, the situation has totally changed. “Most of the institutions and public places have already opened and with adequate sanitisation and social distancing, people have started using all the public facilities,” the statement said. An official of the varsity, however, said it was decided in a meeting that students of courses like Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT) and science courses which require practical work should be allowed to access libraries and laboratories. It was also decided that PhD students who have to submit their thesis by the end of the year be allowed to enter the campus, provided they have received at least one dose of anti-Covid vaccine, he said. A notification is likely to be issued soon on reopening of the campus, he claimed. Meanwhile, the student groups said some of them met the Proctor of the university, but in vain. "... From his words, we understood that there is not much possibility of re-opening Jamia Millia Islamia in the near future. The university‘s meetings were held four to five days ago, but its minutes are not yet released. "Many students who wanted to access libraries and practical equipment are not yet given the permission to do so. Without these kinds of necessary facilities, how can we call this university education? There is no security issue as vaccination drives are going on," the statement read. The students have also been facing issues due to the ever increasing digital divide and relentless natural calamities, it said. Stating that international institutions like UNICEF have maintained that there is no point in keeping campuses closed, the groups said re-opening Jamia Millia Islamia is the only solution. "Without re-opening classes, the education system will deteriorate further. So, we demand the university authorities to reopen the university campus immediately," they added. The student bodies also appealed to all the students of Jamia Millia Islamia to be part of the campaign for reopening the university. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/student-groups-mount-pressure-on-jamia-to-reopen-campus-1032743.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Collegium reiterates recommendations on transfer of five HC judges; makes public resolution on elevation||The Supreme Court Collegium, headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, on Tuesday reiterated its recommendations for the transfer of five High Court judges including one from Karnataka. It also made public its September 16 resolutions, recommending the elevation of judges as Chief Justices of eight High Courts, including of Karnataka, and transfer of five sitting Chief Justices, including Justice Akil A Kureshi. In its meeting held on Tuesday, the Collegium reiterated its recommendations for the transfer of Justice Rajan Gupta from Punjab and Haryana to Patna HC, Justice P B Bajanthri from Karnataka to Patna HC, Justice S P Sharma from Rajasthan to Patna HC, Justice T Amarnath Goud from Telanagana to Tripura HC and Justice Subhash Chand from Allahabad to Jharkhand High Court. This reiteration comes after these names were returned by the Union government. On Tuesday, the Collegium also approved for transfer of Justice Sureshwar Thakur from Himachal Pradesh to Punjab and Haryana High Court. In its meeting held on September 16, the Collegium recommended elevation of judges as Chief Justices of eight High Courts. The resolution has then approved Justices Rajesh Bindal for the Allahabad High Court, Prakash Srivastava for the Calcutta High Court, Prashant Kumar Mishra for the Andhra Pradesh High Court, Ritu Raj Awasthi for the Karnataka High Court, Satish Chandra Sharma for the Telangana High Court, Ranjit V More for the Meghalaya High Court, Aravind Kumar for the Gujarat High Court, and R V Malimath for the Madhya Pradesh High Court. Justice Bindal was appointed as the acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court on April 29, as the polling got over in West Bengal. He was caught in the standoff between the Trinamool Congress and the Centre after elections in West Bengal. In another statement, which was also published on the top court's website on Tuesday, the list of five Chief Justices who have been transferred to other High Courts was also given. Justice Kureshi, who is currently Chief Justice of the Tripura High Court, was recommended to head the Rajasthan High Court, while Rajasthan High Court Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty will go to Tripura High Court in his place. Other Chief Justices to be transferred are Arup Kumar Goswami from Andhra Pradesh to the Chhattisgarh High Court, Mohd Rafiq from Madhya Pradesh to the Himachal Pradesh High Court, and Biswanath Somadder from Meghalaya to the Sikkim High Court. The Collegium also made public its yet another statement recommending for "transfer/re-transfer" of 17 High Court judges. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/collegium-reiterates-recommendations-on-transfer-of-five-hc-judges-makes-public-resolution-on-elevation-1032747.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||7-year-old raped, murdered in Rajasthan's Nagaur||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered by a neighbour in Rajasthan's Nagaur district, police said on Tuesday. The accused kidnapped the girl from her residence in a village under Padu Kalan police station limits on Monday and took her to a secluded place, where he raped her. A case has been registered against the accused, Dinesh Jat (20), for kidnap, rape and murder and he has been detained, Padu Kalan Station House Officer (SHO) Ashok Bishu said. He said the post-mortem has been conducted and the body will be handed over to the family. Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal demanded strict action against the accused and expressed condolence to the bereaved family. "Merta legislator Indira Bawri met the aggrieved family members. We stand with the family for justice and action against the accused. May God give peace to the departed soul," Beniwal tweeted. ईश्वर दिवगंत मासूम बालिका की आत्मा को अपने श्री चरणों मे स्थान प्रदान करें, मेरी संवेदनाएं पीड़ित परिवार के साथ है !||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-year-old-raped-murdered-in-rajasthans-nagaur-1032751.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Channi on chartered flight, Akali Dal questions his 'aam aadmi pitch'||A day after his swearing in, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi air-dashed to Delhi along with the Dy CMs who had sworn in with him and PCC chief Navjot Sigh Sidhu to discuss the new Cabinet formation, evoking a strong reaction from Opposition Akali Dal, which slammed the new CM for "promoting Delhi Durbar" culture. Channi, Sidhu and Dy CMs--Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and O P Soni took a chartered flight to Delhi to discuss Cabinet formation. Sidhu, whose shadow looms larger over the new dispensation, tweeted a photo of them with the chartered plane with the caption "in line of duty !!". The tweet kicked up a row with Akali Dal raising questions over the use of a chartered flight while Channi had pitched for an "aam aadmi sarkar", flauting his "humble origin" at the time of swearing in. "After saying that they stand with the common man, INC leaders take private jets to travel just 250 kms from Chandigarh to Delhi. Are there no normal flights or cars that can be used? Or is this chest thumping aimed at propagation of Gandhi family’s Delhi Darbar culture?," SAD tweeted. AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore, has, however, hailed the appointment of Channi tweeting, "Channiji didn't have a roof in his house, his mother used to get mud to plaster walls, father ran a tent house. Humble background." Apparently, Congress leadership is doing a balancing act on the issue of the leadership of Channi. After AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat's remarks that the party will go to the polls with the face of Sidhu, "undermining" the new CM, invited sharp criticism, AICC was quick to clarify that both Sidhu and Channi will be the party's faces for the polls that are months away. Congress, which carried out a "social balancing" in inducing a dalit CM, and one deputy CM each from Jat Sikh and Hindu community, is expected to extend such social engineering even in the new Cabinet expansion. With Sidhu spearheading the campaign after the exit of 79-year-old Captain, the party is expected to bring forth fresh faces in the new government to give it a youth-friendly look. Former Youth Congress chief Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, former national-level hockey player Pargat Singh, OBC leader Sangat Singh Gilzian, who had in 2018 accused the party of ignoring backward classes in Cabinet, Madanlal Jalalpur, who had got into a controversy in 2019 over his certain remarks on women are in contention along with others for the Cabinet. What remains to be seen is how many loyalists of former CM Captain Amarinder Singh are inducted into the Cabinet. Meanwhle, rumblings in Punjab continued with more senior leaders in the party reflecting discomfiture with the Sidhu takeover even as the party played Dalit card to the hilt. Latching on to remarks to the chief priest of Akal Takht Sahib Takht Sri Damdama Sahib Giani Harpreet Singh, party MP Manish Tewari, who is close to Amarinder, said he salutes his sagacity and wisdom. "He is wiser than most of us - Politicians! As Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj said--Manas Ki Jaat Sabhe Eke Pehchan Bo’ (There should be one identity of human beings)," Tewari tweeted on Tuesday. Giani Harpreet Singh, had said it was secondary whether the CM is Sikh or Hindu and what is more important is that one should rather be a better human being. Reacting to the remarks, former Punjab PCC chief Sunil Jakhar had hit out at Congress leaders saying, "Sagacious words of Jathedar of Shri Akal Takht Sahib couldn’t have come at a better time when petty-minded people occupying high positions are trying to divide Punjab on basis of race/caste/identities-forgetting eternal message of Guru." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channi-on-chartered-flight-akali-dal-questions-his-aam-aadmi-pitch-1032752.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||BJP has put Jammu and Kashmir on sale for outsiders, divided people on religious lines: Mehbooba||Accusing the BJP of “dividing” Jammu and Kashmir on religious lines, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday alleged that the Union Territory has been put on sale by the central government. "Jammu and Kashmir has been put on sale by the government for the people from outside. They want us to become bankrupt in order to make us dependent on (people from) other states," Mufti told reporters here. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief claimed all projects which were launched during her tenure as the chief minister of the erstwhile state have been halted by the BJP-led government at the Centre. "The contracts of liquor businesses under the excise policy have been given to outsiders. Liquor will be consumed by the people of Jammu and Kashmir but the profit will go to outsiders," she alleged. She claimed all big projects, including mining contracts, have been allotted to outsiders. Mufti, who is supporting the Jammu traders’ call for bandh on Wednesday against the opening of Reliance retail stores in the city, said the shops will destroy small businesses. "What we have in the country, they (BJP government) are selling to corporate houses", she said. Replying to a question about investments coming to Jammu and Kashmir, she said: "Whatever investments we got earlier have also been destroyed. They (industries) have gone back after closing their ventures here". Earlier, there were strikes in Kashmir, but now they are taking place in Jammu, she said. She also accused the BJP government of dividing people of Jammu and Kashmir on religious lines. "J&K is laboratory where they are testing (divide and rule policy). It (policy) will then be applied to other states," she alleged. "The BJP dubs those who raise any issue as anti-nationals. A sardar ji becomes Khalistani, we are dubbed as Pakistanis… BJP people only call themselves as Hindustanis," she said. She further claimed that the present dispensation at the Centre has no clear policy on Jammu and Kashmir. "Nehru ji and Vajpayee ji had a vision for Kashmir. They knew what they had to do on economic, political and emotional fronts... there is no vision of (this) government," she said Replying to a question about the government's decision to rename institutions after martyrs, which the Hurriyat has dubbed as a “Hindutva agenda”, Mufti asked what Prime Minister Narendra Modi was doing to tackle the high unemployment rate in Jammu and Kashmir. "Unemployment rate in J&K is 18 per cent. Corruption is high here… Will students get jobs by changing names of schools, lanes and road. So, it (renaming exercise) is all nonsense", she said. Mufti further said stone pelting is not a disease but a symptom and asserted that the “disease is growing". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-has-put-jammu-and-kashmir-on-sale-for-outsiders-divided-people-on-religious-lines-mehbooba-1032789.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Population control law will be brought 'at right time', says Yogi Adityanath||The state government will bring a law for population control "at the right time", Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday. The government had in July unveiled a policy aimed at stabilising the population in Uttar Pradesh and reducing maternal and infant deaths in a time-bound manner, with Adityanath terming rising population a "hurdle in development". "Everything is done at an appropriate time. The media earlier used to question the BJP on when it would announce a date for the Ram temple's construction, but the prime minister (Narendra Modi), despite the Covid-19 pandemic, laid the foundation stone of the temple in Ayodhya on August 5 last year, and all need to be happy now," Adityanath said at a conclave. "Similarly, Article 370 was also scrapped by the prime minister and Union Home Minister Amit Shah," he said. On August 5, 2019, the Centre had abrogated Article 370, which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. At the 'News 24' conclave, when asked about his recent 'abba jaan' remark, the chief minister said,"They (opposition) want the vote of Muslims but are getting irritated with 'abba jaan'." In Kushinagar, Adityanath, in an apparent attack against the Samajwadi Party had said people who say "abba jaan" used to digest all the ration earlier. On the population law for Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister said, "Everything has a right time and has to be done at the right place." "When the population law is brought, it will be done with fanfare, in the knowledge of the media as we do not believe in doing anything silently," Adityanath said. In July, a draft bill on population control was put up on the website of the Uttar Pradesh Law Commission, inviting suggestions from the public till the 19th of the month. It states that people having more than two children in Uttar Pradesh will be debarred from contesting local bodies polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. The draft bill also seeks to prohibit promotions in government jobs for such people, while offering incentives to those limiting their children to two. The law commission is said to have handed over the draft bill to the government. On Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav's tweet claiming that a record number of riots have taken place in the state, Adityanath said, "The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) states that there have been zero communal riots in Uttar Pradesh." They (opposition) are not depending on their intelligence, but depending on Twitter, he said. Asked about Yadav's assertions that he is inaugurating works done during the SP government, the chief minister said, "The situation that had emerged in 2017 of the pair (Congress and SP alliance for the elections) coming together, it is their nature to humiliate the state." "The BJP is forming the next government with over 350 seats in the coming assembly elections," he said. To a question on whether he would be chief minister again, Adityanath said, "If you say so I accept it. Thanks for your good wishes." Polls for 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly are due next year. The BJP had won 312 seats last time. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/population-control-law-will-be-brought-at-right-time-says-yogi-adityanath-1032791.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Six-year-old girl in Agra drowns in nullah after heavy rains||A six-year-old girl drowned in a nullah which has been overflowing since Tuesday afternoon due to heavy rains in Agra, according to police. Shabnam was swept away by the flow of water and was traced after an hour, Inspector Udayveer Singh Malik said. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead by doctors. The incident took place when the girl was playing outside her house in Gobar Choki locality in the city around 1 pm, Malik said. According to an eyewitness, the minor's foot slipped and she fell into the 11-feet deep nullah. Additional City Magistrate Vinod Kumar told reporters that nullah had been overflowing due to heavy rains and the polluted water flooded the streets. Heavy rains caused extensive waterlogging and traffic jams on key roads in the city.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-year-old-girl-in-agra-drowns-in-nullah-after-heavy-rains-1032833.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||5 Hindu Sena members held for vandalising AIMIM chief Owaisi's residence in Delhi: Police||The Delhi Police arrested five members of the Hindu Sena on Tuesday for allegedly vandalising the official residence of AIMIM chief and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi at Ashoka Road here. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said five people were arrested for their alleged involvement in the incident. Police said they received information regarding the incident at around 5 pm and rushed to the spot. A senior police officer said a case has been registered against the accused under sections 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, and section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act at the Parliament Street police station. Police said although nobody was attacked or injured in the incident, public property was damaged, which is an offence. In a video clip on social media, state president of Hindu Sena Lalit Kumar said they went to Owaisi's residence to teach him a lesson as he speaks against Hindus at his rallies. Around 4 pm, members of the Hindu Sena vandalised Owaisi's residence. National president of the outfit Vishnu Gupta said they were offended with the Hyderabad MP's "anti-Hindu" statements. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief remains in the headlines by continuously giving anti-Hindu statements and a case against him has already been registered in Uttar Pradesh, Gupta said. The Hindu Sena requests Owaisi not to give such statements, he added. Police said the incident took place around 5 pm. A PCR call was received, following which the five Hindu Sena members were arrested, they added. Those arrested are from northeast Delhi, police said, adding that they vandalised the back gate of Owaisi's residence. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-hindu-sena-members-held-for-vandalising-aimim-chief-owaisis-residence-in-delhi-police-1032886.html
21-09-2021||North and Central||Political parties need to stop welcoming gangsters to their fold: Allabhad HC||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday expressed concern over political parties welcoming criminals to their fold and fielding them in elections and called for stopping this trend, saying that these criminals will one day become ‘Bhasmasur’ for the country. A bench of Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava made this observation while rejecting bail pleas of suspended Station House Officer Vinay Kumar Tiwari and Sub-Inspector K K Sharma of Choubeypur police station. The two were arrested for allegedly tipping gangster Vikas Dubey about an impending police raid at his house in Bikru village of Kanpur on July 2 last year. Aware of the impending raid, Dubey’s accomplices had ambushed the police team, killing eight of them, including a deputy SP-rank officer. “There is a concerning trend that one or other political party welcomes gangsters and criminals involved in organised crime in the party and try to back and protect them, painting and spreading an imaginary image of Robin Hood,” Justice Srivastava lamented. Seeking an immediate halt of this trend, he added, “They are given tickets to contest elections and sometimes they win also. This trend needs to be stopped as soon as possible.” Justice Shrivastava refused to bail out the two police officials saying that it was evident that the accused applicants had prior information regarding the police raid and they 'evidently' revealed it to the gangster. “All the political parties should sit together and are required to take a decision that gangsters and criminals will be discouraged in politics and no political party will give tickets to them in elections,” Justice Shrivastava said. He also exhorted the political parties to rise to the occasion to counter the criminalisation of politics. “The political parties should rise to the occasion and must guide themselves keeping in view that there cannot be a concept of ‘my criminal’ and ‘his criminal’ or ‘my man’ and ‘his man,’ as a gangster is a gangster only,” Justice Shrivastava said. “One day these gangsters and criminals will become ‘Bhasmasur’ and will make such a serious dent to the country and its democratic set-up which cannot be repaired,” the court said. "There are policemen, maybe very few in numbers, who show their loyalty more to such gangsters than to their department for the reasons best known to them," the court observed. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/political-parties-need-to-stop-welcoming-gangsters-to-their-fold-allabhad-hc-1032899.html
21-09-2021||Oasis||Using power for a better cause||Sometimes it is just not enough if we are in the know about the distinction between what is right and wrong. The knowledge will stand us in good stead if we apply it in our lives. It can make us a hero if we have the courage to stand by what is right against all odds. When we gain the maturity to accept a valid viewpoint of an opponent, we elevate ourselves to the position of a role model. An incident in the life of sage Chyavana recorded in the Mahabharata celebrates this quality. Sukanya was the beautiful young wife of Chyavana. The Ashwinikumaras coveted her. She refused to give up her old and blind husband for them. The celestial twins were struck by her steadfastness. They rewarded her by reversing sage Chyavana’s condition, by bestowing youth and health on the pious man. However, they decided to test her further. They appeared in front of Sukanya in the form of her husband. The young lady was taken aback to see the three identical men. She identified her husband by his feet that were in contact with mother earth whereas the Ashwinikumaras were not attracted by gravitation. The Ashwinikumaras were amazed at her presence of mind. They were also aware of Chyavana’s power of penance, so they sought the help of the sage. The duo wanted a share of the Havis offered to the gods during Yagnas. Though Chyavana had almost been robbed of his wife by them, he could see the justice of their request. Indra, the lord of Gods, was not very happy with the sage’s interference in divine matters. When his displeasures and threats did not work, Indra did not hesitate to use the Vajrayudha on the sage. Chyavana’s conviction and power of penance were so great that he not only stayed the greatest weapon in the cosmos but also created a counter weapon. He manifested a demon called Mada, who was several times more powerful than Indra. By then, Indra understood that Chyavana meant business. He decided to give in and allow the Ashwinikumaras to partake in the Havis. Chyavana exercised equanimity, prudence and confidence to achieve his ends. So can we. Nonetheless, we must ensure that our cause is legitimate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/using-power-for-a-better-cause-1032889.html
21-09-2021||Opinion||China needs a Lehman-level meltdown to crash its steel mills||By David Fickling From the way metal prices have moved in recent weeks, it looks like the wheels are falling off China’s property market. The price of iron ore futures in Dalian has dropped by half over the past two months, accelerating Monday after the government announced fresh winter pollution curbs for northern steel-producing cities, which typically cut output and demand for rust. Add to that the travails of China Evergrande Group, the property developer that’s at risk of defaulting on some of its $300 billion of liabilities, and it makes up a bearish picture for ferrous metals. China consumes half the world’s steel, and its property sector alone accounts for about a fifth of global demand, according to Liberum analyst Tom Price. Should a Lehman-style crisis spiral out from Evergrande, the impact would be dramatic. Just how dramatic, though? A look at past steel crises gives some clues. Rust Bucket Take the 2008 Lehman Brothers Inc. bankruptcy. US steel demand had spiked in 2006, just as the property market was on the turn. Peak-to-trough, the decline was dramatic, falling more than half by 2009 before gradually picking up speed to its current reasonably steady state about 15 per cent below 2006 levels. In other downturns, the slumps were more muted. Japan’s steel output fell by only about 20 per cent from 1991, when its housing bubble burst, to its a low point three years later, before gradually edging down further during the 1997 Asian financial crisis and the 2008 Lehman shock to its current level about 30 per cent below the peak. South Korea barely paused for breath in 1997, with production dropping by a third the following year before quickly recovering and entering a boom that's still going on. On the other hand, there is one more baleful example to consider: the former Soviet Union, where output slumped to just a fifth of its 1988 level after the fall of communism, before gradually crawling back in recent decades to about 40 per cent of peak volumes. Decline and Fall One lesson from all of these episodes is that steel demand rarely recovers altogether from an epic financial crisis. In the best of times, ferrous metal consumption tends to decline once an economy moves from its resource-intensive industrial development stage toward a more affluent service economy. That's exacerbated by the way that steel demand is fueled by property and infrastructure, which in turn are fed by a supply of credit that can seem boundless until, suddenly, it isn’t. It’s not a coincidence that one popular indicator of financial crises is the Skyscraper Index, which argues that ruin follows every time a record-breaking tower is built: Skyscrapers, after all, are among the most steel-intensive structures ever built. That lesson will be front-of-mind for Evergrande’s lenders right now.  The question is, what sort of crisis is China facing? It’s unlikely that it will be able to follow the trajectory that South Korea enjoyed after the 1997 crisis — because demand from China itself played a major part in that recovery, and there’s no equivalent economy out there to save the day. The potential of a Soviet Union-style meltdown should perhaps not be discounted, given the similar role of state-directed over-investment in each economy. Still, China is also vastly more exposed to and supported by the global economy than the USSR ever was — and if such an event were to happen, the path of steel demand would be the least of the world’s worries. In one sense, we’ve already seen this story. China itself suffered a mini-crash after 2013 when its post-2008 stimulus came to an end, with consumption falling by about 10 per cent over the next two years. That glimpse into the abyss, and the credit-fueled construction splurge unleashed to prop up economic growth afterward, is one factor in the problems being faced now by Evergrande. Apparent steel use last year was nearly a third higher than the previous record, and for all the government’s promises of output curbs, usage as of July this year was running nearly 10 per cent higher still. Steel in the Spine That’s good reason to think that markets are overreacting to a moment in time when yet another Chinese mega-conglomerate is teetering just as the the country’s typical construction cycle slows and Covid-hit flows of ore flood into a well-supplied market. One thing worth checking is the price of the reinforcement bar used on construction sites, which is at almost exactly the elevated level it was two months ago before its key ingredient started its plunge. That suggests that end-use demand is still pretty much where it was before this panic started, which should deliver mill owners handsome profits. China’s steel sector will ultimately decline, as the steel sector of every country eventually does. As a matter of policy, the government is determined that consumption and emissions will peak by 2025, with a shift toward using more scrap instead of imported iron ore and coal. Turning this ship around, though, is bound up in politics and a national business model founded on heavy capital investment. That maneuver can be guaranteed to take a while. The sheer scale of the country’s steel industry means we must all pay attention when its appetite wavers — and current prices shy of $100 a metric ton would be considered ample in almost any other year. Still, we’ve not yet seen the reckoning with its steel addiction that China, and the world, ultimately needs. Until that happens, don’t assume this market is dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-needs-a-lehman-level-meltdown-to-crash-its-steel-mills-1032619.html
21-09-2021||Opinion||Punjab: 'Commoner' Channi takes on AAP and Amarinder||Charanjit Singh Channi, the 58-year-old Dalit chief minister of Punjab, will at best get a four-month apprenticeship to prove his mettle. On day one of his stewardship, Channi and his two deputies took a slew of "pro-poor" decisions.  Even as a section of state Congress leadership sought to discredit his elevation, Channi seemed aware that his tenure would be short-lived and conscious of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) 's challenge in the forthcoming Assembly polls. "If someone asks who is an aam aadmi, I suggest look at me, I am one," he said, taking a swipe at both the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Amarinder Singh, the scion of the royal house of Patiala. Channi had raised a banner of revolt against Amarinder Singh in recent times.  Taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who once hailed himself as a proud tea-seller, in the same vein, Channi tried to establish common ground with all the immigrants who are now voters of Punjab. To them, he said his father had pulled a rickshaw, and he had pulled one, and he was one like them. Channi also spoke of his rural background. "My mother and I have collected cow dung and fodder," he said, connecting with the farmers and rural voters of Punjab. He didn't need to make the same appeal to his Dalit brethren, who comprise 30 per cent of the voters of Punjab.  To counter AAP's promise of free electricity up to 300 units if voted to power, Channi's government proposed increasing free power consumption from 200 units to 300 units. It also offered to waive off electricity dues of tubewells and free water supply in rural areas for non-agricultural use. There was also a proposal to cut domestic water and sewerage tariffs in urban areas and prioritise constructing houses for the economically weaker sections. However, the Congress high command's plan to bring the turmoil in Punjab Congress to an end with Channi's appointment was not to be. The Congress, it would seem, likes drama more than stability, even if it means harakiri. The drama started unfolding within 24 hours of the announcement that Channi was to be the new CM. Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat tweeted to remind Channi that he was, at the most, a night watchman. Rawat tweeted that the Congress will fight the 2022 Assembly polls under the leadership of Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sidhu is at the centre of the recent turn of events. He had also displaced Sunil Jakhar as the state unit chief of the Congress in July, and Jakhar chose the ongoing crisis to hit back. "It (contesting the 2022 polls under Sidhu's leadership) will undermine the CM's authority and also negate the very 'raison d’être' of his selection for this position," Jakhar tweeted. To quell such speculation, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told the media that the party would fight the Punjab polls under the leadership of both Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu. However, Channi has found little time to cherish his new chair. The countdown to the end of his tenure began the moment his swearing-in ceremony ended. The new CM doesn't have time, and his struggle would be how to make time. He could learn from the mistakes of his predecessor Amarinder Singh that he shouldn't promise what he cannot deliver.  To Channi's credit, in his first press conference as the chief minister of Punjab, he displayed political sagacity to touch upon the issue of be-adbi (blasphemy) but in passing. Channi said he would not like to meet people involved in illegal sand mining. If during Channi's tenure, the turmoil in Punjab Congress doesn't end and if the party loses the 2022 assembly elections, his tenure will be nothing more than a token of remembrance for him and his family. Not to forget, it could also endanger his political career. Channi is fortunate to be the chief minister. He will have to play a T20 innings to show his calibre to remain a vital member of the team that will lead the Congress into the electoral battle and possibly in the next government. (The writer is a journalist based in Chandigarh) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/punjab-commoner-channi-takes-on-aap-and-amarinder-1032767.html
21-09-2021||Panorama||Running schools amid pandemic||The pandemic has altered the lifestyle and development of children to a level beyond one could imagine. While the children from privileged backgrounds could afford their education through online mode, the others were left to fend against the adversities. The inaccessible education, lack of socialisation and uncertain times has left the children with compromised mental health. Several mental health issues like anxiety, depression and behavioural problems have reached a new high among children. Though the schools have resumed for children from class 6 due to reduced infections levels and positivity rate, a greater task is on schools to reinstate mental wellbeing among children. Mere resumption of classes will not help children who have gone through the trauma of facing unprecedented situations, losing close relatives and prolonged deprivation of socialisation and play. It is pertinent to appoint a qualified school counsellor or a school social worker in every government school as there is a longstanding need for mental health services in these schools. Mental health issues in children, if unaddressed, will have a pernicious impact on their academic and personal life. The overall wellbeing of school children needs to be achieved with a more holistic approach that incorporates all the components of health and not merely conducting physical examination once a year. Through peer education and awareness is being imparted in the government schools for adolescents, there may be several issues related to younger children like conduct problems, learning and academic issues and mental health problems which require a great deal of attention, which only a trained counsellor, psychologist or a professional social worker can provide. In fact, studies suggest that there has to be combined teamwork of school-based mental health services that comprises of students and their families, teachers, and school and community-based mental health counsellors, legal and medical professionals. While most of the government school teachers express the need for a school counsellor a few consider it unaffordable as many schools do not even have the basic facilities like water, sanitation and adequate teachers. Public schools are considered less privileged when compared with private schools in India as they receive apathy most often from the government. Rashtriya Bala Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) that provides school health services needs to be revised to incorporate mental health services as the general health of a child cannot be viewed discretely from mental health. The writer is a research associate working with GRAAM||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/running-schools-amid-pandemic-1032890.html
21-09-2021||Panorama||Digital healthcare set to transform patient care systems||Many years ago, when I was working for one of India’s famous hospital groups at a senior management level, I was woken up at 2 am by the duty manager who informed me about a patient brought dead to the Emergency Response (ER). This was someone who had been discharged just two weeks ago after a successful surgery. The ER doctors informed me that the patient had most likely developed post-operative clinical depression which had gone unnoticed by the family. He jumped off the 15th floor of his apartment building. The police ruled out foul play. I remember spending the following week in distress thinking how such eventualities could be prevented. Years later, as the vice-president of DayToDay Health, a Boston-based health tech startup, I saw a similar case where our clinical team providing care to a post-operative patient on the digital platform, picked up signs of clinical depression and suicidal ideation in the patient. This was picked up by the psychologist who is part of our multi-disciplinary team of doctors, nurses, nutritionists, clinical pharmacologists, physiotherapists, and respiratory therapists. The intervention was done immediately by getting the patient appropriate treatment, keeping the surgeon in the loop. For the patient, it is like having the entire clinical team accessible at all times of the day or night, in the language that he or she speaks. The clinical team closely monitors the patient and picks up early warning signs if any and ensures appropriate and timely interventions which could’ve otherwise been missed. The team has detailed clinical dashboards for individual patients. In simple terms, this is nothing but medical records that the clinical team would fill in the case sheet on daily rounds during hospitalisation. When the patient visits the hospital for a routine follow up, or even otherwise when required, the patient’s primary clinician gets access to these records at the click of a button. In fact, for surgical cases, even wound health can be monitored through the digital platform. Our clinical team recently picked up early signs of surgical site infection through surgical image monitoring on the digital platform. Early intervention prevented a catastrophe since it was a case of an implant. It was years later, that I found a solution to the problem that had nagged me for almost a decade. The possibilities of digital healthcare are immense. Doctors would agree that decision-making in medical practice is not always black and white. Pre and post hospitalisation are areas where the clinical care is left entirely to the patient and his/her caregivers. The clinical team in the hospital has very little visibility and no control over what happens in these phases. Appropriate care in both the pre and post hospitalisation phase has the potential to improve clinical outcomes, decrease morbidity, prevent readmissions, and thereby reduce the overall cost of treatment. Digital interventions play a critical role in bridging the gap in these areas. For optimum clinical outcomes, hospitals need to consider everything from what could have been done before the procedure to the entire continuum of care including post-discharge care. Acute care management has emerged as a prominent area of interest. It offers huge potential for healthcare service providers to leverage their expertise in this domain. With digital interventions, patient care management, specifically acute, post-surgical, and out-of-hospital care have evolved systemically. According to Industry ARC’s report, the global acute care market is expected to reach $214.3 billion by 2025, growing at a 6.8% compound annual growth rate between 2020 and 2025. More recently, digital interventions have shown their potential during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. In April 2021, as the second wave of Covid-19 swept through India, the Remote Covid-19 Care Program of DTD, which had been developed and made widely available, was in high demand. One of the most significant lessons learned from the pandemic was that a sizable proportion of Covid-19-infected patients could be successfully treated at home using a combination of intelligent technology and a trained clinical team. We have had tremendous success managing asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid cases on the digital platform since the pandemic began. Lives have been saved by picking up early signs of deterioration and ensuring timely medical attention. In fact, we saw over a threefold rise in our patient numbers during the first and second waves of the pandemic. Recently, the startup has also introduced the Covid long haul care plan to handle the post-Covid sequelae that we are seeing and are likely to see increasingly as we go forward. Over the past year, after the national telemedicine guidelines came into force, digital health tas turned out to be a boon. Routine OPD visits can be managed via the digital platform. With digital devices like ‘stemoscope’, doctors can hear heart, lung, and bowel sounds virtually. Further, in a country like ours, where rural medical care is found lacking, digital healthcare can help take medical care to the remotest areas. With many advancements like wearable devices, artificial intelligence and machine learning, there will soon be a paradigm shift in the way medical care is delivered. With digital healthcare, not just the doctor, but an entire medical team can be accessed remotely. There will of course remain situations and cases which need to be handled within the confines of a hospital, however, we may see cases increasingly being handled through the digital platform. If done right, this will help reduce the burden on our stretched healthcare infrastructure. The days of, “the doctor will see you now” may just well be changing too, “the patient will see you now”! And like Eric Topol said, “the digital world has been in a separate orbit from our medical cocoon, and it’s time the boundaries be taken down.” The writer is the vice-president of a Boston-based start-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/digital-healthcare-set-to-transform-patient-care-systems-1032891.html
21-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Chutney and 'Aatma Nirbharta'||Chutney has been with us over the last three centuries. In my childhood days in the big joint family, it was an inseparable and relished item on the menu. My college days in the 70s were nicely backed by the right kind of chutneys that selflessly demanded lip-smacking consumption. In fact, some hotels were hesitant to serve the third time. During service, I had often followed a good plan of staying late in the name of discussions, eats accompanied of course. It seemed quite fine until the doctor smilingly advised me to avoid chutney, due to a possible water infection. This advice was lurking in the background stopping me from breaking free. Amid the pandemic lockdown, my wife invited me to the kitchen and told me I should hand-grind ingredients for the best chutney. All arrangements were neatly laid out. I refused initially but began eventually. The ingredients — coconut, grams, cumin, curry leaves, coriander, pepper, chillies, and ginger, and others — winked at me. I felt I am one among them, but started grinding them anyway. The whole process, moving the stone in an anti-clockwise manner, ingredients at different stages getting pushed and coaxed into the grinding area, appeared natural like the dynamic life pattern. The chutney tasted good and was assuring. I objected strongly to my wife’s suggestion about visiting the kitchen every day but willfully complied with it. The fact of the matter is that the superiority of “chutney-rubbing” over “mixer-preparation” is widely observed and noted, even by tribologists. Cutting in the mixer enhances speed but is no match to hand-grinding. The hand-grinding of chutney is very neat. It establishes wholesome connectivity with the varied menu and aids immunity. Further, the hand-grinding process also demands effective research as well as data analytics to establish the goodness of following the best practices of making chutney. My daughter also indicated this understanding in the West and extended a hearty invitation to come with the full apparatus and enthusiasm to prepare chutney. After my newfound knowledge of making the best chutney, I feel like connecting chutney to Aatma Nirbharta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/chutney-and-aatma-nirbharta-1032892.html
21-09-2021||Second Edit||Covid-19 vaccination is not PM Narendra Modi’s personal gift||The countrywide vaccination drive against Covid-19 risks turning into a political programme if it gets associated with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a politician or a person at every stage and in every aspect. A record 23.1 million vaccinations were done on September 17, Modi’s birthday and the programme was turned into a political vaccine mela, touted as a ‘birthday gift’ to the nation. But vaccination is a national programme that uses public resources in the form of government personnel, money and facilities owned by the State, and should not be commandeered and tethered to a party or a person. The country had a 30-day average of 7 million doses before the birthday bash, and it suddenly tripled on that day, with BJP-ruled states multiplying the vaccinations by up to 15 times. The sudden surge shows that there was a political plan behind it. The average number of doses in the runaway states came down in the few days before the birthday and in the days after the event, raising questions whether vaccines were held back for that day. That amounts to making a deliberate attempt to manipulate the programme by organising it for the benefit of the Prime Minister’s and BJP’s image. Linking a national programme with a day in the ruling party’s political calendar amounts to appropriation of that programme and imposition of the day on the people, demanding their involvement in it. Already the vaccination certificates carry Modi’s photograph and billboards on streets and advertisements, again with his photograph, make various claims, giving credit for the vaccination programme personally to him and even suggesting that the vaccines are a gift to the people from him. Such identification of a national programme with the Prime Minister at a personal level is improper in a democracy. What was witnessed on September 17 was vaccine populism of an unethical kind, and a sign of moral corruption. It is the norm in the country to name government programmes after former prime ministers and other leaders and eminent persons. But implementation of programmes of such scale under the personal banner of a serving Prime Minister has not often happened, except perhaps during the Emergency. The identification of the national, the political and the personal establishes wrong equations between them and will distort democratic politics, weaken the nation and make the personal a toxic variable in public life. When vaccinations are part of public policy, they should not be politicised to promote a party and personalised to privilege the Prime Minister. It is wrong to use the vaccination programme to give a booster shot to the Prime Minister's image.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-vaccination-is-not-pm-narendra-modi-s-personal-gift-1032893.html
21-09-2021||South||Christians behind most conversions in India, not Muslims, claims NDA ally Natesan||Vellappally Natesan, a prominent Kerala Hindu leader and general secretary of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana yogam -- an outfit of Kerala's numerically strong Ezhava community -- in a controversial remark said that it was not the Muslims but Christians who are at the “forefront” of conversions and “love jihad”. The SNDP yogam general secretary and patron of NDA ally Bharat Dharma Jana Sena hit out at the remarks of a catholic priest who had alleged that Ezhava youths had recently lured girls from a parish under the Syro-Malabar Church near Kottayam. Natesan claimed that certain sections of the Christian community are known for the most number of religious conversions in India. "In case one girl falls in love with a Muslim boy, she may go with him and convert. But in this case, the missionaries convert the whole family. Why don't we talk about it? Who is known for the most number of conversions in India? It's the Christian missionaries. It's a fact," Natesan alleged. Natesan, who strongly supported the renaissance movement undertaken by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan during the right-wing protests opposing the entry of women in all age groups in Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa temple, alleged that the minorities have become a strong vote bank and receive all benefits from the government. "It's the Christian missionaries who have exploited the deprived sections of society and conducted the most number of religious conversions," the SNDP leader said. Kerala has been a talking point on religion and 'jihad' after Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt's remarks on narcotic and 'love jihad' were widely criticised. The bishop said Christian girls were largely falling prey to "love and narcotic jihad" in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth belonging to other religions. Natesan's statement against the Bishop came as a setback for the BJP which had thrown its weight behind the Catholic priest over the issue. Muslim outfits, leaders protested the statement of Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, alleging that it was meant to create a communal divide in Kerala society. (With inputs from agencies) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/christians-behind-most-conversions-in-india-not-muslims-claims-nda-ally-natesan-1032642.html
21-09-2021||South||A paw-some alliance: Kerala dogs get a wedding||Kerala's Thrissur district witnessed a marriage of a different sort on Monday. Both bride Jaanvi and bridegroom Acid are Beagles. The marriage was solemnised at a heritage resort at Punnayurkulam on the outskirts of the district and was attended by various other dogs. Acid's family, natives of Vadanappally in the district, organised the wedding. Acid alias 'Kuttapu', who is two-and-a-half years old, was a member of the family from his younger days. He was like the third son to Shelly and his wife after their two human sons Akash and Arjun. Akash told DH that the family was looking for a companion for Acid for quite some time and recently came across Jaanvi, who is around a year and half. Subsequently, the plans of organising a formal wedding materialised. An event management group was engaged. A save-the-date photoshoot was also carried out. All their friends with pet dogs, were invited to the wedding by the family, who work in the hospitality industry. While the bridegroom was dressed in a shirt, the bride wore a skirt. The bride was brought to the stage in a ceremonial manner. Garlands were exchanged the newly married couple cut a cake. The guests were served Biryani. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-paw-some-alliance-kerala-dogs-get-a-wedding-1032674.html
21-09-2021||South||Kerala Police up vigil on discussions in Clubhouse after 'narcotic jihad' row||Communally sensitive discussions in the backdrop of a bishop's 'narcotic jihad' comment have prompted the Kerala police to up the vigil on social audio platform Clubhouse. Police sources told DH that following the 'narcotic jihad' and 'love jihad' remarks of a bishop in the state, communally sensitive discussions were found to be going on quite aggressively among Clubhouse groups. This had triggered concerns over whether extremist elements were misusing the app to disturb the communal harmony of the state. The chances of triggering communally sensitive discussions using a fake profile were also high. Hence the cyber wing of the state police has stepped up its vigil. Clubhouse was already under the scanner after the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) raised concerns over children being lured to illicit tracks through the social audio chat platform. KSCPCR member Nazeer Chaliyam recently directed the police and various agencies of the state government to enhance cyber patrolling and take steps to create awareness among children on the misuse of Clubhouse and its consequences. Chaliyam said that complaints of children being lured to sexually toned discussions in Clubhouse were coming up and hence urgent measures were required to curb its misuse. The Cyberdome of Kerala Police had alerted that the use of the app by children may even lead to online predators engaging with children easily and could end up meeting in person as well. Since the recordings in Clubhouse are deleted as each session ends it was difficult for the investigating agencies to ascertain the authenticity of the contents of Clubhouse spread over other social media platforms. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-up-vigil-on-discussions-in-clubhouse-after-narcotic-jihad-row-1032841.html
21-09-2021||South||NEET-related coaching centres’ business in Tamil Nadu is Rs 5,750 crore: Report||Contending that National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) seeks to replace “learning with coaching”, a high-level committee appointed by the Tamil Nadu government has come down heavily on NEET-specific coaching centres and has estimated their business in the state to be around Rs 5,750 crore.  The committee headed by Justice (retired) A K Rajan said it appears that NEET can be cleared only with additional coaching and noted that coaching centres have mushroomed in cities “charging exorbitant fees” coaching.  “NEET Coaching is a business overall flourishing across the country. The economics of NEET coaching classes is staggering, with the cost to a student in a popular Centre in Rajasthan, for example, amounting to at least Rs 5 lakh for higher secondary education and entrance coaching classes,” the panel said, adding that it is evident that competitive exams in India revolve around the coaching class ecosystem grown around JEE and NEET.  The panel said 99 per cent of students who appeared for the exam had received prior training before appearing for NEET with most of them being repeaters. It added that many are being coached for the exam from Class 8.  The report, on whose basis the Tamil Nadu assembly passed a “legally sound” legislation seeking exemption from NEET for students from the state, said rural students studying in government schools hailing from economically weaker sections find it difficult to join coaching centres as they cannot afford.  “Collectively, the total business of 400 plus coaching firms in Tamil Nadu is approximately Rs. 5,750 crores, exclusively incurred on NEET. The actual figure would be higher than this if a detailed investigation is made on this issue,” the panel said.  In an important observation, the Justice Rajan committee said that the actual fee (excluding the capitation or “illegal surcharges” levied by the private colleges) paid by the medical students for their studies would be much less than the money spent on coaching.  “This trend shows the financial muscle power of the affluent segment that succeeded in getting medical seats after the invention of NEET. More than 95 per cent of the TNSBSE students cannot afford to go for coaching,” the panel said.  Prince Gajendrababu, education activist and general secretary of State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS –Tamil Nadu), told DH that the committee report has established “with proof” that NEET is a “commercial venture”. “This is what we have been saying ever since NEET came into being. NEET wants to replace classroom learning with coaching centres. Coaching centres fix their fees according to the infrastructure they have and their location. It is a known fact students from rural areas cannot afford such coaching. This puts them at a disadvantageous position,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neet-related-coaching-centres-business-in-tamil-nadu-is-rs-5750-crore-report-1032854.html
21-09-2021||South||Kerala concerned over vaccine hesitancy in high-risk groups||Even as the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Kerala progresses, the state health sector is concerned over vaccine hesitancy among the aged and those with comorbid factors. Around 90 per cent of the 23,897 persons who died due to Covid-19 in Kerala so far come under this group and hence, the health authorities are more concerned about hesitancy in this group. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had recently stated that around 9 lakh people aged above 60 and those with comorbid factors were yet to take Covid vaccination. Fear of side effects seems to be a key factor and hence, awareness needs to be raised. Health department sources said that even as facilities for vaccinating the aged and bed-ridden at homes were offered, a major chunk of them haven't taken the vaccine yet. Earlier, there was a general hesitation towards vaccination in some parts of the state. Many families were even reluctant to give normal preventive vaccinations to children. But the scenario has changed over the years. However, hesitancy among the elder generation seems to be pertaining. Over 90 per cent of those aged above 18 already got their first dose and 38 per cent have got the second dose, too.  Meanwhile, 15,768 fresh Covid cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday with a test positivity rate of around 15 per cent. A total of 1.61 lakh active cases are there in Kerala now. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-concerned-over-vaccine-hesitancy-in-high-risk-groups-1032874.html
21-09-2021||South||Telangana minster's remarks on Kerala investment climate goes viral||An adverse remark by Telangana Industries Minister K T Rama Rao on the Pinarayi Vijayan government's approach to investors is going viral in Kerala. It was during the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for a Rs 2,400 crore investment by Kerala-based Kitex Group in Telangana the other day that the minister made the adverse statement. Kitex Group had decided to make major investments outside Kerala following differences with the Kerala government over frequent inspections by various government agencies at its units in the state. The group's managing director Sabu Jacob had alleged that Kerala was not investor-friendly. Jacob, who heads the Twenty20 forum that contested in the elections, suspected that the inspections were politically motivated. Recollecting his initial discussions over the phone with Jacob, Rao said that when he offered a special flight to a Kitex Group delegation to visit Telangana for discussions on investment and a visit to the facilities, Jacob was taken aback. Jacob asked whether he could announce to the press in Kerala that a Telangana minister had offered a special flight for him. Rao replied that he was free to share it but only just before boarding the flight, or else the Kerala government would sit right in front of his (Jacob's) house and office and would not let you go. And that was what he exactly did, said Rao. These remarks by the Telangana minister are doing the rounds among social media users in Kerala. While the Kerala government has yet to formally react to Rama Rao's statement, sources in the Kerala government said that it was unfair for a minister to make such remarks against another state. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-minsters-remarks-on-kerala-investment-climate-goes-viral-1032877.html
21-09-2021||South||TDP, BJP oppose TTDs 'jumbo' board, call appointments 'political patronage'||The TDP and BJP in Andhra Pradesh are opposing the newly restructured TTD board, after the Jaganmohan Reddy government appointed a jumbo panel with an unprecedented 81 members, including the chairman and a whopping 52 special invitees. The opposition parties are alleging that the regular member appointments smack of political patronage with the inclusion of “several dubious elements including the chief minister's business partners and those with criminal antecedents.” After Jagan became the chief minister in 2019, the Tirumala-Tirupati Devasthanams' (TTD) board of trustees’ composition went up from 19 to 36 members, including seven special invitees. Former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu has slammed his successor for further expanding the board this time to a jumbo scale, “to serve selfish political and business interests.” The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) board oversees the management of the famous Tirumala Venkateshwara Swamy temple, which churns out an annual revenue of about Rs 3,000 crore. A name on the board, reconstituted every two years, has become a symbol of clout lately. “In place of the spiritual and service-oriented personalities, industrialists, politicians including some of those tainted with CBI cases have been accommodated in the TTD. Sentiments of crores of devotees are hurt and the board's sanctity is tarnished as it has become a haven for the politically unemployed leaders,” Naidu said in a letter to Jagan, demanding that the board be reconstituted immediately with inclusion of desirable persons. While Reddy had last month reappointed his uncle YV Subba Reddy as the chairman in three separate government orders issued last week, a new board was formed with 24 regular members, four ex-officio members including senior bureaucrats. Former BCCI chairman and India Cements MD N Srinivasan, Hetero Group chairman Parthasaradhi Reddy are among those who have been renominated as trustees. However, in a surprising move, Jagan's administration has added 52 special invitees, who would be extended the same privileges on par with the TTD trust members and their tenure is also co-terminus. The BJP said that the “promotion of such VVIP culture vitiates the sanctity of the Lord's abode and the special invitees would be a drag on the TTD administration.” “TTD board was functioning well for decades without such invitees, so the claim that they would serve devotee interests is bogus. In fact, devotees have to suffer as the friends, followers of special invitees are sure to grab the darshsan time,” AP BJP chief Somu Veerraju said. In his representation on Monday, Somu asked governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to instruct the state government to withdraw the 52 special invitee appointments immediately. Meanwhile, Bhanuprakasah Reddy, a BJP leader and former TTD board member told DH that he has approached the Andhra Pradesh High Court with a PIL challenging the new TTD board composition as “illegal, arbitrary, and violative of the provisions of The Andhra Pradesh Charitable & Hindu Religious Institutions & Endowments Act, 1987.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-bjp-oppose-ttds-jumbo-board-call-appointments-political-patronage-1032895.html
21-09-2021||South||Tirumala Brahmotsavams to commence on October 7||Lord Venkateshwara Swamy's annual brahmotsavams would commence on October 7 in Tirumala. According to the TTD officials, Dhwajarohanam, that marks the beginning of the nine-day festival, is on October 7, Garuda-Seva on October 11, Golden chariot ride on October 12, Rathotsavam on October 14, and finally Chakrasnanam and Dhwajavarohanam on October 15. The celestial event would be held in Ekantham (solitude) this year too, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Tirumala-Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman YV Subba Reddy said last week. The decision, the chairman said, was in adherence to the revised Covid-19 guidelines issued by the central and state governments in view of the possibility of a third wave in October. Reddy had stated that only around 20,000 devotees are being provided Srivari Darshan daily following Covid regulations like sanitisation, use of face masks and social distancing. The chairman said that the limited number of darshans would continue for some more time and temple activities also will be carried out in a restricted manner. On Tuesday, TTD executive officer Jawahar Reddy said that devotees belonging to the weaker sections from various locations in Andhra Pradesh where TTD operates temples would be provided darshan during the annual brahmotsavams, not exceeding 1,000 people per day. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-brahmotsavams-to-commence-on-october-7-1032896.html
21-09-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan condemns 'narcotic jihad' remark||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday strongly flayed the 'narcotic jihad' remarks of a bishop. The chief minister's statement came after religious leaders, including heads of various churches, flayed the remarks of Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, bishop of Pala in Kottayam district, that jihadis were trying to destroy non-Muslims through 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad'. The opposition parties and Muslim outfits were also accusing the state government for not trying to sort out the issue. Though Vijayan had initially maintained that the bishop's statement was unfortunate, the ruling CP(I)M was not as aggressive in flaying the bishop as a section of Christian factions were backing 'love jihad' contention. The chief minister also maintained that there was no need for police case against the bishop. On Tuesday, Vijayan said that a person holding a high position should not have made 'narcotic jihad' remark in any context without realising facts. Kerala society would not accept such contentions. The centre had already clarified that the there was no sort of 'love jihad' in Kerala, he said at a function. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-condemns-narcotic-jihad-remark-1032904.html
21-09-2021||State||100% occupancy in Karnataka theatres? Decision this week||With the Covid-19 scare abating, the Karnataka government might consider allowing 100 per cent occupancy in theatres and lift other curbs, Health Minister K Sudhakar said Tuesday.  He was speaking to reporters at Vidhana Soudha where a delegation of film producers and exhibitors met him. They have been asking for 100 per cent occupancy in theatres, up from the current 50 per cent.  “The government wants to support theatres. The entire film business has suffered huge financial losses. The government is thinking positively,” Sudhakar said.  The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) will meet in 2-3 days where a final decision will be taken, the minister said. “We will look at the current infection numbers, decisions taken by other states and the forecast from our experts,” Sudhakar said.  The minister suggested that the atmosphere is now conducive to allow 100 per cent seating in theatres. “Positivity is less than 1 per cent and we’re reporting 600-800 cases daily. There aren’t too many deaths. We will have to consider all this,” he said.  The move will benefit filmmakers and exhibitors with some big-ticket releases lined up in Sandalwood.  The government, however, will exercise caution. “We don’t want one activity to lead to a spurt in cases,” Sudhakar said.  The upcoming TAC meeting will also discuss lifting curbs on pubs and swimming pools, Sudhakar said.  Check out latest videos by DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/100-occupancy-in-karnataka-theatres-decision-this-week-1032763.html
21-09-2021||State||Kuvempu University to award PhD degree||Kuvempu University has approved a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree to K G Prashantha in Ancient History and Archaeology for his thesis ‘'Sringeri Matha Mattu Prabhutvagala Itihasika Sambandha’. The research work was guided by Rajaram Hedge and it is dedicated to Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar. The degree will be conferred in the next convocation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kuvempu-university-to-award-phd-degree-1032768.html
21-09-2021||State||JD(S) nominates Sharada Appaji for polls from Bhadravathi||JD(S) leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy announced that Sharada Appaji Gowda, spouse of former MLA the late Appaji Gowda, would be the nominee of JD(S) from Bhadravathi assembly constituency in 2023 polls. Speaking to media persons at Gonibeedu in the taluk after unveiling the statue of former MLA the late Appaji Gowda on Tuesday, he said he would respect the emotions of the people of Bhadravathi assembly constituency and followers of Appaji. So, Sharada would face the next assembly polls on JD(S) ticket. Appaji Gowda died due to Covid-19 last year.  He said the party is organising a workshop for leaders in Bengaluru on September 27 and 140 probable candidates will take part in it. All the issues related to the next assembly polls and candidates will be discussed there. Referring to the state government's bill to protect illegal places of worship, he alleged that the Bommai-led government has tabled the bill to shield its mistake. On the one hand, it claims to be the guardian of Hindus and on the other hand, a temple was demolished when the same party is in power. This is the best example of BJP's double standard, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-nominates-sharada-appaji-for-polls-from-bhadravathi-1032806.html
21-09-2021||State||476 instances of satellite phone usage in Karnataka: Araga Jnanendra||A total of 476 instances of satellite phones being used in the state’s coastal region have been reported since last year, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told the Assembly. He was replying to a Zero Hour question raised by former Congress minister UT Khader. "After the 2011 Mumbai terror attacks, the usage of satellite phones is prohibited on Indian waters by the Directorate General of Shipping. There were 256 instances of satellite phone usage in 2020 and 220 so far this year in the coastal region," Jnanendra said. "Our police are coordinating with agencies, such as RAW. Our police are behind this. For now, there's no reason to worry," he added. Report on state anthem soon The state government has constituted an expert committee to give a final shape to the rendition and duration of the state anthem (Jaya Bharatha Jananiya Thanujathe), Kannada and Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar told the Assembly. "The committee has held its first meeting and will submit a report soon. Before Gandhi Jayanti (October 2), we will state the decision," Kumar said. Literary circles have frowned upon the lack of uniformity on the various renditions of the state anthem penned by Rashtrakavi Kuvempu. The duration of the song, which is a must in all official events, ranges from 4-5 minutes and going up to nine minutes. Black Fungus: Minister admits tablet shortage Health Minister K Sudhakar informed the Assembly that the state has seen 3,900 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis so far. He even admitted that there is a shortage of posaconazole tablets in Bidar. "An indent will be sent," he said, amid strong objections raised by Bhalki MLA Eshwar Khandre. The minister specified that there was no shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin. To another question by Raichur Rural MLA Basanagouda Daddal on dengue, Sudhakar said 20% of beds in state-run hospitals are reserved for children. "We see cough, cold and fever in the August-September period," he said. Make Aadhaar must in pvt sector: Panel The Legislature Committee on Subordinate Legislation has recommended the government to make the Aadhaar card compulsory in the private sector to bring more people under the tax net. In its report tabled in the Assembly on Tuesday, the committee said making the Aadhaar card compulsory in the private sector will help the government get 50% more in taxes. The Committee also recommended deployment of KSISF security personnel at Vidhana Soudha, Vikas Soudha, M S Buildings, Mysuru Palace and other such locations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/476-instances-of-satellite-phone-usage-in-karnataka-araga-jnanendra-1032862.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Very low Covid positivity rate among students: Karnataka TAC||Out of 95,618 samples collected from students from class 6 to II PUC, only 86 tested positive for Covid-19. The test positivity rate (TPR) among school children is 0.08% as on September 15, which is good and reassuring, said the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). Following the reopening of schools in Karnataka (classes 9-12 from August 23 and classes 6-8 from September 6) daily RT-PCR testing was done for schoolchildren. The sampling rate has dropped from 9% to 3%, and it is recommended to ramp up testing to 10% in a week’s time, the TAC said in its meeting held on Sunday evening. The TAC report also recommended data segregation and reporting for urban and rural areas. "Schools have reopened for higher age groups in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Puducherry. Till date, it is heartening to note that there are no reports of clusters of cases among children," the report added. On allowing full-day offline classes, Dr Rajath Athreya, one of the two paediatricians in TAC, said, "We haven’t gone into finer details like hours and days. That will be a multi-agency call. But our own random testing in schoolchildren revealed a very low TPR of 0.08%." Athreya said the aim is to start getting students into school "as we closely monitor for any surges". As per the data provided to TAC by the Deputy Director of School Health from the state health department, the highest number of samples was tested in Koppal district — 16,804 from August 23 to September 15. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) incidentally tested only 86 samples in the same time period, Bangalore Urban district 2,016, and Bangalore Rural 588 samples. The highest positives were found in Shivamogga district, where 4,264 children were tested and 30 were found positive, followed by 12 positives in Belagavi district. In the context of a possible third Covid wave, the TAC has also recommended the state to write to the Centre to reduce the interval between two Covishield doses from the present 84 days to four-eight weeks as was the practice earlier. This helps to rapidly increase the coverage of second dose and to dent/prevent the third wave, it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/very-low-covid-positivity-rate-among-students-karnataka-tac-1032569.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kids with comorbidities to get Covid-19 vaccine first, says Karnataka health minister||Out of the 53,82,106 children screened in the state till September 15 as part of the Arogya Nandana programme, 7,259 kids were found to have severe acute malnutrition. A whopping 1,05,150 kids had moderate acute malnutrition, 1,759 had diabetes, 150 had chronic liver disease, 371 had chronic lung disease, 585 had chronic kidney failure, 338 had blood disorders and 48 had cancer. Health Minister K Sudhakar said based on the list of comorbidities that the Centre publishes, these kids with comorbidities will be first in line for the Covid vaccine once it becomes available for 12-to 17-year-olds. The state’s aim is to screen 1.5 crore children in Karnataka. Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, the world’s first Plasmid DNA vaccine for Covid-19, is the only vaccine approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use in children aged 12 years and above. “We are undertaking the Arogya Nandana programme to identify comorbidities among children,” the minister said. “The clinical trials of Covovax (developed by American company Novavax) among children are ongoing in India. Bharat Biotech’s nasal vaccine is also under trial and it includes children too,” he said. The highest number of children with kidney failure has so far been found in Chitradurga district (189). Districts that have high number of kids suffering from other ailments are: Raichur district, which has 1,447 diabetic children, Chikkamagaluru has 55 kids with chronic liver disease, 109 kids have chronic lung disease in Kalaburagi district, Yadgir district has 48 children suffering from blood disorders like thalassemia and sickle cell anaemia and 14 children in Haveri district have cancer. Belagavi district has screened the highest number of children under the programme so far with a coverage of 14,04,414 kids, followed by Haveri (7,59,156), and Koppal (4,03,354). As far as Bengaluru is concerned, the screening has been relatively slower with BBMP having screened only 25,467 kids so far. Bengaluru Urban district has screened 75,420 kids and Bengaluru Rural district 68,499. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kids-with-comorbidities-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-first-says-karnataka-health-minister-1032684.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||7 Dakshina Kannada gram panchayats selected for Gandhi Grama Puraskar||Seven gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada district have been selected for Gandhi Grama Puraskar during 2020-21. The award-winning gram panchayats include Munnur in Mangaluru taluk, Beluvai in Moodbidri, Irvathur in Bantwal, Aryapu in Puttur, Noojibalthila in Kadaba, Madanthyar in Belthangady and Sampaje in Sullia. The award includes a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh, citation and is instituted by the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. “The gram panchayats had to answer 100 questions online through panchatantra software and each question had marks. It had to be endorsed by Panchayat President and PDO. The same were verified by the district-level committee. After scrutiny, highest scoring GPs in each taluk were shortlisted and sent to the ZP CEO. A district-level committee was set up to visit GPs and verify information furnished. The committee is then asked to recommend one GP in each taluk for the award. Accordingly, GPs were selected for the award,” SK Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Kumar told DH. The questions were divided into many units including resource mobilisation, tax collection, utilisation of grants, implementation of MGNREGS, supply of drinking water, housing schemes, sanitation and measures for disposal of solid waste, holding regular Gram Sabha meetings, innovative initiatives, revision of taxes as per the government guidelines, toilets in all the households, community toilets and so on. Munnur GP PDO Ravindra Rajiv Naik said that the gram panchayat is winning the award for the second consecutive time. “The GP could win the award with the coordinated efforts of the gram panchayat president, members, Asha workers, anganwadi workers and staff. The support helped the GP to carry out sustainable development. The GP has also initiated a solar rooftop project and also a digital library. As a PDO, I am winning the award for the third time. In the past, as a Kuvettu GP PDO, the Gandhi Gram Puraskar was won by the GP.” The Irvathur gram panchayat in Bantwal taluk had implemented ‘Hasiru Karnataka’ campaign project through women in the gram panchayat jurisdiction and had carried out works under MGNREGS effectively in addition to various other development works. The Beluvai gram panchayat is winning the award for the third time while Madantyar GP is winning the award for the second time. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-dakshina-kannada-gram-panchayats-selected-for-gandhi-grama-puraskar-1032700.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister Murugesh Nirani's Twitter account hacked||Karnataka Minister for Large and Medium Industries Murugesh Nirani on Tuesday said his Twitter account has been hacked from a foreign location. “My Twitter handle @NiraniMurugesh has been hacked from an unknown foreign location today. We do not know the exact origin and identity of the culprit,” he said in a statement. He urged people not to fall prey to any fraudulent messages posted by hackers and ignore any derogatory and unparliamentary messages on his account. “We have lodged a complaint with the Twitter and soon will be lodging with cyber cell police in Bengaluru,” the minister said. He added that he is making efforts to retrieve the Twitter account. The Minister also said his Facebook account was hacked recently and money was demanded through it. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-murugesh-niranis-twitter-account-hacked-1032706.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government considering law against religious conversion: Home Minister Jnanendra||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told the Legislative Assembly that the government is considering a law to regulate religious conversions after a BJP legislator said his mother had become a Christian due to inducements. Hosadurga legislator Goolihatti Shekhar, raising the issue during zero hour, said “forced” religious conversions are rampant in the state. “My mother has been converted by a Christian. She was brainwashed into not keeping vermilion on her forehead, abandoning idol worship and so on. Even her phone’s ringtone is a Christian song,” he said. “This has caused much embarrassment in the family.” Apparently, nearly 20,000 people in his constituency have become Christians this way. “Before the anti-superstition law came, Hindus in rural areas would go to local deities to find cures for illnesses. That has stopped now. But Christian missionaries offer inducements by offering cure and other benefits,” he said. Shekhar said Dalits, OBCs and even Muslims are being converted. “I agree that everybody is free to follow the faith of their choice. But if someone takes up Christianity, that person should forego SC/ST benefits,” he said.  Former Speaker KG Bopaiah said religious conversion was “a serious problem” across the state, especially in SC/ST colonies. “We need an Uttar Pradesh-like law against religious conversions.” Nagthan MLA Devanand Fulasing Chavan said Vijayapura is home to 3.5 lakh people belonging to the Banjara community. “Churches are coming up and people are being converted in tandas, which is leading to the division of the community,” he said. In his reply, Jnanendra said the government is aware of religious conversions taking place. “It’s a punishable offence to get people to convert into a religion by way of inducement. There’s a widespread network not just in the state, but across the country. Should we introduce a Bill or do something else...we are discussing how to curb this,” he said. The minister said conversions take place to add to the tally of a particular community. “It’s one thing for a person to voluntarily adopt a religion. But, offering a cure for illness or misusing religion in other ways is not right. This could also lead to communal disharmony,” he said. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri nudged the government to consider bringing in a law for this. “Other states have brought a law. Maybe it’ll help if that’s done here, too,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-considering-law-against-religious-conversion-home-minister-jnanendra-1032713.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Minister Karandlaje asks Karnataka government to increase millet exports||Union Minister Shobha Karandlaje on Tuesday urged the Karnataka government to support sustainable agriculture by increasing the export of millets. Her appeal came as the United Nations has declared 2023 as the International year of millets. “Karnataka being a home for ‘Siridhanya’’, the government's intent is to reintroduce and promote staple and nutritious food products and increase its export,” the Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare said while inaugurating the “Vanijya Utsav”. The event is part of the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, which is being organised by the Central Commerce Department in collaboration with the Government of Karnataka on the occasion of 75th-year anniversary celebrations of the Indian Independence at The Lalit Ashok here on Tuesday. Karandlaje said, “The state has established six Centres of Excellence under Indo–Israel-Netherlands Programme to boost quality and quantity production of Mango, Pomegranate, Flowers, Oil palm etc. The initiative will make India shine on the global front as a leading producer and innovator of high-quality agricultural products.” According to Karandlaje, who is a BJP MP from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru constituency in Karnataka said the state government has been working to formulate an Agri-Export Cell to better target the policy initiatives and to expand its export market reach. She added that her ministry is also actively engaged in the implementation of ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ Scheme and ‘Prime Minister Formalization of Micro Food Processing Enterprises’. The Minister assured the Centre's complete support to the Government of Karnataka to help them achieve their objectives. She also said the administration in Karnataka is committed to materialising central government initiatives such as developing districts as export hubs, setting up export development centres and ‘One District one Product’ scheme to achieve the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat, Vocal for Local and Make in India. Speaking at the function, Karnataka Additional Chief Secretary, Commerce and Industry Department Ramana Reddy said Karnataka has facilitated India’s growth through its Information Technology industry. "Apart from this, we have successfully facilitated the economic growth of the nation through our conducive business environment and business-friendly policies," he said. The programme was organised by SEPC under the guidance of the Union Commerce and Industry Department. Eminent people and industry experts from various leading Chambers of Commerce, Industry Associations, Export Promotion Councils attended the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-minister-karandlaje-asks-karnataka-government-to-increase-millet-exports-1032753.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PIL seeks rescue of privately owned elephant in Tumakuru||A PIL has been filed seeking directions for urgent medical treatment, rescue and rehabilitation of a privately owned captive elephant named Lakshmi in Tumakuru. The owner of the elephant is a religious mutt/temple - Ugradhi Gavimath Mahasamsthan, Urvakonda in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. The petition is filed by People for Animals of Mysuru and another organisation. While the Andhra Pradesh-based Mutt holds the ownership, the elephant has been in the custody of a branch Mutt, Kadasiddeshwara Mutt at Nonavinakere in Tumakuru. The petitioners alleged that the Mutt has used the elephant for blessing visitors, begging on the streets besides renting/leasing it out for short visits during processions and other events. According to the petitioners, Lakshmi was born in a Karnataka forest camp in 1992. When she was 18 months old, the Mutt was given the jumbo’s custody by an ownership certificate dated March 28, 1994, by the deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Tumakuru. The petitioners said that in 2008, the elephant was seized and shifted to the Bannerghatta Biological Park in Bengaluru for treatment after complaints about its ill-treatment. The elephant was returned to the Mutt after the seer of the Mutt gave an assurance that Lakshmi will be looked after well. The petitioner claimed that an emergency cause of action has arisen after video and photos of the elephant being beaten and paraded for begging on the streets of Tumakuru went viral recently. The petitioners said that pursuant to the complaint about this incident, the elephant was taken on foot across 200 km from Tumakuru into the Andhra Pradesh border, only with an intention to escape proceedings of the Forest department. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma ordered notice and posted the case to November 24. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pil-seeks-rescue-of-privately-owned-elephant-in-tumakuru-1032836.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Property registration glitches to be fixed by December: R Ashoka||While there have been several complaints about delays in property registration owing to the government's new system of online payment in sub-registrar offices, the state government will bring a new software and set right the issue by December this year, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said. In the Legislative Council, Ashoka was responding to JD(S) MLC Appaji Gowda who pointed out that people had to wait in long queues for hours together to get properties registered. The K2 challan system is not working effectively, he said. Acknowledging the issue, Ashoka said the government is facing this problem for the past six months. "There is too much load on the Kaveri software with it being linked to Rural Development, Panchayat Raj and DPAR Departments," the minister explained, speaking about the technical snags. That apart, there are also issues with hardware, the minister stated. The UPS and battery systems are old. If these batteries stop working, it adds to the delay. Recently, the department has released Rs 12 crore to replace old batteries. Once this is done, 50% of the problem will be solved, he added. The government will set right the issue by December 2021, according to the minister. Further, hardware engineers and data entry operators are also being trained in Kaveri software. "We got rid of the demand draft system because sub-registrars were taking too long to deposit them in the bank. We will examine how we can further streamline this system," he said. There is too much load on the Kaveri software with it being linked to Rural Development, Panchayat Raj and DPAR Departments, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/property-registration-glitches-to-be-fixed-by-december-r-ashoka-1032837.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Probe irregularities in KRIDL, Congress MLC demands||A contractor has built a community hall in his private property using government funds at a village in K Gollahalli panchayat limits in Kengeri, Congress chief whip in the Legislative Council, M Narayanaswamy said on Tuesday. He alleged large-scale corruption in Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL). Raising the issue in the Legislative Council, the MLC said that the community hall was constructed in a green zone without required permissions. The contractor has also installed high mast lights in his factory using government funds, apart from building a compound wall around his house using government funds, he alleged. There are irregularities to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore in the RDPR department, all of which must be investigated, he further alleged, blaming the KRIDL managing sirector and other officials. Responding to this, ruling party leader Kota Sreenivasa Poojary said about Rs 3.54 crore was spent on the community hall and it was registered as a government property. However, the government will inquire into the issue, he assured. Law dept releases legal dictionary in Kannada The state government will henceforth ensure that all new Central and State legislations are available to the public in Kannada, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said on Tuesday. The minister was speaking on the occasion of the Law department releasing a Kannada dictionary of legal terminology. The department has brought this out in coordination with the directorate of translation. On the occasion, the department also released a Kannada translation of 15 Central Acts. Congratulating the department on the initiative, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said there was an increased awareness of legal provisions post 2003, when the government took up the initiative of translating legislations into Kannada. The legal dictionary in Kannada is a step further in this direction, he said. Also on the occasion, Bommai released a coin to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of ISKCON founder Acharya Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. Minister’s Twitter account hacked The Twitter account of Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani was hacked on Tuesday. The minister stated that his Twitter handle was hacked from an unknown foreign location. “We do not know that exact origin and identity of the culprit. I urge everyone not to fall prey to any fraudulent messages posted by hackers and ignore any derogatory or unparliamentary messages on my account,” he said in a statement. A complaint would be lodged with cyber crime division, he added. The minister also said that recently his Facebook account was hacked with the hacker asking money from people through his account. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/probe-irregularities-in-kridl-congress-mlc-demands-1032838.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||818 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka logged 818 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,69,361 and the toll to 37,648. The day also saw 1,414 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,17,944. Out of the total number of new cases reported, 359 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 381 discharges and eight deaths. The total number of active cases in the state was 13,741. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.80 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.56 per cent. Belagavi followed Bengaluru Urban in the number of deaths (3), Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru had two each, followed by others. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 359, Dakshina Kannada 114, Udupi 73, Mysuru 71, Kodagu 25, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,44,052, followed by Mysuru 1,77,400 and Tumakuru 1,19,961. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,20,659, followed by Mysuru 1,74,460 and Tumakuru 1,18,431. Cumulatively a total of 4,64,86,898 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,01,549 were on Tuesday alone.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/818-new-covid-19-cases-21-deaths-in-karnataka-1032840.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka RTC workers pin hope on Sriramulu to get jobs back||Representatives of the associations of the employees of the four state road transport corporations (RTCs) demanded Transport Minister B Sriramulu on Tuesday to reinstate 4,000 workers, who were either dismissed or suspended for participating in the strike earlier this year. A day after hinting that the government will soften its stance towards the employees, most of who were caught in the crosshairs of a long-standing conflict with managements, the minister held a meeting with the leaders of the trade unions and federations representing the employees. On Monday, Sriramulu had said that of the 6,000 employees dismissed or suspended from service, about 2,000 have been reinstated. Sources said the minister did not make a commitment to reinstating the about 4000 employees but spoke of considering their pleas. "The workers urged that the minister can overrule the observation of the officials and save the workers. He had agreed to look into the matter positively," the source said. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Sriramulu said the government will engage with the trade unions and federations on the issue. "The state of affairs of the transport sector is well known. Our task now is to make the sector profitable. It is also my job to take employees into confidence. I will fix the problems of the employees," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-rtc-workers-pin-hope-on-sriramulu-to-get-jobs-back-1032844.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rejecting July results proves costly for over 200 II PU students||Over 200 II PU students who forfeited the marks - ranging from 60% to 99% - awarded by the department and chose to improve their scores by writing the exams have failed to secure even the pass marks. Of the 592 regular students who appeared for the exams conducted in August-September, 36 have failed. Of the 351 repeater candidates, 168 have failed. The results of the exams were announced on Monday. On Tuesday, many students thronged the office of the department of pre-university education (DPUE), requesting that they be allowed to retain the earlier results. But DPUE officials said there was no provision to retain the previous results. A senior DPUE official told DH, "We have clearly mentioned in the notification that the marks cannot be retained if the candidates are rejecting them and appearing for the examinations." "I really feel sad for some students as they rejected the results due to the pressure from parents. Now, even the parents are accompanying children and requesting to retain earlier scores, which is impossible," the official said. The data available from the department shows that some students who scored above 500 in the results announced in July have scored 0 in the August/September examinations. For these students, it might mean a waste of one full academic year as the department is still doubtful of conducting the supplementary examinations. In that case, the students have to enrol for the annual examination during March-April 2022. The fortunate ones Over 120 students had registered for the exams, but decided not to write the exams at the last moment. They requested the department to retain their earlier results a few days before the exams. The department has granted their wish. INVITING TROUBLE Examples of big dip in scores July result               Aug/Sep exams391                           153410                            77555                           395423                            00 (absent) 329                            00 (absent367                            00 (absent)392                            00 (absent)450                            50535                            191555                            371 Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rejecting-july-results-proves-costly-for-over-200-ii-pu-students-1032860.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes Bill to protect illegal shrines||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday passed the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, to prevent thousands of illegal shrines and holy sites from being demolished even as the Opposition sought to corner the BJP government for allowing a Hindu temple to be razed. The Bill will protect all religious structures that are occupying public places illegally. Otherwise, such structures will have to be demolished, relocated or regulated as per a 2009 Supreme Court order. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that the BJP government was forced to introduce the Bill due to the fear of and pressure from right-wing groups such as the Hindu Jagarana Vedike and the Hindu Mahasabha. Seeking clarity on whether the government would offer any relief to temples that were demolished in the past, Siddaramaiah said: "You are introducing the Bill now because Hindu groups are angry. But, it is ironic that it was your government that demolished a temple." Siddaramaiah was referring to the demolition of the Ucchagani Mahadevamma temple in Nanjangud, Mysuru district. The Congress leader said the government was aware that this temple would be razed. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy argued that the government had no idea. "The (Mysuru deputy commissioner) was overenthusiastic to implement the court order," he said. The Bill is seen as a way to circumvent the 2009 SC order. But Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai denied this. The Bill is being introduced not to "nullify the SC order," he said. "If any cases of religious structures are in court, such structures won't be under the purview of the Bill," he pointed out. Former JD(S) minister Bandeppa Kashempur said that apart from temples, statues of eminent personalities near main roads were also demolished in the past. "Introduce a provision to reconstruct the religious structures demolished in the past," he said. Congress' U T Khader made a comment on fixing responsibility on those who have hurt religious sentiments. "We read in history books that foreigners came here to destroy and loot. Now, our kids read that the BJP government demolished temples," he said, causing a din. Bommai intervened to say that 161 illegal religious structures out of 315 in Mysuru alone were demolished between 2010 and 2019. "When and on whom will you fix responsibility for these demolitions," he asked. Based on suggestions by various members, Bommai said that rules will be framed by the government to explain the 'operative' details on how the Bill will be implemented. The Assembly passed the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill to curb online gambling. According to the government, the existing law is inadequate to curb online gambling. Former speaker K R Ramesh Kumar said several people were falling prey to online gambling, especially during IPL season. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that the provisions allow the government to raid those involved in illegal gambling. "Earlier, those arrested for gambling would get bail easily. Such shortcomings are being addressed in the Bill," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-to-protect-illegal-shrines-1032863.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chanakya varsity Bill passed as Congress cries foul||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday approved a Bill to set up a new private university amid a heated debate and a walkout by the Congress. The Chanakya University Bill was passed on a voice vote. The proposed multi-disciplinary university will come up near Devanahalli, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, in a campus spread across 100 acres. The Centre for Education and Social Studies (CESS) is the sponsoring body of the university that has plans to start functioning from the 2022-23 academic year. Senior academic M K Sridhar, who was a member of the National Education Policy (NEP) drafting committee, is the president of the sponsoring body. Once the Bill is passed in the Council and assented by the Governor, the number of private universities in the state will go up to 22, of which 14 will be in Bengaluru. Also, Chanakya University will be the first to be set up in the state after the implementation of NEP. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah objected to the Bill, saying that 50 acres of land worth around Rs 175 crore acquired by the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board near the Devanahalli Aerospace Park would be handed over to the university. Smelling a scam, he said that handing over the land reserved for industries to a private university was unconstitutional. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai asked why the Opposition was against a private university, as several private universities were cleared by the Assembly in the past. “What is wrong in providing land for health and educational institutions,” he asked. He urged the Opposition to take up their issues in the court or other forums. “We are not opposed to the university. But, why should the university get the land near the aerospace park,” former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar asked. Bommai said that the government was committed to encouraging educational institutions in Karnataka and would sanction land to ten such varsities if required in the future. The debate on the Bill led to a din with Congress accusing BJP government of favoring some institutions. Opposing the passage, Congress staged a walkout. “Who is Sridhar? He’s an RSS, ABVP man,” Siddaramaiah said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chanakya-varsity-bill-passed-as-congress-cries-foul-1032866.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes Town planning, GST bills||The Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Bill and GST Bill were passed by the Assembly on Tuesday. Speaking on the Town and Country Planning Bill, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that government can either offer Transferable Development Rights (TDR) or compensation for land acquisition for public projects. If any beneficiary eligible for TDR has not received it for five years since land acquisition, he will receive TDR based on existing guidance value, Bommai said. The GST Bill was passed amidst a walk out by Congress members, who were unhappy about the explanation offered by the government over the same. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-town-planning-gst-bills-1032871.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress MLCs demand toilet on Legislative Council premises, privilege motion moved||A heated argument ensued in the Legislative Council on Monday, with Congress MLCs demanding toilet facilities in the Upper House premises. One MLC moved a privilege motion against the Leader of the House and Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary for giving "false assurance". "Poojary had earlier assured that a toilet would be constructed soon. But the government has not acted on it," Congress leader Pratapchandra Shetty said, claiming breach of privilege. Pointing out that there was no toilet near the Council premises, Congress leaders said it was causing much inconvenience to everyone in attendance. They demanded that the canteen outside the Council, on the first floor of Vidhana Soudha, be relocated and that a toilet be constructed there. However, Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horrati dismissed the motion saying there was "no scope" for it under the Council regulations. He would call a meeting of both the ruling and the opposition leaders to sort out the issue, he assured. 'Privilege is an invisible honour' Former JD(S) minister Sa Ra Mahesh's notice to move a privilege motion against an IAS officer was not accepted. This also led to a brief debate on the nature of privileges enjoyed by the MLAs. Mahesh, targeting the IAS officer, listed out her "unilateral decisions" and alleged irregularities when she was the Mysuru deputy commissioner. "This is a violation of protocol and we will act against the official concerned. This isn't breach of privilege," Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said. Former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar said Mahesh was targeting someone who was not present in the House for self-defence. "It's not a good precedent to allow this," he said. "Privilege is an invisible honour." Madhuswamy concurred and said MLAs should not think of themselves as "super-human". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-mlcs-demand-toilet-on-legislative-council-premises-privilege-motion-moved-1032879.html
21-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3,900 people in Karnataka infected with Black fungus so far||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said 3,900 people in the state have been infected by black fungus so far. "Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus infections, are found after recovery from Covid-19 and 3,900 people have been infected in the state so far," Sudhakar said. Responding to a question raised by Congress MLA from Bhalki, Eshwara Khandre, in the assembly, he said, considering the treatment for the black fungus infection being costly, the government has decided to provide free treatment. "96,060 vials of Liposomal amphotericin (the drug required for black fungus) has been procured, and 51,000 have already been distributed to districts," he added. Regarding shortage in supply of drugs for black fungus in Bidar district, the Minister said there is no shortage of Liposomal amphotericin, but there is shortage of Posaconazole. "As many as 6,800 Posaconazole tablets we have procured and 6,704 has been sent to districts, but we need more, already indent has been raised, in 3-4 days once we get, it will be sent to districts including Bidar," he added. Check out DH's videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3900-people-in-karnataka-infected-with-black-fungus-so-far-1032903.html
21-09-2021||West||Rahul Gandhi, Sachin Pilot discuss Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle in a 'quiet meeting'||As Congress recovers from the infighting in its Punjab unit and the months-long turmoil that ended with a new Chief Minister ahead of Assembly polls, speculation is rife that another key state for the grand old party, Rajasthan, is headed for a reshuffle.  Before Pilot's meeting with Gandhi, Congress State General Secretary Ajay Maken had spoken to state MLAs on multiple visits recently to hear their views on a reshuffle, but nothing changed in the state. Sources now told IE that Pilot has been assured of a reshuffle. Pilot has been demanding the inclusion of MLAs loyal to him in the Cabinet and to various boards and corporations. However, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has not given in to the pressure so far. After the Punjab crisis, the Congress leaders in the western state are expecting the leadership to make tougher decisions. AICC leaders, however, told the publication that Gehlot, and even Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, are different from former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, in that they have a stronger dynamic with their MLAs and command their support. But demand for a change is brewing in both states. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rahul-gandhi-sachin-pilot-discuss-rajasthan-cabinet-reshuffle-in-a-quiet-meeting-1032641.html
21-09-2021||West||Another body recovered from Mumbai sea, toll rises to three||The body of a 21-year-old man, swept away along with two others in the Arabian sea at Versova jetty here while immersing idols of Lord Ganesh, was recovered on early Tuesday morning, over 32 hours after the incident, civic officials said. The body of Vijay Patil was recovered from the sea at Versova, they said. Doctors at the Cooper Hospital in Juhu declared Patil "brought dead", according to the officials. On Monday, the bodies of two other youngsters swept away in the sea along with Patil were recovered. The deceased duo aged 18 years and 20 years respectively, an official had said. A total of five youngsters had entered the sea at the Versova jetty around 9 PM on Sunday for immersing an idol. While two of them were rescued by local people, three others were swept away. Idols of Lord Ganesh and goddess Gauri were immersed in various water bodies in Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra on Sunday, the last day of the 10-day Ganpati Festival. Check out th latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-body-recovered-from-mumbai-sea-toll-rises-to-three-1032656.html
21-09-2021||West||Raj Kundra walks out of Mumbai jail after bail in pornographic films case||Businessman Raj Kundra on Tuesday walked out of a Mumbai jail, a day after a magistrate court here granted bail to the key accused in a pornographic films case in which he was arrested two months ago. Kundra was released from the Arthur Road jail shortly after 11.30 am, a jail official said. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate SB Bhajipale on Monday allowed Kundra's bail application on furnishing a bond of Rs 50,000. Kundra's associate and co-accused Ryan Thorpe, who was arrested along with him on July 19, was also granted bail by the court in the case pertaining to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. The 46-year-old businessman was lodged in Arthur Road Jail in central Mumbai under judicial custody. Kundra, the husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai police's crime branch after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Information Technology Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. Kundra moved a bail plea before the metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday, days after the police filed a supplementary charge-sheet in the case. In the plea, filed through advocate Prashant Patil, Kundra claimed there was not even an iota of evidence till date with the prosecution that would connect the app 'Hotshots', used in the alleged porn films racket, with an offence under law. As per the probe agency, the 'Hotshots' app was being used by accused persons for uploading and streaming obscene content. The businessman claimed there was no evidence of him being "actively" involved in creation of alleged questionable porn content. Kundra alleged he was falsely implicated, was not even named in the FIR and was dragged by the respondent (police) in the case. The businessman claimed in the plea that he is being made a "scapegoat" for reasons best known to investigators. There is not a single allegation in the entire supplementary charge-sheet against Kundra, Patil submitted before the court. Contents of the complaint in the case do not disclose any prima facie offence against Kundra, he said. The public prosecutor opposed Kundra's application, saying just because the charge-sheet has been filed, it does not imply bail is to be granted to the accused. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Bhajipale, after hearing both sides, allowed Kundra's application on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 50,000. The police, in their supplementary charge-sheet, had claimed Kundra was the "main facilitator" in the case and he along with other accused exploited young women struggling in the movie industry by filming them in obscene ways. The nearly 1,500-page charge-sheet against Kundra and Thorpe was filed in the court on September 15 by the crime branch. Besides Kundra and Thorpe, Yash Thakur, a resident of Singapore, and London-based Pardeep Bakshi have been shown as wanted accused in the charge-sheet.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-kundra-walks-out-of-mumbai-jail-after-bail-in-pornographic-films-case-1032662.html
21-09-2021||West||Astrological incompatibility can't be an excuse to go back on marriage promise: HC||The Bombay High Court refused to discharge a 32-year-old man from a rape and cheating case noting that he had used “astrological incompatibility” of horoscopes as an excuse to resile from his promise to marry the complainant woman with whom he was in a relationship. A single bench of Justice S K Shinde on Monday rejected an application filed by Avishek Mitra seeking to be discharged from the cheating and rape case registered against him by the suburban Borivali police on a complaint lodged by the woman. The order was made available on Tuesday. Mitra's advocate Raja Thakare had argued that the relations between the accused and the complainant could not be taken further due to "astrological incompatibility". He argued that this was not a case of cheating and rape under the false pretext of marriage but a case of breach of promise. Justice Shinde, however, refused to accept this contention and noted that there was material to suggest that since the beginning the accused had no intention of upholding his promise to marry the complainant. “It is apparent that the applicant (Mitra) in the guise of astrological incompatibility of horoscopes, avoided the promise (of marriage). Thus, I am convinced that it is a case of false promise to marry which apparently vitiates the complainant's consent,” the bench said. Justice Shinde further noted that prima facie the court was of the view that Mitra assured the complainant that he would marry her when she approached the police just to avoid a case against him. As per the case details, the accused and complainant knew each other since 2012 when they were working in a five-star hotel and were in a relationship. The complainant had alleged that on several occasions the accused had indulged in physical relations with her by promising marriage. The complainant also claimed that when she had conceived and asked Mitra to marry her he refused saying they were still young and forced her to abort the pregnancy. In December 2012, when the accused started avoiding her, she lodged a police complaint. The police then called the accused and counselled the duo following which Mitra told the police in January 2013 that he would marry her. However, within a few days the accused backtracked following which the police registered a case of rape and cheating, according to the prosecution. Thakare had argued that there was absolutely no intent on Mitra's part not to marry the complainant or that his promise to marry her was false. “Had his intentions been bonafide and true, the applicant would not have resiled from his promise to marry the complainant later,” the bench said while rejecting his plea for discharge from the case.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/astrological-incompatibility-cant-be-an-excuse-to-go-back-on-marriage-promise-hc-1032671.html
21-09-2021||West||Yet another political war between Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Uddhav Thackeray||Yet another political war in Maharashtra seems to have broken out with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray shooting off letters on the issue of the safety of women. Koshyari has sent a letter to the chief minister in the wake of Saki Naka rape-murder incident, suggesting the Maha Vikas Aghadi government convene a two-day special session of the Maharashtra Legislature to discuss the issue of safety of women. Thackeray in his reply to the Governor cited several incidents of crime against women in other cities and states and suggested that it is a larger issue and hence a four-day Parliament session instead to discuss the issue.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yet-another-political-war-between-bhagat-singh-koshyari-and-uddhav-thackeray-1032695.html
21-09-2021||West||Shilpa pens note on courage in 'difficult times' as Kundra released on bail||Actor Shilpa Shetty Kundra on Tuesday posted a motivational message on bouncing back in life as her husband, businessman Raj Kundra, walked out of a Mumbai jail after getting bail in a pornographic films case. Taking to Instagram, Shetty posted a picture of herself along with a quote from the Chinese philosopher Confucius. The quote read: "Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall". In the caption, the 46-year-old actor wrote, "There are always going to be moments that push you to the ground. In times like these, I truly believe that if you fall seven times, make yourself strong enough to be able to stand back up eight times." It takes a "lot of courage, grit, willpower, and strength" to get back up during the "difficult moments", Shetty added. "But, these qualities will only make you more resilient and robust in this journey called life. Every time that you rise back up, you will come back with renewed determination and motivation to make even the impossible possible," she concluded her post. Kundra, 46, was released from the Arthur Road jail shortly after 11.30 am, a jail official said. He was granted bail by Chief Metropolitan Magistrate SB Bhajipale on Monday on furnishing a bond of Rs 50,000. The businessman, who was lodged in Arthur Road Jail in central Mumbai under judicial custody, was arrested on July in the case pertaining to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shilpa-pens-note-on-courage-in-difficult-times-as-kundra-released-on-bail-1032699.html
21-09-2021||West||Behind India's biggest heroin smuggling at Mundra port, a Chennai couple, Afghan national and his Indian pointsman||In what is said to be the largest seizure of narcotics substance in the country, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has recovered a consignment containing 3,000 kg of heroin at Mundra port in Kutch district. The international value of the contraband is considered to be valued at Rs 21,000 crore. The DRI has described the case as “alarming”. Officials said that following a specific intelligence input, they intercepted two containers on September 11 at Mundra port. They found 1999.579 kg of narcotic drugs, which turned out to be heroin, from one container which was concealed using the talc powder. From the second container, 988.64 kg heroin was recovered. Officials said that in the operation, a total of 2,988.219 kg heroin was seized under the provisions of NDPS Act, 1985. They said that nearly 2000 metric tons of talc power has also been seized, which was used to conceal the drugs. It took almost a week for the DRI officials to complete the panchnama and other tests to verify the substance. The DRI is yet to apprehend the masterminds of the smuggling racket. However, an initial investigation has suggested that a husband-wife duo residing in Chennai are behind the smuggling of an “alarmingly” huge consignment of heroin. They jumped into narco-trafficking after their previous ventures failed to take off, sources in the DRI said. The couple, under DRI custody till September 30, had allegedly imported another consignment, which went unnoticed by the security agencies, sometime in July. DRI sources said that in the month of August, 2020, Machavaram Sudhakar, 45, founded Aashi Trading Company with his wife Vaisali as its proprietor in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. Earlier, Sudhakar had started a bunch of other ventures that failed to take off. Sources said that he also worked as a manager in at least two firms that were dealing in building materials and export-import business. Some time last year after establishing the import firm, sources said Sudhakar came in touch with one Hasan Husain, the proprietor of firm M/s Hasan Husain Ltd, located at General Sarak, Kandahar in Afghanistan. According to official documents, accessed by DH, an investigation has led DRI sleuths to a person identified as Amit, who was working as "India contact" for the Afghan trader Husain. Sources said that it was Amit, whose full identification is not yet revealed, who contacted Sudhakar. Sources said that Sudhakar agreed to smuggle the contraband and the first consignment landed at Mundra port as "semi-processed talc stones" sometime in July.  Amit was supposed to pay Sudhakar after the sale of the narcotics in the Indian market. It is not yet known if the couple was paid till their arrest. Investigation has revealed that one customs house agent Kuldip Singh was working closely with Amit. "The couple managed to import the consignment of heroin disguised as talc powder which was packed in two 40-feet containers. The bill of entry had declared the country of origin of the goods as Afghanistan. We also got this confirmed through another bill issued by Focus Freight Solutions, which showed the port of loading of the containers as Bandar Abbas in Iran. We found the supplier as M/s Hasan Husain Ltd, Afghanistan. They had declared the value of the goods as $10,235, which is roughly over Rs 7.50 crore," an official said on the condition of anonymity. The official document has described the case as “alarming” while stating that several security agencies have been apprised of the development, which also raises national security concerns. Smuggling of narcotics through sea routes has peaked in the last couple of years. Earlier in May 2019, DRI had seized 217 kg heroin from a fishing vessel off Gujarat coast and arrested six Pakistani nationals. Similarly, Gujarat Anti-Terorism Squad has also seized over 650 kg of heroin and arrested 16 Iranian, eight Pakistani and two Afghan nationals. Meanwhile, the Adani Group, which manages the Mundra port, released a statement on Tuesday evening, saying that their statement "will put to rest the motivated, malicious and false propaganda being run on social media against the Adani Group. APSEZ (Adani Port and Special Economic Zone) is a port operator providing services to shipping lines. We have no policing authority over the containers or the millions of tonnes of cargo that pass through the terminals in Mundra or any of our ports."  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/behind-indias-biggest-heroin-smuggling-at-mundra-port-a-chennai-couple-afghan-national-and-his-indian-pointsman-1032805.html
21-09-2021||West||Indian doctors' body OMAG slams Covid-19 vaccine hoarding by rich nations||Organized Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), A professional doctors body, has joined the World Health Organization's (WHO) call to wealthy nations to stop hoarding Covid-19 medicines and vaccines, saying that it is not only prolonging the fight against the pandemic but also leading to failure of the global fight against the coronavirus. “No rich nation can alone firewall itself from the Covid pandemic in this world of growing interdependence and globalisation. Not only Coronavirus from Wuhan, China, had spread on every continent including Antarctica in a short span of time, but even the new Delta strain has spread to over 180 nations wreaking havoc,” OMAG stated.  OMAG, a federation of 15 professional associations of post-graduate doctors in India covering 2.5 lakh consultants, feels it is not the first time that rich nations are hoarding many more doses than their population needs. They have been doing this even before any of the vaccines were even officially approved by the medicine regulators and the WHO, the doctors' body said. Dr IS Gilada, General Secretary, OMAG had said in 2020, that when research was then underway for most promising vaccine candidates — and scientific verdict on their efficacy was not out yet — rich countries had pre-bought more doses than they needed, shunting the rest of the world backwards in the queue. “Now nine months later, because of the selfish attitude of the rich nations, we have a stark contrast in full vaccination coverage globally – rich nations stand with over 80 per cent of their population fully vaccinated (and some have begun third or booster dose) while low and middle-income countries struggle their way to even reach the WHO target of 10 per cent vaccination of their population by September end,” he said. Glancing through the data published in Nature, the rich countries have purchased 4.5 to 9 doses per person for their people – Canada 9, USA 7.5, UK 6, Australia 5.5 and European Union 4.5 doses per person. “By their self-centered actions, they are bound to attract hatred from the rest of the world. No wonder all those countries are eying on India for their emergent needs and sooner than later India will meet that challenge too. By then the rich countries would have been shamed beyond repair,” a statement by Dr Gilada and OMAG president Dr Suneela Garg read. According to them, it has been over 9 months since the Covid-19 vaccination began around the world and 5.9 billion doses have been administered worldwide. However, over 80 per cent of these doses were given in rich nations. “Countries like Singapore, France, Uruguay and Chile have over 80 per cent vaccination coverage; European Union nations and the UK have over 60 per cent vaccination coverage, over 55 per cent in the USA. India has over 20 per cent fully vaccinated population. But low-and middle-income countries have very low vaccination coverage generally. In the African continent, for example, 3.6 per cent people have received their full vaccine dose so far. It is a mockery of ‘one world-one health’ concept,”  the statement said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-doctors-body-omag-slams-covid-19-vaccine-hoarding-by-rich-nations-1032819.html
