22-09-2021||First Edit||UK vaccine certificate rule lacks logic, is discriminatory||The UK government’s new Covid-related travel rules which consider travellers from India who have got both doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine as "unvaccinated" lack reason and logic. Such travellers are required to undergo 10 days of quarantine on arrival in the UK. The restrictions have been criticised as discriminatory, even "racist". Under these rules, only those who have got both shots of specified double-dose vaccines, including the AstraZeneca vaccine, under an approved vaccination programme in select countries, will be deemed fully vaccinated. India has been left out of this list of countries for reasons that have not been made public fully. As a result, Indians who have received both doses of Covishield, the name given to the AstraZeneca vaccine in India, will be deemed unvaccinated. After the rules became controversial and invited a warning from India of "reciprocal measures," UK officials have said that Britain does recognise the Covishield vaccine but has doubts over the vaccine certification in India. Double-vaccinated Indians have to quarantine because of "vaccination certification issues”. This is difficult to understand because there is a standard procedure for vaccination in India using the official CoWin portal and no one can procure a certificate without going through this process. Indian officials have stated that the CoWin system is WHO-compliant and there are no issues with certification. Questioning the certification process amounts to questioning the integrity of India’s vaccination process. It should also be noted that only the UK has raised this issue. The European Union has left it to its member countries to take a decision on vaccination certificates from India. Accordingly, a number of countries, including France, have recognised Covishield and the Indian vaccination certificate, and travellers from India are cleared in these countries without hassle. The UK restrictions will inconvenience large numbers of Indians, including students and professionals, who travel to the UK. India had taken up the matter with the British government at the highest levels. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla had raised the issue with the UK authorities. There has been continuous diplomatic engagement over it. The British High Commission had said that it was working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certificates issued by Indian authorities, but there is as yet no sign of any change in Britain’s position. The UK position has the potential to adversely affect bilateral relations, and it should reconsider it immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/uk-vaccine-certificate-rule-lacks-logic-is-discriminatory-1033240.html
22-09-2021||In Perspective||Does MSP help reduce farm distress?||Yes, say lakhs of farmers of Punjab, Haryana and western UP who, for the past 10 months, have been protesting at Delhi’s Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders. They believe that the farmland crisis would be solved if private buyers were forced to buy their produce at the MSP announced by the government. That may, however, not be true. For the procurement by the FCI at MSP is primarily in paddy and wheat and benefits less than two crore farmers, largely in the well-irrigated and prosperous northern belt of the country where farm sizes are large and water is abundant. It leaves out more than 20 crore farmers spread out in the rest of India, where water is a scarce resource and farm distress is severe. Besides, over three-fourths of FCI procurement is done from farmers who have over 10 acres of land and not from the small and marginal farmer. This is largely because of economies of scale and not due to any bias against the small farmer. The procurement of 87 million tonnes (MT) of paddy and 43 MT of wheat at MSP during the crop year July-June 20-21, amounted to Rs 2.5 lakh crore of the taxpayers’ money. This was more than 70% of the money spent by the government for agricultural procurement. Cereals, pulses, soya bean, cotton and oilseeds accounted for the rest. Surprisingly, most beneficiaries of the FCI’s paddy and wheat procurement policy at MSP are out on the streets protesting. They want to ensure that this buying pattern continues. The farmer unions have organised the year-long protest, supported by the APMC mandi Arathiyas. They demand the scrapping of the three farm laws that bring in the private sector to compete with APMC mandis and want MSP mandatory for all foodgrain procurement. However, even that will not reduce farm distress, because it is this very lopsided procurement under MSP that is creating inequality and poverty in rural India. Rice procurement under MSP by FCI accounted for over Rs 1.6 lakh crore or nearly half of the Centre’s food procurement budget of 2020-21. This left little incentive for farmers producing pulses, oilseeds, ragi, bajra, jowar and many other crops that are grown in arid regions where farm distress is the highest. Of the 22 items under MSP, just two get priority. Had the Centre’s food procurement budget been more equitable, capping the MSP procurement of rice at 30% and wheat at 20%, it would have helped the distressed farmers in low water regions across India. Government buying of food grains understandably has budgetary limits. For private buyers to buy at MSP, a quality benchmarking certified by the ISI or some such quality control institution would be needed. However, though MSP is needed to support and protect the Indian farmer, it will not reduce rural poverty unless the FCI procurement policy is made more equitable. The current policies are unsustainable as they have led to an acute imbalance of demand and supply. The FCI godowns are overflowing with excessive stocks of rice and wheat that are now being stored in open yards. Meanwhile, there is a shortage in the production of oilseeds and pulses that is resulting in large-scale imports and inflationary prices that hurts the kitchen budget. Had India’s farmers found favourable buying policies in pulses and oilseeds, domestic production would have improved and imports decreased. There is a third reason why the current practice of large-scale buying of rice and wheat under MSP is counterproductive. India became a water-deficient nation during the 2011 Census, when per capita water availability fell to 1,545 cubic meters per person. The Central Water Commission had warned of this at the turn of the century, stating that over 85% of the total water consumed was for agriculture. At that time, the per capita water available in India was 1,770 m3 per person, as against a global average of 6,000 m3 per person. But nobody heeded the warnings. Policymakers during the last 20 years have continued with vote-bank politics. As a result, several water-intensive crops like rice and jute, wheat, soya, sugarcane and cotton continued to receive unusual patronage. Also, the budgetary spending on irrigation canals and motorised tubewells have grown rapidly, creating severe depletion in groundwater levels. In view of the massive farmer protest at the borders of Delhi, it is highly unlikely that any government would have the courage to balance the current procurement policy under MSP and set things right. And unless that happens, buying at MSP by the government or the private players will not reduce farm distress and rural poverty. (The writer is a journalist and author of three books on economic governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/does-msp-help-reduce-farm-distress-1033250.html
22-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Commercial Tax office receives bomb threat||Tension prevailed after Mysuru Commercial Tax office on Wednesday received a bomb threat. Following the threat, nearly 80 staff were vacated from the office. According to sources, a police constable alerted Joint Commissioner Manjunath about the bomb threat.  The jurisdiction police and a dog squad rushed to the office. The police conducted a search at the office premises but no explosive has been found so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-commercial-tax-office-receives-bomb-threat-1033051.html
22-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tribal activist urges for guidelines to implement Forest Rights Act||Upset over the lack of interest of the officials concerned, in identifying the habitat rights of the tribal community people, tribal activists and organistions, working for the welfare of the aadivasis, urged the State government to issue proper guidelines and provide training to officials, on various provisions of the Forest Rights Act, 2006. According to S Sreekanth of Development through Education (DEED), an NGO, the officials, involved in Forest Rights Committees at various levels, need proper training and there is a need to issue proper guidelines on recognition of the habitat rights for Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG) under FRA-2006. In South Karnataka Jenukuruba and Koraga communities are categorised as PVTG, said Sreekanth. While Koragas are in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, Jenukurubas, who are traditionally food gatherers in forests, reside in Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts. DEED is working among Jenukurubas of Mysuru district, but we have contacts in Chamarajanagar and Kodagu also. In Mysuru district,  Periyapatna, Hunsur, HD Kote, Saragur and Nanjangud taluks have 160 Jenukuruba habitats (hadis). Kodagu district has 100 habitats and Chamarajnagar has 25 habitats. Altogether there are 285 habitats with a total population of above one lakh. The Bandipur National Park spreads over Chamarajnagar and Mysuru districts. Nagarahole National Park (Rajiv Gandhi) spreads over Mysuru and Kodagu districts. Both are tiger reserves and each spreads over 800 sq km area. Jenukuruba people are largely dependent on Bandipur and Nagarahole National Parks and some reserve forests for their livelihood. But the Forest department does not allow the community people to collect non-timber forest products  (NTFP) as they have been displaced from their traditional habitats, without any rehabilitation package in the early 1970s under the guise of Wildlife Protection Act. The community people are suffering on the fringes of the national parks, as daily wage labourers since four decades. Although they are entitled to habitat rights, as per FRA-2006 and are eligible for traditional habitats, the proposal has been rejected under the pretext that the tribals are not living in the forest, said Sreekanth. FRA-2006 has not been implemented properly in Karnataka. Hence the historical injustice has continued. The tribals are deprived of a decent life, as per the provision of the Constitution. Therefore, proper guidelines should be prepared and training should be given to gram sabhas and other agencies, which recognise habitat rights of the PVTGs. Habitat rights include all traditional practices in their traditional village and forest boundaries - living area, worship, fishing, and collection of NTFP, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tribal-activist-urges-for-guidelines-to-implement-forest-rights-act-1033272.html
22-09-2021||Main Article||Trading our sovereignty?||Reports indicate that the United States may operationalise the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA), by building a military base in India, a “major defence partner” of the US, for use as a staging area for beyond-the-horizon surveillance and “launching attacks on terrorists in and around Afghanistan.” The US administration is embarrassed by its capitulation to Taliban (signing a peace treaty with Taliban at Doha in February 2020 to allow withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan), the sudden collapse of the US-trained and equipped Afghan Army, the US’ $1-trillion-plus investment in Afghanistan having vanished, and its precipitous withdrawal following Taliban’s rapid capture of Kabul. The US appears to be reduced to retrieving its domestic and international “face” by striking at terrorists in Afghanistan. However, drone surveillance/attacks on targets in Afghanistan launched from US military bases in Doha, Qatar or Kuwait are not possible because of being out of range, as brought out by Republican Congressman Mark Green at a US Congressional hearing. Furthermore, those countries are politically Islamic. During Congressional hearings, Secretary of State Anthony Blinken was questioned as to whether the use of a staging area (aka military base) in “northwest India” had been considered. Although Blinken deftly side-stepped that question, the matter-of-fact nature of the question indicates that US Congressmen are sanguine that India, as the US’ subordinate strategic partner and signatory to LEMOA and CISMOA, will not be in a position to refuse to locate a US military base. Notwithstanding, one can be hopeful that India will refuse a US military base on Indian territory because, while signing LEMOA in 2016, the then Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and his US counterpart Ashton Carter had both stressed that the agreement does not allow for US bases to be set up on Indian soil, nor for troops to be stationed there. However, that the US has got it right is evidenced by the US strategic mindset expressed by Benjamin Schwartz, former India country director at the Pentagon: “What the signing of this [LEMOA] shows is that the Modi government is willing to take and suffer the short-term political criticism of signing these things for the longer-term benefit of building the defence relationship with the United States.” The US getting a military base in northwest India will simultaneously save face, maintain its regional hegemony, and declare its strategic superiority. What better place is there in “northwest India” other than Jammu/ Kashmir/ Ladakh for US military operations in Afghanistan? Going a bit beyond Benjamin Schwartz, it may in some manner even suit the politics of the Indian establishment to divert attention from domestic matters. Strategic consequences Troops and military hardware located in a US military base are an attractive target for politically insane Islamists. If Pakistan, Taliban, or a non-State entity like IS or Al Qaeda, or even China, deliberately or mistakenly attacks a US base on Indian territory, it would constitute an attack on the US, and lead to an all-out war centred in India. With LEMOA and CISMOA signed, and BECA all but signed, the US will expect US-India joint military operations launched from Indian soil against the aggressor. The world is witness to US President George Bush’s unsubstantiated accusation of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, which was used to initiate military action. After using such an excuse, an attack on a US military base can easily justify retaliatory operations against the attacker. If the US base is attacked, the India-US strategic partnership will demand India’s response by a military thrust into Pakistan. Pakistan, relatively weaker than India in conventional warfare, may well use a “tactical” nuke in retaliation, triggering wider conflagration. However, even without escalation to the nuclear level, conventional war, however brief, would be irreversibly destructive socially, economically and politically, for India and the region, perhaps even the world. Some may opine that the foregoing is an unlikely scenario, but strategic good sense dictates that the consequences of such an attack must be thought through. Sovereignty India is a sovereign democratic Republic, with complete power and authority over its territorial and material assets, independence and integrity of political and economic policy, and ownership, control and jurisdiction over all its national assets and properties. Starting 1950, Indian foreign policy has sought to leverage India’s strategic autonomy in order to safeguard sovereign rights and promote national interests. However, India’s New Economic Policy 1991 was the start of the weakening of India’s strategic autonomy. In 2005, then PM Manmohan Singh went ahead with signing a strategic partnership agreement with the US, without discussion in Parliament. Thus, subordination to US foreign policy took shape under the stewardship of Manmohan Singh, with the drafting of the Logistics Support Agreement (LSA), signed in 2016 as LEMOA by the Narendra Modi government. In June 2018, the US told the Modi government to cut India’s oil imports from Iran “to zero” by November 4 that year or face sanctions without waivers. This had obvious adverse economic effects on India. In 2019, in continuing subjugation to US diktat, India also stopped oil imports from Venezuela for the same reason, and suffered further economic loss. India’s subordinate status in its strategic partnership with the US is a sad reality. However, from being the US’ subordinate strategic partner, allowing a US military base will lower India’s status to that of a vassal state. Allowing a US military base on Indian territory could well be the final nail in the coffin of India’s political sovereignty. To paraphrase Benjamin Franklin on freedom and security, a nation that trades sovereignty for security does not deserve, nor will ever have, either. A US base established in India may send a message of India’s strategic subordination to the US, and its political-military helplessness to the world. It will certainly compromise India’s aspiration to a permanent seat in the UNSC, and India’s ambition to be recognised as a leading regional power. The sovereign democratic Republic of India should quote the Parrikar-Carter meeting of 2016, and diplomatically yet unequivocally, reject the US call for a military base for itself on Indian territory. (The writer focuses on development and strategic issues)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/trading-our-sovereignty-1033237.html
22-09-2021||Mysuru||Govt, police have 'miserably failed,' alleges Siddaramaiah in Mysuru gang-rape||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Siddaramaiah on Wednesday came down heavily on the conduct of Mysuru police and the state government regarding the recent gang rape incident, and alleged that they have "miserably failed" and were not serious about the inhuman incident. Initiating the debate on the Mysuru gang rape case, in the legislative assembly, the senior Congress leader, also accused Home Minister Araga Jnanendra of taking the whole incident "very casually". A college girl was allegedly raped by six men near Chamundi Hills in Mysuru on August 24, while her male friend was assaulted. Police have arrested six accused in connection with the case. Pointing out that Mysuru is a cultural city, famous tourism centre and an education hub, Siddaramaiah said such incidents of gang rape in the city will have an impact on the tourism, parents of the students studying there and will put a black spot on its cultural identity. "People are scared after the gang rape incident and parents of the students studying in Mysuru are a worried lot," he said. Noting that the spot where the gang rape took place was not a deserted or a forest area, the former Chief Minister who hails from the district, said there is a ring road at the distance of 300-400 meters from there, also there is locality called Lalitaadripura near by. He said during his visit to the spot about a week after the incident, Mysuru Police Commissioner told him that crime incidents have taken place there earlier too. "When police were aware that criminal activities were happening there, why did they stop beat and other patrolling measures?" he asked. The nearby police station is about 2 km away from the crime spot and has 60 staff members and a Garuda patrolling vehicle, he added. Pointing out that there is 545 acre area around the place where the incident took place, Siddaramaaih said police are unaware as to whom the place belongs to, despite it coming under their jurisdiction. "What kind of policing are they doing? This shows their alertness." There is no proper patrolling by the police, despite police being aware that criminal incidents were taking place in the city, he said as he pointed out that in a span of 30 days, 16 extortions, murders, rape of a 12-year-old girl, bank robbery and shoot out incidents have taken place in Mysuru city. "What are the police for? Isn't controlling crime their duty? Punishing the perpetrators is their duty. There should be fear of police," he said, highlighting that the six accused who have been arrested are habitual offenders and from Tamil Nadu. Listing out the details of the incident, Siddaramaiah said the private hospital where the victim and her male friend got admitted, after examining and confirming about the rape, sent a report to the police stating that it was Medico-legal case (MLC). Alleging that there was a 14-15 hours gap between hospital reporting a MLC and registering an FIR, he asked "why was there a delay? Why was the case first registered under section 354 (a) of IPC (sexual harassment) and only after protest by people and Congress workers it was changed to 376 (d) and 397 IPC? Did the police have plans to shut the case? Who was behind it?" Hitting out at the police for delay in registering an FIR, the Congress leader equated the case to the Nirbhaya case in Delhi and a similar case in Telangana, and said but police still took it "lightly". Police have not gone by the Justice J S Verma committee report according to which the victim should have been shifted to government hospital, officers also did not ensure that she got necessary counselling and help through 'Santwana Kendras. "It was mandatory on part of the police to go by committee report." Observing that the victim was discharged on August 27 and her male friend on August 26, Siddaramaiah said police have not taken the victim's statement after giving her a counselling or did record her statement before the Magistrate, and let her go to Mumbai with her family. Intervening at this point, Health Minister Sudhakar sought to know if the victim could have cooperated with the police after what she had gone through. "Rape could have caused a big shock to the victim, but the following inquiry and legal process is another kind of rape on the women or victim." At this point, the CM said the victim was now in Mysuru and has recorded her statement before the magistrate. "The victim and her family were given counselling on that day also...today she had given her statement before the magistrate and our police have been successful in giving her counselling, despite her going to Mumbai and getting her statement," he said. Suggesting that if the police had conducted regular patrolling the incident wouldn't have occurred, the LoP said, it is a failure on part of the police and delay in filing FIR is a defect in the investigation. He said a separate FIR was not filed regarding the assault on the victim's male friend. "Is it not lapse on part of the police?" Taking a dig at Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, Siddaramaiah said he visited Mysuru subsequently, but first visited Chamundi hill and offered prayers there, then attended a police academy event and gave a shooting pose there and while coming back visited the spot. "This indicates how serious he is." Jnanendra however sought to clarify that he had held meetings twice with officers on the issue, before attending the pre scheduled police academy event, and also several legal experts had advised him not to visit the spot, but he still visited. Claiming that the government and the police were not serious about the inhuman incident of gang rape and took it lightly, Siddaramaiah said, "You have arrested the accused, I have no complaint on that, but have you conducted the identification parade of the accused before the victim and her male fried?....police have miserably failed. According to Mysuru police commissioner, for 15 lakh population in Mysuru city there was only 3000 police men, "there should be regular patrolling and beat by police after recent crime in city. Instead of patrolling they go to liquor shops for collection. They have brought bad name to Mysuru city." Siddaramaiah then referring to the Home Minister's statement after the incident that victim and her male friend should not have gone to the deserted place at dark, took strong exception to it and reminded Mahatma Gandhi's statement that women should be able to walk freely even at mid night. Though Jnanendra tried to clarify on his intention behind his statement, it received flak from opposition benches.  Checkout DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/govt-police-have-miserably-failed-alleges-siddaramaiah-in-mysuru-gang-rape-1033172.html
22-09-2021||National||Yogi Adityanath warns those 'playing with dignity of women', supporting anti-India activities||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said if someone plays with the dignity of women, he will meet the same fate as that of Duryodhan and Dushashan in Mahabharat, and asserted that strict action will be taken against those involved in supporting anti-India activities. He also described the Samajwadi Party (SP) as "anti-women, anti-Dalit, anti-backward, anti-Hindu and anti-children". Speaking at a function here, Adityanath said, "Earlier, our sisters and daughters were not able to go to schools as goons could play with their dignity. But if someone plays with the dignity of our sisters and daughters today, he will meet the same fate as that of Duryodhan and Dushashan." The chief minister inaugurated and laid the foundation of 62 schemes worth Rs 275 crore, and also handed over certificates to the beneficiaries of various schemes. "Sambhal district has a historic past, but it is sad that there are also people in Sambhal who are extending support to the Taliban. The Samajwadi Party is anti-women, anti-Dalit, anti-backward, anti-Hindu and anti-children. Everyone knows about the atrocities unleashed by the Taliban, but some SP leaders are shamelessly supporting them. Strict action will be taken against those involved in supporting anti-India activities," he said. Adityanath also said before 2017, cows were not safe in the state. "Bullock carts and buffalo carts used to disappear. But we closed down the slaughter houses and the business of the SP and the Congress came to an end," he added. Adityanath asserted that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has always remained devoted to the nation. "There are some people who do not hesitate in giving shelter to anti-India forces. Till the time there is the blessing of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji, you should be assured that nobody will be able to do any harm and there will be no riots in Uttar Pradesh," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-warns-those-playing-with-dignity-of-women-supporting-anti-india-activities-1032925.html
22-09-2021||National||Congress destroyed Madhya Pradesh in 15 months: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chohan clamed that the Congress destroyed the state in 15 months. Speaking at an event in Pandhana, Chouhan claimed that all development works stopped and schemes were halted, and that Kamal Nath, the previous CM, had stopped sending money to farmers. "But during Covid, I provided Rs 8,000 crores to PM Fasal Bima Yojana account", he said, according to news agency ANI. Chouhan has been visiting poll-bound constituencies as part of his ‘Jan Darshan Yatra’ where he suspended three municipal officers who had corruption complaints against them. He has also been questioning officers thoroughly to ensure the benefits of government schemes reach the beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-destroyed-madhya-pradesh-in-15-months-cm-chouhan-1032964.html
22-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'What's your source of independent thinking?'||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday conducted searches at premises linked to bureaucrat-turned-activist Harsh Mander, a vocal critic of the Narendra Modi government, in a money laundering case hours after he left for Germany for a fellowship programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-whats-your-source-of-independent-thinking-1032978.html
22-09-2021||National||All countries should recognise EUL vaccines: WHO chief scientist||World Health Organization Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan on Tuesday said that all countries are supposed to follow the WHO recommendations. Talking to IANS on the ongoing row over the new UK Covid-19 travel rules that prescribed that vaccinated Indians also need to go for a 10-day quarantine Swaminathan said, "All countries are supposed to follow our recommendations". According to the new UK rules, Indian travellers who have received both doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. The UK government's recent order which has set off a controversy says that persons vaccinated in countries like the UAE, India, Turkey, Jordan, Thailand, Russia, or the continents of Africa and South America, will be considered as unvaccinated and will have to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine upon their arrival. On being asked about the WHO's next move in this regard, Swaminathan said that the WHO position is clear on this that all countries should recognise EUL vaccines. The new UK travel rule adds that only people who have got both shots of a double dose vaccine such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna or the single shot Janssen vaccine "under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas" will be considered fully vaccinated. India's mass vaccination program is being run with mainly two vaccines Covishield and Covaxin. Covishield was developed by researchers at the University of Oxford and pharma giant AstraZeneca. Covaxin was developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-countries-should-recognise-eul-vaccines-who-chief-scientist-1032997.html
22-09-2021||National||India reports 26,964 new Covid-19 cases, 383 deaths||India logged 26,964 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,35,31,498, while the active cases declined to 3,01,989, the lowest in 186 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,45,768 with 383 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.90 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 7,586 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,92,395 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 55,67,54,282. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 89 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,83,741 and the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive have exceeded 82.65 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 383 new fatalities include 214 from Kerala and 70 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,45,768 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,38,616 from Maharashtra, 37,648 From Karnataka, 35,379 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,897 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,678 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-26964-new-covid-19-cases-383-deaths-1033000.html
22-09-2021||National||Chennai school student helps IRCTC fix bug on its online platform||A 17-year-old plus two student in a private school in Chennai's Tambaram has helped the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) fix a bug in its online ticketing platform, which could have exposed millions of passengers and their private information. Ranganathan said that the critical Insecure Object Direct References (IODR) vulnerability on the website helped him to access the journey details of other passengers. He told media persons that while he was logging into the IRCTC site for booking a ticket, he found that he could access the details of other passengers that could compromise the security features of the website. The vulnerability helped him to access details of other passengers including name, gender, age, PNR number, train details, departure station, and date of journey. Ranganathan said that as the back end code was the same, a hacker could have ordered food in the name of another passenger, changed the boarding station, and even cancelled the ticket without the knowledge of the passenger. He said that more than this, there was the risk of the database of millions of passengers being compromised or leaked. IRCTC officials said that Ranganathan had reported the matter to the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) on August 30, and the IRCTC was alerted. The problem was fixed in five days. The teenager had earlier got acknowledgments from Linkedin, the United Nations, Nike, and several others for alerting them of the vulnerabilities in their websites. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-school-student-helps-irctc-fix-bug-on-its-online-platform-1033002.html
22-09-2021||National||Maharashtra: After spending 5 years in jail, man starts new life by setting up salon||A 40-year-old man, who spent five years in jail after being charged with culpable homicide of his wife, is now a happy man as he has been able to start a new life by setting up a salon in Sangli district with the help of the Maharashtra prison department and social organisations. A programme to announce the formal opening of Santosh Atkar's salon was held on Tuesday at the state prison department's office in Pune, where Additional Director General (prisons) Atulchandra Kulkarni was present. In 2013, Atkar and his wife had a quarrel at their home in Pandharpur town of Solapur district, following which the woman accidentally fell from stairs. She received injuries and was admitted to a hospital where she died after some days. The man was charged with culpable homicide and awarded six years of imprisonment by a court in 2016. Atkar told PTI that while serving his sentence at the Yerawada prison in Pune, he used to work as a barber in the jail. He also worked at a salon shop set up in Yerawada area by the prison authorities. "I wanted to start a new life after walking out of jail and received help through a project which focuses on rehabilitation and reformation of prisoners," Atkar said. With the help of the prison department and NGOs Bhoi Pratishtan and Adarsh Mitra Mandal, he has now set up a salon in Jat tehsil of Sangli district to earn his livelihood. Atkar thanked the prison department and the social organisations for helping him start a new life. ADG Kulkarni said after serving jail terms, prisoners are eager to join the mainstream and all they need is a positive response from the prison department and society. "Prisons should not just remain jails, but become reform homes," he added. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-after-spending-5-years-in-jail-man-starts-new-life-by-setting-up-salon-1033010.html
22-09-2021||National||PM Modi departs for three-day visit to United States||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his visit to the United States would be an occasion to strengthen the Indo-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and consolidate ties with Japan and Australia. In a statement just before leaving for the US, Modi said he will conclude his visit with an address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues. Modi emplaned for the United States this morning with his office tweeting a picture of him just before boarding the plane for the US where he will take part in a wide range of programmes. "I will be visiting the USA from 22-25 September, 2021 at the invitation of His Excellency President Joe Biden of the United States of America. During my visit, I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest," the prime minister said. "I am also looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology," he said. Modi said he will participate in the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit along with President Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Premier Yoshihide Suga The Summit provides an opportunity to take stock of the outcomes of the Quad leaders' Virtual Summit in March this year and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region, he said. "I will also meet Prime Minister Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Suga of Japan to take stock of the strong bilateral relations with their respective countries and continue our useful exchanges on regional and global issues," Modi said. "My visit to the US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the USA, consolidate relations with our strategic partners --  Japan and Australia -- and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues," he said in his departure statement.  The Afghan crisis and its implications, China's growing assertiveness, ways to stem radicalism and cross-border terrorism and further expansion of India-US global partnership are expected to be the central focus of the first in-person meeting between Prime Minister Modi and President Biden in Washington on September 24. At a media briefing on the prime minister's visit to the US, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday said the developments in Afghanistan will be extensively discussed in the bilateral talks between Modi and Biden and the Indian side will convey that Washington needs to continue focus on that country. Shringla said Modi will also participate in the Covid-19 global summit being hosted by President Biden. After concluding his engagements in Washington, Modi will travel to New York on the evening of September 24 and address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly the next day. The prime minister is also scheduled to meet a number of top executives of major American companies. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-departs-for-three-day-visit-to-united-states-1033020.html
22-09-2021||National||Our vaccines will prove they are world class: Bharat Biotech's Suchitra Ella||Bharat Biotech joint MD Suchitra Ella on Tuesday said the choice of vaccine should not become a barrier to enter any country. She was commenting on the controversial Covid-19 travel rules of the UK which refused to recognise Covishield beneficiaries as 'vaccinated'.  After a backlash across India, the UK on Wednesday issued a change in its advisory, saying it will recognise Covishield, a jab developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Ella said India's vaccines "will prove yet again that they are world class”. In a tweet, she added that India has supplied billions of doses across the globe. The UK rules were deemed racist by many as Covishield vaccine, widely used in India's vaccination drive, is a version of the UK's Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. Those who have gotten the full course of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines from a relevant public health body in Australia, Antigua, and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan will be considered fully vaccinated in the country. India is expected to be added to this list after revision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/our-vaccines-will-prove-they-are-world-class-bharat-biotechs-suchitra-ella-1033021.html
22-09-2021||National||'Can't deny women the right': Supreme Court rejects Centre's plea to defer NDA exams for women||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it cannot dash the hope and aspirations of women candidates to join defence services through the NDA by delaying it for one year. The top court rejected a plea by the Centre to defer the first National Defence Academy (NDA) exam for women candidates. It directed that women should be allowed to sit for the upcoming examinations on November 14, this year. "This won't send the right signal to women after having given them the aspiration. Let's begin from this year," a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. "We cannot delay things by a year. We gave hope to the girls. We cannot deny them that hope now," the bench added. The court pointed out postponing the process of allowing women to write the NDA exam to May, 2022 will delay their induction to 2023. The Centre led by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati asked the court to allow women candidates to appear in the examinations next year. It also said certain infrastructural and curriculum changes were required to allow the induction of women. The bench, however, said, "Interim orders have already been passed. The armed forces are best suited to deal with emergencies. We don't think they will not be capable to accommodating the candidates who take up exam this year." "What answer we have for the students who are on the anvil of taking the exam. Don't ask us to vacate the order. You go on with the exercise, let us see how many women get into it," the bench told Bhati. On August 18, the court had passed an interim order allowing women to take up the NDA examination. The law officer said the forces would be in a tight situation. "The armed forces of the country have been in far greater situations than a tight situation such as this," the bench shot back. The court put the matter for consideration in January, 2022. The Union government has earlier told the court it proposed to put in place all necessary mechanism and infrastructure by May, next year to allow entry of women in three defence services in the existing streams through the prestigious NDA. In an affidavit, the Defence Ministry said: "A study group has been constituted by the defence services, comprising of experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at NDA and a Board of Officers has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at NDA incorporating all relevant aspects". While the education curriculum is well set, all the rest of aspects of the training are required to be formulated separately for women candidates, it added. A PIL was filed by advocate Kush Kalra, seeking direction to the NDA to open its doors for women aspiring to join the Armed Forces. The exams for the NDA are held twice in a year. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-deny-women-the-right-supreme-court-rejects-centres-plea-to-defer-nda-exams-for-women-1033025.html
22-09-2021||National||WHO chief thanks Health Minister Mandaviya for announcing resumption of Covid-19 vaccine shipments||World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday thanked Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya for announcing resumption of Covid-19 vaccine shipments to the Covax global pool in October. Covax is an initiative for equitable global access to Covid-19 vaccines. "Thank you Health Minister @mansukhmandviya for announcing #India will resume crucial #COVID19 vaccine shipments to #COVAX in October. This is an important development in support of reaching the 40% vaccination target in all countries by the end of the year. #VaccinEquity," Ghebreyesus said in a tweet. Mandaviya on Monday announced that India will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the Covax global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the coming quarter from October-December.  The cumulative doses administered so far across the country has crossed 82.65 crore. Asserting that vaccination of its citizens remains the government's topmost priority, Mandaviya had said, "India will be resuming export of Covid-19 vaccines under Vaccine Maitri in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards Covax in line with our motto of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'." The surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil India's commitment towards the world for the collective fight against Covid-19, he said. Covax is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the WHO. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-chief-thanks-health-minister-mandaviya-for-announcing-resumption-of-covid-19-vaccine-shipments-1033030.html
22-09-2021||National||Serum Institute of India to invest $68 mn in UK's Oxford Biomedica||Vaccine producer Serum Institute of India will invest 50 million pounds ($68.24 million) in Oxford Biomedica, one of the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers for drug major AstraZeneca, the British cell therapy firm said on Wednesday. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-to-invest-68-mn-in-uks-oxford-biomedica-1033040.html
22-09-2021||National||Confusion reigns over Covishield on UK's travel advisory as India not on eligibility list||There is confusion over the UK government's vaccine recognition process for Indian travellers as even though Oxford/AstraZeneca Covishield, the India-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, is on an updated international travel advisory, India is not yet on a list of 17 approved countries. The UK's Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) have said on Wednesday that they are unable to confirm this and will require further clarifications even though the advisory states: “Formulations of the 4 listed vaccines, such as AstraZeneca Covishield, AstraZeneca Vaxzevria and Moderna Takeda, qualify as approved vaccines.” There has been widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible Covid-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. From October 4, England’s current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of Covid-19 risk will be scrapped and replaced with one red list only. However, there is a lack of clarity over whether Indians vaccinated with any vaccines in India – including Covishield – fall within the UK’s eligibility criteria or not. “We have to see how it goes. But if we do not get satisfaction we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said in response to a question on the issue in New Delhi on Tuesday. “The basic issue is that here is a vaccine, Covishield, which is a licensed product of the UK company, manufactured in India of which we have supplied five million doses to the UK at the request of the government of the UK. We understand that this is being used under the national health system, and, therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact those of our citizens travelling to the UK,” he said. Covishield and other Indian vaccines being covered as eligible would mean that a pre-departure PCR test is no longer required as long as vaccinated travellers pre-book a day two test post-arrival in England and complete the compulsory passenger locator form in advance. From October 4, travellers from 17 additional countries with eligible vaccines, including Australia, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia, will fall under the UK’s list of recognised jabs of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines. The DHSC has said this list is reviewed fortnightly. So far it means, under the new rules from October 4, travellers from India must take a Covid-19 test three days before departure and book in advance for two Covid-19 tests to be taken upon arrival in England. On arrival in England, the passengers must self-isolate in the place they have confirmed on their passenger locator form for 10 days. A privately paid-for "Test to Release" option does exist at day five, which allows an early end to the 10-day quarantine with a negative PCR test. The Indian government has said it is working with several countries to recognise India’s vaccine certification on a “mutual reciprocal basis”. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/confusion-reigns-over-covishield-on-uks-travel-advisory-as-india-not-on-eligibility-list-1033041.html
22-09-2021||National||India to target children for Covid-19 vaccine from October||All Indian children aged 12 or older will become eligible for Covid-19 vaccinations from next month, when drug maker Cadila Healthcare launches its ZyCoV-D product, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters. The world's first DNA-based Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D won emergency authorisation from Indian regulators last month. From October, the company, better known as Zydus Cadila, will produce 10 million doses a month. The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The sources sought anonymity because they were not authorised to talk to media. The vaccine is the only one approved for children in India, which has given a total of 825.9 million doses to adults among its population of nearly 1.4 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-target-children-for-covid-19-vaccine-from-october-1033045.html
22-09-2021||National||Pvt labs to start genome sequencing in India: Report||In a bid to speed up genomic testing to identify newer coronavirus variants the government will now join hands with the private sector. "The new target is to sequence 80,000 samples in a month. This requires a massive scale up,” they added. India has sequenced 63,990 samples so far in 2021, according to the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). On an average, 7,110 samples are sequenced every month. Currently, the turnaround time is 10-15 days and the government is trying to bring it down to a week by involving the private sector, which has a genome sequencing turnaround time of four to five days, people aware of the development told the publication. "If there is a variant of concern or variant of interest circulating, the increased capacity will help in detecting it quickly,” Vidur Mahajan, associate director at Mahajan Imaging, told the publication. Mahajan Imaging is one of the private labs that is reportedly in talks with the government. Other private laboratories that  ET reported were in talks for genome sequencing are Premas Life Sciences of Delhi, Strands Life Sciences and Genotypic Technology of Bengaluru, NMC Genetics India of Gurugram and Mapmygenome India of Hyderabad. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pvt-labs-to-start-genome-sequencing-in-india-report-1033056.html
22-09-2021||National||In a first, Bengal to count big herbivores during tiger census||West Bengal for the first time will count big herbivores such as deer and elephants while undertaking the tiger census this year, a senior forest official said on Wednesday. Earlier, the tiger census was done solely focussing on the big cats but from this year, the population of big herbivores will be included in the count as stipulated by the All India Coordinated Tiger Census, Chief Wildlife Warden Debal Roy told PTI. "Herbivores are important to the ecosystem inhabited by tigers. Thus, it is imperative to know how many herbivores are co-existing with tigers in a forest area," he explained. Deer, antelopes, gaurs, rhinoceroses and elephants will be counted depending on the region, Roy said. While the 2019-2020 census put the number of tigers in Sunderbans at 95, the Forest Department is hopeful the upcoming census that will begin in December and continue till January will throw up higher figures. "Apart from camera trapping technique, other statistical models will be used to arrive at the most probable figure and minimum probable figure," Roy said. The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) will analyse the data, following the census, he said. Sundarbans National Park, Buxa Tiger Reserve, Gorumara National Park, Jaldapara National Park and Chapramari National Park will be covered during the exercise, he said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-bengal-to-count-big-herbivores-during-tiger-census-1033057.html
22-09-2021||National||Air India boss Rajiv Bansal new Civil Aviation Secretary; Cooperation Ministry get first full time secretary||In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the government on Wednesday appointed Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal as Civil Aviation Secretary and Devendra Kumar Singh as Secretary in the Ministry of Cooperation. Bansal succeeds Pradeep Kharola, the incumbent Civil Aviation Secretary, who is set to retire on September 30. Devendra Kumar Singh, Additional Secretary and Development Commissioner, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises will be Secretary, Ministry of Cooperation, which was created by the government in July. Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal was holding additional charge as Secretary, Cooperation. K Sanjay Murthy, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation Limited, will be Secretary, Department of Higher Education, succeeding Amit Khare who superannuates on September 30. K Rajaraman, Additional Secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs, has been appointed as Secretary, Department of Telecommunications succeeding Anshu Prakash. The Department of Personnel Affairs (DoPT) notifed 13 secretary-level appointments in an order issued on Wednesday. Steel Secretary Pradip Kumar Tripathi has been appointed as the Secretary, DoPT. Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary in the Department of Home, will be Secretary, Ministry of Culture. Anurag Jain, Vice Chairman of the Delhi Development Authority, has been appointed as the Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Sunil Barthwal, who is currently Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, has been appointed as the Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment. Anuradha Prasad, Special Secretary in the Ministry of Labour and Employment will be Secretary, Inter State Council Secretariat, Ministry of Home Affairs. Ansuli Arya, Administrator, Universal Service Obligation Fund, will be Secretary, Department of Official Language, it said. Rajesh Aggarwal, currently Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser in the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, will be Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. Lok Ranjan and Sujata Chaturvedi, both working as additional secretaries in the DoPT, will be Secretary of Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region and Department of Sports respectively. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-boss-rajiv-bansal-new-civil-aviation-secretary-cooperation-ministry-get-first-full-time-secretary-1033063.html
22-09-2021||National||Toolkit case: SC dismisses plea by Chhattisgarh govt against stay on probe against ex-CM, BJP spokesperson||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to consider a plea by the Chhattisgarh government against the stay ordered by the High Court on probe initiated against former Chief Minister Raman Singh and BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra for their tweets in connection with alleged Congress 'toolkit' controversy. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana rejected a contention by senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the state government, that the High Court by its interim order has trashed the FIR by calling it politically motivated and mala fide without giving any opportunity to explain the reasons for lodging the case. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, however, said a large number of politically motivated FIRs were lodged by various state governments and the top court could not be dealing with such cases. "We are not inclined to interfere. Let the High Court decide the matter expeditiously," the bench said, adding that the state government would have an opportunity to challenge the final decision. The High Court had in its order in June stayed the probe in the FIR registered against two leaders on a complaint filed by Akash Sharma, the Chhattisgarh president of NSUI, over their tweets on a purported toolkit created by the Congress allegedly to “defame” the country. It had noted the FIRs were registered with mala fide, and political motives and grudges. It had also stated that averments in the FIR reflected that no public peace or tranquillity was being adversely affected. In its appeal, the Congress government sought to set aside the High Court orders on the ground that the extraordinary powers of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution ought to be used sparingly and in rarest of rare cases. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-sc-dismisses-plea-by-chhattisgarh-govt-against-stay-on-probe-against-ex-cm-bjp-spokesperson-1033074.html
22-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: UK gives clearance to Covishield but confusion over travel mandate remains||There has been widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible Covid-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-uk-gives-clearance-to-covishield-but-confusion-over-travel-mandate-remains-1033079.html
22-09-2021||National||Have Bourbon biscuits gotten smaller? Food author, politician relieve childhood||Various studies say that food or taste memories make us use all our five senses, and make us nostalgic. Food cherished during childhood is one of the most recalled memories no matter the age. For many Indians, snacks from local shops to chips and biscuits from popular brands take us down the memory lane. From texture, to taste, to smell and every minute detail, food can bring back memories. Vir Sanghvi triggered a discussion on the famous Bourbon biscuits by Britannia Industries, a cream filled chocolate biscuit, which still remains to be a favourite among many Indians. Vir Sanghvi took to twitter, asking if the size of the popular biscuit had been reduced. The food author tagged Britannia and wrote, “Is it just my imagination (or greed) but didn’t Bourbon biscuits used to be longer?" Britannia replied soon, tweeting, “No change in size, Vir. We know expectations are big, though". Vir then went on to ask, “No change since when?" to which Britannia replied, “Not in the last 6 years at least, Vir. And we hope you have been having us more often than that." No change in size, Vir. We know expectations are big, though. Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra also joined in, tweeting, “I agree Vir! But what has upset me so much is that my childhood favourite Orange Cream is no longer available- the repackaged Treat is not even close, please @BritanniaIndLtd bring them back". The witty banter received several responses from Twitter users. Some agreed with Vir Sanghvi's opinion that Bourbon biscuit had reduced in size, while some agreed with Mahua that the orange cream filled biscuits should be reintroduced. Definitely were. Tasted better too. Had wayyyt more sugar sprinkles. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-bourbon-biscuits-gotten-smaller-food-author-politician-relieve-childhood-1033081.html
22-09-2021||National||Delhi riots: Court drops arson charges against 10, says police covering flaw||A Delhi court Wednesday dropped charges of arson against ten people accused of allegedly looting shops during the February 2020 riots, saying the police was trying to cover up a flaw and clubbing incidents of two different dates. The case was registered on the basis of three complaints -- one Birjpal stated that his rented shop was looted by a riotous mob at Brijpuri road on February 25, while Diwan Singh claimed that two of his shops were looted on February 24. Revoking arson charges, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav noted the complainants did not state a single word regarding the riotous mob committing "mischief by fire or explosive substance" in their initial statements. Diwan Singh, in his supplementary statement, stated however that the riotous mob put his shop on fire, to which the court said that the investigating agency cannot “cover up the flaw” by recording the supplementary statements if the offence of arson was not there in initial complaints made to the police. The judge further said that arson charges cannot be invoked merely on the basis of statements of police witnesses who were posted as beat officers in the area on the date of the incident. ASJ Yadav said that he is unable to comprehend how an incident that took place on February 24 can be clubbed with the incident which occurred on February 25 unless and until there is clear evidence that the same rioters were operating on both dates. “In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the considered view that ingredients of Section 436 IPC [mischief by fire or explosive substance] are not at all made out from the material produced on record by the investigating agency,” the judge said. The ten accused are Mohd Shahnawaz, Mohd Shoaib, Shahrukh, Rashid, Azad, Ashraf Ali, Parvez, Mohd Faizal, Rashid, Mohd Tahir. The other sections invoked in the chargesheet such as Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience to order by public servant), 354 (assault), 392 (robbery), 427 (mischief), 452 (house trespass), 153-A (promoting disharmony on grounds of religion), 506 (criminal intimidation) are “exclusively triable” by a Magistrate, ASJ Yadav said. He ordered for the case to be transferred to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-court-drops-arson-charges-against-10-says-police-covering-flaw-1033086.html
22-09-2021||National||Amit Shah to address mega cooperatives conclave on Sept 25||In his first-ever mega outreach, Cooperation Minister Amit Shah is all set to meet representatives of cooperatives from across the country on Saturday, a move that is seen as a bid to address apprehensions about the objectives of the new ministry among the sector as well as political parties. Since the creation of the separate Ministry of Cooperation in July, Shah has had meetings with leaders of representatives cooperative societies but the September 25 event will bring diverse groups under one roof. Shah is expected to unveil his vision for the sector after taking over the new ministry, which was welcomed by cooperative sector in a guarded manner. Political leaders, who derive their strength from the cooperative movement, had also been critical of the move, which they saw as an attempt to tighten the screws on the sector. “This conference would have representatives from every sector of the cooperative sector. Fisheries, dairy, weaver, sugar, urban co-operative banks, fertiliser co-operatives,” Dilip Sanghani, chairman of the National Cooperative Union of India (NCUI), told DH. The day-long National Cooperative Conference, scheduled to take place at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, will see participation from 2,200 representatives from the block, village, district, state and national levels. The NCUI expects lakhs of representatives to join the meeting virtually. “Those who have objections to the new ministry will continue to have them. But, the minister will help clear doubts and give a positive message to the sector,” Sanghani said when asked about concerns expressed about the new ministry. Sanghani said the theme of the seminar is Sahkarita se Samruddhi (Progress through Cooperation) and the objective is to bring leaders and delegates of cooperatives from the village level to the national level under one roof to boost the cooperative movement in the country. “We expect the minister to spell out measures to further strengthen the cooperatives sector and the role it can play in job creation,” said Sanghani, a four-term Lok Sabha member from Amreli in Gujarat. According to officials, the Ministry of Cooperation was expected to provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country. The new ministry was also expected to work for improving ‘ease of doing business’ for cooperatives by streamlining processes to enable the development of Multi-State Cooperative Societies (MSCS). Check out DH's latest videos  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-address-mega-cooperatives-conclave-on-sept-25-1033110.html
22-09-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh couple who eloped forced to dance with tyres around their necks; 3 held||A 21-year-old man and a woman, aged 19, from Dhar in Madhya Pradesh were allegedly forced by some people to dance with motorcycle tyres around their necks as a punishment for eloping, police said. The Dhar police registered a case against five people and arrested three of them on Tuesday after a purported video of the incident, which took place in Kundi village on September 12, went viral on social media, they said. In the clip, a 13-year-old girl was also seen being forced to dance along with the man and the woman for allegedly helping them in eloping, police officials said. The three of them were forced to dance with motorcycle tyres put around their necks, and the video also showed a man hitting them with sticks a couple of times. The person who shot the video could be heard laughing along with others seen in the clip. The incident took place under Gandhwani police station limits, about 70 km from the district headquarters, after the man and the woman returned to their village, Additional Superintendent of Police Devendra Patidar told reporters on Tuesday. According to police, the woman had gone missing from her home in the village in July this year. "Her family members were angry as she had fled with a man. They suspected that another young girl (seen in video) helped the woman in fleeing from her home,” Patidar said. After leaving their homes, the man and the woman went to Gujarat, another official said. The woman's family members subsequently filed a missing person's complaint with local police. When they returned in the second week of September, they were punished for their act, the police said. After the video of the incident went viral on social media platforms on Tuesday, the police registered a case against five people and arrested three of them, Patidar said. Efforts were on to nab the other two accused, he said. The accused were booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 363 (kidnapping), 147 (rioting) and 294 (obscene act), and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-couple-who-eloped-forced-to-dance-with-tyres-around-their-necks-3-held-1033116.html
22-09-2021||National||MGNREGS plots green jobs to fight climate change||On the outskirts of Amaravalli village on India's east coast, Marada Suguna has been hard at work planting mangroves. Hired through a rural employment scheme, she is on the frontline of a project by the Andhra Pradesh state government to protect fishing villages from storms and coastal erosion. "I have seen the sea move forward into our land and one of our village roads has disappeared," Suguna told the Thomson Reuters Foundation over a video call from her work site. "I think this mangrove plantation we are doing will help because it will stop the water and prevent the soil from eroding," she added. "I feel it is important work." Suguna is among millions of Indians who find jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the world's largest such programme that provides at least 100 days of work annually to every rural household. Credited with alleviating poverty, empowering women and giving work to people who lost jobs to the Covid-19 pandemic, the scheme is now also helping to create climate resilience in communities affected by frequent floods, droughts and erosion. The Indian government has recognised MGNREGS as a key tool to address climate change, and issued new guidelines in 2019 highlighting the need to use climate data and vulnerability assessments to plan the type of work done under the programme. The scheme, which has 14 crore workers, has prioritised natural resources management in recent years, focusing on water conservation, agroforestry and reviving degraded land. The job scheme captured 102 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2017-2018 through tree planting and projects to improve soil quality, according to a study published in May by researchers at the Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science. The research, which used data analysis and field reports to estimate the emissions reduction benefits of MGNREGS, found that drought mitigation activities such as tree planting and grassland development were most effective in storing carbon. "A lot of the work taken under the scheme focuses on natural resource management and our research shows that the benefits are there on the ground," said study co-author N H Ravindranath. Climate consensus Cyclonic storms that form in the Bay of Bengal have become fiercer and more frequent - particularly in the last decade - as sea surface temperatures have risen, several studies have found. Paddy farmer M Satyanarayan said villages in the East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh had started considering mangrove planting as a form of defence since the 1996 cyclone that killed at least 1,000 people. "It was around that time that talk of mangroves began in our villages," said the 40-year-old from Chollangipeta village. "Initially people objected ... saying it would eat into the grazing grounds for their livestock. Slowly, they came around. I have seen the fury of the sea and the protection mangroves can provide." Village councils in India, which have the final word on what work will be undertaken locally under MGNREGS, are increasingly green-lighting projects that can help tackle climate change. However, Sudha Narayanan, a research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, said the scheme monitors the number of workdays created and wages paid but is not mandated to track the longer-term benefits of the work. "Trees are planted but often they don't survive," she said. "Similarly, village ponds created for recharging groundwater are used for irrigation and nobody is monitoring." "It is important to measure the impact of all these works to understand if it is actually mitigating climate change," she added. As part of its pledge under the 2015 Paris Agreement, India - the world's third-biggest carbon emitter - is supposed to reduce its carbon footprint by 33-35% from 2005 levels by 2030. Taking Root Andhra Pradesh is piloting the restoration of mangroves in degraded areas along the coastline in three districts across 20 acres (8 hectares) as part of its climate change initiative through MGNREGS. The state has also tasked people employed under the scheme with making 1 million seed balls, using indigenous plant seeds wrapped in clay to increase green cover on degraded land. "More green cover will increase carbon sequestration and our interventions should eventually lead to carbon credits," said Girija Shankar, commissioner of the state's rural development ministry. To that end, the state is measuring the carbon dioxide emissions the scheme is able to avert, and is already seeing success in its water conservation programmes, he added. In neighbouring Tamil Nadu state, more than 1,000 village councils in two districts seen as highly vulnerable to climate change have approved 15 resilience measures under a pilot project. "The MGNREGS mandate has traditionally focused on providing jobs to those who need them," said Sowmithri V R, technical expert with German development agency GIZ. GIZ is working with several Indian states including Tamil Nadu on the project, with a focus on water conservation, creating mini forests, reviving degraded land and agroforestry. "The present focus is on ways to build climate resilience into the labour programme," Sowmithri said. "The idea is to create jobs that create climate-resilient assets." Suguna said she understood how planting mangroves would protect her village and her fisherman husband's livelihood. "Once these saplings take root, they will become our protectors against the high tides, storms and erosion," she said. "My husband hardly goes out to sea anymore, complaining that the catch has reduced. I hope my hard work and the mangroves will bring back the fish also."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mgnregs-plots-green-jobs-to-fight-climate-change-1033123.html
22-09-2021||National||Inquiry commission re-issues warrant against Param Bir Singh for failing to appear before it||An inquiry commission headed by a retired high court judge on Wednesday re-issued its bailable warrant against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before it in connection with the corruption allegations levelled by him against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The special public prosecutor in the case, Shishir Hirey, confirmed this development. In March this year, the Maharashtra government had formed the one-member commission of retired judge Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to probe Singh's allegations against Deshmukh. The commission had issued summonses to Singh multiple times, asking him to appear before it. However, he has failed to do so. Therefore, the panel had issued a bailable warrant against him on September 7. But as the warrant couldn't be served upon him, it was now re-issued till October 6, he said. Earlier, the commission had thrice imposed fines on Singh - Rs 5,000 in June and Rs 25,000 on two occasions last month - for failing to appear before it. Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred to the Home Guards in March, Singh had claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, resigned as a minister in April this year, although he has denied the allegations against him. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by the senior IPS officer.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inquiry-commission-re-issues-warrant-against-param-bir-singh-for-failing-to-appear-before-it-1033130.html
22-09-2021||National||Covishield added to UK travel advisory, but Indians to follow ‘non-vaccinated’ rules||After New Delhi warned of “reciprocal measures”, the British government on Wednesday revised its new travel rules to recognise Covishield as one of the “approved” Covid-19 vaccines, but the travellers inoculated with the jab in India will still have to undergo mandatory quarantine procedure upon arrival in the United Kingdom. As the British government’s new travel rules continued to draw flak, London’s envoy to New Delhi, Alex Ellis pointed out in a tweet that the visitors from the UK had to remain in home quarantine for seven days upon arrival in India even if they tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection. If the new travel rules introduced by the British government are not revised further before October 4, any traveller inoculated with the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine in India will not be treated as “fully vaccinated” when they visit the UK. The travellers, however, will be considered “fully vaccinated” and exempted from mandatory quarantine requirement, if they were administered the Covishield or any other “approved” SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in the US or anywhere in Europe, including in the UK itself, or in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. A source told DH that New Delhi had on Wednesday again conveyed its disappointment to the British government as the revision of the new travel rules was not enough to address concerns over discrimination against the people travelling to the UK after being inoculated in India. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi likely to hold a bilateral meeting with his UK counterpart Boris Johnson in New York later this week, New Delhi is now preparing to take up the issue with the British government at the highest level. The British government recently introduced the new travel rules which stated that only those, who were inoculated with the vaccines, such as the double dose ones developed by AstraZeneca PLC, Pfizer Inc and the Moderna Inc or the single dose ones developed by the Johnson and Johnson’s will be considered fully vaccinated and hence, will be exempted from mandatory quarantine requirement on arrival in the UK. The Serum Institute of India (SII) manufactured the AstraZeneca PLC’s vaccine in India after the company authorised it to do so and marketed it as Covishield. But the British government’s new travel rules initially did not include it in the list of the approved vaccines for treating travellers as inoculated. This triggered sharp reaction from New Delhi with Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla saying on Tuesday that India could take reciprocal measures if the UK continued with its "discriminatory" policy. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also took it up with his counterpart in the British government, Liz Truss, in New York on Tuesday. The British government made some changes in the rule and recognised Covishield as an approved vaccine. It, however, did not recognise the vaccination programme in India. This implies that it will recognise as vaccinated only the people, who had been inoculated with Covishield in the UK or in any of the countries specifically identified in the new travel rules, but not the ones who received the same vaccine shots in India. India had earlier this year supplied five million doses of Covishield to the UK and the British government administered the jabs to citizens under its National Health System’s official inoculation programme. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-added-to-uk-travel-advisory-but-indians-to-follow-non-vaccinated-rules-1033144.html
22-09-2021||National||SC grants pre-arrest bail to actor in porn film case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted protection from arrest to actor Gehana Vasisth in connection with the porn film case which saw several arrests, including that of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai allowed the actor's plea against the Bombay High Court's order which dismissed her petition for anticipatory bail in the third FIR lodged in the matter. The court, however, ordered Vasisth alias Vandana Ravindra Tiwari to co-operate in the investigation. Advocate Ajit Wagh, appearing for the actor, contended that she was sought to be arrested in the third FIR, lodged in July, though she has already been in custody for 133 days in the first two FIRs lodged in the case. However, the prosecution sought her custody again claiming a pornography racket had to be unearthed.  Three FIRs were filed against Vasisth for making pornographic content and uploading them on certain OTT platforms. She has secured bail in the two FIRs.  The counsel also pointed out the main accused was already on bail in the case. The court issued notice to the Maharashtra government on her petition. "In the meantime, the petitioner be not arrested but shall cooperate with the investigation," the court ordered. The Bombay High Court had on September 7 rejected the anticipatory bail plea filed by Vasisth in the FIR registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including outraging modesty of woman, and sale of obscene material.  The police claimed Vasisth, who was allegedly the director of porn films, lured women with money to act in "obscene film videos", which were uploaded on a mobile application. Businessman Raj Kundra, who is also an accused in another FIR filed in connection with the porn film case, has been released from jail after a Mumbai court granted him bail. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-actor-in-porn-film-case-1033152.html
22-09-2021||National||Lawyer sends legal notice to Javed Akhar, asks him to apologise for remarks against RSS||A city-based lawyer on Wednesday sent a legal notice to lyricist Javed Akhtar for allegedly making "false and defamatory" remarks against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in an interview to a news channel, and sought an apology from him over it. The lawyer, Santosh Dubey, also said he would file a criminal case seeking damages of Rs 100 crore from Akhtar, if he fails to tender an "unconditional written apology" and withdraw all his statements within seven days from receipt of the notice. Akhtar (76) in a recent interview drew parallels between the Taliban and Hindu extremists. The lawyer's notice claimed that by making such statements, Akhtar has committed an offence under Indian Penal Code Sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyer-sends-legal-notice-to-javed-akhar-asks-him-to-apologise-for-remarks-against-rss-1033154.html
22-09-2021||National||NDMA for Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to family of those who died due to Covid-19, Centre tells SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has come out with guidelines for states to pay Rs 50,000 as ex gratia compensation to kin of Covid-19 deceased, in terms of the June 30 judgment of the top court. In a compliance affidavit, the Union Home Ministry said the amount would be paid subject to the cause of death having been certified as Covid-19 as per the other guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). According to the guidelines, the ex gratia would be paid by states from the State Disaster Relief Fund. The District Disaster Management Authority would disburse the amount on receiving a form issued by the state authority in this regard along with the death certificate. "The DDMA will ensure that the process of claim, verification, sanction and the final disbursement of the ex gratia payment would be through a robust yet a simple and people-friendly procedure. All claims would be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents, and disbursed through Aadhaar linked direct benefit transfer procedure," the guidelines issued on September 11 stated. A committee at the district level would also be formed for redressal of grievances. The panel would record clear reasons if it is not in favour of claims. The ex gratia assistance would continue to be made for future death due to Covid-19, it added.  On June 30, the top court had directed the Prime Minister-headed National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to frame appropriate guidelines within a period of six weeks for ex-gratia payment for the kin of those who died of Covid-19. On August 16, the court had granted four more weeks for the purpose. In its June 30 judgement on PILs by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, the court had said the Centre failed to perform its statutory duty cast under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), to issue minimum standards of relief for families of those people who lost their lives to Covid-19.  The pandemic was notified as a disaster on March 14, 2020.  State governments like Bihar paid ex gratia of Rs four lakh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh Rs one lakh each and Delhi Rs 50,000 to Covid-19 victims from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund or any other fund. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndma-for-rs-50000-ex-gratia-to-family-of-those-who-died-due-to-covid-19-centre-tells-sc-1033161.html
22-09-2021||National||Issue with vaccine certification and not Covishield: UK officials||Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK even as the vaccine has been approved under the revised British guidelines for travel, according to UK officials. They said the main issue is vaccine certification and not the Covishield vaccine and that both India and the UK are holding talks to mutually resolve the matter. Referring to the latest guidelines issued by the UK government that will come into effect on October 4, the officials said on Wednesday that London does not have any problem with the Covishield vaccine but there are certain issues related to vaccine certification in India. They said the UK is engaging with the government of India to explore how it could expand its recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India. Quoting new guidelines, the officials said Indian travellers to the UK must follow the "non-vaccinated rules" set out by the authorities. India had on Tuesday warned of "reciprocal measures" if the UK does not address its concerns over the new travel rules relating to Covid-19 vaccine certification with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla describing these norms as "discriminatory". External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also took up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the UK government added Covishield, the Indian-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, to an updated international travel advisory. "The UK is committed to opening up international travel again as soon as is practicable and this announcement is a further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health," a spokesperson in the British High Commission said. "We are engaging with the Government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India," the official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/issue-with-vaccine-certification-and-not-covishield-uk-officials-1033163.html
22-09-2021||National||India remains committed to just, equitable global order: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday said India's engagement at the United Nations and other multilateral fora have resulted in mutually beneficial partnerships and it remains committed to a just and equitable global order, keeping in mind interests of developing countries. Addressing an event online, he said that India has been at the forefront in the global efforts to forge a decisive and coordinated response to the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure collective health and economic well-being. Kovind further stated that under the world's largest vaccination campaign, Indians have received more than 800 million doses so far, a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. During the event, the president accepted credentials from ambassadors and high commissioners of Iceland, Republic of The Gambia, Spain, Brunei Darussalam and Sri Lanka. Those who presented their credentials were Gudni Bragason, Ambassador of Iceland, Mustapha Jawara, High Commissioner of the Republic of The Gambia, Jose Maria Ridao Dominguez, Ambassador of Spain, Dato Alaihuddin Mohamad Taha, High Commissioner of Brunei Darussalam and Asoka Milinda Moragoda, High Commissioner of Sri Lanka. Speaking on the occasion, the president congratulated the envoys on their appointment and conveyed his good wishes to them for a successful tenure in India, it said. He noted that India enjoyed close ties with all the countries represented and shared a common vision of peace and prosperity, the statement said. Kovind added that India's engagement at the United Nations and other multilateral fora have resulted in mutually beneficial partnerships, it said. India remains committed to a just and equitable global order, keeping in mind interests of the developing countries and those under-represented, the statement said. The ambassadors and high commissioners conveyed good wishes to the president on behalf of their leaderships and reiterated the commitment of their leaders to work closely to strengthen their ties with India, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-remains-committed-to-just-equitable-global-order-president-kovind-1033164.html
22-09-2021||National||Six J&K govt employees sacked for terror links||Six employees of the Jammu and Kashmir government, including two police constables, were sacked on Wednesday for alleged links with terrorists, officials said. These sackings were cleared by a designated committee of the Jammu and Kashmir administration constituted for recommending cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution. The six employees were dismissed from government service for having terror links and working as Over Ground Workers (OGW). They included Abdul Hamid Wani, a resident of Bijbehara in Anantnag, who was working as a teacher. The officials alleged that before being in government service, he was a district commander of the now-defunct terrorist outfit, Allah Tigers. It is alleged that he secured the employment without any selection process, by leveraging influence of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) and that he was among the key speakers and organisers during the 2016 agitations following the death of Burhan Wani, the poster boy of banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen. It is also alleged that he propagated secessionist ideology. Police constable Jaffer Hussain Butt, a resident of Kishtwar in Jammu region, was arrested by the police and chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a case on gun-running, the officials said. At present on bail, Butt is alleged to have provided his car to Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists and facilitated their safe movement, a fact which is explained in the NIA chargesheet. Junior assistant Mohd Rafi Butt, also a resident of Kishtwar and posted in the Road and Building Department, was sacked for providing logistical support to Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists in Kishtwar and for providing them a safe environment to execute terror plans, they said. His name also figures in an FIR registered by the NIA. He was arrested and is at present on bail. Liyaqat Ali Kakroo, a resident of Baramulla in North Kashmir and a teacher by profession since 1983, was arrested in 2001 which "revealed that he was a locally trained terrorist", they said. An explosive substance was recovered from his possession and he was booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) for two years in 2002. He was subsequently acquitted by the court in both cases. Tariq Mehmood Kohli, a resident of Poonch and posted as a range officer in the Forest Department, was also sacked for allegedly being involved in smuggling of illegal arms, ammunition, explosives, including hard drugs and Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) from Pakistan, the officials said. He is alleged to have remained in touch with active militants and is recorded as an OGW in police records. Another police constable, Showkat Ahmad Khan, a resident of Budgam in Central Kashmir, is alleged to have been involved in looting of weapons from an MLC's house. He was posted as a PSO with the member of the Legislative Council. He was detained under the PSA in 2019, they said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-jk-govt-employees-sacked-for-terror-links-1033165.html
22-09-2021||National||Woman alleges Delhi restaurant refused entry as she was wearing saree; eatery says incident misrepresented||A video of a restaurant allegedly refusing entry to a woman wearing a saree contending the attire did not come under the "smart casual" category has gone viral on social media, with the restaurant drawing flak from people. The restaurant, however, claimed the incident was misrepresented and said the establishment believed in "honouring our Indian community and have always welcomed our guests in all dress codes from modern to traditional". In a Facebook post, Anita Choudhary alleged she was not allowed to enter the Aquila restaurant at Ansal Plaza here on Sunday, because she was wearing a saree. "In one of the restaurants in Delhi, saree is not considered to be a smart outfit. The restaurant's name is Aquila. We argued over saree, and a lot of excuses were made, but I was not allowed to enter the restaurant, because the Indian attire -- saree is not a smart outfit. "I have never been insulted like this. I also feel hurt," she wrote. She also posted a purported video of her argument with the restaurant staff, alongside a couple of pictures of herself in the saree. Choudhary, according to her Facebook profile, is a creative director at Doordarshan National. After her post went viral, the restaurant received heavy backlash with people calling the eatery out on social media as well as food aggregator platforms like Zomato. Responding to the allegations, the restaurant on Wednesday took to Instagram to clarify their side of the story. According to them, the "10 second" clip posted by Choudaary was part of a conversation that lasted for "one hour". "We chose to stay silent till now and have been patiently watching the situation related to the incident that took place at Aquila on September 19 unfold. "A guest visited the restaurant and was politely requested to wait at the gate as there was no reservation under her name. However, while we discussed internally as to where we could seat them, the guest entered the restaurant and began to fight and abuse our staff. What unfolded after was beyond our imagination, with the guest slapping our manager," the restaurant wrote on its Instagram post. It has also added CCTV footage of the incident, as well as a separate video where women wearing sarees are entering the restaurant. According to the restaurant, the comment on saree not being a "smart casual" outfit in the video shared by Choudaary was a way to "tackle" the situation. "To tackle the situation and request the guest to leave, one of our gate managers made a statement on sarees not being a part of our smart casual dress code and our whole team apologises for the same," the statement said. Aquila went on to apologise for the remark. "Aquila is a homegrown brand and each member of the team stands tall as a proud Indian. Our gate manager's statement in no way is a representation of the entire team's view on the dress code. Nowhere in our company policy does it say that we will refuse entry to anybody in ethnic wear. "While we have all the right to take steps for the violence by the guest against our staff, we have chosen to maintain peace so far but in accordance with our policy of maintaining transparency with our stakeholders we are now issuing this statement," Aquila said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-alleges-delhi-restaurant-refused-entry-as-she-was-wearing-saree-eatery-says-incident-misrepresented-1033179.html
22-09-2021||National||R N Ravi resigns as Naga interlocutor||Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi Wednesday resigned as the interlocutor for the Naga peace talks, the home ministry said, adding his resignation has been accepted with immediate effect. Ravi had been holding peace negotiations with the Naga insurgent group NSCN-IM since 2014. "Shri R N Ravi's resignation as interlocutor for the Naga peace process, submitted by him today, has been accepted with immediate effect by Government of India," a home ministry spokesperson said. Ravi was appointed the governor of Nagaland in July 2019 and he was continuing his role as the interlocutor on behalf of the Central government. However, the NSCN-IM has refused to hold talks with him from last year, accusing him of trying to sabotage the peace process. Ravi was transferred as the governor of Tamil Nadu early this month. The Central government has already engaged former special director of the Intelligence Bureau, A K Mishra, for holding peace parleys with the Naga groups. Mishra has resumed talks with the Naga rebel group. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Nagaland counterpart Neiphiu Rio also met NSCN-IM general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah in Dimapur on Tuesday. Ravi had signed a framework agreement with Muivah on August 3, 2015, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a major step towards the final settlement. The framework agreement came after over 80 rounds of negotiations spanning 18 years with the first breakthrough in 1997 when the ceasefire agreement was sealed after decades of insurgency in Nagaland. However, there has been no progress in the peace talks as the NSCN-IM has sought a separate flag and constitution for Nagaland, which was rejected by the Central government.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-n-ravi-resigns-as-naga-interlocutor-1033180.html
22-09-2021||National||With domestic manufacturing picking up pace, India unlikely to buy Pfizer, Moderna vaccines for now||India is unlikely to buy Pfizer and Moderna Covid-19 vaccines for now as the domestic manufacturing of anti-coronavirus jabs has picked up pace, sources said with the total doses administered in the country crossing 83 crore on Wednesday. Though there is no official word, the sources said the government is not ready to give in to the indemnity demands of the US drug manufacturers against liabilities in case of adverse effects. The Pune-based pharmaceutical company Serum Institute of India has enhanced the manufacturing capacity of Covishield to more than 20 crore doses per month and has informed the Centre that it will be able to supply around 22 crore doses in October. Also, Bharat Biotech is currently producing nearly 3 crores doses of Covaxin each month and its production is likely to be ramped up to 5 crores in the coming months. "In the initial days of the vaccination drive, there was requirement of jabs, but that has been met with the ramping up of domestic production. Also, these indigenously produced vaccines are much more affordable and do not have special cold chain requirements," a source told PTI. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced that India will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, he said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the coming quarter from October-December. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 83 crore. According to official sources, over 22 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of vaccine and 65 per cent have got at least one dose. Of all the vaccine doses administered, around 88.45 per cent are Covishield, nearly 11.44 per cent Covaxin and less than one per cent Sputnik V. India on September 17 administered a record number of over 2.50 crore vaccine doses on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday. The daily Covid-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7. It then took just 11 days to reach 80 crore from 70 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-domestic-manufacturing-picking-up-pace-india-unlikely-to-buy-pfizer-moderna-vaccines-for-now-1033195.html
22-09-2021||National||Will examine demand to build a dam in Rasimanal: Tamil Nadu||The Tamil Nadu Government on Wednesday said it will “examine” the demand by farmers for the construction of a dam across Cauvery in Rasimanal in Krishnagiri district. “We will examine the demand,” Sandeep Saxena, Additional Chief Secretary (Public Works Department), told reporters on Wednesday in response to a question about the demand for a dam to be constructed in Rasimanal near Biligundlu, the entry point of Cauvery River water into Tamil Nadu from Karnataka. However, he did not elaborate. Farmers from the Cauvery Delta have been demanding that a reservoir be constructed near Biligundlu to save water. The state has a huge reservoir in Mettur in Salem district. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-examine-demand-to-build-a-dam-in-rasimanal-tamil-nadu-1033198.html
22-09-2021||National||DU's first cut-off list likely to be announced on October 1: Sources||The Delhi University will release its first cut-off list on October 1 for undergraduate college courses and a special cut-off after the third list has been issued, according to sources. The schedule for the list was finalised in a meeting of admission committee members and college principals on Wednesday, they said. Nearly 70,000 seats under various courses are up for grabs and the admission process is online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. October 1 has been finalised as the date for the first cut-off list with the second cut-off likely to be released on October 8 or 9, the sources said. The varsity is likely to release the special cut-off after the third cut-off list has been issued, they said. Special cut-offs are released for those students who could not apply for the earlier lists, despite meeting the eligibility criteria. "When the admissions were held offline, the special cut-offs were released after every list but it is not possible in the case of online admission process. Also, in the online process, students are given time till 11.59 pm to apply for admission. The duration is three days, following which the college approves admission and then the payment process is completed," a source said. The university is likely to formally announce the cut-off schedule in the next couple of days. If the first-cut off is released on October 1, then the admission process will start on October 4 as October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti) and October 3 (Sunday) are holidays, the sources said. They said that October 1 has been chosen to allow students, who have appeared for improvement and compartment exams, to apply in case they meet the eligibility criteria.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dus-first-cut-off-list-likely-to-be-announced-on-october-1-sources-1033228.html
22-09-2021||National||Yogesh Singh appointed as VC of Delhi University||Delhi Technological University Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Singh has been appointed as the VC of Delhi University, Ministry of Education officials said on Wednesday. "President Ram Nath Kovind who is the Visitor to central universities has approved the appointment of two Vice Chancellors. "While Yogesh Singh will be the VC of Delhi University, Neelima Gupta has been appointed to the post at Dr Hari Singh Gaur Vishwavidyalaya, Sagar," a ministry official said. Gupta is presently serving as the Vice-Chancellor of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University – (TMBU), Bihar. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogesh-singh-appointed-as-vc-of-delhi-university-1033231.html
22-09-2021||National||Centre to float bids for green hydrogen in 4 months||The Centre is set to invite bids for green hydrogen in the next four months to encourage viable usage of hydrogen as a fuel. The government is looking at bids for 4,000 MW of electrolyser capacity. Earlier the government had announced a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for manufacturing electrolyzers. The government plans to implement the Green Hydrogen Consumption Obligation (GHCO) in fertilizer production and petroleum refining, on the line of renewable purchase obligations (RPO). The government also plans to provide viability gap funding (VGF) or grants for green hydrogen in heavy mobility, an official in the New and Renewable Energy department said. The government is also proposing to come out with mandates for green hydrogen purchase obligations in refining and fertilizers starting with 10 per cent which will be increased later to 20-25 per cent. With time by adding more and more volume the price will reduce and the mandate will no longer be required, said the official. Green hydrogen also has usage in sectors such as chemicals, iron, steel, fertilizer, refining, and heating. Besides,  the GHCO on the lines of RPOs will mandate electricity distribution companies to purchase a fixed amount of renewable energy to cut reliance on fossil fuels; the draft Electricity Rules, 2021 issued by the Ministry of Power  has allowed green hydrogen purchase to help meet RPOs.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-float-bids-for-green-hydrogen-in-4-months-1033235.html
22-09-2021||National||UK doing what they believe are best for their people: BJP's Rajeev Chandrasekhar amid vaccine row||At a time when India has put Britain on notice for vaccine-linked curbs, BJP on Wednesday appeared to take a soft stance contending that the European nation was acting in its best interest in the midst of paranoia over travel. “I think these things have to evolve as the assessment of the risk of the disease gets mitigated over time. Till such time every sovereign government, every sovereign country will take decisions which they believe are in the best interest of the people,” Union Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar told reporters at the BJP headquarters here. Asked about Britain not recognising Indian vaccines against Covid-19, Chandrasekhar reasoned that countries were expected to behave in this manner given the fear and paranoia about travel during the pandemic. In his personal opinion, the BJP leader said, "There is nothing right and wrong about this as some countries will take a stronger view on what vaccine will be accepted by their medical fraternity because of a general atmosphere of the unknown about the pandemic." Chandrasekhar clarified that he was not speaking on behalf of health and external affairs ministries but sharing a personal view based on common sense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-doing-what-they-believe-are-best-for-their-people-bjps-rajeev-chandrasekhar-amid-vaccine-row-1033236.html
22-09-2021||National||Tiff over AUKUS: France pulls out of trilateral ministerial talks with India, Australia||Paris’s tiff with Washington DC, Canberra and London over the AUKUS has now hit India’s plan to elevate the level of a trilateral coalition it launched with France and Australia for strategic convergence in the Indo-Pacific region. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian has withdrawn from a proposed trilateral meeting, which he and his Indian and Australian counterparts, S Jaishankar and Marise Payne, were scheduled to hold in New York on Wednesday. The meeting was cancelled, however, Jaishankar has already held separate bilateral meetings with both Le Drian and Payne. The trilateral meeting was cancelled after Paris conveyed to New Delhi that French Foreign Minister would not hold any engagement with his counterpart from Australia. France is upset over the recent move by Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States to launch a new trilateral security alliance, AUKUS, to counter hegemonic and expansionist aspirations of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The AUKUS is intended to focus on cooperation on development of joint military capabilities and defence technology sharing. It has been launched with the professed objective of creating a framework for the US and UK to support Australia in acquiring a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines. The launch of the AUKUS triggered sharp reaction from Macron’s Government in Paris, as it scuttled a $37 billion deal inked in 2016 for France to provide Australia 12 conventional submarines. The senior diplomats of India, Australia and France in September 2020 had launched a new trilateral dialogue, signalling strategic convergence among the three nations in Indo-Pacific region amid growing belligerence of China. It had been elevated to the level of the Foreign Ministers during a meeting in London on May 4 this year. Tacitly sending out a message to China, they had agreed to work together with a range of partners to promote the rules-based maritime order based on respect for sovereignty and international law. The Foreign Ministers of the three nations had also agreed to elevate the trilateral coalition further and take it to the level of the leaders. The diplomats of the three nations were in touch over the past few months to discuss possibility of a meeting among Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and French President Emmanuel Macron. But Paris’s tiff with Canberra over the AUKUS however put the plan in jeopardy.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiff-over-aukus-france-pulls-out-of-trilateral-ministerial-talks-with-india-australia-1033242.html
22-09-2021||National||Modi flies nonstop to US onboard new Air India One, to invide Biden for early visit to India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will this week extend an invitation to United States President Joe Biden for an early visit to India. Modi left New Delhi for Washington DC on Wednesday onboard the new Air India One, one of the Boeing 777-300ER aircraft the national carrier inducted in its fleet a few months back, primarily for ferrying the VVIPs. The aircraft will fly non-stop and land in Washington DC early on Thursday (Wednesday evening according to local time in the US capital), without requiring any refuelling halt in Frankfurt or Berlin, unlike the previous versions of the Air India One. “I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest,” the Prime Minister said, in a statement issued shortly before his departure from New Delhi. Modi will hold a bilateral meeting with Biden at the White House on Friday. This is going to be the first in-person meeting between the two leaders after Biden took over as the US President on January 20 this year, succeeding Donald Trump. A source in New Delhi said that Modi would invite Biden for an early visit to India. Modi will also have a separate meeting with Biden’s Vice President Kamala Harris, who scripted history when she became the first woman and the first Indian-American to take the second-highest office in the US federal government. The PM said that he would explore opportunities for cooperation between India and the US “particularly in the area of science and technology”. Modi will also attend the first in-person summit of the Quad at the White House on Friday. The summit will be hosted by the US President and will be attended by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. He will also have bilateral meetings with Suga and Morrison. The Prime Minister will also visit New York to address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. His speech at the UNGA will focus on “the pressing global challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues”, he said in his statement before taking off from New Delhi.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-flies-nonstop-to-us-onboard-new-air-india-one-to-invide-biden-for-early-visit-to-india-1033251.html
22-09-2021||National||US honoured to welcome PM Modi: US lawmaker on House floor||The US is honoured to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi, an influential US lawmaker has said on the House floor, stressing that the ties between India and America are deep rooted in democracy, freedom and rule of law. The Prime Minister would be on a three-day visit to the US, starting Wednesday, for a bilateral meeting with President Joe Biden and to attend the historic Quad summit. “Madam speaker, I rise today to recognise the important diplomatic partnership between the United States of America and the Republic of India,” Congressman Earl “Buddy” Carter said on the floor of the US House of Representatives. “Visits of our nation's leaders are critical aspects of our relationships, and the United States is honoured to welcome Prime Minister Modi. The United States and India have deep rooted ties rooted in democracy, freedom and rule of law,” he said. Over the years, the two countries have increased their trade collaboration, he said, adding that it is an important component of the partnership. In 2019, trading goods and services reached $149 billion between India and the United States. “Increasing trade between the United States and India will result in greater prosperity for our people. It is vital the world's largest democracy has a strong diplomatic partnership with the shining city we've been elected to represent. Madam Speaker, I thank the prime minister for being a friend of the United States,” Carter said. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions, the Prime Minister is unlikely to address a major gathering of the community or a collective meeting of the corporate leaders. Instead, his meetings in Washington this time are expected to be short and at individual level or at the most in small groups. Modi is scheduled to travel to New York to address the UN General Assembly on Saturday. Earlier this week, the White House announced that Biden would host Modi at his official residence on Friday. Later, Biden and Modi would be joined by their counterparts from Australia and Japan for the first-ever in-person Quad Summit. A day earlier, US Vice President, Kamala Harris would meet the Prime Minister at the White House. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-honoured-to-welcome-pm-modi-us-lawmaker-on-house-floor-1033255.html
22-09-2021||National||Centre files plea against allowing 2nd dose of Covishield earlier, says it will derail policy||The Centre on Wednesday filed an appeal in the Kerala High Court against its order allowing the second Covishield dose after four weeks from the first for those who want to take it earlier than the present suggested gap of 84 days by saying if the decision is not set aside it could derail the vaccination policy of the country. The Centre, in its appeal, contends that the September 3 judgement of a Single Judge of the High Court if not set aside would result in disorder in the implementation of the strategy of the Union government to fight Covid-19. The September 3 decision by Justice P B Suresh Kumar had come on a plea by Kitex Garments Ltd, represented by advocate Blaze K Jose, seeking permission to administer the second dose of the vaccine to its workers without having to wait for 84 days. Kitex, in its plea, had said it has vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose at a cost of nearly Rs 93 lakh, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions. Challenging the September 3 judgement, the Centre said it was an attempt to evaluate the issue on the basis of the right to equality provided in the Constitution instead of viewing it from a scientific angle and if allowed, would result in social disaster which should not be allowed to happen. "The judgement of the Single Judge will derail the vaccination policy throughout the country," it said. The petition further said,"The Single Judge ought to have seen that if the government is forced to honour the claims of other groups or industrial units like the petitioners (Kitex Garments), the same would have a cascading adverse effects on the organised and regulated pattern of vaccine administration." It said, "The Single Judge's decision would militate against the settled position that in matters related to government policy supported by scientific study, the court shall not meddle with nor substitute its view with the view of the administration." "Therefore, the judgement is illegal, erroneous, unjustifiable and unsustainable," the petition said. The petition contended that the national vaccine policy is formulated based on the opinion and advice of experts in the field and also based on clinical trials and hence, any change in the policy can only be carried out based on the necessary approvals and clinical trials. The Union Health Ministry officials said the decision to increase the gap between two doses of Covishield from four-six weeks to 12-16 weeks was taken by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI) based on scientific data and for providing optimal protection from the infectious disease. "Vaccines are provided in an uniform manner for the population and are not being offered on the basis of one's paying capacity," an official said. The Single Judge, on September 3, directed the Centre to allow scheduling, on the CoWIN portal, of the second Covishield dose after four weeks from the first for those who want to take it earlier than the present suggested gap of 84 days. Justice P B Suresh Kumar had said that if the Central and State governments can permit persons travelling abroad to choose between early and better protection from Covid-19, there is no reason why the same privilege cannot be extended to those here who want early protection in connection with their employment or education. On this, the Centre, in its appeal, said it had offered relaxations in favour of certain persons who were a separate class by themselves and for valid reasons and Kitex cannot claim parity with them. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-files-plea-against-allowing-2nd-dose-of-covishield-earlier-says-it-will-derail-policy-1033256.html
22-09-2021||National||India committed to clean energy-based economy: Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said India is committed to an eminently achievable clean energy-based economy, and added that the country will soon have a policy for flex-fuel engines. The road transport and highways minister further said India is shifting its public transport fleet to green fuels like bio-CNG, ethanol, methanol, electricity and green hydrogen, which will also provide citizens some respite from surging petrol prices. "India is committed to an eminently achievable clean energy-based economy, through an annual road-map for production, supply of ethanol till 2025-26, and systems for its countrywide marketing," he said while addressing a virtual event of industry body CII. Gadkari said his ministry is in talks with automakers for flex-fuel engines and for using biodiesel and LNG in the construction equipment industry. "We will soon announce a policy for flex-fuel engines. This policy will encourage automobile manufacturers to produce such engines," he said. The minister pointed out that India is one of the fastest-growing economies leading through sustainable and climate-neutral development. While the government is focusing to create an investor-friendly ecosystem to promote domestic manufacturing, "parallelly we are also giving importance to infrastructure development," he said. As expected, India is gaining good momentum in the electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem, he noted. "There is a good response for battery operated small electric vehicles like e-scooter, electric three-wheelers, e-rickshaws, e-carts, and e-bikes in the country," he said. The minister added the road ministry is also planning to run a railway, metro, and long-run intercity buses on green hydrogen. "Both battery electric vehicle and fuel cell vehicle technologies are complementary to each other and are all set to overtake fossil-run automotive by 2050 in the country," the minister said. He further said India's fuel energy security can be well supported by the agriculture sector as it provides opportunities for concepts such as waste to wealth and waste to energy, ultimately leading to the benefit of all. Both Brazil and India are stepping ahead on the sustainable energy roadmap, he pointed out. Gadkari said India is committed to meeting the Paris Climate Agreement targets, where efforts are centered to reduce carbon emissions by 33 - 35 per cent by 2030. The minister said necessary steps are being taken to decarbonise the transport sector by reducing the harmful green house gas (GHG) emissions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-clean-energy-based-economy-nitin-gadkari-1033258.html
22-09-2021||National||India to play key role in post-Covid world order: BJP||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi embarked on a visit to the US, BJP on Wednesday said India is set to play a crucial role in shaping the post-Covid-19 world order. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters, Union Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar said Modi's recognition by the world as a “global leader” was not recent as over the last seven years he has been recognised by countries across the globe, including Saudi Arabia, the UAE, France and Russia. Chandrasekhar said under Modi's leadership, the country also successfully dealt with terrorism and expansionism, in an oblique reference to Pakistan and China. Modi has led and united the country in its resilient fight against these challenges, Chandrasekhar added. India has received a record FDI of over $65 billion, has recorded its highest ever export and is expected to be the fastest growing economy in the world in this fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-play-key-role-in-post-covid-world-order-bjp-1033261.html
22-09-2021||National||PM Modi's plane flies over Pakistan airspace en route to US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's plane en route to the United States flew over the Pakistan airspace on Wednesday after the neighbouring country gave permission for the aircraft, according to sources. There was no official confirmation from the government on whether the prime minister's aircraft flew over the Pakistan airspace, but sources confirmed that the route included Pakistan airspace. According to flight-tracking website Flightradar24, the plane -- Boeing 777-337 (ER) -- took off from the national capital at a little past 11.40 am and the route shows it flying over Pakistan and Iran, among other countries. The sources said the permission came late from Pakistan authorities for the prime minister's plane to fly over its airspace. In case, permission was not given, there was an alternative plan for the prime minister and his entourage to make a stop at Frankfurt and then proceed to the US, they added. In October 2019, Pakistan had denied India's request to use its airspace for Modi's flight to Saudi Arabia. The same year in September also, Pakistan had denied overflight clearance for the prime minister's aircraft. Modi emplaned for the US on Wednesday morning. His office tweeted a picture of him just before boarding the plane for the US where he will take part in a wide range of programmes. In a statement just before leaving for the US, Modi said he will conclude his visit with an address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges, including the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-plane-flies-over-pakistan-airspace-en-route-to-us-1033262.html
22-09-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM Channi, Sidhu pay obeisance at Golden Temple||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday paid obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. It was his first visit to the holy city after becoming the chief minister. Channi was accompanied by his two deputies, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and O P Soni, and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. They also visited Durgiana temple. Later, Channi, Randhawa, Soni and Sidhu went to a famous tea stall where they had a cuppa. Channi, his two deputies and Sidhu reached Amritsar on Tuesday night from Delhi where they had gone to discuss the expansion of the new state Cabinet with the party's central leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-channi-sidhu-pay-obeisance-at-golden-temple-1033016.html
22-09-2021||National Politics||Bhabanipur bypoll: BJP claim it was stopped from campaigning near Mamata's house||The BJP on Wednesday said it was not allowed by the police to campaign for the Bhabanipur by-election in the area near Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence. State BJP president Sukanta Majumdar claimed that they were prevented from campaigning on Harish Chatterjee Street that leads to the residence of Banerjee, who is also a candidate in the bypoll. He alleged that the police stopped the BJP's campaign as the TMC was in fear of losing the September 30 election. Rubbishing the allegation, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Akash Magharia said, "They did not have vaccination certificates and they were trying to breach the high-security zone which is why they were diverted from that road." BJP MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato and Magharia were involved in a spat at the spot. Mahato claimed that they were in compliance with the number of people specified by the Election Commission for the door-to-door campaign, but the police said that there were more people in the entourage. "The TMC has got afraid and is not allowing the BJP to campaign, but the people will break the barricades," Majumdar, who then campaigned on another end of the street, told reporters. He accused the Kolkata police of bias against the opposition political parties. "Professionalism of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police has been destroyed," he said. Majumdar said that steps will be taken over the matter after discussion within the party. BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is pitted against Banerjee in Bhabanipur, claimed that she was prevented from campaigning on the street on Tuesday as well despite having requisite permission. "There are voters on that street and despite having permission, why cannot I or our party go there to campaign?" she questioned, claiming that ruling TMC leaders were freely campaigning in the area. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhabanipur-bypoll-bjp-claims-it-was-stopped-from-campaigning-near-mamatas-house-1033052.html
22-09-2021||National Politics||45 BJP MPs across India have kin in politics, says Ripun Bora||Assam's Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora on Wednesday presented a list of 45 BJP lawmakers in both Houses whose kin are in politics, asserting that the saffron party has no right to slander the Congress, and particularly the Gandhi-Nehru family, over "dynastic politics". The Congress lawmaker claimed that the grand old party does not have that many MPs whose family members are in politics. "Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's son Pankaj Singh is an MLA in Uttar Pradesh, while Union ministers Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan's fathers were either former chief ministers or central ministers. There are 18 other such examples in the current Lok Sabha," he told reporters. "The Congress never pilloried the BJP over the issue as we firmly believe that if two or more members of a family occupy important positions in the government or the party, they are doing so through a democratic process or based on their capabilities and acceptability among the people," Bora said. In 2004, when the Congress secured a majority in the Lok Sabha, Sonia Gandhi was urged to assume the prime minister's post but she declined and handed over the baton to Dr Manmohan Singh, during whose tenure Rahul GBJandhi could have become a central minister but that didn't happen, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/45-bjp-mps-across-india-have-kin-in-politics-says-ripun-bora-1033187.html
22-09-2021||National Politics||Narendra Giri's death shows how offerings made in temples are misused: Digvijaya||Congress MP Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday said the "mysterious" death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri shows the misuse of offerings made at temples. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging at Baghambari Math in Uttar Pradesh by his disciples on Monday. The late Mahant's disciple Anand Giri was detained in Haridwar after a purported suicide note was found, in which the seer wrote that Anand Giri was trying to blackmail him using a morphed picture of a woman. A case of abetting suicide was lodged against Anand Giri. "It is said that Narendra Giri took the extreme step leaving behind a suicide note which the UP police is investigating. But, what he wrote in his suicide note is a matter of concern that how money offered in temples and 'maths' are being misused...How corruption is marring the purchase and sale of property (of temples),” Singh told reporters in Sehore, about 40 km from Bhopal. Singh said some pictures of Anand Giri surfaced recently showed he wanted to become a film star and not a seer. “A person has to sacrifice everything when he becomes a seer. Our religion moves forward with sacrifice. Salvation is attained through sacrifice. But, he (Anand Giri) was enjoying good vehicles. Even women complained when he had gone to Australia,” the Rajya Sabha MP said. Singh said Anand Giri even made a "fake video of his guru with women". “Is this Hindutva? We are concerned about the way religion is being misused. Corruption is also there in the purchase of land for Ram temple (in Ayodhya),” he said. Singh claimed Narendra Giri himself wrote (in the suicide note) that Anand Giri used to take money from the offerings made to the 'math'. “This is not good for religion”, he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-giris-death-shows-how-offerings-made-in-temples-are-misused-digvijaya-1033189.html
22-09-2021||National Politics||If you don’t vote for me, someone else will become CM: Mamata Banerjee||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that if she does not win from the Bhabanipur Assembly seat in the bypoll, then someone else will become the chief minister of West Bengal. She urged the people of Bhabanipur to vote for her if they want her to continue as the chief minister. Addressing a public meeting in the constituency the Chief Minister also urged voters to cast their votes as each vote was precious for her. “If I cannot win from here then someone else will become the chief minister. Vote for me to let me continue as the chief minister. Every vote is precious to me. Please don’t think that Didi will win anyways. Each vote is important. If even one vote is not cast then it will harm me. You will not get me as the chief minister if you don’t vote,” said Mamata. Mamata warned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah that just because she is courteous with them does not mean that she will allow them to establish “Taliban rule” in the country. “I can address Narendra Modi and Amit Shah as elder brothers. It is my courtesy. But that does not mean that I will allow Taliban rule in the country. I will not allow the country and Bengal to be divided. I will not let anyone create division among people,” said Mamata. Challenging the BJP, Mamata indicated that if needed, her party may set up its organisation in Goa, Tripura, Assam and Uttar Pradesh. “Your each and every vote will let us advance towards Delhi in future. Your votes will stop the riot mongers,” said Mamata. “We will fight (contest elections) in several parts of the country. If needed, the game will be on in Tripura. We will defeat the BJP in an electoral battle. We will play, win and drive the BJP out of the country,” said Mamata. She said that she was requested to contest from Nandigram in the last Assembly elections but a conspiracy was hatched to defeat her. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-you-don-t-vote-for-me-someone-else-will-become-cm-mamata-banerjee-1033226.html
22-09-2021||National Politics||Are Manohar Lal Khattar & Ashok Gehlot next to exit in CM musical chair?||While five Chief Ministers have been dropped due to low popularity ratings as shown by the IANS CVoter tracker, data suggests that the chief ministers of Haryana and Rajasthan too are on a slippery ground. The BJP recently changed the chief ministers in Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttarakhand. In the case of Uttarakhand, the chief ministers were changed twice this year. The Congress too followed suit by recently replacing its chief minister in Punjab.Two other 'unpopular' chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry were ousted after the Assembly elections held earlier this year. Yashwant Deshmukh, Founder-Director, CVoter International, said, "The ratings of IANS CVoter tracker have been vindicated across the board. While two CMs of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry were voted out by the people, the BJP had the wisdom to change its CMs in Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttarakhand. The Congress has also gone for a change in Punjab." "Next on the radar are the chief ministers of Haryana and Rajasthan -- Manohar Lal Khattar and Ashok Gehlot, respectively -- whose ratings have been consistently bad," Deshmukh added. Deshmukh said it shows that scientific data and public pressure has meaning and trackers like IANS CVoter fill in the blanks in the perception battle. Earlier this year, IANS CVoter had shown that 7 out of the 10 least popular chief ministers were from the BJP. In the case of Uttarakhand, the BJP is back in business after the appointment of Pushkar Singh Dhami as the Chief Minister. The IANS CVoter tracker shows that after his appointment in July, the popularity ratings have improved and the BJP has good chances now in a three-cornered contest in Uttarakhand. While the BJP appointed Tirath Singh Rawat as the CM in March, his popularity had continued to plunge. Therefore, in a course correction, BJP had to change two chief ministers in quick succession. In the case of Karnataka, the public are giving the benefit of doubt to new Chief Minister Basavraj Bommai. The only achievement as of now is that the public anger has been taken away by replacing B S Yeddyurappa. The 'don't know' and 'can't say' category is dominating in Karnataka's perception battle as people are still getting to know the new CM. The BJP changed Vijay Rupani with Bhupendra Patel as CM in Gujarat recently. There was a lot of anger during the Covid phase in April-May. Things started improving for Rupani from June as the BJP cadres lifted their spirits buoyed by the visits from the top leadership. The damage control led to Rupani's ratings improving, but the BJP sensed that it had hit a plateau and the kind of lead it is used to in Gujarat would be an uphill task. The BJP needs 15-20 per cent edge over the Congress in vote share in Gujarat. Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh of the Congress was in the bottom three among CMs for a long time. Data from the tracker suggests that he had to go and probably the Congress took too much time to make it happen. Next on the radar, as per the data, could be Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, as the 'not at all satisfied' category of people is very high in the state and has been consistently so. Similar set of data show that Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot may also be on the radar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/are-manohar-lal-khattar-ashok-gehlot-next-to-exit-in-cm-musical-chair-1033232.html
22-09-2021||National Politics||Lalu favours caste census, demands breaching 50% cap on quota||Ahead of polls in six states including OBC-dominated Uttar Pradesh next year, RJD chief Lalu Prasad on Wednesday raised the pitch for caste census and asked for breaching the 50 per cent ceiling on reservations if the population of SCs, STs and OBCs was found to be more than half of the total. Addressing a training camp of his party workers online, Prasad on Wednesday said he was the “first one to raise the demand for caste census” and had made the demand on the floor of the Parliament. He said his demand is for the welfare of all, SCs and STs included. “Quotas have been decided taking into account a census conducted before Independence. We must have a fresh estimate of the population of different social segments. The existing quotas have been insufficient. And even these are rarely filled, resulting in huge backlogs. Let there be a fresh caste census and all get quotas in proportion to their population. If it needs breaking of the 50 per cent barrier, so be it,” Prasad said. The issue of caste census could resonate in Bihar, a state of social justice movement and caste politics. A joint delegation of Bihar led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi a while ago, seeking a caste census. Prasad’s son Tejshwi Yadav was also part of the delegation. At least three NDA allies — JDU, RPI(A) led by Ramdas Athavale and Apna Dal led by Anupriya Patel have also joined the caste census bandwagon. The issue of caste census has created a huge buzz in the run-up to the polls. While the two national parties, BJP and Congress have been wary of taking a categorical stand on the issue, the regional parties like SP, BSP, RJD, INLD, BJD, NCP and some others have raised the pitch in favour. On September 3, Congress set up a special group headed by senior party leader M Veerappa Moily to  "study the matters related to caste census" with immediate effect. Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah, an architect of AHINDA (loosely defining minority communities, backward classes and Dalits) politics, had already made a strong pitch for a nationwide caste-based census and demanded that it should be undertaken once every 10 years to ensure social justice.  Senior party leaders Salman Khurshid, Mohan Prakash,  RPN Singh and P L Puniya (from Uttar Pradesh) and Kuldeep Bishnoi and party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi are members of the committee. In UP, where polls are expected in March next year, both Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party have already backed caste census.  BJP is keen to not be seen opposing the OBC sentiment even as the government has said no to such a move while the Opposition parties from the socialist background in Hindi states like Bihar and UP are up to exploit this dilemma of the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lalu-favours-caste-census-demands-breaching-50-cap-on-quota-1033243.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Over 2.10 lakh Covid vaccine doses administered in Delhi||More than 2.10 lakh people were vaccinated against coronavirus in Delhi on Monday, and over 1.11 lakh of them got the first dose, according to official data. Over 1.64 crore doses have been administered in the city since the inoculation exercise started on January 16, the government data showed. As many as 49.98 lakh people have received both the doses. According to the Delhi government's data, the city had around 9 lakh vaccine doses – 1.22 lakh Covaxin and 7.72 lakh Covishield -- left on Tuesday morning. The bulletin said the stock can last up to four days. There are 1,234 vaccination centres operational in the city which can administer around 3.10 lakh doses daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-210-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-delhi-1033001.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||India needs job-makers to pin itself on global export map: Sisodia||India cannot create a niche for itself on the global or export map if a majority of its students still dream of becoming employees, and not job-makers, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday as he held the persisting education system and current norms in the country that deter entrepreneurs responsible for such a state of affairs. "In our country, instead of facilitating the GST or other trade laws, traders are not given a substantial amount of appreciation that they actually deserve. In such a situation, why would a parent want his/her children to do business? They would like their children to do a good job. We have to change this mindset and focus on the ground reality." "Delhi has great capacity in enabling our business community to go global with its exemplary products and top-notch services. The Delhi government wants to tap into that potential by giving wings to their export dream but exports can't increase when 99 per cent of the children graduate from their institutions with a dream of working as an employee under someone," Sisodia said at a CII event organised to commemorate the 75th year of India's independence. Also present at the event, Delhi Industries Minister Satyendar Jain held a discussion with the entrepreneurs on the topic of improving export opportunities and production in Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-needs-job-makers-to-pin-itself-on-global-export-map-sisodia-1033007.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||PM Modi congratulates Canada PM Trudeau on election win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau on his election win, and said he looked forward to continue working with him to further strengthen India-Canada relations. Trudeau secured victory in parliamentary elections but failed to get the majority he wanted. He, however, leads a strong minority government that won't be toppled by the opposition anytime soon. Modi tweeted, "Congratulations Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau on your victory in the elections! I look forward to continue working with you to further strengthen India-Canada relations, as well as our cooperation on global and multilateral issues."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-congratulates-canada-pm-trudeau-on-election-win-1033012.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||J&K govt sacks 6 employees for having terror links||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday sacked six of its employees for having terror links and working as overground workers, news agency ANI reported. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-sacks-6-employees-for-having-terror-links-1033059.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Decomposed body, suspected to be of Territorial Army jawan, found in J&K’s Kulgam||The decomposed body of a man, suspected to be that of a Territorial Army jawan kidnapped by militants last year, was recovered from Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Wednesday. Police found the body, wrapped in a tarpaulin, in Mohammadpora in Kulgam. Police suspect that the mortal remains might be of Territorial Army jawan Shakir Manzoor Wagay who was kidnapped by ultras on August 2 last year. Police has taken the body for identification and other medical formalities, they said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decomposed-body-suspected-to-be-of-territorial-army-jawan-found-in-jk-s-kulgam-1033064.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||When world grappled with Covid-19 pandemic, UP's NCR got huge investments: Yogi Adityanath||When the whole world was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, parts of Uttar Pradesh in the National Capital Region, including Noida, attracted huge investments showing the state government's commitment for development, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. Talking about the transformation under his rule, the chief minister said the people who earlier moved to Delhi for medical treatment were seen rushing to hospitals in UP's NCR areas for assistance during the pandemic. "You must be aware earlier investors would run away from here and move to China and Vietnam. But I am happy to inform you that the country's first (mobile phone) display unit has been set up in NCR only and during the pandemic," Adityanath said at an event hosted by Dainik Jagran in Greater Noida on 'UP-NCR: Hopes and Challenges'. "Asia's largest airport is also coming up in Jewar here. Work has been expedited for the Film City too. Similarly, investments have come in the region in other sectors also," he said, crediting the improved law and order situation also for the transformation. The BJP leader also came down hard on former chief ministers of rival parties for having "jinxed" parts of NCR, including Noida and Greater Noida, by avoiding in-person visits. Eight districts of UP -- Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Hapur, Shamli and Muzaffarnagar -- are part of the National Capital Region, a bigger region which also contains parts of Haryana, Rajasthan and entire Delhi. Adityanath said that before 2017, the state did not have good public transport but now it has metro trains in four cities, while efforts are on to launch metro services in Kanpur and Agra by this year end. Earlier, the bad condition of roads in UP was a running joke among the people from other states but the situation has changed with new expressways coming up in Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister said.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/when-world-grappled-with-covid-19-pandemic-ups-ncr-got-huge-investments-yogi-adityanath-1033073.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Centre tried to hide deaths due to oxygen crisis in Delhi, alleges Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday accused the Centre of doing politics over the issue of oxygen crisis here during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, and also trying to stop the formation of a city government's panel to probe deaths allegedly due to its shortage. His remarks in response to a question during a press conference came a day after the Delhi High Court said that it saw no difficulty in the constitution of a high-powered committee (HPC) by the AAP government to probe the deaths caused by the alleged medical oxygen shortage. The court, which was dealing with a plea to operationalise the HPC, noted the Delhi government's stand that the committee would not attribute any fault to any hospital and any compensation will be paid and absorbed by the government alone. Jain said the Delhi government had set up a four-member panel comprising medical experts in June and the files were sent to the Delhi Lt Governor for approval. However, the Centre tried to stop it via the LG office, he alleged. "The Centre also did politics over the issue of oxygen crisis and even said in Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage was reported," Jain further alleged. They did a "wrong thing" by "trying to hide deaths" that may have occurred due to shortage of the life-saving gas, Jain charged, and added that the court had now cleared the way for the formation of the panel. The high court on Tuesday had also recorded that as per the Delhi government, the criteria for determining compensation will be open to scrutiny and its task would not overlap with that of a sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court on allocation and utilisation of oxygen. "The job of this committee is to probe any death that any person claims has taken due to oxygen shortage, whether at home or a hospital. The panel will investigate and recommend a compensation of up to Rs 5 lakh accordingly. It will not probe any medical negligence, that is the job of the medical council," Jain told reporters. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had on July 21 charged the Centre with trying to "hide its fault" and alleged that its "mismanagement" and change in oxygen distribution policy after April 13 had caused shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the country, leading to a "disaster". Jain said several media channels were reporting live on the oxygen crisis issue during the second wave of the pandemic in Delhi. Was it all wrong, he asked. The number of Covid-19 cumulative cases on Tuesday stood at 14,38,556. Over 14.13 lakh patients have recovered from the virus, while the death toll stands at 25,085. On the UK rules related to Covishield vaccine, the Delhi minister said the MEA will respond on this, but, "I feel there is no question of not recognising it," as it is the same vaccine used in the UK but with a different name of AstraZeneca. The UK government on Wednesday added Covishield to an updated international travel advisory. The move follows widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible Covid-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. The updated advisory means that Indians fully vaccinated with Covishield will no longer be required to undergo compulsory 10-day self-isolation at home or declared location on entry to England. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-tried-to-hide-deaths-due-to-oxygen-crisis-in-delhi-alleges-jain-1033090.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Will ensure justice in sacrilege case: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday paid obeisance at the Golden Temple here, and said he will ensure justice in the 2015 sacrilege case. It was his first visit to the holy city after becoming chief minister. Channi, who was accompanied by his two deputies, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, also visited the Durgiana Temple and Bhagwan Valmik Tirath here. During their nearly two-hour long visit to the Golden Temple, the four heard hymns and performed 'sewa' (community service). They also went to the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, to offer prayers. Speaking briefly with reporters after visiting the Golden Temple, Channi said justice will be delivered in the 2015 sacrilege cases. He was referring to the incidents of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot. Channi said they came here to seek blessings of the 'Guru Sahib' and added that every religion will be respected in the state. Sidhu said politics had deviated from issues “but our chief minister dragged it back to the issues". “If we cannot resolve issues of the people then we are not true Sikhs because religion is about feeding the hungry, making those crying happy and giving shelter to those who lack it,” he said. Heaping praise on the chief minister, Sidhu said, “Today I am very happy as what I experienced in the company of this humble chief minister (Channi) in the last two days, I have never felt so in the last 17 years of political life. There is a feeling now that Congress can serve the people without any fear." He said merit will be honoured and truth will be victorious. The four also visited a famous tea stall in the city where they exchanged pleasantries with locals and enjoyed a cup of tea with 'kachoris' and bread butter. Channi also met local MP Gurjit Singh Aujla and had breakfast at MLA Raj Kumar Verka's residence. Channi, his two deputies and Sidhu reached Amritsar on Tuesday night from Delhi where they had gone to discuss the expansion of the new cabinet with the party's central leadership.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-ensure-justice-in-sacrilege-case-punjab-cm-channi-1033119.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Jammu traders protest against opening of 100 stores by Reliance||Normal business activities remained closed in Jammu on Wednesday as the traders are protesting against the Centre’s move to open 100 Reliance-owned stores in the region, a claim which the company termed as false. Reports said most markets, business establishments and malls remained closed in Jammu in response to the strike call by the Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industries (JCCI), affecting normal life. The bandh call was supported by Jammu High Court Bar Association and regional political parties, including the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Panthers Party and the Apni Party besides the Congress. However, the BJP did not make any statement over the issue. The chamber president, Arun Gupta, alleged that the move was “discrimination of the highest degree” with traders of Jammu by the government. “We appealed to everyone to observe peaceful bandh against issues related to chamber and commerce. We are thankful that bandh gets an overwhelming response all over the province, even from the areas where we least expected,” he said. Gupta said that 228 wine traders have been rendered jobless after the government introduced e-auction of liquor shops in the Union Territory. Wearing black badges, the business community assembled at various markets and the Chamber House raising slogans like ‘Jammu Ekta Zindabad.’ The protesters said that they are facing a wide range of issues that had been confronted by them after the abrogation of the state’s special status on August 5, 2019, but the latest trigger is reports of Reliance retail setting up 100 stores in Jammu. However, the Reliance on Tuesday said the talk of 100 stores being opened by them (in Jammu) is completely untrue. “We have not opened any stores in Jammu. We have a few delivery points in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and these are set up by our delivery partners to support the small traders,” a spokesperson of the company said in a statement. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-traders-protest-against-opening-of-100-stores-by-reliance-1033122.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Body of soldier found one year after militants abducted him in Kashmir||A decomposed body found on Wednesday in a village of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district has been identified as that of a missing rifleman of 162 Battalion of Territorial Army, the family of the slain soldier said. Shakir Manzoor, a rifleman with the 162 Battalion of Territorial Army (TA) was abducted by militants on August 2 last year when he was travelling between the Balpora and Bahibagh army camps in the southern Shopian district. Hours later that day, his burnt vehicle was recovered from a field in the neighbouring Kulgam district. And a week later, his family found his blood-stained clothes in a nearby orchard. However, despite the hectic efforts of the police, Army and Manzoor’s family, his body couldn’t be located. On Wednesday a decomposed male body was found near BSNL tower in Mohamad Pora village of Kulgam. The body was taken into possession by the police for identification. The police said the body is beyond recognition and requires a DNA test. However, a police official said after the body was found, the father of the missing TA soldier claimed it is of his son. Manzoor Ahmad Wagey, the father of the missing TA soldier, told reporters in Kulgam that he has identified the body and it is his son’s. A few days after Manzoor’s abduction last year, an unverified audio clip went viral on social media in which a militant who identified himself as Abu Talha took responsibility for his death. The voice in the clip sought to justify Manzoor’s killing – and the decision to bury his body at an undisclosed location. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-soldier-found-one-year-after-militants-abducted-him-in-kashmir-1033126.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||J&K sacks six more 'anti-national' government employees||Jammu and Kashmir government headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha Wednesday terminated service of six more government employees without holding any enquiry for their alleged involvement in anti-national activities. They include two constables of J&K police, two teachers, a senior officer of the forest department, and an employee of Roads and Buildings department. The dismissals were greenlit by a committee headed by Jammu and Kashmir’s chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta. The cases are referred to the committee by a ‘Special Task Force’ (STF) chaired by J&K’s intelligence chief which was set up in April this year. These employees were dismissed under Article 311 of the Constitution under which no inquiry is held and dismissed employees can only approach a high court for relief. In April, the J&K government had announced the formation of a STF to bring under the scanner government employees allegedly involved in ‘anti-national’ activity. The STF has been empowered to compile records of such employees and refer them to the committee constituted on July 30 last year. So far on the recommendations of the committee, two dozen government employees, including two sons of Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudin and tainted deputy superintendent of J&K police, Davinder Singh, who was chargesheeted by the NIA for providing support to the Hizbul, have been dismissed from the service. A senior officer in J&K General Administration Department (GAD) said the termination of employees is an “ongoing process.” For future appointments, the J&K government has already made the rules stricter wherein anybody joining the service will be subjected to CID verification which will unravel whether the fresh recruits have links in anti-national and anti-social activities. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-sacks-six-more-anti-national-government-employees-1033133.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Rahul, Priyanka inexperienced; will field candidate against Sidhu in Assembly polls: Amarinder||Days after his exit, an upset former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday called the Gandhi siblings “inexperienced" and vowed to field a strong candidate against Navjot Singh Sidhu in the upcoming Assembly polls. It was his first direct comment on Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, who are widely believed to have steered a change of leadership in the state.  Singh, whose remarks in a series of interviews were tweeted by his media advisor, called Sidhu a “dangerous” man whose elevation as Chief Minister he will fight tooth and nail. Singh, who had to step down from the role of chief minister after facing a relentless campaign by Sidhu and his loyalists, ensured that the PCC chief is not made CM in his place, which resulted in a Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi helming the top post. Now Singh is up to ensure that Sidhu does not get the coveted post even after the Assembly polls. Singh’s flurry of remarks came after Sidhu shared a photo of him accompanying the chief minister and the two newly-appointed deputy chief ministers in a chartered flight to Delhi to meet the Congress top brass to discuss the cabinet formation. “If Sidhu behaves as super CM, Punjab Congress won’t function. Under this drama master’s leadership, it would be a big thing if  Congress manages to touch double digits in Punjab polls,” Singh said. "I was attacked for not taking action against ministers allegedly involved in the mining mafia. Those very ministers are now in the new Punjab Congress and Punjab government leadership. They complained against me for not taking arbitrary action against Badals and Majithia and going by rule of law. Now they are in power, let them throw the Akali Dal leaders behind the bars if they can,” the former chief minister dared the new state dispensation.  He also raised questions about how AICC general secretaries K C Venugopal, Ajay Maken and Randeep Surjewala decide who is right for which ministry. “When I was CM, I called the shots and appointed my own ministers based not on their caste but their effectiveness,” he recalled, suggesting that the new chief minister has given away the power of making decisions on state cabinet to Delhi. While maintaining that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are like “my children,” Singh categorically said, “Fact is the Gandhi siblings are inexperienced & their advisors are clearly misguiding them.” He said he was “hurt” and this should not have ended like this. "I'm hurt. I was prepared to leave politics after a victory but never after a loss. I offered my resignation to Sonia Gandhi three weeks back but she asked me to continue. Had she called me and told me to step down, I would have done so,” Singh said. Making it clear that Congress’ power tussle in Punjab won't end any time soon, he said he is ready to make any kind of sacrifice to stop Sidhu from becoming the Punjab CM. “Will pit a strong person against him to ensure his defeat in the 2022 Assembly polls. If Navjot Singh Sidhu is going to be the CM face, then it will be a big thing if Punjab Congress even touches double digits,” he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-priyanka-inexperienced-will-field-candidate-against-sidhu-in-assembly-polls-amarinder-1033174.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||Islamic scholar Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui arrested by UP ATS for running 'biggest conversion syndicate'||The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) has arrested well-known Islamic scholar Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui from Meerut for allegedly running the "biggest conversion syndicate", a police official said here on Wednesday. Siddiqui was arrested by the ATS, which is probing this racket, at around 9 pm on Tuesday and was brought to the agency’s headquarters in Lucknow after being produced in a court, Additional Director General (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said. He was arrested three months after Delhi's Jamia Nagar residents Mufti Qazi Jahangir Alam Qasmi and Mohammad Umar Gautam were apprehended by the ATS on June 20. Qazi and Guatam were running Islamic Dawah Center, an outfit allegedly working on the ISI funding for converting deaf-mute students to Islam, according to officials. The ATS has so far arrested 10 people in connection with the conversion racket, Kumar said. Samajwadi Party Sambhal MP Shafiqur Rehman Barq termed the Siddiqui’s arrest "wrong”. "The BJP government has non work other than targeting and harassing Muslims," he said. Giving details of the racket, the ADG said it came to light during the probe that Gautam and his accomplice were funded Rs 57 crore by Britain-based Al-Falaa Trust but the two did not give details of its expenditure. It was also found that Siddiqui is involved in the illegal conversion racket under the garb of running various educational, social and religious organisations, Kumar said. "Foreign funding was done for this (conversion) in a big way and the illegal conversion was being carried out in a planned and organised way and many well-known and institutions are involved in it," the ADG said. He said it also came to the fore that Siddiqui ran the "biggest unlawful conversion syndicate" and threatened and misled people for conversion and prepared them for 'Dawah' (the act of inviting or calling people to embrace Islam). The ATS found that he also runs Jamia Imaam Waliullah Trust, which is carrying out illegal religious conversion in the name of running "communal harmony" programmes, Kumar said. Siddiqui is a resident of Muzaffarnagar. After doing a BSc from Meerut, he cleared Pre-Medical Test (PMT) but instead of pursuing MBBS he joined Nadwatul Ulema in Lucknow, he said. Siddiqui also funded madrasas and for this, he used to get huge money from abroad by illegal means, the ADG said. For conversion, Siddiqui's self-written literature, which is available online as well as in print, was being given free of cost to people, he said. He was propagating that only sharia could give justice to people, Kumar said. “He used to emphasise that issues like triple talaq should be dealt under the light of sharia," the official said. Organisations that funded Gautam's ventures also gave funds to the Siddiqui's Jamia Imaam Waliullah Trust, he said. The probe till now suggested that Rs 1.5 crore was transferred into the Trust account illegally from Bahrain and evidence of Rs 3 crore funding was found, Kumar said. He said six teams of the ATS are probing the case. Earlier, a sign language expert working in the Union Ministry of Child and Family Welfare was arrested by the ATS for his alleged complicity in the religious conversion racket, according to officials. The deaf-mute sign language expert was identified as a Maharashtra native Irfan Khwaja Khan. The UP ATS’ arrests in the alleged conversion racket has also prompted the Enforcement Directorate to initiate a probe to investigate foreign funding and money laundering. Those arrested have been booked under relevant sections of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2020 and the Indian Penal Code, as per the officials.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/islamic-scholar-maulana-kaleem-siddiqui-arrested-by-up-ats-for-running-biggest-conversion-syndicate-1033175.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||AIMIM posters call Sambhal land of 'ghazis'||Tension erupted after AIMIM posters came up, calling Sambhal the land of the "ghazis", an apparent reference to Islamic warriors. The BJP strongly objects to the posters, after which these were removed by workers of the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). The posters were spotted ahead of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi’s meeting in Sirsi, where he took on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his "abba jaan" remark. Adityanath had made the comment in an apparent reference to the Muslim community and the Samajwadi Party, asserting those who say "abba jaan" used to digest the ration earlier. Owaisi said he was the "abba" (father) and "chacha" (uncle) of the poor and week. Objecting to the posters terming Sambhal as "ghaziyon ki dharti", BJP vice-president (UP wester unit) Rajesh Singhal said the place has never been the land of the "ghazis". "This is an election stunt of Owaisi and we will not allow them to succeed in their intentions. None of the cities in India belonged to the 'ghazis' and we will not allow them to become one." He added that Sambhal is a place of mythological importance. "In the Puranas, Sambhal finds mention in connection with the Kalki incarnation (of Lord Vishnu). If Sambhal is mentioned as the land of the 'ghazis' in the Quoran, then I will quit politics." Meanwhile, Owaisi in Sirsi said people of Uttar Pradesh will not make Yogi Adityanath the chief minister of the state for the second time. In an apparent reference to the Yogi Adityanath’s "abba jaan" remark, the AIMIM leader said, "Owaisi is the father of the poor and weak in UP. Owaisi is the brother of women. I am your 'abba' (father) and 'chacha jaan' (uncle)." The AIMIM chief further said the SP and the BSP fought the 2019 Lok Sabha elections together but were able to win only 15 seats while a majority of the seats were bagged by the NDA. "In the Lok Sabha elections, we did not field a single candidate, yet we are blamed that they (SP-BSP) got only 15 seats. They should come on a stage and have a one-to-one debate on this," Owaisi said. He also sought to know as to how many Muslims got a card under the Antyodaya scheme or of any other scheme in Uttar Pradesh. "In Uttar Pradesh, 54 per cent of the Muslims are poor," he said. The AIMIM had recently announced that it would contest 100 seats in the state Assembly polls next year by tying up with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aimim-posters-call-sambhal-land-of-ghazis-1033225.html
22-09-2021||North and Central||UP recommends CBI probe in connection with death of Mahant Narendra Giri||The Uttar Pradesh government has recommended a CBI probe in connection with the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri, the state's home department said on Wednesday. "On the instructions of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a probe by the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) has been recommended in the incident pertaining to the sad death of chairman of Akhara Parishad Mahant Narendra Giri," it said in a tweet in Hindi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-recommends-cbi-probe-in-connection-with-death-of-mahant-narendra-giri-1033264.html
22-09-2021||Oasis||Solitude: A retreat to the self||The pandemic, with all its evils, has allowed us to step back and look at ourselves. It enforced a period of isolation, of withdrawal from the daily world, into one of introspection. In many cultures, there are periods of withdrawal from the wider group, the ordinary life that claims most of our time and attention. As the stoic philosopher, Epictetus said, If a person cannot be content in his own company he cannot be happy around others. In fact, to seek happiness we must turn inwards. In everyday life, amid goals, targets, and people, horizons have shrunk and everything is short-range. Years pass by without us noticing, and we have no time to stand still or take stock of our lives. T S Eliot said, "Our lives are mostly an evasion of ourselves.” But a step back into solitude gives us the chance to look at the big picture. Too many things we have taken for granted, the good people around, nature in all her bounty, the glorious colours of the sunrise and the sunset, the little birds carrying the sky on their back, the music of the leaves and more. Being alone, we can come close to that Supreme Intelligence we call God and his mysterious ways because God can be found only in immaculate silences. The Renaissance poet-philosopher Petrarch says, “Solitude rehabilitates the soul, corrects morals, renews affections, erases blemishes, purges faults and reconciles man and God”. Aristotle, the Greek philosopher, talking about the “contemplative life” concludes that contemplation is the highest human activity, a life characterised by solitude and prayer. Solitude suggests not loneliness but serenity, the freedom to plug and unplug from the metaphor of our connectivity. The medium of thinking as the German Korean philosopher Byung- Chul- Han constantly reminds us, is quiet. Solitude is a confrontation with hidden regrets, angst, alienation and fears. Every choice you made directed your life along a particular path. At the same time, it is a poignant reminder of “roads not taken”. It is a reconciliation too with the trajectory of your life in the given circumstances. Solitude is like the French philosopher Montaigne says is a step back from ordinary life, the better to leap into it next time. So take that lonely walk up that road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/solitude-a-retreat-to-the-self-1033252.html
22-09-2021||Panorama||Drug menace could get worse, with Taliban ruling Afghanistan||There has been a spate of high-profile seizures of narcotics and psychotropic substances in India in the last few months. What has been disturbing is not only the quantity of drugs seized but also the various modes adopted: sea, land and air. The trend started even before the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan; thus late 2020 and early 2021 have witnessed huge seizures of high-grade heroin. 191 kgs in JNPT port followed by 135 kgs in Mumbai and 283 kgs and 191 kgs again in JNPT port, apart from regular seizures, from passengers trying to sneak it in through airports, as also cases of ingress through the Indo-Pak and Indo-Myanmar borders. Geography is, as has been said, destiny. This cannot be truer than in the case of India in the context of the drug problem. Wedged between the Golden Crescent and the Golden Triangle, India has a substantial land border with the opium-producing regions. Afghan-cultivated opium distilled into heroin, in labs dotting both sides of the Afghan-Pakistan border, enters India through the 3,300-km-long border with Pakistan. We also have about a 1,600-kms-long border with Myanmar. This has meant a constant battle to prevent the smuggling of heroin. India is particularly vulnerable also because it manufactures precursor chemicals essential for distilling opium into heroin. These chemicals are manufactured for licit usage but get diverted for the manufacturing of heroin. The National Drug Threat Assessment, 2020, of the US Drug Enforcement Agency, suggests that there is also a reverse flow of precursor chemicals from India. In this background, we should review the dramatic developments in Afghanistan over the last few weeks. Afghanistan, after the Taliban takeover, is a country ravaged by the effects of war and poverty, struggling to settle down. With a population of just under 34 million with 54% living under the poverty line, ranked among the countries with the lowest gross domestic product by capita at $580.82, Afghanistan desperately needs economic aid. The world today is, on the contrary, choking financial aid to Afghanistan. The International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) mandate is to help countries tide over economic crises; under pressure from the Biden administration, it has, however, blocked Afghanistan from accessing emergency reserves. $455 million in SDR’s due to Afghanistan has been held back. Further, the US Treasury Department has frozen $9.4 billion of reserves held by DAB, the Afghan Central Bank in the New York Federal reserve and US-based financial institutions. The consequence is a huge financial and humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. Worse, what this financial crisis will mean is that the Taliban may turn to drugs to fund their activities. While there can be no justification for drug peddling, it should not be forgotten that Afghanistan produces nearly 90% of the world’s illicit opium. As per UNODC, nearly 2,24,000 ha of land is under opium cultivation, in 22 out of the 34 provinces in the country. In 2020 the UN estimated that nearly 6,300 tonnes of opium were cultivated, with a farm gate value of $350 million which when it reaches the markets multiplies many times. It is estimated that the opium trade is worth between 6-11% of Afghanistan’s GDP. Drug trafficking, apart from hurting societies, triggers a host of other criminal activities and worse, finances terrorism. Afghanistan has also discovered that the ephedra plant which is a major source for methamphetamine grows there, providing yet another conduit for illicit fund generation. The Taliban spokesman recently did make a brave statement that ‘Afghanistan will not be a country for the cultivation of opium anymore’. However, this seems unlikely. The financial stress and tacit persuasion of a myopic Pakistan will result in the Taliban resorting to even more unchecked cultivation of opium. As Gretchen Peters has pointed out, the Taliban has always profited from opium. While the Balkan route and Tajikistan are the popular drug routes, India, because of its proximity, convenient access through Pakistan and a growing drug problem, cannot escape the consequences. While enforcement agencies seek to choke supplies, it is equally important to curb demand. Creating awareness about the ill-effects of drugs among the population is essential. We must not forget that the continuing stressful conditions caused by the pandemic—the deaths, illness, loss of jobs, shutdowns are fertile ground for seeking solace in the world of drugs. A 2019 survey by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment ’Magnitude of Substance Use in India’ shows opioids (heroin, smack brown sugar) are used by about 2.1% of the population. This translates to a whopping 2.26 crore people, and as the seizures indicate, growing by the day. Creating awareness would mean engaging social organisations and educational institutions, reducing stigmatization and rehabilitating addicts, organising visits to de-addiction camps to witness firsthand the debilitating impact of drugs and more. Remarks like those of the Bishop, that a ‘Narcotics Jihad’ is being waged, even though made with the best of intentions, do not help. It distracts from the fact that it is the demand which spurs supplies. It ignores the fact that India too is a cultivator of opium, licit, but that we do have a problem of some leakage of opium which makes its way into the illegal domestic market. We must, for more reasons than one, be acutely conscious of the happenings in Afghanistan. The Taliban is likely to push opium to various markets to fund their activities. We have to tackle the menace from both the supply and demand ends. We cannot afford to let the menace of drugs go out of hand. (The writer is a former chairman of the Central Board of Indirect taxes & Customs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/drug-menace-could-get-worse-with-taliban-ruling-afghanistan-1033248.html
22-09-2021||Panorama||Thamirabarani in the classroom||In late August, carbon dating results for the material recovered from the archaeological excavations done in Sivakalai revealed that the Porunai river/Thamirabarani civilisation probably dates back to 3,200 years ago. This discovery indicates the presence of urban Dravidian civilisation in 1200 BCE. Such a revelation enables us to recognise a thriving society, with substantial connections to the Indus Valley civilisation. It enables us to contend in more material terms with who we are, and where we come from. The promise that Thamirabarani gives to our history classrooms is immense and can alter the course of teaching Indian history in school. Footnotes in history The discoveries at Sivakalai, and the other sites, including Adichanallur and Korkai, illustrate that a secular and urban civilisation, that had extensive literacy, sophisticated tools, and technologically advanced practices existed in these historical sites. V Arasu suggests that this advances a grave threat to the RSS’ construction of Indian history, which paints our past as a story of a glorious Hindu and Vedic order. In the current moment, as the crucial question of dismantling global Hindutva animates the debates of academics and activists, it becomes necessary for history teachers to tell that story of human development, and illustrate the instance of a non-Brahminical social order like in Thamarabarani. On account of these radical findings, the excavations encountered considerable challenges from the Centre. For instance, in March 2017, the superintending archaeologist Amarnath Ramakrishna of the Keezhadi site was abruptly transferred by the Archeological Survey of India (ASI), disrupting the excavation efforts. The importance of the discovery lies in the acute discomfort that the study of history causes to the reactionary ruling forces. Thus, the practice of scientific discovery within the history classroom can play an important role in resisting the hegemonic control of the powerful over historical knowledge, also indicating the potential for resistance that can be imbued within the history curriculum. Our history curricula remain greatly fragmented today, with a sporadic and inadequate mention of the diverse histories and communities in South Asia. National history has largely been subsumed by North Indian history, and ancient history has largely been conflated with the Indus Valley Civilisation. History classrooms largely shun the margins – barely paying mention to the struggles of working people, movements of women, and resistances of oppressed caste groups. By unearthing artefacts that date back to over 3,200 years at Sivakalai, our conceptions of ancient human civilisation are challenged. The discoveries of Thamirabarani allow students to ask what constitutes human civilisation, and gain answers in their immediate locality, making the study of history more personal and intimate. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Stalin recently announced that the state government would set up a museum for the archaeological artefacts uncovered at Sivakalai, and the other sites. This is an important step in the current moment, in which historical inquiry is under siege. With the absolute distortion of the history curriculum through its saffronisation and the continued disregard of the importance of Dravidian history, memory in the Indian public sphere is being shaped by communal forces. The recent efforts at renovation in the Jallianwala Bagh, including the introduction of a light and sound show, indicate the profound disrespect of the ruling class towards the scientific exploration of history, and people’s practices of remembering. Protecting the material heritage of human history is indispensable for the democratic project. The civilisational remains at Sivakalai show us the irresistibility of the forward motion of history, despite its zig-zag movement. It allows us to remember seriously the progress of human society, in advancing the forces of production and imbibing the practices of creativity and science. Discoveries of ancient civilisation in Sivakalai can therefore fill our imaginations with the new possibilities that tomorrow holds. (The writer is a student at Jindal Global Law School)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/thamirabarani-in-the-classroom-1033249.html
22-09-2021||Right in the Middle||‘Remember the Alamo’||When my daughter relocated to Austin, Texas from the New Jersey area, she pitched me her new location thus: “Mom, remember that historic city, San Antonio; it’s just a 90-minute drive from my home”. Austin may be the tech beehive but the quaint city of San Antonio, older than the US and rich in its Spanish heritage, is a delight to history buffs. The story of San Antonio begins in 1691 when a group of Spanish explorers and missionaries came upon a river and an ‘Indian’ settlement on the feast day of St. Anthony of Padua. Thus the place and the river are named in honour of the Saint. In the 1700s, the Spanish missionaries built the mission San Antonio de Valero. Over time, the mission was turned into a fort for Spanish soldiers who called it 'fort Alamo'. San Antonio grew to become the largest Spanish settlement and was the designated capital of the province of Texas. When Mexico won independence from Spain in 1821, Texas became a part of Mexico. The Europeans from the US were allowed to immigrate into Texas and called themselves Texans. In 1835 Mexican Republic was declared by President General Santa Anna. His stricter immigration laws provoked the Texans to revolt. In 1836 the rebels declared independence. When General Santa Anna marched into San Antonio to quell the Texan War of Independence, around 200 rebels were defending the Alamo. The 1800-strong Mexican army surrounded the Alamo and laid siege for 13-days. After fierce fighting, the Texans were overpowered and General Anna reclaimed the Mission Alamo killing everyone inside. The Texan army, motivated by a desire for revenge, made ‘Remember the Alamo’ their battle cry. They defeated the Mexican army at the Battle of San Jacinto within 50 days of the Alamo massacre, ending the revolt and paving the way to the Texas Republic. In 1845, Texas Republic endorsed joining the Union, thus Texas became the twenty-eighth state of the US. The historic grounds of the Alamo in Downtown San Antonio (declared as a World Heritage Site by the UN) stands as a poignant reminder of the resistance efforts by a small group of determined fighters for Texan independence from Mexico. Today the Alamo, the jewel of Texas heritage, consists of the iconic Church, gardens and Museum exhibits. The gardens feature some of San Antonio’s oldest trees including a snarled live oak and stately pecans. This monument made of Texas granite with a pinkish hue incorporates the images of the Alamo garrison leaders and the names of defenders. The Alamo Cenotaph stands tall outside the Church commemorating the Battle of Alamo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/remember-the-alamo-1033253.html
22-09-2021||Second Edit||Law to save illegal structures is wrong||The Karnataka government has adopted a ‘secular’ policy towards all illegal religious structures in the state – whether they be temples, mosques, churches or gurudwaras, among others -- by granting them protection from demolition even if they are built on public land, including roads, junctions and parks. The stated objective of the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, which was passed by the Assembly, is to “protect communal harmony and not to hurt the religious sentiments of the public.” However, the real objective is to negate an order of the Supreme Court which had directed demolition of all unauthorised religious structures across the country. Karnataka had identified 6,300 such constructions. Though the demolition drive has been slow-paced over the years, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar had recently sent a reminder to deputy commissioners to hasten the process, following a nudge from the High Court. While structures belonging to different communities were being razed across the state, the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud led to a controversy, with BJP MP Pratap Simha communalising the issue. This also gave the opposition a stick to beat the BJP government with, considering that the demolitions occurred under the watch of the party that claims to be the custodian of Hindus.  While Simha threatened to launch a ‘save temple’ agitation, some office-bearers of the Hindu Mahasabha declared that when even Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated for “being anti-Hindu”, it would not be difficult to mete out the same treatment to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The decision of the government gives rise to suspicion that it buckled under pressure and threats from such fringe elements. The Bill is self-defeating in many ways. For one, it could come in the way of infrastructure projects like roads, as clearing illegal religious structures will now be impossible. Besides, it also ties the government’s hands with regard to encroachment of forest lands, lakes or civic amenity sites in the name of religion. The question also arises if the Bill will really save those religious structures that are currently lined up for demolition as one contradictory clause in the Bill states that no protection shall be granted to a structure if any case relating to its removal is pending in any court of law. In the instant case, the matter of demolition of most structures are pending before court.  While the Bill states that no protection will be granted to illegal structures in the future, the message it sends out is the opposite. The Bill sets a bad precedent and virtually gives a carte blanche to those who have encroached upon public land by building a religious structure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/law-to-save-illegal-structures-is-wrong-1033239.html
22-09-2021||South||SC rejects Padmanabha Swamy Temple Trust's plea to exempt it from audit for last 25 years||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected a plea of Kerala's Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple Trust, created by the erstwhile Travancore Royal Family, for exemption from the audit of 25 years. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit said that the special audit, directed in its July 13, 2020 judgement, was not confined to the temple alone, but included the trust as well.  The bench, also comprising Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, directed for the audit of the temple and the trust preferably within three months. On September 17, the Administrative and Advisory Committees of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, represented by senior advocate R Basant, contended the court that the temple was facing financial crisis as monthly expenses were not being met in view of offerings having been dried up due to Covid-19 pandemic.  It further said Rs 1.25 crore was the monthly expenses of the temple but it could hardly Rs 60-70 lakh. It said the trust must contribute to the temple. Royal family, on the other hand, led by senior advocate Arvind P Datar said the trust had a distinct identity, which has been created only to oversee the pujas and rituals. The trust has got no role in administration. It also submitted that the court should not go by the amicus curiae's report of April 15, 2014 in this regard. "In its order dated 24.04.2014, this court had initially directed that special audit of the temple and its properties be conducted by ex CAG Vinod Rai. Later, the order dated 05.05.2015 recorded the submissions of Datar that the trust would not have any difficulty in cooperating with Rai in undertaking scrutiny of the Audit Reports and in conducting a fresh audit," the bench pointed out. The court further said in the light of developments leading to the passing of the judgment on July 13, 2020, it is quite clear that the audit contemplated by direction was not intended to be confined to the temple but was also with respect to trust. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-rejects-padmanabha-swamy-temple-trusts-plea-to-exempt-it-from-audit-for-last-25-years-1033017.html
22-09-2021||South||Dalit family asked to pay Rs 25,000 after 2-year-old enters Koppal temple, 5 held||Five people have been arrested for allegedly seeking to fine a Dalit family of Rs 25,000 for "purification" of the Hanuman temple in Miyapur village in the district after their two-year-old son entered it, police said on Wednesday. "We have arrested five people in connection with the case," the superintendent of police T Sreedhara told PTI. According to the official, the incident took place on September 4 and it came to light only on Monday following which a case was registered. "The Dalit family was reluctant to lodge a complaint," Sreedhara added. Chandrashekhar belonging to the Chennadasar community wished to seek the blessings of Lord Hanuman for his two-year-old son on his birthday on September four. "Chandrashekhar and his family members were standing outside but the boy ran inside the temple, which irked the temple priest who sought to make it an issue," they added. Some others from "upper castes" sided with the priest, and a meeting was held on September 11 where they demanded Rs 25,000 towards the expenditure for the "purification" of the temple. However, other villagers from upper castes opposed the move terming it 'harsh.' The episode sparked a debate in the village and came to the notice of the Kushtagi police. The family was afraid to approach the police fearing backlash from sections upper caste. Some members of the Koppal district Chennadasar Mahasabha too visited the village and held meetings, leading to a tense atmosphere. Based on a complaint by Social Welfare Department assistant director Balachandra Sanganal, the case was registered on Tuesday. In the past two days, the district administration conducted a series of public meetings to sensitise people of the village against the evil of casteism and its impact on society. Further, a grand Pooja was organised where all the communities of the village took part including Chennadasars in the presence of police.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dalit-family-asked-to-pay-rs-25000-after-2-year-old-enters-koppal-temple-5-held-1033046.html
22-09-2021||South||Kerala HC to aid of another minor rape victim; allows pregnancy termination||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday came to the aid of another minor rape victim by paving the way for her to undergo medical termination of the pregnancy which was a result of the sexual assault committed on her. This is the third such order passed by the high court in the last one week, with the first one being on September 14. In the earlier two cases, the victims were more than 26 weeks pregnant and based on a medical board's recommendation, abortion was permitted. In the latest case, the 16-year-old victim was 8 weeks pregnant and had to move the court as the private hospital she had approached for terminating the pregnancy refused to carry out the procedure as a crime had been committed. The state government lawyer said that a permission of the court was not required in the instant case as under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, a pregnancy of less than 12 weeks can be aborted by a medical practitioner if he or she is of the opinion that continuing with it would be detrimental to mental and physical health of the victim. Subsequently, the high court directed the girl's father to approach a government hospital with a copy of the order in the instant matter for carrying out medical termination of the pregnancy. With the direction, the plea moved by the victim's father seeking permission for medical termination of pregnancy was disposed of. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-to-aid-of-another-minor-rape-victim-allows-pregnancy-termination-1033060.html
22-09-2021||South||India's oldest mosque basks in past glory after renovation; set for reopening||India's first-ever mosque and the oldest in the sub-continent is all set to welcome back devotees and general public after regaining its past glory and grandeur. The classic beauty and humble style of the "Cherman Juma Masjid", dating back to 629 AD, was restored after a painstaking renovation and conservation process spread over nearly 30 months under the state-run Muziris Heritage Project (MHP). Located at Kodungallur taluk in this central Kerala district, the heritage structure was recreated in tune with its original character and aesthetics, at a cost of Rs 1.14 crore, P M Noushad, Managing Director of MHP, said. Besides the renovation and conservation initiative started in May 2019, a two-storey Islamic Heritage Museum was also constructed in the mosque campus spending nearly Rs 1 crore and its internal refurbishment is going on now, he noted. After submitting the letter of completion to the government, the MHP authorities are now awaiting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's date to reopen the oldest mosque for visitors. "It is expected to happen any day. We are waiting for a convenient day of the Chief Minister for the inaugural function. If the Covid-19 situation is completely under control, it may happen within the next two week," Noushad told PTI. According to Oral tradition, Cheraman Perumal, as the king, went to Arabia where he met the Prophet (PBUH) and embraced Islam in the early 7th century. From there, he had sent letters, along with Malik Ibn Dinar, as a Persian scholar who travelled to India. Dinar is believed to have built the masjid in 629 AD, five years after the king's death. Noushad said they focused more on conserving the existing portions of the old structure and recreate its appearance in the past based on the old photographs. "We demolished the additional concrete structure added to the main building in 1974. We recreated the old structure of the mosque with a tile roof as seen in the old photographs," he said. Luckily, several portions of the basic structure were found retained as such, he said, adding that such portions had been renovated and conserved. Besides the MHP's conservation effort, a multi-crore construction project is also underway at the masjid under the aegis of the mosque management. An underground prayer hall, being constructed, is envisaged to accommodate at least 2000-3000 devotees. A total of Rs 15-20 crore is expected for the same, the MD explained. "It's structural work and internal plastering is over. Flooring and beautification work is pending and expected to be completed soon," he added. The MHP, entrusted with the heritage management by the state government, had initiated discussions with the mosque committee and entered into an MoU with them for implementing the renovation and conservation initiatives. After the renovation, the MHP is now awaiting the node to include the Cherman Juma Masjid in the Union Ministry of Tourism's 'National Mission on Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD). A proposal for a Rs 10 crore project has been submitted to the Centre in this regard, the official said adding that the construction of a facilitation centre and the rejuvenation of a pond in the mosque campus would be a reality if it is included in the PRASAD scheme. "A large number of people from across the state are coming here now to have a glimpse of the renovated structure of the oldest mosque, '' Noushad added. The Cheraman Masjid occupies a pivotal place in the Muziris civilisation that enjoyed glory as the ancient world's greatest trading centre in the East, trading everything from spices to precious stones. The land, also known as Mahodayapuram or Muyirikkode, was the capital of the Perumals as rulers in the line of Chera kings between 9th and 12th centuries AD. In the early centuries, Kodungallur was a settlement of traders, standing as the doorway to India for varied cultures and races, thus emerging as a cradle of several civilisations. It came to an abrupt end in 1341 owing to massive floods that submerged the region, according to MHP records. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-oldest-mosque-basks-in-past-glory-after-renovation-set-for-reopening-1033094.html
22-09-2021||South||Kerala migrant workers remitting Rs 750 crore to native states||Despite facing discrimination in wages, the migrant workers in Kerala are estimated to be remitting Rs. 750 crore annually from Kerala to their native states. The total number of migrant workers in Kerala is estimated to be 31.4 lakh, which constitutes 26 per cent of Kerala's total workforce, says a study sponsored by the Kerala State Planning Board. The study conducted by assistant professor of Department of Economic Studies of Central University of Punjab Jajati Keshari Parida and State Planning Board member K Raviraman also highlights the need to offer better social security and living conditions to migrant workers as they play a key role in the urbanisation of Kerala. According to the study, migrant workers, despite facing discrimination in wages, are happy. While the average monthly earning of a migrant worker in Kerala was estimated to be around Rs. 16,000, on average, migrants were earning Rs. 3,500 less than their native counterparts. But the migrants were happy as the earning from Kerala was much higher than their earnings in native states. Meanwhile, the low wage was one reason why employers in Kerala prefer migrant workers to native workers. Lack of absenteeism and keeping off from strikes were the other positive sides of migrant workers being seen by employers.  The estimation that 31.4 lakh migrant workers are present in Kerala assumed much significance as the finding of another study in 2013 that there were 25 lakh migrant workers in Kerala was highly questioned. Even the enrolment in the Awaz Health Insurance Scheme of the Kerala government for migrant workers was only 13 per cent when considering this estimated migrant population. The fresh study also projected that the migrant population of Kerala would increase to 45 lakh by 2025 and 55 lakh by 2030. Raviraman told DH that even as a good number of migrants from Kerala returned to their native places during Covid, they would certainly return to Kerala owing to the positive factors like higher wages here.  The study also brought to light the poor living condition of migrants workers in Kerala, who are mainly from states like West Bengal, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand. About 96 per cent of the migrant workers were living on sharing basis while about 39 per cent live in temporary kachha houses. About 93 per cent of them were using toilets on sharing basis. Highlighting the requirement of migrant workers for the urban development of Kerala, the study recommended that wage rates for migrant workers should be fixed above the minimum wage level of other origin states and provision of social insurance should be given to them. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-migrant-workers-remitting-rs-750-crore-to-native-states-1033171.html
22-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu aims to increase export volume to $100 billion by 2030; to set up Export Promotion Committee||Launching the Export Promotion Strategy, the Tamil Nadu Government on Wednesday set an ambitious target of increasing its exports to $100 billion by 2030 from the current $26 billion by identifying ‘six champion sectors’ in the export sector. Chief Minister M K Stalin, who released the Tamil Nadu Export Promotion Strategy, also announced that his government will set up a State Export Promotion Committee under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu to increase the state’s export volume. Tamil Nadu is currently positioned at no. 3 among states in terms of exports in the country. As part of the government’s move to give fresh impetus to the export industry, Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with 14 exported-oriented units were signed for generating employment for 39,150 persons at an investment of Rs 1,880.54 crores. Another 10 MoUs were also signed in the MSME sector at an investment of Rs 240 crores that would provide jobs to 2,545 persons. In his speech, Stalin exhorted the government agencies and industries to ensure that ‘Made in Tamil Nadu’ products are found everywhere in the world. “We have set a target to turn Tamil Nadu into a $1 trillion economy by 2030. Today, we are announcing that we want to achieve $100 billion in exports by 2030 from the current $26 billion. We have to place Tamil Nadu firmly in the global trade map,” Stalin said, addressing the Tamil Nadu Export Conclave. The six champion sectors identified for achieving the $100 billion target are textile & apparel, food processing, auto and auto components, leather and footwear, electronics, and machinery. The Chief Minister said the government is setting up export hubs at all districts in the state to promote exports of products that are unique to the area. He also announced the setting up of the State Export Promotion Committee headed by the Chief Secretary to promote export volumes from the state. He said the state will develop two Economic Employment Enclaves in Manaellore and Thoothukudi while identifying 10 Export Hubs and strengthening export-related common infrastructure projects. Stalin also said the state accounted for 9 percent of the national exports in FY2020-21, with a major contribution from automobiles, textile, and machinery. N Muruganandam, Principal Secretary (Industries), said the state has not fully realized its potential in the export sector. Talking about the $100 billion export volume target, he said the state aims to increase its current volume by four times in nine years. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-aims-to-increase-export-volume-to-100-billion-by-2030-to-set-up-export-promotion-committee-1033177.html
22-09-2021||South||AP High Court suspends Jagan government's appointment of 52 special invitees on Tirupati temple board||The Andhra Pradesh high court has put a stay on the two controversial orders of the YSRCP government nominating 52 members as special invitees on the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam board. The opposition TDP, BJP are opposing the new composition of the trust, which manages the celebrated Lord Venkateshwara temple, with an unprecedented 81 members including the chairman and 52 invitees. Various PILs, including that of a BJP and a TDP leader, were filed against the Jaganmohan Reddy government's decision, contending the appointments as in violation of the of the provisions of The Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987. A division bench of the court which heard the matter on Wednesday has passed interim orders suspending the implementation of GOs 568 and 569, issued last week, and has served notices to the state government and the TTD. CM Reddy had, last month, reappointed his uncle YV Subba Reddy as the TTD chairman. Subsequently, the board was restructured with the appointment of 24 regular members, four ex-officio members through the GO 245 issued on 15 September. Later on the same day, the Reddy administration issued two more GOs nominating 52 individuals, including Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, a YSRCP MLA and S Sudhakar, AP State Brahmin Corporation chairman, as special invitees. Though the previous TTD board formed in September 2019, after Jagan became the chief minister, included seven special invitees, the inclusion of a whopping 52 such invitees this time has drawn the opposition ire. TDP and BJP leaders have alleged that “the TTD jumbo board smacks of political patronage and that it includes several dubious elements including the chief minister's business partners and those with criminal antecedents.” Besides diluting the sanctity and authority of TTD, the opposition charges that the huge number of special invitees promotes VVIP culture in Tirupati and would be a drag on the administration. While the special invitees will not have voting rights in the TTD board resolutions, they would be extended the same protocol and privileges as the members. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-high-court-suspends-jagan-governments-appointment-of-52-special-invitees-on-tirupati-temple-board-1033229.html
22-09-2021||South||Schools in Kerala to re-open in staggered manner from November 1, says CM||Schools, closed in Kerala for a year-and-a-half following the Covid-19 outbreak, would reopen from November 1 starting with classes 1 to 7, 10 and 12, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, the Chief Minister said the remaining classes would commence from November 15 and preparations for the re-opening of the schools are in full swing. To ensure protection and safety of children attending the classes, the Health and Education Ministers would be convening a high-level meeting on Thursday and thereafter, a draft plan of action would be prepared and discussed with other departments before it is finalised, he said. He further said that to allay the concerns of students and parents, arrangements would be made at State and district-levels in consultation with the parents-teachers' associations and other organisations. He said the police have also been roped in to prepare plans for ensuring the safety of students during their travel after schools and colleges reopen. He said traffic outside educational institutions would be regulated to ensure there is no illegal or improper parking of vehicles and no one would be allowed to congregate in front of schools unnecessarily. School vehicles lying unused for all this time would be repaired with the help of police stations and SHOs would get in touch with institutions to ensure the same, he said. Besides, the SHOs would provide special training to drivers and conductors of school vehicles on safety precautions to be followed when ferrying children, he said. They would be provided training by the police officers on maintaining social distance, use of sanitizers and the right way to wear masks, he said. Kerala on Wednesday reported 19,675 fresh Covid-19 cases and 142 deaths, which took the caseload to 45,59,628 and fatalities to 24,039. The number of people who recovered from the infection since Tuesday was 19,702, which brought the total recoveries to 43,73,966 and the number of active cases to 1,61,026, an official press release said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-kerala-to-re-open-in-staggered-manner-from-november-1-says-cm-1033233.html
22-09-2021||South||TTD to issue free darshan tokens in the online mode||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has decided to issue free darshan tokens too in the online mode, from Saturday. Officials said that pilgrims coming to Tirumala, with free or special darshan tickets, should produce their two-dose vaccine certificate or a negative Covid-19 test report. The decision to go online was taken following the huge public crowding at the free token centres in Tirupati, regardless of the Covid-19 rules. These counters would be closed from Sunday. After a break of about five months, the TTD had earlier this month resumed the issuance of the Sarvadarshanam ticket. The quota was initially limited to 2000 tokens per day and was meant only for the residents of Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, where the famed Hindu shrine is located. However, officials told DH that pilgrims from other places too like Tamil Nadu were coming in large numbers for the tokens, leading to concerns about the Covid-19 spread again in the temple town. The TTD has now decided to hike the daily free token quota to 8000 tokens from 26 September and is made available online for everyone. On Wednesday, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy stated that these 8000 Slotted Sarva Darshan (SSD) tokens will be released online for the September 26 to October 31 period, on September 25 at 9 am. The Rs 300 Special Entry Darshan tickets quota, which was last month increased to 8000 daily, will be released at 9 am on September 24. “We will stop the issuance of off-line SSD tokens in Tirupati from September 26. TTD took the decision as the overcrowding at the token centres earlier had allegedly become a source of Covid-19 spread during the second wave,” Reddy said. Reddy appealed to the devotees coming with online special entry tickets or SSD tokens to produce either the two-dose vaccination certificate or a Covid-19 negative test report taken three days prior to their allotted darshan time. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-to-issue-free-darshan-tokens-in-the-online-mode-1033234.html
22-09-2021||South||Kerala CM presents facts and figures to counter 'narcotic jihad' remark||A day after strongly condemning the 'narcotic and love jihad' statement of a bishop in Kerala, Chief Minster Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday further countered the bishop's contention by presenting figures and facts regarding the narcotic cases accused and Malayalis who joined extremist outfits. Vijayan said that among those accused in the narcotic cases in 2020 in the state, 49 per cent were from Hindu community, 34 per cent from the Muslim community and 15 per cent from the Christian community. The involvement of members of Muslims in the narcotic cases in Kerala was only proportional to their population. He also pointed out that a majority of the 100 odd Malayalis who joined ISIS were from the Muslim community. Among them, 72 were attracted to ISIS and other extremist outfits after going to other countries for jobs. Among the 28 Malayalis who crossed borders to join IS from Kerala, only five were non-Muslims. Two women among them were married to Christian youths. Probes into some specific allegations of Hindu women marrying Muslim youths were also found to be baseless. Vijayan said that these facts disprove the remarks of the bishop that jihadis were trying to destroy non-Muslims through 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad'.  On questions whether the government would ask Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, bishop of Pala in Kottayam district, who made the controversial remark, to withdraw it, Vijayan said that the government would look into all such aspects. He also said that at present, there was no need for an all-party meeting as demanded by the opposition parties. Muslim outfits in Kerala on Wednesday demanded that the bishop withdraw the remark. A meeting of representatives of Muslim outfits maintained that the government should have convened an all-party meeting to discuss the situation and sort out it. Religious leaders should keep off from making statements that hurt religious sentiments, the meeting observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-presents-facts-and-figures-to-counter-narcotic-jihad-remark-1033241.html
22-09-2021||State||Raja Seat to offer more for tourists||Since the Covid-19 pandemic began, the tourism sector has been facing plenty of problems, in terms of the stoppage of works and a fall in revenue. This has in turn resulted in the degradation of livelihood of those who have been depending on tourism activities. After the Covid-19 lockdown has been lifted in Kodagu, there has been an increase in the number of tourists visiting the places of interest and tourism is slowly showing signs of recovery. World Tourism Day will be observed on September 27 and as the day is nearing, a major tourist attraction in the district, Raja Seat, is getting ready. The departments of horticulture and tourism are working on giving a facelift to Raja Seat. The development works, which were taken up amid protests, have now reached the final stage. Earlier, the hours of visit to Raja Seat was restricted to half an hour. The contractors of the work say that the tourists can spend about half a day after the completion of work. The development works are being carried out at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore. New works Three new watchtowers are being constructed in Raja Seat. The park which was in a half-acre land has now been expanded to four and a half acres. A walking path has been carved for the tourists. Apart from this, there will be 30 benches for the visitors to take a rest. Iron fences will be installed for safety. Grass and fruit-bearing plants are grown in the park. Lawns are also developed, said Sudhir, the in-charge of the work. Safety concerns However, as the park has been developed, there are safety concerns as well. Environmentalists express their concern about the after-effects of the work which are carried out on a huge scale. This may pose danger during heavy rain. After there was opposition to the use of earthmovers, the work was manually done by the labourers. Project manager Christopher said that the work will be complete by November end. He also said that the work is being carried out scientifically. A proper drainage system has been put in place to drain the excess water during rain. There have been no issues during the recent rainfall. On the other hand, the renovation of the old fort is also being carried out. No persons are allowed into the project site. Upgrades needed Abby Falls, which is at a distance of 6 km from Madikeri, is one of nature’s bounties. The walking path leading to the falls is being developed by constructing steps. However, the watchtower has not been repaired for years and the work on the hanging bridge has come to a halt. A proposal has been submitted to include Kodagu in the list of districts where heli-tourism will be introduced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/raja-seat-to-offer-more-for-tourists-1033201.html
22-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||683 illegal foreigners in Karnataka, 260 with expired visa||The number of “illegal” foreigners living in Karnataka is over twice as many as those whose visa has expired, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has told the Legislative Assembly. According to written replies tabled by Jnanendra in the Assembly, Karnataka has 683 “illegal” foreigners. However, foreigners with an expired visa living in Karnataka are just 260. This either suggests India’s porous borders or poor data keeping on the part of the state government. Of the 683 “illegal” foreigners or immigrants, only 53 have been identified as Bangladeshi nationals, Jnanendra said. A majority of these 683 foreigners are in Bengaluru (619). A total of 112 cases for various offences have been lodged against them. Jnanendra said the government had filed 88 cases against foreigners whose visa has expired since 2019. Also, 103 such foreigners have been deported. Some are kept in a detention centre as directed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. “To control the illegal stay of immigrants, a Special Task Force (SPF) has been constituted in every city and district. Personnel belonging to the SPF and the police are constantly working to identify illegal immigrants,” Jnanendra said, adding that lookout circulars are issued against immigrants who are on the run. The presence of foreigners is also linked with the drugs business, Jnanendra’s written replies suggest. In this connection, police stations have been asked to track information on foreigners and “special operations are conducted to take strict action against those who are indulging in [drugs]”. Ganja haul The number of ganja addicts has risen since 2019, according to government data. Authorities arrested 1,217 ganja addicts in 2019, which rose to 2,943 in 2020 and 3,255 till August this year. The government arrested 2,526 ganja sellers last year and 1,758 so far this year. Of all the cases booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act last year, 2,751 are before the court and this figure is 2,065 this year.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/683-illegal-foreigners-in-karnataka-260-with-expired-visa-1033058.html
22-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 400-crore land given to Chanakya University for just Rs 50 crore: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday released documents to claim that the government has allotted land worth Rs 300-400 crore at a throwaway price of Rs 50 crore to the proposed Chanakya University.  Siddaramaiah was speaking at a news conference a day after the Assembly passed the Chanakya University Bill.  The proposed private university will be set up by the Centre for Educational and Social Studies (CESS), whose executive council is headed by senior academic MK Sridhar, a member of the NEP drafting committee.  “The BJP government, in April 2021, took a decision in the Cabinet that 116.16 acres land that was acquired in Haralur near Devanahalli for the aerospace and defence sector will be allotted to CESS,” Siddaramaiah said, noting that B S Yediyurappa was the chief minister then.  Siddaramaiah said that the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) had acquired the land from farmers by paying a compensation of Rs 1.5 crore per acre in 2019. “For 116 acres, the total compensation was Rs 175 crore. The land itself is worth Rs 300-400 crore, which is being given away for just Rs 50 crore,” he said, flashing a government order issued in April this year allotting the land to CESS.  “CESS is full of people associated with the RSS,” Siddaramaiah charged. “The government’s decision reeks of nepotism. It should immediately cancel the allotment of land and not allow the establishment of this university,” he said. “CESS has no experience in running educational institutions. Plus, the proposed university has no infrastructure. On what basis was this university permitted to start and given land? The government should clarify,” he said.  The Assembly witnessed pandemonium during a debate on the Bill to set up the university. “The Bill was rushed through. What was the hurry? Is this a subject of public emergency,” Siddaramaiah asked. The Congress leader added that his government (2013-18) did not allot land at throwaway prices to any institution. “We will now fight the government’s decision, even legally,” he said.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar wondered why the Chanakya University was not given land available next to the Sanskrit University in Magadi. “Why set up an RSS university on land meant for industries?” he asked.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-400-crore-land-given-to-chanakya-university-for-just-rs-50-crore-siddaramaiah-1033127.html
22-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt will ensure death penalty in Mysuru rape case: Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the state assembly on Wednesday that the government will fast-track the Mysuru gang-rape case and push for a death penalty for the six people accused of the crime.  Bommai was responding to the debate on the gang-rape case that was initiated earlier in the day by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who accused the police of laxity.  “We will speed-track (sic) the investigation in a tight manner. The chargesheet will be filed on time. On the prosecution front, we will appoint a special prosecutor, follow it up and make sure there’s a death penalty,” Bommai said.  Bommai pointed out that the rape survivor’s statement before the magistrate would help the investigation immensely. “Although she lives in Mumbai, our police convinced her and her father to testify before the magistrate. This shows that our police are serious,” he said.  Earlier, Siddaramaiah attacked the state government on the way the police handled the case. “There was an inordinate delay in registering the FIR,” he said. “By 10 pm, a medical examination conducted by Dr Suma found scratches on the woman and bleeding in her private parts. But, the FIR was registered at 12 pm the next day.”  This led to a volley with Bommai. “There were two medico-legal reports. One came at 9.15 pm on assault. Another confirming rape at 5.55 am. The boy’s statement was taken at 11 am and an FIR was filed at 12 pm. We have not erred anywhere,” Bommai said.  To this, former Speaker KR Ramesh Kumar angrily asked why the police did not take up a suo motu FIR. “You are being misled,” he told the CM.  Targeting the police for the law-and-order breakdown in Mysuru, Siddaramaiah said, "When police were aware that criminal activities were happening there, why did they stop patrols? The six [accused] are habitual offenders and on that day, they were there drinking!” The Congress leader also targeted Home Minister Araga Jnanendra for being "too casual" about the case. "You also made a statement that the victim and her friend shouldn't have gone to that place at that time," he said.  Jnanendra clarified thus, "My statement came from a place of concern that all of us have for women in our own homes. We tell them to be careful while going outside." He added that he is not a cruel person to take such cases lightly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-will-ensure-death-penalty-in-mysuru-rape-case-bommai-1033184.html
22-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||847 new Covid-19 cases, 20 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka logged 847 new Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths on Wednesday as the case tally went up to 29,70,208 and the toll to 37,668. With 946 discharges, the total number of recoveries swelled to 29,18,890. The total number of active cases in the state, as on Sept 22, is 13,621. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.57% while, the case fatality rate was 2.36%. Coming behind Bengaluru Urban in number of deaths was Dakshina Kannada (5) and Udupi (2), followed by others. Bengaluru Urban reported 312 fresh infections and six fatalities. Dakshina Kannada saw 108 new cases and 5 deaths. Mysuru district witnessed 74 new infections followed by Shivamogga 52, Udupi 48 and Hassan 46 cases. A total of 4,66,33,670 samples had been tested in the state, which includes Wednesday’s 1,46,772. The state crossed 10 lakh vaccinations in Lasika Mela on Wednesday. The Wednesday’s count of 10,06,767 doses took the total to 5,36,80,401. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/847-new-covid-19-cases-20-deaths-in-karnataka-1033199.html
22-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka assembly pauses as Siddaramaiah's dhoti slips||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah was just minutes into his speech on the Mysuru gang-rape case in the Assembly when Karnataka Congress president walked up to him and whispered into his ears.  It was a confidential message.  "Oh, yeah?" Siddaramaiah blurted. And the secret was out. The Congress leader's dhoti had slipped down from his waist.  "My dhoti has slipped," Siddaramaiah announced, launching into an almost self-deprecating laughter. "I will continue my speech after I fix it."  This light-hearted episode lasted a little over two minutes, giving the Assembly a much-needed break from monotony. And, Siddaramaiah who is known for his humour, made full use of it.  With Siddaramaiah having gone back to his seat to tie his dhoti back up, former Speaker KR Ramesh Kumar could not hold back his thoughts. "Our party president DK Shivakumar tried to keep it discreet to save the party's honour, but Siddaramaiah told the whole world about it," Kumar quipped. "Shivakumar's efforts went in vain." BJP MLA Kumar Bangarappa, officiating in the Speaker's chair, was uncontrollably laughing.  Kunigal MLA HD Ranganath, a back-bencher, pointed out that Siddaramaiah need not worry as the treasury benches were empty.  Siddaramaiah went on to explain that he had trouble with his clothes of late as he had put on some weight, especially after he tested positive for Covid-19 in August last year. "My dhoti never slipped before. But after Covid, I put on some 4-5 kg weight. My belly has really bulged. My dhoti just doesn't stay," he said.  Incidentally, it was on September 22, 1921, that Mahatma Gandhi made a vow to stick to dhoti and shawl as his attire, to connect with the masses of the country. "Some people wear a single piece of cloth that stretches down till their toes," Siddaramaiah said. "They neither wear a lungi nor a pant." His long kurta saved the day. "I got it stitched expressly for protection when such things happen." Meanwhile, jumping into the humourous banter, Rural Development Minister KS Eshwarappa asked Siddaramaiah if he needed help with his dhoti. Siddaramaiah's quick response was that he wouldn't take help from the ruling party and, if needed, he would rely on his own partymen. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-pauses-as-siddaramaiahs-dhoti-slips-1033211.html
22-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Women MLAs take on men during rape debate||At least four women legislators jumped into the well of the Assembly on Wednesday when a debate on the Mysuru gang-rape turned political as Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai traded charges.  MLAs Anjali Nimbalkar, Roopakala M, Sowmya Reddy, Kusuma Shivalli (all Congress) and Anglo-Indian MLA Vinisha Nero stormed into the well, outraged, when Bommai began reading out statistics on the number of rapes that were reported when the Congress was in power.  “We’re talking about rape here. It doesn’t matter under whose government it happened,” Anjali screamed, backed by Sowmya.  Before this, Siddaramaiah accused the government of negligence despite the learnings from the Nirbhaya case, saying: “I’ve never seen a government like this.” Bommai did not take this lying down. “The highest number of rapes happened between 2013 and 2016. And, you speak of Nirbhaya,” he said. Their exchange triggered the women MLAs.  The Assembly listened as the women poured their hearts out.  Later, Roopakala delivered an emotional speech on crimes against women. “As a mother, a sense of insecurity is hounding me,” she said. “We worship Devi (goddess) as Shakti. Will she be pleased when we treat women this way,” she asked with reference to a video that went viral in which a woman was stripped naked and tortured in Yadgir.  Sowmya said Bengaluru stood second in the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics. “After the lockdown, domestic abuse has increased and so have cyber crimes against women,” she said. Anjali, too, got emotional. “As a gynecologist, I have examined several rape survivors. Men used the word ‘rape’ casually. But, no man can understand what a woman goes through mentally and physically,” she said. “I want to say this to every man in the Assembly and outside: Your testosterone doesn’t determine your manliness. You can be a gentleman by using other hormones.”  BJP’s K Poornima lamented that no man is ever talked about for his dress. “But I know the kinds of things spoken about a woman wearing shorts or sleeveless tops.”  “A man exposes himself everyday to urinating in public. But, have you ever heard of him getting molested,” Vinisha asked rhetorically. “Instead of controlling girls, we should lock up the boys. The way we view both genders needs to change. We need an awareness workshop for the police and the medical fraternity,” she said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-women-mlas-take-on-men-during-rape-debate-1033247.html
22-09-2021||West||Whale carcass washes up on Mardes Beach in Maharashtra||A gigantic carcass of a 40-ft-long whale, weighing over 30-tonnes, was found washed ashore from the Arabian Sea on the remote Mardes Beach in Vasai of Palghar district on Tuesday. The whale's species and how it ended up on the beach are yet unknown. More details awaited. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/whale-carcass-washes-up-on-mardes-beach-in-maharashtra-1032987.html
22-09-2021||West||Statue of Unity guides return tourist's purse containing Rs 70,000 cash, earn praise for honesty||Four guides working at the Statue of Unity in Gujarat returned a purse containing Rs 70,000 cash to its rightful owner, an Uttar Pradesh-based woman, who forgot it at a food court during her visit to the statue in Gujarat a few days back. Since the woman had already left for her native place in UP, officials at the Statue of Unity, situated near Kevadia in Narmada district, handed over the purse to her Gujarat-based relative on Wednesday after verifying details, the Statue of Unity Area Development and Tourism Governance Authority said in a statement. Gujarat Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta lauded the guides for their honesty and integrity. On September 19, four guides - Shahin Memon, Jully Pandya, Jyotsna Tadvi and Pratap Tadvi - found an unclaimed purse when they went to the food court during lunch break. The purse contained Rs 70,000 cash, keys and other items, said the statement. Realising that it might be of a tourist, the guides immediately alerted senior official Pratik Mathur, who along with other staffers then began the task to trace the tourist using documents found inside the purse. After calling some numbers, officials learnt that the purse belonged to Sneha Jalan, who visited the 182-meter-tall statue and other tourist attractions with her relatives on September 19 and then left for UP. Since the woman could not come back to collect her purse, she urged the officials to give it to her relative based in Gujarat. The purse was handed over to Jalan's relative on Wednesday, said the statement. Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who is also chairman of the Statue of Unity Area Development and Tourism Governance Authority, appreciated the guides for their honesty. "Unity also symbolises Integrity & Honesty!! 4 guides at Kevadia displayed their uprightness by ensuring that a lost purse reaches its rightful owner. Shahin, Jully, Pratap & Jyotsna found a purse with Rs 70K cash & other items at food court.The purse belonged to Sneha Jalan," Gupta tweeted on Wednesday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/statue-of-unity-guides-return-tourists-purse-containing-rs-70000-cash-earn-praise-for-honesty-1033105.html
22-09-2021||West||Team of fisherfolk from Palghar in ladies' tennis-ball cricket championship||A team of girls from the fisherfolk community of the coastal Konkan district of Palghar would be taking part in the tennis-ball cricket state-level championship. They are being mentored by Deepika Naigaonkar, who is the state captain and hails from the fisherfolk community. In fact, cricketers Shardul Thakur and Aditya Tare, who hail from Palghar district, have been an inspiration for the budding cricketers in this tribal district, located near Mumbai. The Tennis Cricket Association Maharashtra is hosting the 5th Senior State Championship 2021 from September 23 to 26 in Nashik. “It's a very important tournament and the girls would be selected for the state team,” said Minakshi Giri, secretary of Tennis Cricket Association Maharashtra. Putting together a team, largely from the fisherfolk community and bearing the expenses has not been an easy task. The girls are in the age group of 18-22. Palghar-based businessman and Shiv Sena leader Vaibhav Sankhe has come out to help these girls and sponsor their trip. “It is a matter of pride for the district. Hence, I have decided to help in a small manner,” he said. The issue of travel, logistics and boarding has now been sorted out. In fact, Deepika, a bowler-batswoman, had represented Maharashtra in the Nationals held in Odisha last year where Maharashtra finished second in the tournament. The Tennis Cricket Association of India would hold the 6th Senior National Tennis Cricket Championship (Men/Women) - 2021 in Mathura from October 19 to 23. In Nashik, the girls would have to play at least four matches --10 overs per side. "Twenty-five teams are participating and there would be more than 100 matches...we wanted the tournament to widen and become broad-based and the team from Palghar is welcome," said Giri. "Deepika is a good player and since she is mentoring and captaining the team, it would be great to watch the matches," she said. Giri herself is also is an excellent batswoman and had represented Maharashtra during the National tennis ball cricket match in 1998. Sankhe invited the 18 member squad comprising 16 players, manager and coach to Boisar where he handed over the expenses to the team manager, and the team will be transported to and fro in a chartered bus from Boisar to Nashik. "We must encourage sports...we are sure we would get more stars in Palghar," said Sankhe. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/team-of-fisherfolk-from-palghar-in-ladies-tennis-ball-cricket-championship-1033125.html
22-09-2021||West||SAFAR’s air quality forecasting framework gets global nod||The first official indigenous framework to forecast the quality of air in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad four megacities in India as mandated under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) plan by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) has been accepted internationally. This could prove to be a significant boost for air quality forecasting across the country. The findings of this framework developed under the Union Earth Sciences Ministry meant for citizens, decision-makers and researchers, were published in peer-reviewed international Elsevier Journal 'Environmental Modelling and Software' on Tuesday, September 22, 2021. The research paper titled 'India’s maiden air quality forecasting framework for megacities of divergent environments: The SAFAR-project' was led by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM-Pune) in association with the India Meteorological Department and Utkal University, Bhubaneshwar. According to SAFAR’s founder project director Dr Gufran Beig, the SAFAR framework is a one-stop solution for air-quality management leading up to mitigation, and also helps formulate micro-specific air action plans based on robust science. “SAFAR’s forecasting model is comparable to the framework by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (US-EPA),” he said. Air pollutant forecasting is an important part of the air quality early warning framework reported in this work for Indian megacities of vivid micro-environments. “But the chaotic nature and complexity of air pollution itself makes prediction a challenging task, particularly in a city which is highly influenced by meteorology due to its geographical location which is considered in this work,” said Dr Beig. India currently has 132 non-attainment/million-plus cities under its NCAP programme which seeks to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in Particulate Matter (PM) concentrations by 2024 keeping 2017 as the base year. Non-attainment cities are those that do not meet the prescribed air-quality standards set by the Union environment ministry. Air pollution is likely to reduce the life expectancy of about 40% of Indian citizens who live for more than nine years, a recent report -- Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) 2019 -- released by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC) said. SAFAR chose to demonstrate its forecasting model in four different and contrasting micro-climates of Indian cities -- Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad. “The prototype can be scaled up to the remaining 128 non-attainment cities of India as per the commitment to NCAP,” said Dr Beig. Study findings According to the research analysis in the peer-reviewed journal, estimated total emissions of PM2.5 from all sources across megacities were calculated as 77 gigagrams per year (Gg/Yr) for Delhi, 57 Gg/Yr for Ahmedabad, 45 Gg/Yr for Mumbai and 30 Gg/Yr for the geographical regions Pune metropolis. “High population density due to urbanisation is the main reason which directly or indirectly drives the PM2.5 emissions in all four metropolises,” said Dr Beig. The most dominating emission source of PM2.5 is transportation whose share is found to be 41% in Delhi followed by 40% in Pune, 35% in Ahmedabad and 31% in Mumbai. The uncontrolled combustion pattern in the highly dense slum population is significantly high in Mumbai. The share of biofuel emissions is highest in Mumbai (15.5%) followed by Pune (11.4%), Ahmedabad (10.2%) and Delhi (3%). A large number of PM2.5 hotspots are well scattered and can be identified in all cities due to the presence of industries. Industrial emissions mainly consist of emissions that were found to be highest in Mumbai (31.1%), (21.6%) in Pune, followed by Ahmedabad (18.8%) and Delhi (18.6%). Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/safar-s-air-quality-forecasting-framework-gets-global-nod-1033140.html
22-09-2021||West||AAP, Kejriwal out to cheat Goa voters with tall promises: BJP||A rattled Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday accused the AAP of making unachievable, lofty promises ahead of the 2022 state assembly polls, while accusing Delhi Chief Minister and the party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal of selling dreams to Goan voters. Addressing a press conference in Panaji on Wednesday, state BJP general secretary Damu Naik also said that the Aam Aadmi Party's efforts to replicate the model of governance in Delhi, which is still a union territory, in Goa, a full-fledge state, would not be practical. "They are trying to fool people. They have promised 80 per cent reservation in jobs, but there is already reservation of jobs (for locals) in the private sector. AAP should not cheat people and people should not get cheated. AAP has no standing in Goa. In some cases, they will try to get the negative votes," Naik told reporters. "They are good salesmen. They sell dreams. Politicians should not sell dreams, instead they should make dreams come true," Goa Bharatiya Janata Party general secretary Damu Naik told a press conference on Wednesday. "The promises made by the Aam Aadmi Party appear to come with an asterisk symbol on a commercial offer or a warning on a cigarette packet, which has the actual details in small print, which everyone tends to miss," Naik also said. The BJP's attack on AAP comes one day after Kejriwal on Tuesday 80 percent reservation in private jobs, while also assuring unemployment doles as part of the AAP's five guarantees to the people of Goa ahead of the 2022 polls. During his previous visit some months back, Kejriwal had announced free electricity to the tune of 300 units to all domestic consumers in Goa, following which the BJP-led coalition government in the state had announced free water supply up to 16,000 litres per month for every household. Naik however said that the Aam Aadmi Party would not be able to replicate its Delhi model of governance in Goa, even if it came to power. 'Delhi model is different and the Goa model is different.  Goa's budget is Rs. 20,000 crore and Delhi's budget is Rs. 70,000 crore. A swayampurna state is being challenged by AAP by a union territory. People of Goa are not fools. This is entertainment," the BJP official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aap-kejriwal-out-to-cheat-goa-voters-with-tall-promises-bjp-1033167.html
22-09-2021||West||Nationwide drive to vaccinate transgenders kicks off||In a bid to ensure equitable vaccination accessibility, Villoo Poonawalla Charitable Foundation and Kineer Services launched ‘Parivartan Ka Teeka’ (literally translating to vaccination of change), to vaccinate members of the transgender community across India free of cost over the next six months.  Kineer will organise camps across 200 centres of Apollo Hospitals and NGOs as well as individuals can register themselves at vaccination camps in their vicinity. The initiative also hopes to raise awareness and seek to empower the community against Covid-19. In a statement, Jaswinder Narang, CEO, Villoo Poonawalla Charitable Foundation said, “The only way we will come out of the pandemic is by ensuring that each one of us is fully vaccinated and immunised. The initiative is a step towards making vaccination accessible and affordable, and fortifies our objective of inclusive healthcare for all.” Activist Laxmi Tripathi, Kineer Services said, “We, at Kineer Services are overwhelmed by the support extended by Villoo Poonawalla Charitable Foundation to make vaccines equitable and accessible for the transgender community. The initiative is an effort to fight the pandemic and make sure that no one is left behind.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nationwide-drive-to-vaccinate-transgenders-kicks-off-1033169.html
22-09-2021||West||Eight including four Afghan nationals arrested so far in Heroin haul at Mundra Port||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has so far arrested eight persons including five foreign nationals in connection with the seizure of a staggering 2,988 kg of heroin at Mundra Port in Gujarat, an official release said here on Wednesday. Those arrested included an Indian couple who allegedly ran the firm which had imported the consignment claiming it to be of `semi-processed talc stones'. The drug haul is considered to be one of the biggest in the world with the value of the seized heroin estimated to be Rs 21,000 crore in the international markets. One kg of the drug sells at Rs 5 to 7 crore. "A total of eight persons including four Afghan nationals, one Uzbek and three Indians have been arrested so far. The arrested Indian nationals include the holder of the Import Export Code (IEC) which was used to import the consignment. He was arrested from Chennai. Investigations are in progress," said the statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) of the Indian government. Following the seizure of an astounding quantity of heroin from two containers which had arrived at Mundra Port in Kutch district a few days back, the DRI conducted raids across the country and seized another 16.1 kg of heroin from a godown in Delhi, it said. It took the total heroin seizure in the case to 3,004 kg, said the release. The agency also recovered 10.2 kg of suspected cocaine and 11 kg of another substance suspected to be heroin from "a residential place in Noida", it added. On September 13, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas port of Iran. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed that they contained "semi-processed talc stones". On September 17 and 19 it established that the two containers in fact contained heroin which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones, the release said. The drug had to be "painstakingly separated from the talc stones," it added. The DRI then arrested -- from Chennai -- M Sudhakar and his wife Durga Vaishali who allegedly ran Vijayawada-registered M/S Aashi Trading Company which had imported the consignment of `talc stones'. On Monday, a special court for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in Bhuj remanded the couple in 10-day custody of the DRI. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eight-including-four-afghan-nationals-arrested-so-far-in-heroin-haul-at-mundra-port-1033265.html
