23-09-2021||First Edit||For economy’s sake, ‘bad bank’ must work||The creation of a machinery to tackle the banks’ bad loan problem is a step forward, and it has been awaited a long time. The government has announced that it would extend a guarantee of Rs 30,600 crore to the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), which will acquire Rs 2 lakh crore worth of bad loans from banks. The NARCL, called the ‘bad bank’, will engage another company, India Debt Resolution Company Ltd (IDRCL), to manage the assets acquired by it and to dispose of them within a period of five years. State-owned banks have 51% stake in the NARCL, and it will start functioning as soon as it gets the Reserve Bank of India’s nod. Lenders have completed the process of identifying ‘toxic assets’ that can be transferred to the NARCL. The company has also undertaken their valuation. The process envisaged now seeks to solve the problem faced by both banks and the companies which have borrowed money from them.  The process of resolution will start with the NARCL paying 15% cash upfront for these assets and issuing securitisation receipts for the remaining 85% of their value. The upfront payment will give some cash to the banks where unpaid loans existed. The banks can also sell the security receipts. But a market for them has to emerge. Though there is a government guarantee for the receipts, it is difficult to foresee whether there will be great demand for them. It will not also be easy to settle the value of the loans when the NARCL buys them from the banks. IDRCL will have to do a lot of professional management of the assets before it sells them off. High levels of skills and incentives are also needed for this. The whole process will have to be undertaken efficiently and with the least delays so that the assets’ value is not lost.  The process is long and tedious and has many pitfalls. But it has to be tried because there are few better options to keep the banks from sinking under the weight of their dead loans. That is why the best efforts have to be made to make the initiative a success. The first stage will only remove the bad loans from the banks’ balance sheets. Only when they are sold can the plan be claimed to have achieved success. It should also be noted that the present plan covers only Rs 2 lakh crore, accounting for only a small fraction of the total stressed assets. It should also be noted that resolution of the existing NPA problem will not help if fresh bad debt is created. So, banking reforms should receive more serious attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/for-economy-s-sake-bad-bank-must-work-1033571.html
23-09-2021||In Perspective||Quad summit in the shadow of AUKUS||The leaders of the Quad countries – the US, India, Japan and Australia -- are set to meet for the first in-person summit of the grouping on September 24 at the White House. It will be an important step towards shaping the Quad in the face of the emerging security architecture in the Indo-Pacific. This follows the March meeting of Quad leaders that led to formation of working groups on vaccine and climate change. There has been a degree of uncertainty over the Quad as it does not want to be viewed as a NATO-like alliance. All the Quad partners have witnessed a tumultuous couple of years in their relationship with a bellicose China. Due to its economic and military position, engagement with China has demanded delicate balancing and hasn’t been without fissures that caused instability in the Indo-Pacific. The US and Quad Partners The Trump administration, disillusioned with the US’ alliances, presented challenges to allies eastwards and planted scepticism in bilateral relations. Disagreements over tackling China in East Asia have led Tokyo to choose ‘duality’ in its ‘free and open Indo-Pacific’ strategy so as to not overtly confront Beijing, especially in areas of economic and non-traditional security, while still upholding principles of the US-led liberal order in the region. Since the Biden administration has dubbed US alliances as its greatest assets, this summit is likely to bring reassurances for Japan. The US-Australia relationship has been characterised by doubt over the reliability of the US’ ‘extended nuclear deterrence’, the asymmetric nature of the partnership, and Canberra’s inability to accurately comprehend domestic American politics. However, a striking development has occurred with AUKUS, the recently announced Australia-UK-US pact, which largely allays any suspicion about Australian loyalties. A summit right after the announcement of AUKUS will need to clarify the roles Australia and the US will assume in the Quad. India is a ‘strategic partner’ of the US and not a military ally. Unlike Japan and Australia, India is a nuclear power and relies on its own military capabilities. While that has allowed India to exercise autonomy and foster ‘multi-alignment’, it has also heightened insecurities. Sameer Lalwani, a Senior Fellow at Stimson Center, argues that India’s multi-alignment policy strengthens its regional position and even motivates Southeast Asian nations to resist China’s advances without having to be a secondary partner in a formal US alliance system. Attempting to pressure India through CAATSA over the purchase of the Russian S-400 air defence system can seriously undermine American reliability for New Delhi. The summit offers an opportunity for clear and transparent dialogue on the course of the India-US relationship. Issues of the Indo-Pacific China’s grey-zone activities – coercive actions short of war -- have caused serious concern among the Quad partners. Beijing’s economic sanctions against Australia, the continuous aggressive posturing in East China Sea over the Senkaku islands dispute with Japan, and a violent stand-off with Indian troops in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh are all grey-zone tactics employed by Beijing. In the past 10 years, China has carried out 152 cases of grey-zone operations on 27 countries and the EU, including cyber intrusions. It would be surprising if the Quad summit fails to bring these grey-zone operations into focus and strategise at least a precursor to a response. The Quad’s actions can potentially encourage Southeast Asian nations in charting out similar strategies to deal with Chinese harassment in the South China Sea. ‘The Spirit of the Quad’ highlighted ASEAN centrality in the Indo-Pacific; this Quad summit must delve into a more granular level of working with ASEAN countries, particularly on maritime and cyber security. Given its own evolution from a ‘minilateral’, the Quad is positioned well to engage with other such groupings of the Indo-Pacific to ensure alignment of goals and avoid conflict of interest. Beyond the summit As newer groupings emerge with similar intent, like AUKUS, it will be important for Quad members to maintain cohesiveness for long-term impact. Open and early dialogue will be helpful in addressing friction among members to prevent losing sight of their common objectives. Australia’s decision to acquire nuclear-powered submarines highlights the duress caused by China’s aggressive rise, which is forcing countries in the region to reassess their defence postures. The Galwan Valley clashes prompted New Delhi to redeploy large numbers of its land forces along the border with China. It can be expected that the Indo-Pacific will be a theatre for more security arrangements as regional powers feel the heat of China’s relentless, assertive stance. The Quad may be able to lead the way in maintaining regional security if its members can share among themselves military, technological and planning expertise to be better prepared against adversarial attacks. (The writer is a Research Analyst with the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/quad-summit-in-the-shadow-of-aukus-1033548.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||No plans of quitting BJP: MLA||BJP MLA B Harshavardhan said that he has no plans of quitting BJP and no reasons to join Congress party. In a communication, he said, “I have no plans to quit BJP. I am the first person to ensure BJP’s victory in Nanjungud Assembly segment.” The MLA has stated that a lot of developments have been taking place in the constituency. “The state government is cooperative and there is no reason to quit BJP,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-plans-of-quitting-bjp-mla-1033273.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Srirangapatna Dasara: DC conducts on spot inspection||With three-day Dasara festival to be held from October 9, Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi paid a visit to Srirangapatna and inspected the spot, on Wednesday. A huge dais will be erected opposite Sri Ranganathaswamy temple, to hold various cultural programmes on all the three days. The DC collected all the information regarding the preparations. She also inspected the wrestling arena at Senthil Kote and directed the officials to do the necessary arrangements. She also visited the Banni Mantapa at Kiranguru and gathered the historical details of the Jamboo Savari held here. To a query, she said, “The government is yet to release funds for the Srirangapatna Dasara. The programmes will be planned based on the funds available. Priority will be given for local artistes.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srirangapatna-dasara-dc-conducts-on-spot-inspection-1033276.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru City Corporation holds tax collection drive, seals function hall||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials have launched a drive against the defaulters of property tax in the city. On Wednesday, MCC officials sealed Shalimar Function Hall, which has to pay a total of Rs 20 lakh arrears, besides not having a trade licence. The taxes for the hall, on St Mary’s Road, 3rd Cross, NR Mohalla in Mysuru, are pending from the financial year 2011-12 to 2021-22. The owners of the function hall have not replied to the several notices issued so far, to pay the taxes and to get trade licence. A team of officials, lead by zonal commissioner Shivakumar, under the directions of Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy, sealed the hall, under the provisions of Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976. The hall was sealed with the help of the Police department. Under the MCC, there are 1,92,777 properties and for the financial year 2020-21, there is an outstanding amount of Rs 92.03 crore. For the current financial year, 2021-22, the MCC had a target to collect Rs 140.48 crore. However, Rs 91.88 crore has been collected up to Tuesday (September 21, 2021). Thus, the total outstanding amount is Rs 140.64 crore. A public notice from the MCC Commissioner states that if the property owners still do not pay the taxes, their names will be published in local newspapers and steps will be taken to recover the arrears, including sealing and seizure of the properties. Besides, Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW), under the MCC, has appealed to its consumers, the residents of Mysuru city, to clear the arrears accrued at Rs 195 crore towards drinking water cess. A press release from the MCC Commissioner states: “The general public and consumers owe Rs 195 crore from 65 wards of the city. As the amount is pending, the MCC is finding it difficult to operate and maintain the water supply and other service. To ensure adequate supply of drinking water on a daily basis, the consumers should clear the total dues.” Or else, both drinking water and UGD connections will be disconnected, the commissioner has warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-city-corporation-holds-tax-collection-drive-seals-function-hall-1033278.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Commercial Tax office receives hoax bomb threat||Tension prevailed in Mysuru city, as the office of the Joint Commissioner of Commercial Tax received a bomb threat on Wednesday. However, the police and bomb detection squad claimed it as hoax, after an inspection. The police personnel received a letter from a person, which carried a message that a bomb has been placed at the office on Krishna Vilas Road and it will explode by noon. The police alerted the staff members working at the office. All the employees were vacated within a few minutes. A large number of people gathered near the office. The police and the bomb detection squad, along with a dog squad, conducted an inspection at the office between 11.45 am and 3 pm. However, no bomb or explosive was found, said an officer. According to the police, the letter was typed at a cyber centre in Lakshmipuram. They are looking into CCTV camera footages near the cyber centre. It has to be noted that the city police are on a high alert, after one of the six militants, who were arrested by Delhi police, allegedly revealed that they were planning a terror attack in Mysuru and Bengaluru. The department of Central Intelligence had alerted the state police in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-commercial-tax-office-receives-hoax-bomb-threat-1033279.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||IOCL adopts rhinos, creates awareness on conservation||Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), whose brand ambassador is the sturdy rhinoceros, adopted two rhinos — Virat and Bobbli — by paying a total of Rs 1.5 lakh for an year at Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo), here, on Wednesday, to mark World Rhinoceros Day. The officials of the IOCL received the adoption certificate for an year and also held placards with slogans like ‘Save Rhinoceros’, to create awareness among the visitors about conservation of the rhinoceros. They also distributed t-shirts and caps bearing their mascot, the rhinoceros. Chairman of Zoo Authority of Karnataka L R Mahadevaswamy, Executive Director of Mysuru Zoo Ajith Kulakarni, RFO Ramachandrappa, veterinarian Dr Srinivas, IOCL divisional retail head Sunil Kumar Mishra and deputy general manager Ananthamurthy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/iocl-adopts-rhinos-creates-awareness-on-conservation-1033280.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Musical nite in memory of S P Balasubrahmanyam on Sept 26||Dr Rajkumar Musical Group will present a musical nite in memory of singer S P Balasubrahmanyam and Mike Chandru at Ramagovinda Rangamandira in Ramakrishna Nagar on September 26 at 5 pm. The singers will present the programme "Mareyalarada Dhwani", in which MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev, seer Ilai Alwar Swami, K Raghuram Vajpayee and Dr Y D Rajanna will participate, according to the organiser, Rajaram. Besides, H K Meghan, a student of Pramathi Hillview Academy, who topped the State in KCET, will be felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/musical-nite-in-memory-of-s-p-balasubrahmanyam-on-sept-26-1033281.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Temple Authority sells 80 tonnes of additional rice||Male Mahadeshwara Temple Development Authority has sold 80 tonnes of additional rice that was kept for mass feeding of devotees, through an e-tender process. Thousands of people visit MM Hill every day. As Dasoha was not conducted since several months due to Covid-19, the Authority decided to sell additional rice in stock to generate funds. The process was done via e-tender and a kg of rice was sold at Rs 19.60. By selling 80 tonnes, the Authority has earned Rs 15.68 lakh, which has been deposited under the Dasoha account, according to Authority secretary Jayavibhava Swamy, in a press release. As it is not possible to store rice for long, it was decided to sell the crop. Around 69,637 kg rice has been cleared and 10,363 kg is yet to be shifted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temple-authority-sells-80-tonnes-of-additional-rice-1033284.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Row over installing PM Modi’s photo in Gram Panchayat office||Police security has been beefed up at Noranakki village, under Dandiganahalli hobli, in Channarayapatna taluk, after a row over installing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s portrait at the Gram Panchayat office, erupted. Complaints and counter complaints have been filed at the police station. As tension prevailed, police personnel have been deployed at the village, as a precautionary measure. The Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) has lodged a complaint with the police against 20 BJP-supported Gram Panchayat members, alleging that they suddenly barged into the office on September 17, the birthday of the Prime Minister and fixed his photo. This irked the JD(S)-supported members. The PDO lodged a complaint, citing they interrupted the employees from performing their duty. Meanwhile, alleging that a few GP members were involved in caste abuse during a meeting after the incident, GP member Chandrakala has lodged a complaint with the police against 16 people, including the PDO. The dissent between the BJP and the JD(S) members has deepened after the incident. The Gram Panchayat comes under Holenarasipur Assembly constituency, represented by MLA H D Revanna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/row-over-installing-pm-modi-s-photo-in-gram-panchayat-office-1033285.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Health, well-being workshop||Lions Club of Mysore Bandhavya has organised a workshop on health and well-being, focussing on the physical and mental impact of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, on September 24. Resource persons Dr R C Mythrey, Dr Ramachandra, Dr Krishnamurthy Chamaram, Dr Rekha and Dr Mujahid Sheik will speak on various health-related subjects. The event is open for public and registration is open until September 23, for 150 seats, said Vijay Kumar, president of the Club. For details, call: 90087 98494 or 98506 61223.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/health-well-being-workshop-1033286.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||103rd Haifa Liberation Day celebration on Thursday||Commemorating Haifa Liberation Day, Mysuru-based Haifa Day Celebration Committee will organise the celebration of 103rd Haifa Liberation Day on Thursday, September 23, at 5 pm. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family, will take part in the celebration while A Vishwanatha, a chartered accountant, will deliver the keynote address. The celebration will be held at the Institute of Engineers, JLB Road, Mysuru. For details, contact: Harsha on 99867 20468.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/103rd-haifa-liberation-day-celebration-on-thursday-1033288.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Scholarships for engineering, medical students||Pragathi USA, in association with Pratham Mysore, is providing scholarships for engineering and medical courses, for financially backward students. Students who have scored under 20,000 ranks in entrance exams for the professional courses can apply for the scholarship at www.prathammysore.org before September 30, said D Jagadish, event head, Pratham Mysore, in a press note. For information, call: 99861 58340.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/scholarships-for-engineering-medical-students-1033289.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Women's skill training at RUDSETI||RUDSET Institute, Mysuru, is offering skill training programmes for women in the age group of 18 to 45 years in October and November. RUDSETI has invited applications for the skill training programmes, offered from October 21 to November 23 in Electrical Motor Rewinding, Mobile Phone Servicing and Men's Tailor. The applicants must be residents of rural Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Mandya districts, with a BPL card. The training programme is conducted free of cost, with residential facilities. Interested candidates can directly join the training at RUDSET Institute, Main Road, Hinkal, Mysuru - 570 030. Essential items like clothes must be brought for the stay at the institute. For information, contact: 0821 - 2519 663, 88845 54510 or 98801 96581.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/womens-skill-training-at-rudseti-1033290.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two die in lorry collision in Chitradurga||Two persons died on spot in a collision between two lorries at Tamatakallu on the outskirts of Chitradurga city in the wee hours on Thursday. According to police, Saddam Hussain (30), a native of Shiggaon, Haveri district, lorry driver and Beerappa (23), cleaner, are the deceased. The lorry in which they were travelling rammed into another lorry parked on the roadside from behind. Chitradurga Rural police registered a case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-die-in-lorry-collision-in-chitradurga-1033434.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Time is key in treating major neurological disorders'||Timely diagnosis and early intervention helped cure many tumours, said Dr Maqsood, neurosurgeon, Columbia Asia Hospitals, Mysuru. "It is a myth that brain tumours, spinal ailments and other disorders are killers and post-surgery patients are left with major side-effects with no cure," he told reporters here on Thursday. He presented the patient’s testimonials, the surgical success of Fathima, who suffered from a life-threatening tumour, Lakshmi Neelambari’s spinal surgery, Syed Abdul Saleem's microvascular decompression and spinal surgery of Shivanna Gowda. “These successful high-risk surgeries were possible by a team approach, comprising a neurosurgeon, an anesthetist and intensive care. Success rates are more than 95%. The type of infrastructure and equipment offer an edge in such cases,” said Dr Upendra Shenoy, chief of medical services. "Early detection, appropriate referrals, a suitable place for surgery with advanced infrastructure and a team approach are vital for the successful treatment of these disabling conditions. Time is the key," added Dr Maqsood. "Our constant endeavor is to create awareness on disease symptoms to people so that they respond on time for better outcomes," said Dr Gautam Das, general manager, Columbia Asia Hospitals, Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/time-is-key-in-treating-major-neurological-disorders-1033463.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||One more cow dies at Keelara in Mandya, toll touches 30||The series of deaths of cattle continued at Keelara village in Mandya taluk. One more cow, belonging to a farmer of the village named Krishnegowda, succumbed on Thursday. With this, 30 cattle of the same family have died in the past two years. The cause for the death remains a mystery. The ill-fated cow developed breathing problem. The family members immediately alerted veterinarian Dr Ramesh Babu who rushed to the spot and provided treatment. "The cow was shifted to another place and the treatment continued. It failed to respond and died. The blood samples of the cow have been collected and will be sent to the lab for a test," Dr Babu said. The series of deaths of cattle has created panic among the family members. The family lost a cow during the Ganesha festival recently. Till now, they have lost 20 jersey cows, eight country breed cows and two goats. As the animal deaths have remained a mystery, a study is being conducted at the Indian Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals in Bengaluru. Besides, the police are conducting a probe. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy visited Keelara recently and assured support to the family members who have lost the cattle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-cow-dies-at-keelara-in-mandya-toll-touches-30-1033468.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man arrested for sexually assaulting woman in Mangaluru||The Mangaluru police have arrested a 32-year-old man after a young woman from Mysuru alleged that she was sexually assaulted and cheated by him. The man hails from Mudipu, situated on the outskirts of Mangaluru. “The victim had visited Mangaluru on September 21 to meet the accused at his house. However, she claimed that she was allegedly assaulted by one of his relatives when the latter visited his house. The police received a call on 112 Emergency Response Support System after the public noticed her crying near a bus stand. The police picked her and brought her to the Konaje police station. After offering food and consoling her,  they asked her for details,” said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar.   Though initially, she had informed the police that she would file a complaint against the accused in Mysuru, later on the advice of her advocate, she decided to file a complaint in Mangaluru. Accordingly, a case was registered at the Women’s Police Station in Mangaluru under various sections of the IPC and she was subjected to medical examination. The City Police Commissioner said “the woman had alleged that the accused had borrowed about Rs 35 lakh to open cafes in Mysuru and Hunsur from her. The woman was not aware that the man was married initially. However, later when she confronted him, he had reportedly promised to divorce his wife,” Shashi Kumar said. The woman had said that she was in touch with him since 2019. He had introduced himself as Sharath, but had later revealed his true identity.   The City Police commissioner said that the accused Mohammed Azwan (32) had been taken into custody from Choodasandra in Bengaluru on Thursday and is being brought to Mangaluru.   Earlier, MLC Tejaswini Gowda had raised the issue in the Council. VHP demands action The members of VHP and Durga Vahini termed the incident as ‘Love Jihad’ and have demanded immediate action against the accused. Mathrushakti Pramukh Surekha Raj and Durgavahini district convenor Shwetha Adyapadi in a press release alleged that the accused was blackmailing the victim and had threatened to release her intimate photographs in social media along with cheating her to the tune of Rs 35 lakh. “All those who support the accused should also be arrested,” they demanded. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-woman-in-mangaluru-1033517.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Negative RT-PCR report not mandatory Chamarajanagar at checkposts||The Chamarajanagar district administration has withdrawn its previous orders demanding a negative RT-PCR report taken 72 hours prior to the journey, for those entering the district through the checkpost at Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border. Hereafter, those entering the state through the checkpost and those bound for Tamil Nadu can furnish two doses of vaccination certificate and continue with their journey. RT-PCR negative report was made mandatory for inter-state journey at five checkposts in the district that connects Tamil Nadu. The district administration has withdrawn its order a week ago. But e-pass and negative report was mandatory to enter Tamil Nadu. However, the personnel at the checkpost in the neighbouring state too have not been demanding negative report from the last two days. But, it is mandatory to furnish e-pass to enter Tamil Nadu, along with vaccination certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/negative-rt-pcr-report-not-mandatory-chamarajanagar-at-checkposts-1033551.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fear grips Davangere as 14 people below age of 18 contract Covid-19||Fear has gripped Davangere after 14 persons aged between 0 and 18 years were tested positive for Covid-19 in 15 days. They are undergoing treatment in District Chigateri General hospital, Bapuji and SS H-tech hospitals in the city. Sources in the Health Department stated that of the 14, nine are male while five are female. Nine patients are aged between 16 and 18 years, three children are aged between 11 and 15 years, one is aged between six and ten 10 years and another one is aged between 0 and five years. No Covid deaths have been reported so far. The officials are hopeful that all the children would recover. District Malaria Officer Nataraj said, the district recorded around 154 dengue cases till September 23 this year. They were confirmed through Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) test. The number of cases may go up to 254 by the end of this year. Most of the patients have recovered after availing treatment. Over, 1,400 blood samples had been collected and tested this year so far. Of them, 154 persons were tested positive for dengue. One dengue death was reported in the district this year. As many as 818 dengue cases were reported in 2017, 121 cases in 2018 and 322 in 2019, he informed. He said, the steps have been taken to prevent dengue cases at the gram panchayat level. Most of the patients got treatment in the outpatient ward and only those whose condition was critical were admitted to the hospital. He also asked people not to panic as dengue cases are under control. Besides, there is no need to worry about treatment as all general hospitals in the district and private hospitals are prepared to handle any kind of situation. He also asked people to destroy mosquito-breeding sites, secure self-protection measures like wearing long pants and long-sleeved shirts and daily use of mosquito repellent. They must take preventive measures without fail, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fear-grips-davangere-as-14-people-below-age-of-18-contract-covid-19-1033553.html
23-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Need to save all lives in maritime distress incidents'||Coast Guard Karnataka Commander DIG Venkatesh said that the global shipping industry is responsible for transporting as much as 90% of world trade, the safety of vessels is critical. The sea trade of the state constituted a significant part of its economic activities and secured for it a niche in the oceanic trade of the western coast of India from the earliest times. He was speaking during Maritime Search and Rescue Operation organised by the Coast Guard. The workshop involved participation from all stake holders of SAR machinery like CSP, Customs, Immigration, Fisheries department, Fisheries Association, Red Cross Society in the state. He said Indian Coast Guard conducts maritime exercises to find synergy amongst all participants in the field of life saving. Literary and archaeological evidence indicate that the State’s sea trade extended up to Malaysia, Sumatra, Java and Cambodia in the South-East and the Arab countries, Persia and Egypt in the west. The entire search and rescue set-up in the Indian search and rescue region is controlled and coordinated by the Indian Coast Guard through maritime rescue coordination centres in Mumbai, Chennai and Port Blair. The country has a robust maritime search and rescue system which is flourishing on equitable contributions of all the stakeholders. Though 100% response to search and rescue incidents has been achieved, there is a lot to be done to ensure saving all lives in each maritime distress incident, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/need-to-save-all-lives-in-maritime-distress-incidents-1033556.html
23-09-2021||Main Article||Not so NEET||The Tamil Nadu government’s decision to abolish the NEET exams in the state by legislation should help us reinvent the crux of some of the old (sociological) debates on social justice and competitive entrance exams. As the Bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly awaits the President’s approval, it triggers a series of questions about the whole system of entrance examinations that demands immediate national attention. The political decision, with tremendous support in the House from all other parties except BJP, reflects an emerging popular mindset that is aspiring to engage with ideas that once exclusively belonged to the policymakers’ and academics’ domain. First, and foremost, the Bill is a rejection of the common imaginations of merit as free from class/caste-ridden social realities. It squarely brings back the relevance of social justice in our perceptions of merit. Competitive exams like the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) are favourites of policymakers and administrators as they are expected to surpass the limitations of public/board exams that are focused on memory skills that result from rote learning. They have a higher public acceptance, especially among the middle and upper classes who unquestionably believe in their neutrality. As opposed to the public/board exams, entrance exams postulated different but specific skill sets and a sophisticated level of subject knowledge. The impersonal, automated, evaluation systems add to their neutral appearance. However, from the beginning, there have been doubts about the net effects of having a superior examination system designed for a specific purpose. Over time, it became quite obvious that the benefits of such a system could not be impartially distributed in a society where social divisions are still very deep. Quite often, the creamy layer class, with access to high-fee entrance coaching centres and costly study materials, ensured their substantial edge over students from non-privileged segments. Even a simple statistical analysis can bring out the differences and disparities that operate on the ground. Merit - a social product Despite individual differences, merit is the product of a combination of social factors, including class and caste backgrounds. This reality is in opposition to the common myth and imagination that merit is the result of hard work and individual talents alone. Only in an egalitarian society can students be measured solely on the basis of their individual performances. In a developing society like ours, massive differences operate among students from different sections of the population in terms of resources and opportunities. Elements such as the educational and financial background of parents, the quality of schools, support systems in the form of peer education, tuition centres, etc., and even the urban-rural differences all have a critical role in shaping the quality and merit of students. Simply put, the great variation in the performance of students in these exams is a result of the differences in their social positions and deep-rooted structural inequalities. The entrance exam-specific tutorials are additional factors that seal the divide. For example, in the 2019 NEET exam, not a single student from the SC/ST communities featured in the top 50 ranks. While a few from lower backgrounds certainly make it to the professional courses they are exceptions, rather than reflecting a common trend. This is the reason why when a child from a poor family or a tribal community gets admission into a medical course, the same hits the news headlines. It doesn’t happen in the case of students from ‘mainstream’ backgrounds. In a substantial sense, exams like NEET defeat the very purpose of education by consolidating the socio-economic differences. There is an urgent need to reinvent merit as embedded in the social contexts of students than leaving it as a privilege available to a few. For a long time, management specialists, supported by a school of psychologists, have successfully diverted the attention of the public and policymakers from the social dynamics behind the production of talented individuals in a society. The decision by the Tamil Nadu government should inaugurate more discussions on the other side of merit. Pressure pots The entrance exam system itself also needs a major revamping, for it normalises extreme levels of competition. The crude stratification of jobs that we follow in modern societies guarantees dignity and status on the basis of a hierarchy of occupations. The excessive rush for admission for professional courses has led to the mushrooming of highly expensive, regimentally-operating entrance coaching centres, most of which are inaccessible for students from non-urban/backward locations. The excessive pressure leading to high rates of suicides among aspiring students before and after entrance exams is another major concern. For instance, the large number of student suicides in coaching centres in Kota, Rajasthan, due to the pressure they have to live under has already caught the national attention. Between 2013 and 2018, some 72 students enrolled in different coaching centres in Kota have taken their own lives either because of fear and debilitation before the exams or because of their failure in the entrance exams. The immediate reason for the Tamil Nadu government’s Bill was also the suicide of a student fearing the NEET exam results. The coaching centres and the availability of materials in the market directly disputes the argument that entrance exams are neutral or that they do not encourage rote learning. The objective type questions in these exams primarily call forth students’ capacity to remember from the portions covered. Even indirect questions fall back on this dynamic. Thus, memorising constitutes an integral component of entrance exams, including NEET. In fact, creative interventions are easily possible to make higher education exams more reliable for admissions. Such creative options cannot be explored in centralised entrance exams that are based on objective-type questions. The system of entrance examination requires serious rethinking as it adversely impinges on a number of aspects that are directly connected. The Tamil Nadu government’s decision should lead to a nation-wide exercise in such a rethink. (The writer teaches Sociology at CHRIST (deemed to be) University, Bengaluru).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/not-so-neet-1033569.html
23-09-2021||National||Can't delay women's entry to defence services through NDA by one year: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it cannot dash the hope and aspirations of women candidates to join defence services through the NDA by delaying it for one year. The top court rejected a plea by the Centre to defer the first National Defence Academy (NDA) exam for women candidates. It directed that women should be allowed to sit for the upcoming examinations on November 14, this year. "This won't send the right signal to women after having given them the aspiration. Let's begin from this year," a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. "We cannot delay things by a year. We gave hope to the girls. We cannot deny them that hope now," the bench added. The court pointed out postponing the process of allowing women to write the NDA exam to May, 2022 will delay their induction to 2023. The Centre led by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati asked the court to allow women candidates to appear in the examinations next year. It also said certain infrastructural and curriculum changes were required to allow the induction of women. The bench, however, said, "Interim orders have already been passed. The armed forces are best suited to deal with emergencies. We don't think they will not be capable to accommodating the candidates who take up exam this year." "What answer we have for the students who are on the anvil of taking the exam. Don't ask us to vacate the order. You go on with the exercise, let us see how many women get into it," the bench told Bhati. On August 18, the court had passed an interim order allowing women to take up the NDA examination. The law officer said the forces would be in a tight situation. "The armed forces of the country have been in far greater situations than a tight situation such as this," the bench shot back. The court put the matter for consideration in January, 2022. The Union government has earlier told the court it proposed to put in place all necessary mechanism and infrastructure by May, next year to allow entry of women in three defence services in the existing streams through the prestigious NDA. In an affidavit, the Defence Ministry said: "A study group has been constituted by the defence services, comprising of experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at NDA and a Board of Officers has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at NDA incorporating all relevant aspects". While the education curriculum is well set, all the rest of aspects of the training are required to be formulated separately for women candidates, it added. A PIL was filed by advocate Kush Kalra, seeking direction to the NDA to open its doors for women aspiring to join the Armed Forces. The exams for the NDA are held twice in a year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-delay-womens-entry-to-defence-services-through-nda-by-one-year-sc-1033274.html
23-09-2021||National||IPL gambling racket busted in Delhi, 5 held: Police||The Delhi Police has busted an IPL gambling racket and arrested five men from Badarpur in the southeastern parts of the national capital, officials said on Wednesday. The accused were identified as Akash (30), Ahsan (30) and Sunit Kumar Sinha (37), all residents of Badarpur, Mukesh (42), a resident of Vinod Nagar, and Mohammad Shahjad (32), a resident of Amroha district in Uttar Pradesh, they added. On Monday, information was received about gambling going on in a flat at Molarband Extension, Badarpur. A raid was conducted and five persons were found gambling on IPL matches. All five were arrested, a senior police officer said. Two laptops, 13 mobile phones, a television set and cash amounting to Rs 52,000 were seized from their possession, police said, adding that efforts are being made to nab the other accused. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ipl-gambling-racket-busted-in-delhi-5-held-police-1033316.html
23-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Got colonial hangover or what?'||There is confusion over the UK government's vaccine recognition process for Indian travellers as even though Oxford/AstraZeneca Covishield, the India-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, is on an updated international travel advisory, India is not yet on a list of 17 approved countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-got-colonial-hangover-or-what-1033349.html
23-09-2021||National||Taliban's commitment not to allow use of Afghan soil for terrorism should be implemented: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has told the G20 nations that the Taliban’s commitment not to allow the use of Afghanistan’s soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented and the world expects a broad-based, inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of the Afghan society. Jaishankar addressed the G20 Foreign Ministers’ Meeting on Afghanistan on Wednesday, held on the sidelines of the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly. “International community must come together in response to humanitarian needs. Assistance providers must be accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access,” Jaishankar said in a series of tweets after the virtual meeting. “Taliban’s commitment not to allow the use of Afghan soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented. The world expects a broad-based inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of Afghan society,” he said. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan last month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city of Kabul fell to the insurgents. Taliban’s commitment not to allow use of Afghan soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented. The world expects a broad based inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of Afghan society. The Taliban claimed victory over opposition forces in the last holdout province of Panjshir on September 6, completing their takeover of Afghanistan three weeks after capturing Kabul. The Taliban has said that Afghan territory will not be used against any country. Jaishankar said the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan reflects global sentiment and should continue to “guide our approach. India’s engagement will be driven by its historical friendship with the Afghan people.” The resolution, adopted under India’s Presidency of the 15-nation Council in August, demanded that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and noted the Taliban’s relevant commitments. It had condemned in the strongest terms the deplorable attacks of August 26 near Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, which were claimed by the Islamic State in Khorasan Province, an entity affiliated with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Da’esh), and resulted in deaths and injuries of over 300 civilians and 28 military personnel. The resolution took note of the Taliban’s condemnation of this attack. Following the G20 meeting, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken tweeted “Had a productive dialogue at #UNGA76 with G20 Foreign Ministers and International Organisation Principals on Afghanistan. The international community is united in its expectations for the Taliban to adhere to their commitments.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talibans-commitment-not-to-allow-use-of-afghan-soil-for-terrorism-should-be-implemented-jaishankar-1033353.html
23-09-2021||National||India's palm campaign has hard row to hoe with water, seedlings scarce||Tractor convoys trundled thousands of oil palm seedlings to new homes on farms across southeastern India this month, as the world's top importer of edible oil rolls out an ambitious $1.5-billion plan to boost output. Record prices of palm, and new government promises of payouts even if Indian prices slump, are driving the effort, which aims to lift domestic output sharply within a decade from a tiny level now. "The return on oil palm will at least be double that of rice and banana, and it is far less labour-intensive," said B. Brahmaiah, one of the hundreds of farmers nationwide who are racing to switch from the usual staple crops, such as rice. Brahmaiah, 37, owns a six-acre (2.4-hectare) plot in the West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh state, where fertile soil, ample water and oil processing mills promise to be a strong driver of higher production. Nestling amid verdant ricefields are forest-like clumps of oil palm, coconut, and cocoa plantations, watered by plentiful supplies from the region's rivers and canals. Elsewhere, though, regular watering is just one of many obstacles to achieving a target of a 10-fold output expansion within a decade, ranging from a shortage of seedlings to a four-year growing term before palm trees produce fruit. A national Mission on edible oils launched last month aims to boost output to 2.8 million tonnes by nearly tripling the crop cultivation area to 1 million hectares (2.4 million acres), so as to curb oil imports, which exceeded $11 billion last year. Ravi Mathur, who heads the Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research, the government-backed body driving the campaign, said it had identified 2.8 million hectares (7 million acres) suitable for palm cultivation. Apart from Andhra Pradesh, these areas include the mountainous northeast and the remote islands of Andaman and Nicobar, where a price premium of 2% is on offer to farmers so as to match rates for produce in less isolated areas. Green groups have criticised the push, saying it could lead to water scarcity, reduce forest cover, and hit biodiversity, but Mathur dismissed these fears as unfounded, saying authorities would protect the environment from harm. Still, planting all 2.8 million hectares (7 million acres) with palm will be a major task, as the thirsty plants need regular, profuse supplies of water, a scarce commodity in India, where agriculture relies on annual monsoon rains. Another barrier to the switch is that oil palm requires up to four years to yield sellable fruit, unlike rice, cotton or pulses, which can be harvested in less than six months. That constricts income flows for farmers, said Sougata Niyogi, a top official at India's biggest palm oil producer, Godrej Agrovet Limited. The government plans to make up some of the cost by offering 29,000 rupees ($394) for each hectare of new palm cultivation, and help with planting other quicker-growing crops on farms. It will also guarantee a viability price for fresh fruit bunches, paying the difference if market rates fall below that level. That assurance should hasten oil palm plantings, said B V Mehta, executive director of trade body Solvent Extractors' Association of India, as price volatility was previously a major deterrent for growers. Years before income flows Even with such assistance, few small, cash-starved farmers will be able to wait years for income to come in, Godrej's Niyogi said. Farmer O S Chalapatha, who planted oil palm on a 35-acre (14-hectare) plot more than a decade ago, said his earnings from a job with a private firm initially helped defray costs. "In the first few years, a huge amount was required to develop oil palm plantation," he told Reuters. "I managed to arrange it, since I was employed in a private company. But it is not possible for everyone." Also shaping as a critical threat is a shortage of palm seedlings. Palm nurseries in India and southeast Asia, which normally need up to a year to expand production, have been overwhelmed by the surge in seedling demand for the drive. To reach its target of 1 million hectares under oil palm by 2025/26, India must add 130,000 hectares (321,000 acres) every year, calling for millions of seedlings. "India needs 18.6 million seedlings, but local supplies are limited to 1 million," said an industry official in the financial capital of Mumbai, who sought anonymity. "For the rest, we are dependent on imports." Godrej plans to import 1.15 million sprouts this year, up from 450,000 last year, to meet farmers' demand, Niyogi added. The shortfall leaves first-time producers unable to start planting. "We are willing to pay three times more than government-set prices, but we are not able to secure seedlings," said another Andhra Pradesh farmer, T Malddiramaiah. A longer term challenge for India is setting up oil mills to press the fruit once it is ready, so as to avoid spoiling. Such infrastructure is scarce in the northeast, where congested roads and limited supplies of fertiliser already strain supply chains. That leaves just a few pockets of producers, such as those in Andhra Pradesh, to rise to the challenge, which suggests a dent in huge imports is unlikely. For all its efforts, India may not be able to produce more than 2 million tonnes of palm oil by 2029/30, when demand is expected to have risen another 5 million tonnes, said a leading edible oil refiner. "India will remain import-dependent in the foreseeable future," said the refiner, who asked not to be identified. "Oil palm and other programs can only reduce some incremental growth in imports." But on his farm in Andhra Pradesh, Brahmaiah has his eyes firmly fixed on the prize. "Oil palm is more profitable than other crops once it starts yielding," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-palm-campaign-has-hard-row-to-hoe-with-water-seedlings-scarce-1033356.html
23-09-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with American CEOs to highlight opportunities in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said he would highlight economic opportunities in India during his meetings with CEOs in Washington. On Thursday, the prime minister is scheduled to hold one-on-one meetings with the top five American CEOs. Two of them are Indian Americans -- Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics. The three others being Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar, and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. “Landed in Washington DC. Over the next two days, will be meeting President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, Prime Ministers Scott Morrison from Australia and Yoshihide Suga from Japan," he tweeted. “Will attend the Quad meeting and would also interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India,” he said. The prime minister's meeting with American CEOs from five different key areas is reflective of the priorities of his government. While Narayen reflects the IT and digital priority that the Indian government is pushing for, Modi’s meeting with Lall is significant as General Atomics is not only the pioneer in military drone technologies but also the world’s top manufacturer of state-of-the-art military drones, which the US shares only with its key allies and partners. India is in the process of procuring a significant number of drones for the three branches of its armed forces. It has also leased a few drones from General Atomics. Jakarta-born Vivek Lall, now based out of California, for over a decade has been instrumental in major bilateral defence deals worth around $18 billion, as India and the US take steps to forge a new relationship in which defence trade is a key pillar. The meeting with chip giant Cristiano Amon assumes significance, given India’s push for the 5G technology to be safe and secure. The San Diego-based company creates semiconductors, software, and services related to wireless technology. A world leader in 3G, 4G, and next-generation wireless technology innovations for more than 30 years, Qualcomm is now pioneering its way to 5G with a new era of intelligent products that are revolutionising industries, including automotive, computing, and IoT. India is looking for a major investment from Qualcomm. As India is taking gigantic steps in the use of solar power to meet its energy needs, the meeting with Mark Widmar is important as First Solar is a leading global provider of comprehensive photovoltaic (“PV”) solar solutions, which use its advanced module and system technology. Early this summer, the Arizona-based company announced to add 3.3 GW of capacity in a new facility in India at an estimated cost of USD684 million. Stephen A. Schwarzman is Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder of Blackstone, one of the world’s leading investment firms investing capital on behalf of pension funds, large institutions and individuals. In March this year, Blackstone announced that funds managed by Blackstone Real Estate have acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy Group, in one of India’s largest logistics transactions.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-american-ceos-to-highlight-opportunities-in-india-1033369.html
23-09-2021||National||India logs 31,923 new Covid-19 cases, 282 deaths||India logged 31,923 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,35,31,498, while the active cases declined to 3,01,604, the lowest in 187 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,050 with 282 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive have exceeded 83.39 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-31923-new-covid-19-cases-282-deaths-1033377.html
23-09-2021||National||China & Pakistan among worst countries for internet freedom; India 'partly-free': Report||"Chinese authorities imposed draconian prison terms for online dissent, independent reporting, and mundane daily communications. The Covid-19 pandemic remains one of the most heavily censored topics. Officials also cracked down on the country’s tech giants..." the report said. The report titled "Freedom on the Net 2021: The Global Drive to Control Big Tech" stated that global internet freedom declined for the 11th consecutive year in 2021.  "In India, internet access was cut off repeatedly throughout January and February 2021 as farmers took to the streets... government also ordered the blocking of hundreds of mobile apps owned by China-based companies... pressured Twitter to remove protest-related and critical commentary and to stop flagging manipulated content shared by the ruling party (BJP)," the report stated. The group designates countries with scores between 70 to 100 as ‘free’ on internet freedom status, while those with points between 40 to 69 are designated as ‘partly-free’. Countries scoring less than 39 are designated as ‘not free’. Meanwhile, Myanmar, Belarus, and Uganda saw the greatest deteriorations amid crackdowns by state forces and electoral and constitutional crises. The United States’s score declined for the fifth consecutive year as "false, misleading, and manipulated information continued to proliferate online, even affecting public acceptance of the 2020 presidential election results." Top 10 countries with the highest level of internet freedom Iceland, Estonia, Canada, Costa Rica, Taiwan, Germany, France, UK, Georgia, Japan. Top 10 countries with the lowest level of internet freedom China, Iran, Myanmar, Cuba, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Egypt, UAE, Ethiopia. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-pakistan-among-worst-countries-for-internet-freedom-india-partly-free-report-1033385.html
23-09-2021||National||PM Modi to meet US VP Kamala Harris, hold bilaterals with Japanese, Australian PMs on Sept 23||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday is scheduled to have as many as eight meetings, including with Vice President Kamala Harris, on the first working day of his current US trip. Apart from meeting Harris at the White House, the Prime minister will have two bilateral meetings with his Australian and Japanese counterparts -- Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga. Modi, who arrived in the US capital on Wednesday evening, would kick off his day's engagements with a series of one-on-one meetings with five top American CEOs representing diverse areas from technology, the IT sector to finance, defence and renewable energy. These CEO's include Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics, Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. According to sources, these CEOs represent fairly large corporate interests, companies that have particular expertise, have invested in India and have the potential to invest significantly there. In the afternoon, Modi is scheduled to have a bilateral with Prime Minister Morrison of Australia. The two leaders have met in the past on a number of occasions on the sidelines of various international conferences. Morrison had recently called Modi to brief him about planning to go ahead with the AUKUS alliance. The US, Britain and Australia last week announced the AUKUS alliance for the Indo-Pacific to take on the threats of the 21st century and allow for greater sharing of defence capabilities, including help Australia acquire nuclear-powered submarines, in a bid to counter China's growing power in the strategically vital region. Morrison was to visit India in January last year which he had to postpone because of a massive fire in Australia. Another trip to India in May had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 situation. After meeting with Morrison, Modi would drive down to the White House for a meeting with Indian-origin US Vice President Kamala Harris at her ceremonial office. The maiden meeting between the two leaders has been scheduled for an hour. The two leaders are likely to talk to the press. According to sources, they are expected to talk on a range of issues that interest both sides -- from the management of Covid-19 to issues like cooperation in the high tech and space sectors. Prime Minister Modi is looking forward to his first meeting with Vice President Harris, sources said. The two leaders have earlier spoken to each other over the phone during the Covid-19 crisis in June. Later in the day, the prime minister is scheduled to meet prime minister Suga of Japan. The two leaders have been speaking to each other quite frequently. On Friday, the Prime Minister would spend most of his time at the White House, first a bilateral meeting in the Oval Office with President Biden. This would be followed by the first-ever in-person Quad summit. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. The prime minister will then leave for New York. He is the first speaker scheduled to address the UN General Assembly on September 25.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-meet-us-vp-kamala-harris-hold-bilaterals-with-japanese-australian-pms-on-sept-23-1033387.html
23-09-2021||National||Indian diaspora distinguished itself across the world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has commended the Indian Diaspora for distinguishing itself across the world, as he received an enthusiastic welcome from the community on his arrival here on a major visit to further enhance Indo-US relations. Modi was warmly greeted by groups of Indian-Americans at the airport soon after his plane landed here on Wednesday and later at the hotel where he had an interaction with the members of the community. “Grateful to the Indian community in Washington DC for the warm welcome. Our diaspora is our strength,” Modi said in a tweet along with a set of pictures of his interaction with Indian-American CEOs. “It is commendable how the Indian diaspora has distinguished itself across the world,” Modi said. One of the signature events of Prime Minister Modi's overseas visits has been his meetings with the diaspora community in large gatherings. However, due to the current Covid-19 situation, the prime minister is unlikely to have a large gathering or meeting with the diaspora. Modi has been popular among Indian-Americans, who constitute more than 1.2 per cent of the country’s population. The community is increasingly playing an important role, including in American politics. Modi, who is visiting the US for the 7th time after assuming office in 2014, has said that his visit would be an occasion to strengthen the Indo-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and consolidate ties with Japan and Australia. Apart from meeting US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, Modi is also scheduled to have separate bilateral talks with his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-diaspora-distinguished-itself-across-the-world-pm-modi-1033392.html
23-09-2021||National||PM-CARES not a fund of Government of India, can't be brought under RTI, Centre tells Delhi HC||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has told Delhi High Court that Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief In Emergency Fund, or the PM-CARES Fund, which was created in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, does not come under the Government of India and it cannot be brought under the ambit of Right to Information (RTI) Act. Also, the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, the Delhi High Court has been informed. The Centre, in an affidavit, said that the Fund can neither be listed as "State" nor "public authority" under the Right to Information as it received funds from private sources. An affidavit filed by an Under Secretary at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) who is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis, has said the trust functions with transparency and its funds are audited by an auditor -- a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition seeking a direction to declare the PM-CARES Fund a 'State' under the Constitution to ensure transparency in its functioning. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Amit Bansal has fixed the matter for further hearing on September 27. "To ensure transparency, the audited report is put on the official website of the trust along with the details of utilisation of funds received by the trust,” says the affidavit filed by Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, Under Secretary at the PMO. “I state that when the petitioner is claiming to be a public-spirited person and seeking to pray for various reliefs only for transparency, it does not matter whether PM-CARES is a ‘State’ within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India,” the officer said in the affidavit. Irrespective of whether the trust is a ‘State’ or other authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution or whether it is a ‘public authority’ within the meaning of provisions of the Right to Information Act (RTI), it is not permissible to disclose third party information.It said that all donations received by the trust are received via online payments, cheques or Demand Drafts and the amount received is audited with the audited report and the expenditure of trust fund displayed on the website. “The trust functions on the principles of transparency and public good in larger public interest like any other charitable trust and, therefore, cannot have any objection in uploading all its resolutions on its website to ensure transparency,” it said, while reiterating that “the trust’s fund is not a fund of Government of India and the amount does not go in the Consolidated Fund of India.” The officer said he is discharging his functions in the PM-CARES Trust on honorary basis, which is a charitable trust not created by or under the Constitution or by any law made by the Parliament or by any State legislature. “Despite being an officer of the Central government, I am permitted to discharge my functions in PM-CARES Trust on an honorary basis,” he said. The court was hearing a petition filed by Samyak Gangwal who has said that the PM-CARES Fund is a 'State' as it was formed by the Prime Minister on March 27, 2020 to extend assistance to the citizens of India in the wake of the public health emergency -- the ongoing Covid-19 Pandemic. His counsel had told the court that if it is found that the PM-CARES Fund is not 'State' under the Constitution, usage of the domain name '.gov.in', the Prime Minister's photograph, state emblem etc has to be stopped. The petition said that the Trustees of the fund are the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Home Minister and the Finance Minister and immediately after the formation of the fund, the Centre through its high government functionaries represented that the fund was set up and operated by the Government of India. To ensure transparency and accountability, the plea has sought a direction for periodic auditing of PM-CARES website and disclosure of the details of donations received by it. In his alterative prayers, Gangwal has sought to direct the Centre to publicise that the PM-CARES Fund is not a fund of the Government of India and to restrain PM-CARES from using 'Prime Minister of India' or 'Prime Minister', including its abbreviations its name, on its website, Trust Deed and other official or unofficial communications and advertisements. On March 9, the court had said it was not inclined to issue notice on the plea as the Centre was already represented through counsel who may file their written submissions. The petitioner has also filed another petition to declare PM-CARES as a 'public authority' under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, which is being heard together with the first plea. This petition challenges a June 2, 2020 order of the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), PMO, refusing to provide documents sought by him on the ground that PM-CARES Fund is not a public authority under the RTI Act. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented PMO, had opposed the petition, stating that it was not maintainable and that he would file a response explaining why it should not be entertained.  (With inputs from PTI) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-not-a-fund-of-government-of-india-cant-be-brought-under-rti-centre-tells-delhi-hc-1033404.html
23-09-2021||National||Kamala Harris meeting Modi is 'coming of age' moment for Indian diaspora, says her home state newspaper||US Vice President Kamala Harris meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the White House on Thursday afternoon is a “coming of age” moment for the Indian diaspora, a prominent US newspaper in her home state has said on the eve of the historic meeting between the two leaders. Harris, 56, is the first-ever Indian American to be elected as the vice president of the United States. Harris is scheduled to meet Modi on Thursday, making history as the highest-ranking Indian-American to welcome the leader of a country that is becoming one of America’s most important allies, The Los Angeles Times newspaper said. This would be her first meeting with Modi, 71, whose government has not only championed the cause of the diaspora but also never been shy of speaking about their interest globally. The prime minister himself actively engages with the diaspora in all his overseas trips. “It (Modi-Harris meeting) does represent a ‘coming of age’ moment for the diaspora, which is now more than 4 million strong,” Milan Vaishnav, director of the South Asia Programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, told the California-based newspaper. “The meeting between the leaders comes as the Biden administration moves closer to India and other Asian and Pacific nations, continuing the Trump administration’s focus on responding to China’s growing power by building America’s economic and military ties in the region,” the daily reported. Harris spoke to Modi over the phone on June 3. This would be their first-ever in-person meeting, for which an hour has been scheduled, sources said. According to a White House official, Harris during the meeting would reinforce the strategic partnership between the United States and India. “This meeting will build upon their June 3 telephone conversation addressing the Covid response. They plan to discuss democracy, human rights, climate, and global health issues,” the official had earlier told PTI. Karthick Ramakrishnan, a public policy professor at UC Riverside who has been tracking Indian American public opinion since 2008, told The Los Angeles Times that he believes the meeting will be watched closely by Indian-Americans who follow foreign policy. At the same time, he noted that the meeting will not get the same level of attention in the US or India that was generated by Harris’ selection as Biden’s running mate or her swearing-in; both produced a swell of pride by Indians and Indian-Americans on Twitter and Facebook. Harris was born to two immigrant parents -- a Black father and an Indian mother. Her father, Donald Harris, was from Jamaica, and her mother Shyamala Gopalan was a cancer researcher and civil rights activist from Chennai.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamala-harris-meeting-modi-is-coming-of-age-moment-for-indian-diaspora-says-her-home-state-newspaper-1033418.html
23-09-2021||National||Bizarre errors reported in record vaccination numbers on PM's birthday: Report||As India vaccinated 2.5 crore people in a single day to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on September 17, several questions are being raised over the "milestone" -- including late upload of records and some bizarre errors where vaccine certificates of those dead months ago were received by family members. "Dear Vidya Sharma, you have successfully been vaccinated with your second dose with Covishield on September 17," read the message received by Ashutosh Sharma, a resident of Madhya Pradesh's Aagar-Malwa district, whose mother died of Covid-19 four months ago. In a similar case, the publication said, Pinky Verma from Aagar, received a message saying that she was vaccinated with the second dose even when she had missed it. "I think they are intentionally doing this to increase the figures," she told the publication. Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister, Vishwas Sarang, said that such cases are rare and "will be investigated if there is any clerical error". Even as large-scale vaccination campaigns were carried out on September 17, a "significant chunk of data uploaded on that day was actually of people vaccinated offline over the previous two days", the publication reported quoting several officials. Opposition leaders have also alleged that fewer Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the last two weeks so that a record could be set on the Prime Minister's birthday. Taking a swipe at the government over the record vaccinations on PM's birthday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a graph of the vaccination trend in the last 10 days showing a decline in inoculations. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bizarre-errors-reported-in-record-vaccination-numbers-on-pms-birthday-report-1033428.html
23-09-2021||National||Infosys says some users continue to face difficulties, working to streamline I-T portal experience||IT major Infosys on Thursday acknowledged that some users continue to experience difficulties in accessing the income tax portal and assured that it is working expeditiously, in collaboration with the Income Tax Department, to further streamline end-user experience. The Bengaluru-based company, which has drawn flak for glitches continuing months after the launch of the portal in June, said it has seen steady increase in usage over the last few weeks, and more than three crore taxpayers have logged into the portal and successfully completed various transactions. "Even as the portal makes sustained progress with crores of taxpayers successfully performing transactions, the company acknowledges the difficulties some users continue to experience and is working expeditiously, in collaboration with the I-T Department, to further streamline end-user experience," Infosys said in a statement. It added that over the last few weeks, the portal has seen steady increase in usage with "taxpayers' concerns being progressively addressed". So far, over three crore taxpayers have logged into the portal and successfully completed various transactions, it noted. Infosys said it "recognises" the ongoing challenges faced by some users and has engaged with more than 1,200 taxpayers directly to better understand their concerns. "The company is focused on rapidly resolving these challenges while working closely with the chartered accountant community to ensure that a comprehensive set of user scenarios are supported and thoroughly tested before deployment. “Infosys remains committed to making rapid progress and has currently dedicated more than 750 resources to this project to complete significant portions of work, in collaboration with officials from the I-T Department," it added. It further stated that "Infosys takes pride in partnering with the Government of India and continues to work closely with various departments to accelerate the digital evolution of the country's technology capabilities". Infosys was, in 2019, awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. The portal went live in June this year. It had a bumpy start since the day of its launch, with taxpayers and professionals reporting glitches and difficulties in its functioning and many of these issues have continued even after over three months of the portal's launch. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the meeting with Infosys CEO Salil Parekh, had expressed "deep disappointment" over persisting glitches and had given time till September 15 to resolve all the issues. In its statement on Thursday, Infosys said during the month of September, more than 15 lakh unique taxpayers have logged into the portal daily on average, and over 1.5 crore returns have been filed till date. Over 85 per cent of taxpayers who have filed their returns have also completed their e-verification, largely through Aadhaar OTP authentication, it added. "The portal is facilitating over 2.5 lakh returns filing on a daily basis and ITR 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7 are now available for filing. A majority of the statutory forms have also been made available online. Several critical statutory forms like 15G, 15H, EQ1, 10A, 10E, 10IE, DTVSV, 15CA, 15CB, 35 as well as TDS returns are being filed in large numbers," Infosys said. More than 11.5 lakh statutory forms and over 8 lakh TDS returns have already been filed, it added. Infosys, which is India's second largest IT services firm, said taxpayer services such as e-proceedings, response to notices and demands, e-PAN services, DSC registrations, and functionality for legal heir, have also been enabled. "Over 16.6 lakh e-PANs have been allocated. 4.3 lakh DSC registrations and over 3.44 lakh e-proceeding responses to notices have also been completed," it pointed out.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infosys-says-some-users-continue-to-face-difficulties-working-to-streamline-i-t-portal-experience-1033431.html
23-09-2021||National||Google files writ with Delhi HC against CCI after 'leak' of confidential report||Google on Thursday said it has moved the Delhi High Court against the leak of antitrust body CCI's confidential report pertaining to the investigation against the tech giant. Google, in a statement, said it aims to prevent any further unlawful disclosures of confidential findings by the investigative arm of the Competition Commission of India (CCI). The tech giant noted that it has "not yet received or reviewed this confidential report". "Google filed a writ petition in the Delhi HC seeking redress in this matter, specifically protesting against the breach of confidence which impairs Google's ability to defend itself and harms Google and its partners," it added. Last week, reports had stated that CCI's investigation arm, the Director-General (DG), has found that Google indulged in unfair business practices in relation to Android. After prima-facie finding alleged violation of competition norms, CCI - in early 2019 - had ordered a detailed probe against Google in this regard. "We are deeply concerned that the Director General's Report, which contains our confidential information in an ongoing case, was leaked to the media while in the CCI's custody. "Protecting confidential information is fundamental to any governmental investigation, and we are pursuing our legal right to seek redress and prevent any further unlawful disclosures," a Google spokesperson said in the statement. The spokesperson added that the company cooperated fully and maintained confidentiality throughout the investigative process. "... We hope and expect the same level of confidentiality from the institutions we engage with," the spokesperson added. The company stated that the DG's findings "do not reflect the final decision of the CCI" and the submission of the investigation report is an interim procedural step. "Google has not yet had the opportunity to review the DG's findings, much less submit its defence of any allegations," the statement said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-files-writ-with-delhi-hc-against-cci-after-leak-of-confidential-report-1033433.html
23-09-2021||National||15 years on, no State or Union Territory in India fully complies with SC's police reforms directive: Report||Wednesday marks the 15th year of Supreme Court issuing directives for police reforms but Karnataka is the only state in the country that provides its State Security Commission, which is to be set up to ensure that the state government does not exercise "unwarranted influence or pressure" on police, the power to make binding recommendations. Karnataka along with Arunachal Pradesh also give full power to Police Establishment Board (PEB) established to decide all transfers, postings, promotions and other service-related matters for officers of and below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police and make recommendations to the state government on postings and transfers of officers above the rank of DySP among others. An analysis by Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), a private watchdog, also shows that only six states provide security of tenure for their police chief, only seven provide for independent short-listing of candidates and only 13 allow an internal mechanism to enable police leadership to take decisions on transfers without political interference. Neither a single state nor union territories comply fully with the directives in true earnest signaling the central government’s non-compliance, the 'Government Compliance with Supreme Court Directive on Police Reforms: An Assessment 2021' report said. "The failure to comply with the directives reveals the extent to which elected governments are resisting police reform across the country. Needed checks and balances that the directives seek to instill to make policing more professional and accountable are being stymied in multiple ways," it said. According to the SC, the State Security Commission (SSC) is to be set up to ensure that the state government does not exercise unwarranted influence or pressure on the police, lay down broad policy guidelines and evaluate the performance of the state police. It is designed to be a buffer between the political executive and police through its policy-making role and wide membership. The CHRI report said Karnataka is the only state that makes the recommendations of the SSC binding. Other states either do not include any provision on binding recommendations, or make it subject to broad terms like "only to the extent feasible" like in Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh, or "unless...the government decides to disagree with findings of the authority" as in (Delhi). "Absence of a categorical articulation of the SSC recommendations being binding on the respective government weakens the body and reduces its role to being merely advisory, rather than policymaking, as intended by the court," the report said.  Twenty-seven out of 28 states have constituted an SSC, either through Police Acts or government orders and Odisha remains the only state yet to establish an SSC. Seven out of 27 states - Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Punjab, Telangana and Tripura – do not include the Leader of the Opposition in the SSC. When it comes to the two-year tenure and process of appointment of the Director General of Police (DGP), only Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland are the only states that fully comply with the SC directive. Twenty-three states, including Karnataka Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, omit shortlisting by the UPSC and give state governments the sole discretion to select the candidates for the DGP’s post. On separating law and order from investigation, 12 states — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — have failed to comply. Sixteen states, including Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, have taken some measures to separate investigation and law and order duties. Nine states – Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, West Bengal and Uttarakhand – include serving police officers as its members of the On Police Complaints Authorities. While the court did not specifically prohibit this, including serving officers in an authority mandated to inquire into public complaints against the police undermines the principle of independent external oversight and accountability, the report said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-years-on-no-state-or-union-territory-in-india-fully-complies-with-scs-police-reforms-directive-report-1033452.html
23-09-2021||National||Boats and nets of Indian fishermen damaged in alleged attack by Sri Lanka navy||Boats and fishing nets of Indian fishermen from here were damaged in alleged attack by the Sri Lankan Navy, Tamil Nadu Fisheries officials said on Thursday. The incident happened late on Wednesday near Katchatheevu when Lankan Naval personnel, who came in about 10 patrol boats, hurled glass bottles and stones, they said. While nobody sustained injuries, about 25 boats were damaged in the incident while the personnel damaged fishing nets in about 40 craft, officials said. The damaged boats were towed to the shore with the help of others. Fishermen association representatives N Devadass and P Sesuraja expressed concern over such incidents and said the fishers were apprehensive of carrying on with their vocation in the seas due to such recurring incidents. A complaint was lodged with the local Fisheries officials over the matter.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boats-and-nets-of-indian-fishermen-damaged-in-alleged-attack-by-sri-lanka-navy-1033467.html
23-09-2021||National||Patent fees for all educational institutions reduced by 80%||In a bid to boost innovation and entrepreneurship, the Centre on Thursday said it had slashed patent fees for all educational institutions by 80%. Earlier, this concession was extended only to state-run educational institutions. The Commerce and Industry Ministry statement said to avail of the concessional patent fees, innovators will have to make the applications in the name of the institutions which play a key role in innovation. “In this regard and to encourage greater participation of the educations institutions, who play a pivotal role in country’s innovation, official fees payable by them in respect of various acts under the Patents Rules, 2003, have been reduced by way of the Patents (Amendment) Rules, 2021, which came into effect on 21 September 2021,” the statement said. It added that benefits related to 80% reduced fee for patent filing and prosecution have been extended to educational institutions as well. The ministry has also extended the expedited examination system to decide on the grant of patent within one year of filing to eight more categories that include small and medium enterprises (SME), female applicants, government departments, institutions established by a central, provincial or state act, which is owned or controlled by the government, and government companies. A notification issued in this regard stated that an educational institution means a university established or incorporated by or under central, provincial or state laws and includes any other educational institution as recognised by an authority designated by the central, state or the Union territories. The ministry said it has also taken steps to ensure that the time taken for examination of patents is reduced from an average of 72 months in 2015 to 12-30 months at present, depending upon technology fields. “It is expected that the time for final disposal of patent applications, which has reduced to average 48 months at present from a few years earlier, will be reduced to average 24-30 months from filing by end of 2021,” it said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patent-fees-for-all-educational-institutions-reduced-by-80-1033469.html
23-09-2021||National||Provide free cancer treatment to Bhopal gas tragedy victims: HC tells MP govt||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has directed the state government to provide free treatment to Bhopal gas tragedy victims suffering from cancer at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Bhopal. The court issued the order on September 16 and a copy of it was made available on Wednesday. A division bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice V K Shukla issued the direction while hearing petitions of the Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog Sangthan and the Nagrik Upbhokta Margdarshak Manch seeking medical facilities to victims of the tragedy which took place in 1984. The highly toxic methyl isocyanate gas leaked from the then Union Carbide factory in Bhopal on the intervening night of December 2 and 3, 1984, killling more than 3,700 people and affecting more than 5.58 lakh others, according to the state government records. A monitoring committee, formed by the Supreme Court, to look into the issues pertaining to gas tragedy victims, recently submitted its report to the high court. As per the court order, advocate Piyush Jain appeared for the monitoring committee and prayed for time to file a response to the action taken report filed by the state government and the one to be filed by the Union government. "The counsels appearing for the monitoring committee submitted that the committee shall again inspect and give a specific report as to whether any improvement has taken place with regard to treatment and other facilities being provided to gas victims and other patients after the control of Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) was entrusted to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)”, the court order said. "In the meanwhile, it is directed that free of cost treatment be provided to the victims of Bhopal Gas Tragedy, who are suffering from any of the cancers, in AIIMS, Bhopal, in the light of the recommendation made in the meeting convened by (MP) Additional Chief Secretary on June 17, 2021, the HC said in its order. The court posted the matter for next hearing on October 8.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-free-cancer-treatment-to-bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims-hc-tells-mp-govt-1033476.html
23-09-2021||National||Mandaviya releases guidelines on treatment of sequelae of Covid-19||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday released guidelines on the treatment of sequelae of Covid-19 which will help in building the capacity of doctors, nurses, paramedics and community health workers across India to deal with long-term effects of the coronavirus infection. The minister said that the modules have been prepared to provide guidance to doctors and healthcare workers to deal with the issue of long-term effects of Covid-19, the Health Ministry said in a statement. He said that proactive and comprehensive treatment of Covid-19 is required to ensure minimum side effects and no negative effect of the treatment. "We have witnessed the consequences of post-Covid effect in patients due to taking higher doses of steroids like cases of Mucormycosis. It is important to take medicines, with less or negligible side effects. If we are alert beforehand, it will be fruitful in tackling the future consequences of Covid," he was quoted as saying in the statement. "The perceptions related to post-Covid that are perpetuating in our society like fears, mental health issues resulting due to Covid are important to be tackled. So, it's important to understand these post-Covid issues and resolve them," Mandaviya stated. Efforts have been made by the resource persons across the country for the management of these post-Covid-19 complications to prepare the sequelae modules. These are very specialised modules prepared keeping in mind various fields of healthcare professionals, he said. Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar emphasised on the need to tackle mental health issues and to reach the last mile, the statement said. "This pandemic has put an unprecedented challenge on our health and healthcare system. Mental health care is a big challenge for a country with such a large population. We need to build our capacity to tackle this challenge of mental health," Pawar was quoted as saying in the statement. If the frontline workers are equipped with proper knowledge and training, they can become a valuable resource in the fight against these post-Covid-19 challenges. "When we are trying to equip ourselves to fight against post-Covid consequences, it's also important to take these to the last mile. The training modules for mental health and other issues have been prepared based on the needs expressed by state health experts," she said, adding that all should work together to ensure that Covid-19 becomes the last human pandemic.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-releases-guidelines-on-treatment-of-sequelae-of-covid-19-1033492.html
23-09-2021||National||How BJP plans to beat anti-incumbency in poll-bound states||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has already sounded poll bugle in many states ahead of Assembly polls scheduled in 2022 and it is drawing a plan to avoid anti-incumbency. The saffron party is planning to play a tried-and-tested move to drop sitting legislators and field new faces to beat anti-incumbency. The party is planning to drop 50 per cent of MLAs in poll-bound states ahead of the Assembly polls, according to a report by the Hindustan Times. Previously, the BJP had dropped 15-20 per cent of the sitting MLAs but this time the numbers are much higher due to the dissatisfaction from the public on a host of governance, a senior party functionary told the publication. In 2018, the party had dropped 43 sitting MLAs, including four ministers, in Rajasthan. Recently, in a major overhaul, the party added 24 new faces to the Gujarat Cabinet led by CM Bhupendra Patel, following the resignation of Vijay Rupani. Similarly, Uttarakhand Cabinet was given a makeover after Tirath Singh Rawat resigned from the CM post, making way for Pushkar Singh Dhami to sit on the CM throne. Apart from Gujarat and Uttarakhand, Assembly elections will be held in Punjab, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, and Himachal Pradesh in 2022. With the ‘Brand Modi’ taking a hit during the pandemic and the BJP facing setbacks in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, and a slendor victory in Bihar, the saffron party is leaving no stones unturned to lift up its popularity. The BJP have been stressing on performance of the ministers, which is said to play a key role in deciding their future in the party. “In several states, the party has carried out ground surveys to assess the mood. MLAs were also asked to submit their report cards of the work done in the last five years, which were tallied with the party’s own findings. Those whose performance has not been up to the mark will not be repeated,” the functionary told the publication. In the hunt for new faces to represent it, the BJP is said to survey the work of MLAs on the seva front during the Covid-19 pandemic. The party may also look to balance the caste equation while choosing candidates amid the growing debate around a caste-based census. “The caste of a candidate has always been a key factor in deciding tickets,” another functionary told the publication, adding that the party “does not believe in appeasement of any caste.”  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-bjp-plans-to-beat-anti-incumbency-in-poll-bound-states-1033502.html
23-09-2021||National||What India has done, no other country could do: Supreme Court on Covid-19 management||The Supreme Court on Thursday said what India has done, no other country could do, as despite having large population, it has done exceptionally well on management of Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna heaped praise on the Centre for steps taken, including Rs 50,000 ex gratia assistance to kin of Covid-19 deceased. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, informed the court about the guidelines prepared for ex gratia payment as well as issuance of death certificates and grievance redressal in this regard. "To ensure uniformity, we have decided that the states from SDRF (State Disaster Response Fund) will give Rs 50,000 to the kin of the deceased who died due to Covid," he said. "We cannot repair the loss, but we can do something," he submitted. Mehta also clarified that families of those who died by suicide within 30 days of being detected Covid positive, will also be eligible for financial help under the Disaster Management Act. "We are very happy. This will bring solace to a lot of people.... it will wipe the tears of many," the bench said. "We are happy that something is being done to wipe out tears of the person who suffered. We have to take judicial notice of the fact that what India has done, no other country could do," the bench added. The court also pointed out, given the size of the population, vaccine expenses, economic situation, and the adverse circumstances, the government took exemplary steps.  Mehta, for his part, said India, as a nation, responded well. As many as 282 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities in the country due to Covid-19 to 4.46 lakh. The top court reserved its order for October 4 on the guidelines prepared in line with June 30 judgment which came on PILs filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal for payment of Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia amount to the Covid victims' families. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-india-has-done-no-other-country-could-do-supreme-court-on-covid-19-management-1033505.html
23-09-2021||National||UK rule of 10-day quarantine for those vaccinated in India discriminatory: Government||India and the UK have begun discussing issues surrounding the controversies related to the recognition of Covishield certification in the absence of which Indian travelers will have to undergo mandatory quarantine on arrival in the UK. “Excellent technical discussions with R S Sharma (CEO, National Health Authority). Neither side raised technical concerns with each other’s certification process. An important step forward in our joint aim to facilitate travel and fully protect public health of UK and India,” tweeted Alex W Ellis, the British High Commissioner to India. Dr. Sharma reciprocated saying, “This will be instrumental in resuming socio-economic activities between India and UK. We also look forward to deepening ties between the NHA and its UK equivalent (NHSX) as we collaborate to build a digital continuum of healthcare services.” The forward movement in resolving the contentious issues comes in the wake of India taking up the matter strongly with the UK. The row is likely to figure in the bilateral talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson in New York. Asked about the UK rule of 10-day quarantine for those vaccinated in India, top officials of the Union Health ministry said it was a discriminatory practice. "We believe the dispensation that is proposed to be implemented from October 4 is a discriminatory practice. Both the sides are in dialogue and we believe a resolution will be found. We do reserve the right to reciprocate in a similar manner," said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. With India administering more than 84 crore doses, the ministry has decided to inoculate the bed-ridden patients and disabled individuals at home. Officials have been asked to prepare a list of such persons who cannot go to their “Near to Home” vaccination centres. More than 16 crore shots were administered in those centres. Bhushan asked the states to ensure that vaccines are not wasted while conducting such a home-based vaccination strategy, and all other procedures including the adverse effect- monitoring are followed diligently. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-rule-of-10-day-quarantine-for-those-vaccinated-in-india-discriminatory-government-1033507.html
23-09-2021||National||Govt allows at-home Covid-19 vaccine for differently-abled, those with restricted mobility||The government Thursday announced that differently-abled people and those with restricted mobility will be given Covid vaccine at home. Addressing a press conference, Health Ministry officials also said the country is still in the midst of the second wave of Covid-19 even though the number of daily new cases are declining. However, they added, 62.73 per cent of total infections reported last week were from Kerala alone, which is the only state with over 1 lakh active Covid cases. Thirty-three districts in the country are now reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate, while 23 are recording between 5-10 per cent, the officials said. Under Covid guidelines for the upcoming festival season, mass gatherings has to be avoided in containment zones and in districts with over 5 per cent positivity rate, they said. On the vaccination drive, they said as much as 66 per cent of the country's adult population has been given at least one jab and 23 per cent are fully vaccinated. Announcing further ramping up of the vaccination drive, they said that differently-abled people and those with restricted mobility will administered the doses at their home.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-at-home-covid-19-vaccine-for-differently-abled-those-with-restricted-mobility-1033510.html
23-09-2021||National||Choose MPs to Parliament panels based on interest, attendance: Vice President Naidu to parties||At a time the yearly reconstitution of Parliamentary Standing Committees being taken up, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has urged party leaders to nominate MPs to the panels based on their interest and participation, as analysis showed that lawmakers from the Upper House has an attendance of 46 per cent in such meetings. BJP MPs, number 92, from Rajya Sabha clocked an attendance of 56.56 per cent while the 38-member Congress, the main Opposition party, had 41.86 per cent attendance. Three-member AAP had the highest attendance of 77.19 per cent followed by Akali Dal with three MPs had 75.55 per cent while five-member JD(U) had the least at 16.17 per cent, the analysis by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat showed. When Secretary General Dr PPK Ramacharyulu spoke to leaders of various parties to convey Naidu's advice, sources said some leaders attributed the low attendance in some cases to the Covid-19 condition and restrictions as well as elections in some states. BJP has 4-5 MPs in all the committees while Congress has two lawmakers each in 15 committees and one each in eight. In a first, sources said, the analysis of attendance of 243 MPs from 32 parties as well independents and nominated in 361 meetings has been sent to respective party leaders to gauge the interest of MPs of various committees and factor in the same while nominating or re-nominating them to the panels. Parliament has 24 Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees -- 16 are under Lok Sabha while eight are under Rajya Sabha -- with 31 members each -- 20 from Lok Sabha and 11 from Rajya Sabha. The analysis showed that the attendance of BJP MPs has been the highest in the meetings of Defence panel at 87.5 per cent followed by Chemicals and Fertilizers 83.33 per cent, Personnel, Pensions and Public Grievances 79.16 per cent, Home Affairs 77.63 per cent,  Coal and Steel-75 per cent, Industry 72.72 per cent and Education-66.66 per cent. While attendance of BJP MPs in the meetings of 21 committees has been more than 50 per cent, it has been close to 50 per cent for Rural Development, Information Technology and Energy committees. For Congress, the highest attendance of 100 per cent has been reported in respect of the Science and Technology panel with the lone party MP Jairam Ramesh attending all the meetings as Chairman. The agriculture panel also witnessed high attendance from Congress MPs who clocked 93.33 per cent attendance followed by Chemicals and Fertilizers 88.88 per cent, Water Resources 83.33 per cent, Education 83.33 per cent, Home Affairs 78.94 per cent and Rural Development 70.83 per cent. Congress MPs' attendance in the Finance panel was worst at 3.12 per cent while it was slightly better in External Affairs 8.92 per cent, Commerce 13 per cent and Energy 21.42 per cent. Congress MPs reported attendance of below 50 per cent in 11 of the 23 committees of which they were members.   According to the analysis, 16 Rajya Sabha MPs -- 10 from BJP, three from Congress and one each SP, DMK and TRS -- attended all the meetings while 115 others clocked attendance of 50 per cent or more. The attendance of about one-third members of Rajya Sabha has been below 30 per cent. Ten MPs from BJP -- Subramonian Swamy, Rakesh Sinha, KC Ramamurthy, Arun Singh, Vikas Mahatme, Ashok Bajpai, Dr DP Vats, Jaiprakash Nishad, TG Venkatesh and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe -- and three from Congress -- Ramesh, Anand Sharma and Chhaya Verma (Congress) -- are among the MPs who have 100 per cent attendance. Others include Prof Ramgopal Yadav (SP), K Keshava Rao (TRS) and P Wilson (DMK). When it comes to party-wise attendance, YSR Congress (six MPs) has 66.66 per cent, BJD (nine) 61.65 per cent, TRS (seven) 43.56 per cent, DMK (seven) 41.34 per cent, SP (eight) 37.98 per cent, RJD (5) 36.36 per cent, CPI-M (seven) 33.96 per cent, AIADMK (nine) 31.09 per cent, BSP (five 26.66 per cent and Trinamool Congress (13) 24.44 per cent. The attendance of 14 parties with single members each has been 23 per cent with K Ravindra Kumar (TDP) reporting 90 per cent. Five Independents and Nominated members had 9 per cent attendance Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/choose-mps-to-parliament-panels-based-on-interest-attendance-vice-president-naidu-to-parties-1033511.html
23-09-2021||National||PM Modi holds 'productive interaction' with Qualcomm CEO Cristiano E Amon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday began his engagements in the US with a "productive interaction" with President and CEO of Qualcomm Cristiano E Amon during which they discussed investment opportunities offered in India's telecommunications and electronics sector. Modi, who arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, held a one-on-one meeting with Amon here. "Talking technology... @cristianoamon and PM @narendramodi had a productive interaction. PM Modi highlighted the vast opportunities India offers. Mr. Amon expressed keenness to work with India in areas such as 5G and other @_DigitalIndia efforts," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. Talking technology... Modi described the meeting as "fruitful" and said they talked about leveraging technology for greater public good and tech opportunities in India. "He was interested in India’s strides in 5G and our efforts such as PM-WANI to boost connectivity," Modi said. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that they discussed recent electronics and telecom manufacturing Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes; and measures to strengthen the innovation ecosystem. "Toward making India a global innovation hub! PM @narendramodi in conversation with @cristianoamon, CEO @Qualcomm on investment opportunities in hi-tech sectors in India. Discussed recent electronics & telecom manufacturing PLI schemes; & measures to strengthen innovation ecosystem,” he tweeted. "During the meeting, they discussed investment opportunities offered in India’s telecommunications and electronics sector. This included the recently launched Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) as well as developments in the semiconductor supply chain in India,” the MEA said in a release. Strategies for building the local innovation ecosystem in India were also discussed, it added. Sources said Amon expressed enthusiasm to work with India on ambitious digital transformation programmes including in 5G, PM WANI and others. He also expressed interest partnering with India to work in the field of semiconductors. Prime Minister Modi assured him that India will proactively work on the proposals made by them. He also stressed that India has the scale for ambitious projects. He said that India has prepared 5G standards and urged Qualcomm to actively participate as they did in case of NAVIK, sources said. Modi also said that since Qualcomm has trusted Indian talent already, it can now trust Indian talent and start manufacturing with the advantage the PLI scheme offers. He also spoke about the new liberalised drone policy and said that Qualcomm could take part in new opportunities in the new emerging market, according to sources. "It was an honor meeting with India’s Prime Minister @narendramodi today. Great discussion on #5G, #vRAN, digital transformation, and the importance of semiconductors and a reliable geo-diversified supply chain," Amon tweeted after his meeting with the Prime Minister. "Qualcomm supports India’s transition to #5G and transformation into a digitally empowered society. We look forward to working with the government, @investindia and local industry to help realize the vast growth opportunities for the technology sector and startup community,” he said in another tweet. In an interview to Doordarshan after his meeting, Amon said, "We are so proud of our partnership (with India).” Qualcomm is now pioneering its way to 5G with a new era of intelligent products that are revolutionizing industries, including automotive, computing, and IoT. "We talked about 5G and the celebration of 5G. We talked about an incredible opportunity to advance the industry not only domestically in India but India as an export of technology,” he said in response to a question. Amon said they spoke about digital transformation enabled by 5G combined with the design in India. "We talked about semiconductors, which is kind of an important topic of conversation. And we talked about the opportunity to continue to build an incredible mobile ecosystem that is developing in India. We are very pleased with the conversations and we're very, very happy with everything we're doing together with India,” he said. Responding to a question, Amon said Qualcomm would continue to invest in India. India, he said, could be an important destination for the semiconductor industry, subject to the availability of infrastructure. India, he said, is a great place for investors, not only to invest directly, but also to support other companies. For example, Qualcomm has a designing India program that helps several startup companies in India. Qualcomm, he said, has been very successful to date with all the investments that are made in India. The Prime Minister’s approach to drive economic growth in making India a destination for investment has been very successful, he said. "We welcome that,” he said. The meeting with chip giant Amon assumes significance, given India’s push for the 5G technology to be safe and secure. The San Diego-based company creates semiconductors, software, and services related to wireless technology. A world leader in 3G, 4G, and next-generation wireless technology innovations for more than 30 years, Qualcomm is now pioneering its way to 5G with a new era of intelligent products that are revolutionising industries, including automotive, computing, and Internet of Things (IoT). India is looking for a major investment from Qualcomm, which has a huge presence in the country, including Research and Development. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-productive-interaction-with-qualcomm-ceo-cristiano-e-amon-1033524.html
23-09-2021||National||PM meets CEOs of US companies, invites them to invest more in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday commenced his visit in Washington D.C. with meetings with the top brass of the multinational companies based in the United States, hard-selling his government’s initiatives to draw more foreign investments to revive the Covid-hit economy of India, including the recently launched Production Linked Incentive scheme. Modi had separate one-to-one meetings with Cristiano Amon, Shantanu Narayen, Mark Widmar, Vivek Lall and Stephen Schwarzman, the Chief Executive Officers of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, General Atomics Global Corporation and Blackstone respectively. They discussed prospects of the US companies investing or expanding existing investments in India. The Prime Minister and the Qualcomm CEO discussed investment opportunities offered in the telecommunications and electronic sectors in India. Modi pointed out that the Qualcomm could take advantage of the recently launched Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for electronic system design and manufacturing. He also highlighted recent efforts by his government to achieving self-reliance in production of semiconductors and to find long-term solution to the global chip shortage which started hitting the auto industry in India. “We're so proud of our partnership with India. We're happy with everything we're doing together with India,” the Qualcomm CEO told journalists after his meeting with the Prime Minister. Amon conveyed to Modi that the Qualcomm was interested in exploring opportunities for production of semiconductors in India. He also evinced his company’s interests in digital transformation programmes in India, a source aware of the discussion between the two said. The source quoted the Qualcomm CEO saying that India is a big market but the company also saw it as a big export market. It is the right time for the Government of India to not only encourage manufacturing for the market in India, but also plan to serve the need of other countries, he told the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister stressed that India had prepared 5G standards, and urged the Qualcomm to actively participate in the 5G rollout, as they did in case of the NAVIK. He also spoke about the new liberalised drone policy of the Government of India and said that Qualcomm could take part in new opportunities in the emerging market. The Prime Minister and the General Atomics CEO discussed investment opportunities in the defence technology sector in India. Lall appreciated the recent policy changes by the Modi Government to accelerate defence and emerging technology manufacturing and augment capacity building in India. Narayen of the Adobe expressed desire to bring videos and animation to every child in India. The Prime Minister told him that bringing smart education to every child is important and that made technology very significant. He said that the ground for digital education had been laid in the Covid-19 era and it should be taken forward now. Modi and Narayen emphasised on creating few centres of excellence in Artificial Intelligence in India. Modi told Widmar about India’s ambitious target of installing capacity for generating 450 GW of renewable energy. He also emphasised on India’s focus on manufacturing solar energy and said that the companies in the field of solar energy could take maximum advantage of the recently launched PLI schemes. Schwarzman briefed Modi about the Blackstone’s ongoing projects in India and its interest in further investments in the infrastructure and real estate sectors. The Prime Minister and the Blackstone CEO discussed investment opportunities in India, including the ones under National Infrastructure Pipeline and National Monetisation Pipeline. The Air India One with the Prime Minister on board landed at the Andrews Air Force Base near the US capital early on Thursday (6 pm on Wednesday Washington D.C. time). He was welcomed by T H Brian McKeon, Deputy Secretary for Management and Resources at the US State Department. New Delhi’s envoy to Washington D.C. Taranjit Singh Sandhu was also present at the airport. Some Indian-Americans greeted the Prime Minister on his arrival in Washington D.C. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-meets-ceos-of-us-companies-invites-them-to-invest-more-in-india-1033527.html
23-09-2021||National||BSP MLA Ansari seeks high-level security, says may be poisoned in jail||BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari on Thursday requested a court to grant him a high-level security, fearing that he may be poisoned in the jail as the government is "unhappy" with him. The BSP MLA is currently lodged in a Banda jail. Ansari, according to his lawyer Randhir Singh Suman, made the request during a hearing through video-conferencing. "The state government is unhappy with me. It can happen that I may be given poison in food," Ansari said, adding that if he is given a high-level security, his fear will end. Mukhtar's lawyer Suman has given an application, demanding security for him as per the jail manual. The court has fixed October 7 as the date for next hearing, Suman said, adding that Judge Kamal Kant Srivastava said he will give directions in this regard soon. Earlier during a hearing in August, Mukhtar had alleged that a Rs 5 crore contract was given to kill him inside the jail. Ansari was produced in the court in a case of forgery and cheating in the registration of a bulletproof ambulance used to ferry him between courts and jail in Punjab. After having been brought from a Ropar jail in Punjab recently, Ansari was lodged in the Banda jail in a slew of criminal cases.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-mla-ansari-seeks-high-level-security-says-may-be-poisoned-in-jail-1033536.html
23-09-2021||National||Don't allow mass gatherings in containment zones, districts with over 5% Covid positivity rate, Centre tells states||Ahead of the upcoming festive season, the Centre has asked states and Union Territories to ensure that mass gatherings are not allowed in containment zones and in districts reporting over five percent Covid case positivity rate. In a letter to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said these gatherings should also be monitored and necessary enforcement and penal actions should be taken in case of violations in physical distancing and mask usage norms. "As a matter of abundant caution, no mass gatherings should be allowed. In areas identified as containment zones and in districts reporting more than 5 per cent case positivity. "Gatherings with advance permissions and limited people (as per local context) may be allowed only in districts reporting a positivity rate of 5 per cent or below," he said. Restrictions and relaxations should be imposed and monitored based on weekly case positivity or a high bed occupancy (Oxygen and ICU beds), and restrictions if any should be imposed without any delay and for a minimum period of 14 days besides continued focus on the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and adherence to Covid-Appropriate Behaviour, he told states. Noting that it is a critical period as there may be a tendency to ignore Covid-safe behaviour during festivals, resulting in large gatherings, events and fairs, Bhushan said it is critical to enforce adherence to guidelines to allow festivities in a cautious, safe and Covid appropriate manner. "Any laxity in implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour could lead to serious consequences and can result in a surge in cases," he said. To safely navigate through the festive season without any adverse consequences in the form of infection outbreak, the Centre said it is important that states continue to diligently follow the five pillars of Covid-19 Management -- "Test-Track-Treat-vaccinate and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour". The Centre said there should be strict adherence to limits on gatherings linked with availability of space to ensure effective physical distancing and use of volunteers to aid thermal screenings, to enforce use of masks and physical distancing. "Closed circuit cameras may also be utilized to monitor compliance to physical distancing and use of masks," the Centre told states in the letter issued on Tuesday. As an abundant caution, the Centre said states can continue with night curfews, weekend curfews and other restrictions to highlight that Covid-19 is still not over and to influence adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. "States shall closely monitor the case trajectories across all districts on a daily basis to identify any early warning signals and shall ensure imposition of restrictions and adherence to Covid Appropriate Behaviour as a non-pharmaceutical intervention to control the spread of infection," the Centre said. The Centre further said it is important that these guidelines are reiterated and ensured by the state governments among all concerned for effective follow up in a mission-mode approach to maintain the gains made so far in Covid-19 management and avoid any resurgence of cases.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-allow-mass-gatherings-in-containment-zones-districts-with-over-5-covid-positivity-rate-centre-tells-states-1033544.html
23-09-2021||National||Centre's 'power' push, to set up district-wise committees headed by local MPs||With the Centre aggressively pushing power sector reforms, the Union Ministry of Power has decided to set up a district-wise committee headed by a local Member of Parliament. The district electricity committee would comprise most senior Member of Parliament (MP) in the district as the Chairperson, other MPs in the district as Co-chairpersons, District Collector as Member Secretary, among others, said an official in the Ministry of Power. The panel will oversee power-related schemes, how reforms are being implemented and their impact on consumers. As per the order issued by the Ministry, the committee of a district will meet at the district headquarters at least once in three months to review and coordinate the overall development of power supply infrastructure in the district, in accordance with the schemes of the government. The Ministry also said every state has to ensure the district committee should set up and hold meetings on a regular basis. The NDA Government is planning to bring the Electricity (Amendment) Bill which proposes sweeping reforms in the power sector including de-licensing the power distribution business in the country. Once the bill becomes a law, power distribution would be de-licensed and consumers will have an option to choose power supply service providers, just like they do in the telecom sector. The bill is intended to end private as well as government monopoly in the power distribution sector. Though the bill was listed for introduction in the recent monsoon session but was not introduced in Parliament. However, non-NDA ruled states and power sector employees unions have strongly opposed provisions of the bill saying it would be against consumers’ interest. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-power-push-to-set-up-district-wise-committees-headed-by-local-mps-1033546.html
23-09-2021||National||Caste Census of backward classes administratively difficult, Government tells Supreme Court||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that caste Census of Backward Classes is “administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision" The Centre's stand assumes significance as recently, a 10-party delegation from Bihar, which was led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding caste Census. In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the government has said that caste enumeration in Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 was “fraught” with mistakes and inaccuracies. The affidavit was filed in the top court in response to a plea by Maharashtra seeking a direction to the Centre and other concerned authorities to disclose to the state the SECC 2011 raw caste data of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) which is not made available to them on “repeated demand”. The affidavit, filed by the secretary of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, said the Centre has already issued a notification in January last year prescribing the series of information to be collected during Census 2021 and it covers many areas including the information relating to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes but does not refer to any other category of caste. It said the exclusion of information regarding any other caste from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision" taken by the Central government. It said enumeration of OBCs/BCCs (Backward Class of Citizens) has been always adjudged to be administratively “extremely complex” and even when Census of castes were taken in the pre-independence period, the data suffered in respect of completeness and accuracy. “The issue has been examined at length in the past at different points of time. Each time, the view has consistently been that the caste Census of Backward Classes is administratively difficult and cumbersome; it has suffered and will suffer both on account of completeness and accuracy of the data, as also evident from the infirmities of the SCEE, 2011 data mentioned hereinabove making it unusable for any official purposes and cannot be mentioned as a source of information for population data in any official document,” the affidavit said. The government said that SECC 2011 survey was not on the ‘OBC survey’ as alleged, but a comprehensive exercise to enumerate the caste status of all households in the country, as per their statement. It said socio-economic data of households, including their “deprivations” were used to identify the poor households based on the multi-dimensional nature of poverty and used in the implementation of the anti-poverty programmes by the Central Government ministries. It said, “the caste data has not been disclosed and has been kept with the Office of the Registrar General, India (ORGI) for various reasons, but primarily for the technical flaws that were noticed in the raw caste/tribe SECC data which makes it unusable as explained hereinafter”. The matter came up for hearing on Thursday before a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar which posted it for October 26. In the affidavit, the government has said that so far as caste data is concerned, a caste-wise enumeration in the Census has been given up as a matter of policy from 1951 onwards and thus, the castes other than the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have not been enumerated in any of the Census since 1951 till today. It said demands from various sections, including members of Parliament, for enumeration of castes in Census 2011 was received during the year 2010 and the matter was discussed in Lok Sabha and subsequently, the government referred it to a Group of Ministers (GoM) chaired by the then Union Finance Minister. The affidavit said the Union Cabinet in 2011 decided to conduct the SECC 2011 wherein the caste of the household along with social-economic status on the identified parameters was directed to be collected. It said as per the decision of the Cabinet, the data has been shared with the ministry of social justice and empowerment by the ORGI in a hard disk for taking the suitable decision on its use. “Pertinently, due to several infirmities found in the aforesaid data as explained hereinafter, it was decided by the Cabinet to constitute an expert committee under the chairmanship of the then Vice-Chairman NITI Aayog Prof Arvind Panagariya,” it said. It said other members of the committee were not named and the panel never met. “As a result, no action has been taken on the data in the past five years,” it said. The affidavit said as against more than 4.28 lakh castes which have been enumerated in the SECC 2011 in the state, the existing castes which are published in Maharashtra in SC, ST, and OBC categories are only 494. “For the above referred various reasons either due to the mistakes committed by the enumerators, inherent flaws in the manner of conducting Census and several such other factors, there is no reliable or dependable castes based Census data available which can be the basis of any constitutional or statutory exercise like reservations in admission, promotion or local body elections,” the affidavit said. The government said that the population Census is not the “ideal instrument” for the collection of details on castes and the operational difficulties are so many that there is a grave danger that the basic integrity of the Census data may be compromised and the fundamental population count itself could get distorted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caste-census-of-backward-classes-administratively-difficult-government-tells-supreme-court-1033549.html
23-09-2021||National||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu asks parents to impart value-based education to children||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday urged parents and educators to impart value-based education to children with a focus on Indian culture, tradition and ethos. He felt that such a value-based and holistic education was necessary for the overall development of the child. Speaking at an event commemorating the first death anniversary of legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, Naidu suggested that school curricula should lay greater emphasis on Indian art and culture and provide a comprehensive view of the country's heritage. He said music provides solace to mind and children should be encouraged to learn it. The vice president paid rich tributes to the late singer.  Recalling the life of the versatile singer, Naidu said in the five decades of his musical journey, Balasubrahmanyam left an indelible mark on the musical world.  He also recalled his close association with the late singer and their common love for Telugu language, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-asks-parents-to-impart-value-based-education-to-children-1033559.html
23-09-2021||National||India, UK hold technical discussions on vaccine certification||British High Commissioner Alex Ellis and National Health Authority Chairman RS Sharma on Thursday held discussions on vaccine certification for Indian travellers with the UK envoy describing the deliberations as "excellent" and "important step forward". In a tweet, Ellis said neither side raised technical concerns with each other's certification process in the technical discussions. The talks came a day after the UK amended its new travel guidelines to include the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine in its updated list of approved Covid-19 vaccines. "Excellent technical discussions with @rssharma3 @AyushmanNHA. Neither side raised technical concerns with each other's certification process. An important step forward in our joint aim to facilitate travel and fully protect public health of UK and India," he tweeted following the talks. In his reply to the envoy's comments, Sharma echoed Ellis's views and talked about deepening of ties between health authorities of the two sides. "Echoing his excellency @AlexWEllis's views, this will be instrumental in resuming socio-economic activities between India and UK. We also look forward to deepening ties between @AyushmanNHA and @NHSX, as we collaborate to build a digital continuum of healthcare services," Sharma tweeted. Following India's strong criticism over the UK's refusal to recognise Covishield, London on Wednesday included the vaccine in its updated international travel advisory. However, Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK notwithstanding the amendment, UK officials clarified on Wednesday saying the inclusion of the vaccine will not make much of a difference. "We're clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we're already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students," Ellis said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the CoWIN app and the NHS app, about both apps. They're happening at a rapid pace, to ensure that both countries mutually recognise the vaccine certificates issued by each other," he had said. According to new rules, Indian travellers who received both doses of the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. In a strong reaction, India had on Tuesday warned of "reciprocal measures" if the UK does not address its concerns over the new travel rules relating to Covid-19 vaccine certification with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla describing these norms as "discriminatory". The new British rules have triggered massive criticism in India. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also took up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York on Tuesday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-hold-technical-discussions-on-vaccine-certification-1033564.html
23-09-2021||National||PM Modi discusses boosting India’s defence tech with General Atomics chief executive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday met Indian-American Chief Executive of General Atomics Vivek Lall and held talks on strengthening India’s defence technology sector, including its strides in drone technology and the path-breaking reforms and the Production-Linked Incentive scheme. Lall, a prominent Indian-American aerospace and defence expert who played key roles in some of the major defence deals between India and the US, was last year appointed as the Chief Executive of General Atomics Global Corporation at its headquarters in San Diego, California. Lall appreciated the recent policy changes to accelerate defence and emerging technology manufacturing and augment capacity building in India in his talks with the prime minister, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement. “They spoke about strengthening the defence technology sector in India,” it said. “Discussing a subject of the future, which has captured the imagination of the present. Mr. Vivek Lall of @GeneralAtomics Global Corporation interacted with PM @narendramodi. They discussed India's strides in drone technology, including the path-breaking reforms and PLI (Production-Linked Incentive) scheme,” the Office of Prime Minister Modi said on Twitter. General Atomics (GA) is one of the world’s leading privately held nuclear and defense companies.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-discusses-boosting-india-s-defence-tech-with-general-atomics-chief-executive-1033566.html
23-09-2021||National||Government places order of 118 tanks for Indian Army worth Rs 7,523 crore from Heavy Vehicles Factory||The Government on Thursday placed a Rs 7,523 crore order with the Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF) based at Avadi in Chennai for supply of 118 indigenous Arjun Mk-1A Main Battle Tanks (MBTs) to the Indian Army. The state-of-the-art MBT Arjun Mk-1A is a new variant of the Arjun Tank and it was designed to enhance firepower, mobility and survivability. “Infused with 72 new features and more indigenous content from the Mk-1 variant, the tank would ensure effortless mobility in all terrains, besides precise target engagement during day and night,” the Ministry of Defence (MoD) stated after placing the order with the HVF. The government said that the order placed with the HVF for the 118 Arjun Mk-1A would provide further boost to the ‘Make in India’ initiative in the defence sector and was a big step towards achieving ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Prime Minister had handed over the MBT Arjun Mk-1A to the Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane in Chennai on February 14 last. The tank was designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) by incorporating numerous upgrades on the Arjun MBT, the in-service main battle tank with the Indian Army. The MK-1A is equipped with accurate and superior firepower, all-terrain mobility and an invincible multi-layered protection provided by an array of advanced technology systems. It can take on the enemy during day and night conditions and in both static and dynamic modes. “This indigenous MBT proves to be at par with any contemporary in its class across the globe. This tank is particularly configured and designed for Indian conditions and hence it is suitable for deployment to protect the frontiers in an effective manner,” the MoD stated. The government said that the production order to HVF opened up a large avenue in defence manufacturing for over 200 Indian vendors including MSMEs, with employment opportunities for around 8,000 people. This will be a flagship project showcasing the indigenous capability in cutting edge defence technologies, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-places-order-of-118-tanks-for-indian-army-worth-rs-7523-crore-from-heavy-vehicles-factory-1033568.html
23-09-2021||National||PM Modi meets Adobe CEO, discusses company's India investment plans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday met President and CEO of Adobe Shantanu Narayen and discussed the California-based software giant’s collaboration and future investment plans in India. The discussions between prime minister Modi and Narayen also focused on India’s flagship programme Digital India, and the use of emerging technologies in sectors like health, education and R&D. Modi and Narayen both emphasised on creating few centres of excellence of Artificial Intelligence in India. “They discussed Adobe’s ongoing collaboration and future investment plans in India. Discussions also focused on India’s flagship programme Digital India, and use of emerging technologies in sectors like health, education and R&D,” External Affairs Ministry said in a statement. Modi, who arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, held one-on-one meetings with CEOs of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, General Atomics and Blackstone here. The prime minister in his meeting with the Indian-origin Adobe CEO said that bringing smart education to every child is important and that makes the technology very important, asserting that in the Covid-19 era, the ground for digital education has been laid. Narayen appreciated the efforts of India towards fighting Covid-19, particularly in the rapid vaccination, and expressed desire to bring video, animation to every child in India. “We’re very supportive of more emphasis and interest in education. It (investment) has been outstanding in India, it is actually our secret weapon. We started in India well before it was fashionable to have an Indian facility. “But we also said right from the beginning that we want the best and we want to be able… and actually do fundamental innovation so, we have multiple centres in India, we have in Noida, Bengaluru and Hyderabad and in addition to our sales offices all around the country. It has been a home run,” he told reporters. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-adobe-ceo-discusses-companys-india-investment-plans-1033573.html
23-09-2021||National Politics||After Gandhis' Shimla sojourn, reshuffle on cards in Congress||After the Shimla confabulations of the Gandhis where Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are on vacation, it is expected that Congress will push for an AICC reshuffle and put its house in order in the states. This follows the Punjab operation in which Rahul Gandhi pushed for change and Charanjit Singh Channi was appointed as Chief Minister after the exit of Amarinder Singh. This has raised hopes in Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan where two chief minister aspirants -- TS Singh Deo and Sachin Pilot -- are waiting for their turn. Ahead of the Shimla vacation, Rahul Gandhi had met Sachin Pilot in Delhi for a long discussion. Although no details have come out about the meeting, alarm bells have started ringing in Rajasthan with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot likely to travel to Delhi to meet the central leadership. There is a strong sense in the Congress that Pilot will return as the Pradesh Congress Committee chief and move forward with the new assignment ahead of state elections. Similarly, in Chhattisgarh, there has been no final decision on the demand for rotational chief ministership. Rahul Gandhi was supposed to go there on the chief minister's invitation but that he chose otherwise shows that all is not well. The Chhattisgarh Chief Minister may have time till the elections in five states as his team are working in Uttar Pradesh. In the election going states of UP, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, and Punjab, the Congress sees a chance of returning to power in four states except UP where it is not the main challenger. The party also has a tough task to overcome the Aam Aadmi Party which is cutting into its votes in Punjab, Goa, and Uttarakhand. The Congress is likely to see a reshuffle in the AICC with the appointment of a Gujarat in-charge in the party, a post which is vacant due to the demise of Rajeev Satav. The party will also try to balance regional and caste equations in the AICC with more representation from the northern states. However, there is strong resentment against Rahul Gandhi's close aides in the party and there is a consultation to appoint a senior leader to quell the resentment. The party has to decide on the organisational elections which was also the demand of the G-23 group in the party. After the Shimla sojourn, it has to be seen if Rahul Gandhi is ready to take the post or the Congress will go for a working president. Senior party leader Shashi Tharoor had said on Saturday there should be new leadership in the Congress party. "No one has spoken a word against Sonia Gandhi, but she herself is saying she wishes to step down and hence a new leadership should take over quickly." "If Rahul Gandhi wishes to take over, it should happen quickly," said Tharoor to the media as he arrived near Ernakulam on a day that saw the party's Punjab unit implode. He said if Congress has to come back, things should fall in place quickly and it should get ready to face the elections. Till now various frontal organisations of the Congress party have been demanding that Rahul Gandhi should take over as the new president. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-gandhis-shimla-sojourn-reshuffle-on-cards-in-congress-1033367.html
23-09-2021||National Politics||Vasundhara Raje accuses Gehlot govt of mismanagement in Dravyavati river project||Former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje on Thursday hit out at the Congress government in the state over the alleged mismanagement in the Dravyavati river project, one of the ambitious works undertaken during her tenure.  The state government, she said, should look at the project from the point of view of public interest instead of looking at it through a political lens. "Dravyavati River Front was not only a dream project of our BJP government, but also the hope of lakhs of people of Jaipur for which we took a pledge and at a cost of Rs 1400 crore, we moved forward towards converting a dirty drain into a beautiful and clean river," Raje tweeted.' She said that as soon as the work on the project was completed, the image of a new, beautiful and clean Jaipur in the form of a 47 km-long river front had taken shape.  Raje alleged that due to the insensitivity and negligence of the state government, the Dravyavati River Front project has become a victim of mismanagement. "I urge the state government to look at the Dravyavati River Front project from the point of view of public interest instead of looking at it through a political lens so that this project can become an example in the country and the world as a tourist destination and add beauty to Jaipur city," the BJP leader said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vasundhara-raje-accuses-gehlot-govt-of-mismanagement-in-dravyavati-river-project-1033432.html
23-09-2021||National Politics||Sena likens Governors in non-BJP states to 'rogue elephants', says they are trampling democracy||The Shiv Sena on Thursday accused the governors in non-BJP-ruled states, including Maharashtra, of acting like rogue elephants and trampling under their feet democratic constitution, laws, and political culture. Without taking the name of Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the party, in an editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ also alleged that the Centre was using governors to destabilise those states that are being ruled by non-BJP parties. The Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government shares an uneasy relationship with governor Koshyari. Among other issues, Koshyari has been under fire from the state government over the delay in approving the appointment of 12 MLCs from his quota. "The governors in non-BJP-ruled states are like rogue elephants and their mahouts (handlers) are sitting in New Delhi. Such elephants trample democratic processes, laws, political culture under their feet and set new precedence,” the Sena said. How appropriate is it that the governors are using all their power to destabilise the state government because it is formed by non-BJP parties, the party asked. Such efforts are affecting the unity of the country. It is like playing with fire. But one should remember that in doing so, one’s own hands may get burnt. The use of the governor's post for such work is demolishing the constitutional structure, it added. "If some people think that Indian democracy will sustain and flourish by constructing a new parliament complex in the national capital, then they should also pay attention to the screams of the federal governments that have been trampled. The states are not allowed to function properly and the agents of the party in power are given free hand to create chaos in the states," the Sena alleged. "Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has expressed his concerns over the safety of women and the law and order situation in the state. But why such concern is not expressed by the governors of Uttar Pradesh or Madhya Pradesh. The BJP women MLAs in Maharashtra have raised the same issue. But how come the BJP women legislators from other states are not expressing similar concerns for MP and UP?” it asked. Why they are creating so much noise over the issue in Maharashtra? Because the BJP is not in power here, while it rules those in two other states. The suspicious death of a seer or attacks on women in UP and MP seems to be purposefully ignored, the Sena said. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party also targeted the Union government over providing police protection to those BJP leaders who indulge in “mud-slinging” against the non-BJP-ruled states. It was apparently referring to a former MP from Mumbai Kirit Somaiya, who was recently given Z category security. "Union Home Minister Amit Shah has called for a meeting of chief ministers in various states to discuss ways to tackle growing Naxal activities. However, hundreds of CRPF jawans are deployed in protecting some people who indulge in mud-slinging against some state governments. It is necessary to use such forces (CRPF) against Naxals rather than wasting them on protecting some persons," the Sena said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sena-likens-governors-in-non-bjp-states-to-rogue-elephants-says-they-are-trampling-democracy-1033460.html
23-09-2021||National Politics||Is there space for 'humiliation, insult' in Congress, asks Amarinder Singh||Days after the party leadership secured his resignation leading to a change of guard in Punjab, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh continues to spew anger while the party's central leadership is in a conciliatory mode as it moves towards Punjab Cabinet expansion next week. Refusing to be provoked by Captain's "inexperienced" barb against Gandhi siblings, the party on Thursday indicated it is not in a mood to ratchet up the issue and would prefer for Singh to cool down with the passage of time. "He is our elder and the elderly often get angry and say a lot of things. We respect his anger, age and experience. We hope he does reconsider his words. But, there is no space in politics for anger, envy, enmity, vendetta, personal attacks and comments against political opponents," Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. The party also refused to comment on whether Singh would leave the party after his "unceremonious" exit as the chief minister of Punjab, and said "if someone wants to leave, we have no comment to offer". Singh had on Wednesday called Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra "inexperienced” and also threatened to pit a "strong" candidate against Punjab party unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in the upcoming assembly polls. Singh, meanwhile once again flagged his "insult". "Yes, there's no space for anger in politics. But is there space for humiliation and insult in a grand old party like Congress? If a senior party leader like me can be treated like this, I wonder what the workers must go through!," Singh said, hitting back. Scaling up his attack on his bete noire Sidhu, the former Chief Minister called him a "drama master". He was also dismissive of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and alleged that the Punjab government is from the party in Delhi. Singh made these remarks in an interaction with the media in Chandigarh. At the AICC briefing, Shrinate also reminded Singh was made the chief minister instead of Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. “But I would not like to comment on those who want to leave the party. People make decisions in politics. Some in their own interest, some in the interest of their constituency but these are individual decisions to leave or join a party. I do not want to say anything on this,” she said amid speculation of Amarinder exploring other options and Congress not denying any such possibility. Party sources said that Congress leadership will try to avoid a split in the state unit. Check out DH's latest vidoes:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-there-space-for-humiliation-insult-in-congress-asks-amarinder-singh-1033496.html
23-09-2021||National Politics||Controversial remarks, frosty relations with colleagues led to Dilip Ghosh's removal as Bengal BJP chief||The BJP’s decision to remove Dilip Ghosh, its most successful state president in West Bengal, ahead of the completion of his term and replacing him with the comparatively inexperienced Sukanta Majumdar has raised several questions regarding the saffron party’s future strategy for the state. Despite falling short of the target set by Union Home Minister Amit Shah of winning 200 seats in the last Assembly elections, Ghosh was the most successful state president as far as elections are concerned. It was during his tenure that the BJP stunned the Trinamool Congress (TMC) by winning 18 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, its highest tally in Bengal. Also, BJP became the main opposition party for the first time in Bengal after winning 77 seats in the last Assembly elections during his tenure.   State BJP sources said a section of leaders has complained to the central leadership against Ghosh’s way of running the party. “The main complaint against Ghosh was that he got along with very few state BJP leaders. Whether it’s Mukul Roy or Babul Supriyo, he barely got along with anyone,” a senior State BJP leader said. Ghosh’s outspoken nature and habit of frequently making controversial remarks also did not go down well with the central leadership. They cautioned Ghosh repeatedly to mince his words and try to get along with other party leaders. But Ghosh continued with his aggressive attitude. A section of state BJP leadership claimed that by making controversial remarks, Ghosh alienated middle class educated Bengalis from the party which adversely affected its performance in the last Assembly elections. It seems that Ghosh was made a scapegoat for the party’s defeat in the last Assembly elections where most of the strategic decisions including indicting leaders from the TMC was taken by the central leadership. “Barring a few general secretaries, Ghosh was barely on good terms with other party leaders. TMC was taking advantage of the internal discontent in the BJP and engineered defection in the party. Majumdar was appointed by the central leadership to bring in someone who can get along with everybody,” said political observer and author Snigdhendu Bhattacharya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/controversial-remarks-frosty-relations-with-colleagues-led-to-dilip-ghoshs-removal-as-bengal-bjp-chief-1033513.html
23-09-2021||National Politics||'Nationalist' Amarinder's ouster political murder, says Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday termed Congress veteran Amarinder Singh's exit as the Punjab CM a "political murder", which he said was done as the "nationalist" leader was a hurdle in the party’s "gameplan". Vij also accused the Congress of hatching an "anti-national conspiracy" in Punjab while referring to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's visit to Islamabad for the swearing-in ceremony of Imran Khan in 2018. After resigning as the Punjab CM following a bitter power tussle with Sidhu, Amarinder Singh had said he felt "humiliated" and called the Punjab Congress chief "anti-national" and "dangerous". Claiming that the Congress wants to bring Punjab and Pakistan closer, Vij alleged that an "anti-national conspiracy is being hatched" in the state. "Nationalist Amarinder Singh was a hurdle in the Congress gameplan, this is why his political murder was done," Vij told reporters here. He further alleged that the "conspiracy" is being hatched by the top leadership of the Congress. "All nationalist forces should join hands to defeat this conspiracy," he said. The Haryana minister said this was proved when Sidhu went to Pakistan to attend Imran Khan's oath ceremony despite Amarinder Singh advising him against it. Vij said in Pakistan, Sidhu not only heaped praise on Imran Khan but also warmly hugged the neighbouring nation's Army chief. "When Sidhu came back and was asked why he had gone to Pakistan despite Amarinder advising him not to go, he then said that my captain is not Amarinder Singh, my captain is Rahul Gandhi," Vij said. "It is clear from this that the game was being played and the conspiracy was being hatched against nationalist Amarinder Singh, who was obstructing this dirty conspiracy of the Congress," Vij alleged. Not only Amarinder Singh, all nationalist forces in Punjab should join hands "to defeat the gameplan of the Congress", said Vij.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nationalist-amarinders-ouster-political-murder-says-anil-vij-1033529.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Prime accused in Narendra Giri death case from Rajasthan||Anand Giri, a disciple of Narendra Giri, who has been accused by the seer in his 7-page suicide note, is a native of Rajasthan's Bhilwara district, who left his home at the age of 13. His father Rameshwar Chotiya still resides in a small home in village Sareri in Jaipur. He said that Anand was a name given to him later. "We have named him Ashok. 25 years back, he left home without informing anyone. He was a Class 7 student at that time. We tried searching for him and after a few years, someone informed us that he is in Haridwar. "We tried searching for him in Haridwar too and traced him in Narendra Giri's ashram. We spoke to the latter, Narendra Giri then brought Anand along with him to our village in 2012. He was given Diksha here in the presence of family members." Anand Giri's father said that the duo stayed in Jaipur for an hour and then did not come back. However, Anand Giri came back after his mother's demise five months back. The family denied the claims that Anand Giri ever sent them any money. Anand Giri is the youngest of the siblings. Two elder brothers are in Surat and are scrap dealers, mother died five months back and his father is engaged in farming while one brother runs a vegetable cart. The three-brother family has an ancestral house where they all are staying. The villagers, meanwhile, consider him as an icon and said that Anand Giri has a cool and composed nature and he could not engage in any crime. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prime-accused-in-narendra-giri-death-case-from-rajasthan-1033366.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Newly-recruited militant killed in Kashmir’s Shopian||A newly-recruited militant was killed in an overnight gunfight with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Thursday. Police said the slain militant Anayat Ashraf Dar, son of Ashraf Dar of Keshwa, Shopian, was involved in attacking a shopkeeper in the area last night. In a statement, a police spokesperson said that last night, a recently active militant, who was earlier an over-ground worker (OGW) and also involved in drug trade fired upon a civilian Jeewer Hameed Bhat, seriously injuring him. “Anayat also used to threaten other people in and around his village with his illegally acquired weapons,” he said and added that thorough interrogation of several suspects after the attack and input from sources led security forces to the militant hiding in Keshwa village.   “The militant was offered to surrender but he declined. Later on, during the encounter, the militant was killed. One pistol and ammunition was also recovered from his possession,” the statement said. Over 100 militants and 21 security forces and police personnel have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) was killed in July. Among the militants slain in J&K this year, only 11 were Pakistanis while the rest were all locals. According to the Army, there are still 200-225 militants active across the J&K despite the fact that almost no infiltration has taken place so far this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/newly-recruited-militant-killed-in-kashmir-s-shopian-1033380.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||3 gang-rape teenage girl in UP's Muzaffarnagar, leave her in jungle||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by three men in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Thursday. According to the police, the men took the girl to a jungle after threatening her with a pistol when she had gone to throw garbage on Wednesday. The accused left the girl in the jungle after rape. She was rescued by her family member who had gone out searching for her after she failed to return home. According to a complaint filed with the police, the accused attacked the girl's family members when they confronted them. A police officer said a case has been registered against the accused, identified as Rajive, Guddu and Ashu. The trio are on the run. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-gang-rape-teenage-girl-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-leave-her-in-jungle-1033388.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to arrange 500-drone aerial show on Ramayana for 'Deepotsav'||Attempting to make this year’s Diwali celebrations “grander”, the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government is organising a unique ‘Aerial Drone Show’ with 500 drones on November 3. The drone show will be an addition to the 3-D Holographic Show, 3-D Projection-Mapping, and Laser Show of UP’s ‘Deepotsav’. The quadcopter or multi-rotor drones with built-in LEDs will be used for the show. The drones have high-precision GPS and can fly up to 400 metres with an airspeed of 12 metres per second. A similar drone show was done in the Tokyo Olympics with 1,824 drones organised by Intel. For a show with just 50 drones, Intel charges Rs 1.8 crore. The UP government is looking for an agency for arranging the drone show. “It is expected of the agency to deliver the show of international standards with the latest technology,” says a UP government proposal in this regard. Along with the mega preparations, the administration is also aiming to set a new Guinness World Record by lighting 7.5 lakh diyas at the Ram Ki Paidi ghat on Deepotsav. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-arrange-500-drone-aerial-show-on-ramayana-for-deepotsav-1033398.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Hearing in Umar Khalid's bail plea adjourned to October 9||A Delhi court on Thursday adjourned to October 9 hearing on the bail plea of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid in the 2020 Delhi riots conspiracy case.  The hearing was adjourned to next month as Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat is on leave. This was informed to Khalid's counsels by the court staff through video conference.    Khalid along with several others has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. On September 6, Khalid had withdrawn his bail plea and filed a fresh one after the prosecution's objected to its maintainability.  In a hearing on September 3, Khalid, through his lawyer, told the court that the charge sheet in the case has made hyperbolic allegations without any factual basis and reads like a script from a web series and news channels. The Delhi Police had earlier said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hearing-in-umar-khalids-bail-plea-adjourned-to-october-9-1033399.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court to set up committee to probe into Pegasus issue, says CJI||The Supreme Court on Thursday orally observed that it will set up a technical committee to probe the allegations of snooping on citizens, particularly Opposition leaders, journalists, activists, etc. through Israel's Pegasus spyware. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said that some experts have expressed their inability to join the probe due to personal reasons and an order on the committee may be passed next week. The CJI said that the court wanted to pass orders this week. However, it was deferred as some members, who the court wanted to be part of the technical committee, had expressed personal difficulties to be on the committee.  "That is why it is taking time to constitute the technical expert committee," the CJI said hoping that the court will finalise the names of members of the technical committee soon. The court made the oral observations to senior advocate C U Singh, who had appeared for one of the petitioners during the arguments in the matter. Singh was before the court in an unrelated matter on Thursday. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, had on September 13, reserved its order on interim directions to be issued on a batch of petitions for independent probe into use of the spyware. The Centre, on its part, had proposed to constitute an expert panel, comprising independent members, to examine the allegations. It also assured of disclosing details before the experts' panel. However, the government had declined to file a detailed affidavit, saying use or non-use of a particular software cannot be debated in such a manner since it involved questions of national security and might alert a potential terrorist or terror organisations to develop counter measures. The court said that it did not want any details which compromised the national security but wanted to know if any inquiry had been ordered by the government. On July 18, an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 potential targets of the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone-hacking software.  A batch of petitions, including those by advocate M L Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India, were filed for independent probe into the matter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-set-up-committee-to-probe-into-pegasus-issue-says-cji-1033400.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Anirudh Tewari appointed new Punjab Chief Secretary; Vini Mahajan shunted||The Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government on Thursday shunted Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and appointed Anirudh Tewari in her place, sources said. Tewari is a 1990-batch IAS officer and is currently holding the position of the Additional Chief Secretary of Development, Food Processing and Horticulture. Mahajan, a 1987-batch officer, was appointed as the chief secretary last year during the Amarinder Singh-led regime and she was the first woman to hold the post in the state. Mahajan was considered close to Amarinder Singh who resigned as the chief minister last week following a power tussle in the ruling Congress.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anirudh-tewari-appointed-as-new-punjab-chief-secretary-vini-mahajan-shunted-1033411.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||In J&K, conviction rate of corruption cases four times lower than national average ||Despite a decline in corruption cases in recent years, the conviction rate of such cases in Jammu and Kashmir is more than four times lower than the rate at the national level, according to the latest report of the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB). The conviction rate of corruption cases under trial at the national level was 40.9 per cent in 2020 while the rate of such cases in J&K was only 9.1 per cent during the same period. Surprisingly, J&K is the only place across the country where the government had withdrawn three corruption cases for reasons best known to the authorities. According to the NCRB report, there was a continuous decline in the number of corruption cases reported in J&K from 2018 to 2020. While 82 corruption cases were reported during 2018, the number decreased to 73 in 2019 and 71 in 2020. As far as court disposal of corruption cases was concerned, the NCRB report says that besides 48 cases sent for trial in 2020, there were 531 more cases, which were already pending trial. In the Union Territory of Ladakh, no fresh case of corruption was reported in 2020 even as there were a total of four cases pending investigation from the previous year while one case was pending trial. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-jk-conviction-rate-of-corruption-cases-four-times-lower-than-national-average-1033412.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Woman kills toddler son by banging him on floor||A woman allegedly killed her two-year-old son by banging him on the floor of her house in Chhattisgarh's Korba district after being harried by his demand for being breast-fed, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday in Sector-5 area, about 10 km from the district headquarters, under Balco police station limits, they said. “As per preliminary investigation, the police have learnt that since 2014, the woman was suffering from a psychological problem and was under-treatment. The police have detained the woman and questioned her,” a senior police official said. She was fed up with the child's constant demand for being breast-fed, he said. The woman, in a fit of rage, banged the child on the floor of her house. The child suffered serious head injuries and was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead, the official said. The police have registered a case against the woman under relevant provisions, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-woman-kills-toddler-son-by-banging-him-on-floor-1033416.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||5, including 2 minors, gang-rape teenage girl in Chhattisgarh; 4 held||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by five people, including two minors, in Chhattisgarh's Balrampur district, police said on Thursday. Four of the accused were nabbed by police on Wednesday, they said. The incident took place on September 19 when the victim was returning home after witnessing the Ganesh idol immersion during the Ganpati festival, said Amit Gupta, station house officer of Shankargarh police station. The victim's parents were out of their home when the girl along with a friend went to see Ganesh idol immersion in a nearby village. On their way back, the girl's friend went somewhere along with a boy, asking her to wait for some time on the outskirts of the village, he said. On finding the girl alone, one of the accused forcefully took her to a nearby farm where his four associates, including two minors, were already present, he said. They allegedly gagged the girl and took turns to rape her. The accused then fled from the spot, leaving the girl in an unconscious state, the official said. After regaining consciousness, the girl took a lift on a motorcycle from her father's friend, who was passing through the area and reached home. The next day, she informed about the incident to her parents who then lodged a police complaint, the official said. So far, the police have arrested two men, identified as Prayas Bakhla and Anurag Singh, and detained two minors, the official said, without divulging the age of the two accused juveniles. Police teams were constituted to trace the fifth accused, he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-including-2-minors-gang-rape-teenage-girl-in-chhattisgarh-4-held-1033437.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Samajwadi Party workers 'purify' places visited by CM Adityanath in Sambhal||Samajwadi Party youth workers undertook a "purification" exercise of the places visited by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Sambhal district by sprinkling 'Gangajal'. A video of the purification exercise on Wednesday has gone viral. A case was lodged later and Samajwadi Party Yuvjan Sabha state president Bhavesh Yadav and 8-10 others were arrested, Superintendent of Police Chakresh Misra said on Thursday. The chief minister had inaugurated and laid foundations of projects worth Rs 275 crore and addressed a public meeting at Kaila Devi in Sambhal district on Tuesday. A day later, Yadav and SP Yuvjan Sabha workers undertook the 'shuddhikaran' (purification) exercise of the venue of the chief minister's public meeting and helipad by sprinkling waters from the Ganga river. Talking to the media during the exercise, Yadav claimed he conducted the purification drive as Adityanath has "insulted" Maa Kaila Devi by not visiting the temple when he was here. A resident of Sambhal filed a complaint at the Bahjoi police state alleging that Yadav's action has upset followers of Adityanth who is also a religious leader. Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav has often alleged that when he vacated the chief minister's official residence at 5, Kalidas Marg in Lucknow after his defeat in the 2017 assembly elections, seers and priests had undertaken "purifying rituals" at the sprawling bungalow to make it ready for Yogi Adityanath. Yadav had also said that he would get the fire brigade to spray 'Gangajal' on it after returning to power in 2022. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-workers-purify-places-visited-by-cm-adityanath-in-sambhal-1033441.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Diesel generator users in Delhi asked to install emission control devices||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has directed all users of diesel generators of 125 KVA and above capacity in the capital to install emission control devices on their DG sets by October end. In a reminder to an order issued on July 2, the pollution control authority said owners of such DG sets will attract penal action if they don't comply with its directions within 120 days from the date of the first notice. It said the devices to be installed on DG sets must be approved by one of the five Central Pollution Control Board-recognised laboratories and should capture at least 70 per cent of the emissions. The users of such DG sets also have the option to shift to gas-based generators. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/diesel-generator-users-in-delhi-asked-to-install-emission-control-devices-1033445.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Shift public transport vehicles in NCR to CNG, Delhi tells neighbouring states||Delhi has suggested its surrounding states to shift their public transport vehicles in the National Capital Region to CNG and adopt a policy to promote electric vehicles, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday. It has also urged the neighbouring states to ban firecrackers to tackle pollution. Rai made the suggestions during an online meeting of NCR states convened by Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav. Delhi has suggested that neighbouring states shift their public transport vehicles in the National Capital Region (NCR) to CNG and adopt an electric vehicle policy, Rai told a press conference after the meeting. He said extension should not be given to thermal power plants in NCR that are operating without emission control devices. The minister said he also urged the neighbouring states to spray bio-decomposer on paddy straw as an "emergency measure" to prevent stubble burning. If they don't do it, Delhi and the entire north India will have to bear the brunt of stubble burning this year too, he said. "We have also suggested that Haryana and Uttar Pradesh constitute a task force for pollution hotspots in their areas surrounding Delhi for ground visits and focused work,” he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shift-public-transport-vehicles-in-ncr-to-cng-delhi-tells-neighbouring-states-1033466.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Former J&K Bank chairman Parvez Nengroo joins People’s Conference||Former Jammu and Kashmir Bank chairman Parvez Ahmad Nengroo, who is facing graft charges, on Thursday joined the People’s Conference. Nengroo, who was removed from the post of chairman of the bank in 2019 by the government, joined the People's Conference (PC) in the presence of party chief Sajad Gani Lone. Welcoming Negroo into the party fold, Lone said he will play a key role in scripting the PC's economic agenda for change. "I whole-heartedly welcome Parvez sahib into the Caravan of Change. He has had an illustrious banking career and is a hands-on leader who has risen from the ranks,” he said. “During his tenure, we saw one of the fastest turnarounds in the banking industry having turned around the J&K bank's financial fortunes during his tenure as the Chairman and CEO. He will play a pivotal role in scripting JKPC's agenda for the socio-economic upliftment of the people of Jammu and Kashmir," Lone added. Nengroo said he was inspired by Lone's "sincerity of thought, vision and deep desire" to usher in a new era of socio-economic development in J&K. "I have earlier had the privilege of serving the people and premiere institutions of J&K in a professional capacity for many decades. It is now my yearning to contribute in creating inclusive political and economic institutions for change by working within the aegis of the People’s Conference. “We are facing enormous challenges both politically and economically and it is time that we look for collective and institutional solutions to ensure sustainable socio-economic growth and development in J&K", he added. Responding to a question on the prevalent political environment in J&K, Lone said it is high time for introspection among the mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir. He also said people must empower and accord the dignity and respect to the mainstream political parties that they deserve. Nengroo was removed as chairman of the J&K Bank in June 2019 following allegations of governance. He was arrested in April this year in a graft case relating to illegal allotment of housekeeping tenders that had allegedly resulted in the loss to the tune of crores of rupees to the bank. He was granted interim bail in May. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-jk-bank-chairman-parvez-nengroo-joins-people-s-conference-1033473.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Congress loses one of its oldest families in UP ahead of assembly polls||Congress suffered a big jolt ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, due in less than six months' time, when Laliteshpati Tripathi, the great-grandson of former UP chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi, on Thursday resigned from party alleging 'humiliation' of the old and loyal workers in the grand old party. Tripathi, a former MLA, who had resigned as the vice-president of the UP Congress, announced his decision to sever all ties with the party at a press conference in Varanasi.  ''It has become impossible for me to remain in the party as I have not been able to protect the interests of those who have been loyal to the Congress for generations,'' he said. Sources in the Congress said that Tripathi had been 'upset' with the UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu's style of working. ''He (Tripathi) was sidelined despite being the state unit vice president,'' said a senior Congress leader while speaking to DH. Tripathi, in response to a query, said that he had not yet decided about his future course of action. ''I will take a decision in this regard after consulting my supporters,'' he added. Although Tripathi did not reveal his future course of action, sources said that he had been in touch with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and there were speculations he could join the SP very soon. Tripathi's family had relations with the Congress spanning over four generations. His great grandfather Kamalapati Tripathi was a family friend of the Gandhis since the days of former prime minister Indira Gandhi. The family was also considered to be the 'brahmin' face of the Congress in eastern UP. Tripathi's resignation is a huge loss for the grand old party ahead of the next year's assembly polls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-loses-one-of-its-oldest-families-in-up-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1033494.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Major infiltration bid foiled along LoC in Kashmir; three heavily armed militants killed||The Army on Thursday foiled a major infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Uri sector of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, killing three heavily armed militants. “Today morning, alert troops spotted a group of infiltrators in the Uri sector. They were challenged and three militants were killed,” General-Officer-Commanding (GOC) of Srinagar based 15 Corps, Lieutenant General D P Pandey, said in a presser, here. General Pandey, who was flanked by Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir Vijay Kumar, said earlier on September 18 a similar infiltration bid was foiled and the militants were pushed back. “Only one slain terrorist has been identified so far who is a Pakistani resident. The identity of the other two is being ascertained,” he said and added there has been increased activity at the launch pads on the other side of the LoC recently. “While there was no infiltration since the beginning of the year, there has been little activity at the launch pads which can’t happen without the knowledge of Pakistan army commanders,” the GOC said. Asked whether today’s infiltration bid had any link with the Taliban, General Pandey said, “I would not like to connect this with the geo-politics. We are ready to foil all infiltration bids. We anticipate change in the behaviour of Pakistan and expect infiltration ahead of the onset of winter.” The slain militants, according to the army, were carrying a huge quantity of arms and ammunition that include five AK-47 rifles, seven pistols, five AK magazines, 24 UBGL grenades, 38 Chinese grenades, seven Pakistan made grenades, Rs 35,000 Pakistani currency and some edibles. Speaking on the occasion, the IGP Kashmir said Pakistan was frustrated due to the prevailing peace in the Valley. “Now, there is a new trend of hybrid and part-time militants, who are being given pistols to carry out target killings during evening hours and then they resume normal activities after a day,” he said. IGP Kumar said this year so far 97 pistols have been recovered from militants, which signifies “hybrid militants are being promoted” to target unarmed policemen, civilians and political leaders. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-infiltration-bid-foiled-along-loc-in-kashmir-three-heavily-armed-militants-killed-1033495.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh claims drastic 'fall' in UP's per capita income; data says otherwise||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday claimed that there has been a drastic "fall" in the per capita income in UP but the data used by him did not substantiate this. In a Hindi tweet, he said in comparison to his party's government, the per capita income in the state has "come down to a third" during the current BJP regime. Akhilesh said this tagging a graph, which showed compounded annual growth rate of per capita income of UP falling from 5 per cent to 1.8 per cent since financial year 2013, when his party's government was in power. "In comparison to the SP government, the per capita income in UP has come down to about one third during the time of the BJP government. Inflation has been manifold but the interest rate on savings in the bank has halved," Akhilesh said. Attacking the BJP government, he said it had promised "achhe din" but now it should tell people how to deal with the economic crisis. He posted newspaper clippings, showing poor state of a government hospital and a girl walking on a divider holding an electricity pole. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-claims-drastic-fall-in-ups-per-capita-income-data-says-otherwise-1033504.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Haircut gone wrong: Consumer body orders ITC Maurya to pay Rs 2 crore as compensation to woman model||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has awarded a whopping compensation of Rs 2 crore to a woman model whose dream to occupy the top position in the field was shattered due to shoddy hair treatment by ill-trained staff at the ITC Maurya Salon here. A bench of President Justice R K Agrawal and member S M Kantikar directed the ITC to pay the amount to complainant Aashna Roy within eight weeks for deficiency in service under the Consumer Protection Act and medical negligence in hair treatment as "her scalp was burnt and still there is allergy and itching due to fault of the staff." "There is no doubt that the women are very cautious and careful with regard to their hair. They spend a handsome amount on keeping the hair in good condition. They are also emotionally attached with their hair," the Commission said. The bench noted that Roy had been a model for hair products because of her long hair. She has done modeling for VLCC and Pantene. But due to a haircut done against her instructions, she lost her expected assignments and suffered a huge loss that completely changed her lifestyle and shattered her dream of becoming a top model. "She was also working as senior management professional and earning decent income. She underwent severe mental breakdown and trauma due to negligence in cutting her hair and could not concentrate on her job and finally she lost her job," the bench said.  Roy said she went through a severe mental breakdown and lost her self-esteem. Because of the Salon staff's fault, she has been left with little or almost no hair. She added that she stopped seeing herself in the mirror and participating in social activities. In her plea, Roy said she went to the Salon on April 12, 2018, which she used to visit since 2004, for a "clean and groomed appearance" a week before her interview. She asked for a simple haircut but her hair was chopped, leaving only four inches from the top. Upon complaining to the management, she was called again on May 3, 2018 for hair treatment. This time, however, her hair and scalp got completely damaged with the use of excess ammonia, resulting in irritation in the scalp. She alleged she suffered harsh chemical treatment on her hair, causing greying, scalp infection, dryness and itching, as well as hair loss. She brought the incident to the notice of the higher authorities but they misbehaved and threatened that she would face consequences. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haircut-gone-wrong-consumer-body-orders-itc-maurya-to-pay-rs-2-crore-as-compensation-to-woman-model-1033531.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Steps taken to reduce air pollution in Delhi as stubble burning season nears: Centre||On the eve of the stubble burning season in Punjab and Haryana, the Union Environment Ministry on Thursday said that preventive measures taken this time would reduce the air pollution load in Delhi and its satellite cities next month, but refused to share its estimate on the extent of such reduction. The preventive intervention includes higher use of crop residue removal machines, mandatory use of straw in NTPC power plants as supplementary fuel, creating straw-based animal feed for Kutch and Jaisalmer, use of biological decomposition technology, better enforcement and awareness on the prevention of farm fires and cleaning up of the cities. “I am positive and optimistic. We have the support of the state governments. But I can't say how much reduction in air pollution will happen,” Union Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav said here after a review meeting attended by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, environment ministers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan and senior officials from all the states including Punjab. Each year between October and November, Delhi and its surrounding towns are engulfed by a thick blanket of polluting haze, created primarily by stubble burning in the agriculture fields of Punjab and Haryana, turning the Delhi National Capital Region into a veritable gas chamber. Despite a few counter-measures taken by the governments, the impacts of such interventions are far too less when compared against the scale of the problem. For instance, nearly 45 lakh hectare area is under paddy cultivation in Punjab and Haryana but the bio-decomposition technology would be tested on less than 3 lakh hectare area in these two states. It has also been decided that UP, Haryana, Delhi and Punjab would mandatory use of biomass with 50 per cent paddy straw as a supplement fuel in thermal power plants, for which the National Thermal Power Corporation would come out with a tender shortly. A task force has also been constituted to work out the mode and means for utilizing the non-Basmati stubble as fodder in Rajasthan and Gujarat. More than 56,000 farm implements are being procured to facilitate managing the crop residue on the site. These will be in addition to nearly 1.42 lakh such machines that are already available. Other ministries and municipal bodies in the NCR have been asked to carry out measures to reduce dust pollution. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/steps-taken-to-reduce-air-pollution-in-delhi-as-stubble-burning-season-nears-centre-1033543.html
23-09-2021||North and Central||Asked police to reduce my security cover; so many men for protection wastage of resources: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said he has asked the state police to reduce his security cover as having so many men to protect him is a "sheer wastage of resources". Overruling the rationale of threat to his life, Channi said he is a "common man" and "brother of every Punjabi". "I am one of you and I don't need an army of 1,000 security personnel to protect me from my own brethren," said Channi during his address at Kapurthala’s IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, according to a statement. Channi said he was surprised to learn that after assuming the charge, he had 1,000 security personnel to guard him. Terming it a "sheer wastage of government resources", he said, "This cannot be allowed as what harm my own Punjabis will do to me as I too am a common man like them." The CM also said he was surprised to learn that being the head of the state, he is also entitled to a car as big as a room for comfortable travel. However, he said what peeved him was that Rs 2 crore was spent from taxpayers' money to purchase this car. Channi said this luxury is unwarranted and undesirable as these funds could have been well utilised for the welfare of the public, especially those from weaker and underprivileged sections, according to the statement. The CM said he is a votary of simple living and high thinking, so this VIP culture has to go at all cost. He said, “I am not fond of luxurious lifestyle”. Rather he is there to serve the Punjabis, the CM said, asking officials to ensure reduction in vehicles constituting his cavalcade. Channi also said he is not a VIP rather a normal Punjabi and anyone can call him anytime on his phone as he is available to serve the people round the clock. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asked-police-to-reduce-my-security-cover-so-many-men-for-protection-wastage-of-resources-channi-1033561.html
23-09-2021||Opinion||AUKUS and diluted Quad cast shadow over Modi’s US visit||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi lands in the US for his first in-person Quadrilateral (US-India-Japan-Australia) Security Dialogue or, simply the Quad, the sheen has been taken off his first in-person meeting with US President Joe Biden. India is already busy downplaying the importance of the AUKUS (Australia-UK-US) trilateral security deal after it was announced on September 16. Some hard lessons can be drawn from the way the AUKUS was formed. It was worked out in secrecy and sprung as a surprise virtually on the eve of the first physical meeting of the Quad leaders. Those putting the AUKUS into place would have had no doubt that it would dilute the impact of the Quad summit. This suggests that the US had concluded that neither Japan nor India would take on China when the crunch came, and it saw Australia as more reliable. India’s posturing as the US’ sidekick has been shredded for now. It is neither seen as capable of countering China nor to be trusted with the latest defence technology. The US mistrust of India is underlined by its consistent refusal to lease or sell its SSN (US Navy hull classification for nuclear subs) submarine. This is the technology that Australia is being supplied. India, incidentally, already has a nuclear-powered submarine, INS Arihant, with three more in the pipeline. However, they are SSBNs (ballistic missile-firing submarines). India has tended to lease SSNs from Russia as its own indigenously developed SSNs may take years to commission.US nuclear submarines are the most advanced and use weapons-grade nuclear fuel for propulsion and can operate for 33 years without refuelling. Just as the US has NATO for the western world, one may now be witnessing a similar security arrangement of Anglophone nations for the East. India (and Japan) for now seem destined to remain in the outhouse. Australia is a non-nuclear power under NPT (Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty) and is entitled to use nuclear technology for civilian uses only. However, it is now being offered the technology to build nuclear-powered submarines using weapons-grade Uranium-235 (enriched to 90 per cent). The Australian submarines will clearly not have a civilian role. The technology was so closely held by the US that it had reportedly refused to discuss sharing it with Australia two years ago in Track-2 dialogues with that country. While none of this suggests that the Quad will now become redundant, it will certainly lose importance as a strategic counter to China. Notwithstanding its commitments to a free and open Indo-Pacific, friendly maritime exercises, human assistance and disaster relief, joint infrastructure projects, cooperation in critical and emerging technologies, climate change, etc., it will not evolve into anything more. The AUKUS is the new instrument to send a strong message to China. The Quad was once intended to play that role - otherwise, other countries committed to keeping the region free of Chinese dominance, like South Korea, the UK and the EU, would also have been invited into the Quad. There is little doubt that the Quad summit on September 24 will come out with a number of statements on areas of common interest, including climate change, but will that be sufficient to show the Indian prime minister’s maiden foreign visit since the pandemic as a grand success? With the undermining of the Quad, success will have to be demonstrated through the upgrading of bilateral relations with the US by strengthening strategic commitment. Writing in Indian Defence Review, Major General (Retd) SG Vombatkere has explored the possibility of US boots on the ground in India with bases in northwest India being used for staging over-the-horizon operations (https://tinyurl.com/2tdwcnpe). He argues that with Pakistan supporting the Taliban and some West Asian countries friendly to the US being geographically distant, India may become the country of choice for such operations. He suggests that India may not be able to refuse a US request for a military base because it has already signed the logistics support agreement LEMOA (Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement and communications agreement CISMOA (Communication and Information on Security Memorandum of Agreement) with the US. Although both sides earlier denied such a possibility, Vombatkere bases his speculations on a US Congressional hearing where Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, gave an evasive reply when this specific question was put to him by a Republican, Mark Green. Blinken responded that he would much “rather take that up in a different setting” and that the US administration was “deeply engaged” with India. Vombatkere speculates that by allowing US operations from Indian soil, the current government would save face, regain regional hegemony and establish its superiority in strategic partnership with the US. However, the moot question is whether Prime Minister Modi will be willing to take that disastrous plunge – both for Indian security and sovereignty - to make a success of his first bilateral meeting with President Biden? (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/aukus-and-diluted-quad-cast-shadow-over-modi-s-us-visit-1033408.html
23-09-2021||Panorama||Long live, the Indian Rhino||On World Rhino Day, September 22, 2021, Assam has destroyed nearly 2479 horns of the Indian rhino in a public display of solidarity and commitment to protecting and conserving the species. In addition, after methodical examination of 2623 horns collected over many decades, 94 horns have been preserved as heritage pieces for academic purposes. World Rhino Day, an annual event celebrated on September 22, raises awareness for conserving all five rhino species; Sumatran rhino, Indian rhino, Black rhino, Javan rhino, and White rhino. Burning the rhino horns to ashes brings the memories of Kenya’s most extensive burn of illegal wildlife products in 2016. It has included tusks from 8000 elephants and horns from more than 300 rhinos. The message to combat wildlife crime was loud and clear to the international community that had started with the first burning of such stockpiles in Kenya in 1989. The flames of such massive burnings, though contentious, carry the messages of conservation — wide and far — and create long-lasting memories. Assam has chosen to send the message too and with determination as far as to China and Vietnam, the unceremonial regions of the rhino horn trade. Assam is synonymous with rhino conservation. The culture and sentiment of the people of Assam charter one of the most successful conservation histories on the face of the earth. Kaziranga holds the most extensive protected habitat of one-horned rhinoceros. At the same time, its exquisite range from Peshawar to Burma has been reduced to few scattered pockets. The wars in Moghul’s medieval India and the shortsightedness of trigger-happy hunters in colonial India brought the one-horned rhinoceros to the brink of extinction. As a result, the rhino’s range contracted, and its numbers plummeted. While establishing safe refuges for the rhinos helped secure their home, the Bengal Rhinoceros Protection Act of 1932 and the Assam Rhinoceros Protection Act of 1954 played a crucial role in protecting the animals. Unlike elephants, rhinos are often solitary. Their inter-caving period could be as long as five years. This is because the mother can only be ready and receptive for conception when the calf is reasonably secured and nearly independent. For elephants, in a social unit, aunts and cousins play a supportive role in raising the young ones, making it easier and quicker for the nursing mothers to mate and conceive. Consequently, the population loss in rhinos is more challenging to compensate in shorter times than in elephants. For this very reason, along with highly active mongrels of Chinese Traditional Medicine craving to pounce on every piece of rhino horn, Kaziranga has scripted an enviable story. It is the emphasis on the protection that works for a species that faces bullets. One-horned rhinoceros, primarily a grazer, weighing around 2 tonnes, features in many Indian paintings, motifs, coins, and even drawings of Mesolithic rock paintings. Rhinoceros bearing seals of Harappan civilisation finely depict the folds on the skin with tubercles and the prominent horn. However, as their population dwindled and their sightings became rarer, even their representations in the rock art of agriculturists and herdsmen declined. The current global population of one-horned rhinoceros is estimated to be around 3500. Kaziranga (~ 2400) in India and Chitwan (~600) in Nepal are the two population strongholds. Translocation and subsequent protection to large mammals in their former ranges or new habitats are effective ways to strengthen their survival chances. Kaziranga has taken up a lead in repopulating and supporting other rhino bearing areas with its rhinos. It has acted as a ‘fulcrum of conservation’ by adopting a larger-than-park approach to create a safe haven for the rhinos by treating Assam’s Orang NP, Pobitora WLS, Karbi hills and Manas NP partners in conservation. An image of a baby rhino trailing its mother and suckling from behind by the side of a wetland made a massive buzz at the start of 2021. The open grassland, shallow wetland, reflections of a fallen yet alive tree, hue of a setting sun and serenity of Kaziranga created the stage ready for the divine pair. Social media sites were flooded with the mother-calf pair photographed in different shades of light. Similarly, an image of an adult female rhino with a sharp, long and pointed (unbroken) horn in the backdrop of the snow peaks of the Se La Range of the Eastern Himalayas, a little more than one hundred miles away. The well-protected rhinos and their home in Kaziranga have been a sensation on social media, print media and wildlife documentaries. For over a century, the conservation narratives have undergone many metamorphoses in Asia and the rest of the world. As a result, the Indian rhino has become the centre of all conservation thoughts in the pristine forests of Assam. In rhino’s protection rests the wellbeing of vast forests of northeast India. Long live the Indian rhino, the flagbearer of conservation of many species, big and small! (The writer is the deputy director of the Corbett Foundation, Kaziranga, Assam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/long-live-the-indian-rhino-1033562.html
23-09-2021||Panorama||Congress leadership in a knot over change of guard in states||“You can be old at 40 and young at 80.” That was Capt. Amarinder Singh on Wednesday. A clear indication that he may have been deposed as chief minister of Punjab and his bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu may have been made the chief of the state Congress unit and perhaps the party’s CM face in the coming Assembly polls, due in five months, but the former soldier, nearing 80, is not about to hang up his political boots. For the Congress, that picture from Punjab of a defiant Amarinder Singh is also the big picture from other states across the country: the party’s young leaders are desperate to take on higher roles, but its veterans are in no mood to vacate space for them, leading to rebellions in state after state. The change of guard in Punjab – the 79-year-old Amarinder Singh has been replaced by the 58-year-old Charanjit Singh Channi – sent a number of senior leaders in other states into a tizzy as the impression gained ground that the party high command is asserting itself and that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, are keen to pass on the baton of leadership to the next generation (read Rajasthan) or to leaders whom they had promised power under the rotational arrangement (read Chhattisgarh) or to loyal seniors (read Haryana). The ripple effect occurred in Haryana soon, with the party’s old warhorse Bhupinder Singh Hooda calling a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party on Wednesday at his residence, a show of strength apparently to make it clear that he is still the leader in the state and to ward off any bid to do a Punjab in Haryana. Twenty-five of the 31 Congress MLAs in the state were present at the meeting, leaving no one in doubt as to who calls the shots in Haryana party affairs. The ties between Hooda and Haryana party chief Kumari Selja have strained in recent times. Selja, like Channi, is also a Dalit face, and a prominent one in Haryana. The parallels do not end just there. Before the 2019 Assembly polls, Hooda had virtually forced the Congress leadership to declare him the CM face (he was made campaign committee chief) and had secured the resignation of Rahul Gandhi-appointed PCC chief Ashok Tanwar, a young Dalit leader, who had aggressively attempted to build the party since 2014. Amarinder Singh had similarly forced the Congress to name him CM candidate in 2017, which the party leadership was not keen on and had avoided until towards the end of the poll campaign. In Rajasthan, where a massive internal power tussle has been going on for the last three years between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot (who was removed last year from the posts of PCC chief and Deputy CM), Gehlot did record the sidelining of Amarinder Singh. “I hope that Capt Amarinder Singh ji won’t take any step that could cause damage to the party…I personally believe that the Congress president chooses the CM at the risk of inviting displeasure of several leaders…However, when the same CM is changed, he/she is displeased and holds the decision wrong,” Gehlot said. Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia quipped that Gehlot is worried about his own chair. Taking a jibe at the internal strife in various Congress units, senior BJP leader Narendra Singh Tomar said, “The Congress is suffering from internal discord and the party leadership has become irrelevant now. Its effects are visible in Punjab and other states of the country.”   While in Rajasthan the Congress is yet to carry out the promised cabinet reshuffle to accommodate leaders close to Pilot and work out a satisfactory rehabilitation of Pilot himself and his loyalists despite multiple rounds of meetings held by the central leadership, in Chhattisgarh, which was one of the three states won by Congress in 2018 (along with Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan), the party is finding it hard to honour the promise apparently made by Rahul Gandhi to make party leader T S Singhdeo the CM, replacing incumbent Bhupesh Baghel, under a rotational arrangement, with Bhagel leaving no one in doubt he is not a pushover and will fight back.  In 2020, Congress lost its government due to an intense power tussle in Madhya Pradesh, which it had wrested from the BJP after 15 years. Congress lost not only the state but also Jyotiraditya Scindia who, up against veterans Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh, quit the party, and took with him 22 MLAs to the BJP. The development was a rude shock for Congress, which now wants to avoid such an eventuality in other states. Not giving leadership roles to its younger leaders could put at risk the future of the party in several states – as it learnt in Himachal Pradesh and Assam, where the party had chosen to remain under the shadow of veterans Virbhadra Singh and Tarun Gogoi. Opposing the late Gogoi’s leadership in Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma quit the party and joined BJP and is now Chief Minister of the state, heading the second BJP government there. He has helped BJP grow its footprint in the entire North-East region, marginalising Congress in state after state. Virbhadra Singh had in 2012 and 2017 forced Congress to declare him the CM face. Congress lost the 2017 polls. Singh, who had not allowed a strong second-rung leadership to grow, breathed his last in July this year. What compounds the dilemma of the Congress is that the young leaders whom it promoted failed to cut ice. While some like Tanwar in Haryana and Arun Yadav as party chief in MP failed to enthuse voters and emerge as pan-state leaders, the more prominent ones like Scindia, Jitin Prasad (both of whom joined the BJP) Sidhu and Sachin Pilot wanted quicker recognition of their efforts and achievements at a time when the oldies controlling the power structures were/are not willing to make space. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/congress-leadership-in-a-knot-over-change-of-guard-in-states-1033563.html
23-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Amid darkness, enfolded in light||There were once a group of fishermen who found themselves in the eye of the storm. The waves rose as if to touch the elusive thunder and lightning. Water began to intrude into the boat from both the sea and the sky. The hapless fishermen looked at each other in dismay when one of them picked up a discarded pail and started throwing the water back into the sea. “How is this going to help, can't you see we need a divine intervention?” said one of them in abject misery. But the fisherman with the pail went about his business like he hadn’t heard the comment. “I’ll do my bit” is all he said. The other fishermen followed suit and they collectively kept the boat afloat till the end of the storm. With Covid storming around us, a lot of us have been hoping for divine intervention. Well, not the Desi Physician Moms (DPM) of the US and Canada. The women of the DPM foundation not only raised more than $300,000 in less than two weeks but also ensured a direct MD-MD chain for vital medical equipment to be transported to India, avoiding both the black market and the red-tape obstacles. Oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, Bipap machines, PPE and other supplies came directly to the physicians in India who were desperately in need of them. The impact of this action is yet to be ascertained, but as always small deeds done are much more potent than great deeds planned. This is not a spur-of-the-moment action despite the speed with which it was orchestrated. The DPM foundation carefully looked into details like the voltage requirements and the International banking laws to ensure that the resources were fully utilised and went into the right hands. It is heartening to read and hear such stories when we are literally pelted with the stories of corruption, dehumanisation and loss. This is not to make light of the grim situations that all of us have faced and are still facing, but to look a little beyond them, to do a little more than we can. The dance between darkness and light will remain a part of our lives, and yet the stars and the moon always find a way to appear in the night sky. When our hearts are moved to empathy, to action, darkness evaporates and the singing birds come from nowhere. It is noteworthy how in these volatile stormy times, people in general, and physicians in particular, have picked up that pail to throw the water back into the sea. The DPM is just a case in point.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/amid-darkness-enfolded-in-light-1033565.html
23-09-2021||Second Edit||VIP privileges at toll plazas unacceptable||The Karnataka government has set a bad precedent by announcing that a separate lane will be devoted to legislators and other VIPs at toll plazas across the state to ensure hassle-free movement for their vehicles. It is bad enough that elected representatives wasted the precious time of the Assembly to make a case for an exclusive lane to be earmarked for them, what is worse is that the government acceded to their demand. Responding to a calling attention notice by JD(S) MLA from Malavalli, K Annadani, which was strongly supported by some of his colleagues, Public Works Minister C C Patil assured the House that henceforth, VIPs, including legislators, could use the lane meant for ambulances at toll plazas. Passing through a toll plaza is already a smooth affair with the introduction of radio frequency identification tags on vehicles. But our legislators seem to feel that it is beneath their status to wait in the queue even for a few minutes. Elected representatives are exempt from paying toll, but they are required to produce a pass issued by the government so that this facility is not misused by others. According to the MLAs, the process of producing the card and waiting for it to be scanned by toll plaza attendants amounts to harassment and humiliation.  While neither the government nor opposition leaders seemed mindful of the public outcry such self-privileging by elected representatives would cause, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri put an end to the debate by urging the members to also give a thought to the problems faced by millions of other commuters. With the members not satisfied with the PWD minister’s assurance, the Speaker has promised an ‘internal meeting’ to sort out the issue, away from the public and media glare. Elected representatives in India already enjoy a great deal of privilege, but it never seems enough. New demands keep coming up, and they use their powers to give it all to themselves.  Both Houses of the legislature are meeting after a long gap due to the pandemic. Legislators were expected to raise various pressing issues concerning the people, not lobby for their own perks and privileges. The Karnataka Assembly, which has a glorious past, has brought itself discredit by expending its time on such a frivolous discussion that served no public purpose. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who has set an example by his own simplicity, should immediately intervene and ensure that no such claims of special privilege are entertained. Self-serving VIP mentality and privileging have no place in a democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/vip-privileges-at-toll-plazas-unacceptable-1033570.html
23-09-2021||South||Freedom fighter G Susheela passes away||Freedom fighter and senior member of the famous Vadakkath family, G Susheela died at her residence in Anakkara in the district on Wednesday evening, official sources said. She was 100. She had been bedridden for the last eight years, they said on Thursday. Born in 1921 in Anakkara Vadakkath Tharavadu, a home of illustrious personalities, Susheela participated in the freedom struggle while she was a student in Madras and was jailed for participating in a procession organised there as part of the Quit India movement. A follower of the principles of Mahatma Gandhi, Susheela served as the national secretary of the women's wing of the Congress. She kept away from active politics post-independence. Noted freedom fighters Ammu Swaminathan, A V Kuttimalu Amma and Captain Lakshmi, and legendary dancer Mrinalini Sarabhai are some of the distinguished members of the Anakkara Vadakkath family. She is survived by a son and a daughter. Condoling Susheela's demise, Kerala Assembly Speaker Rajesh recalled her contribution in the Indian freedom movement and said she worked for the empowerment of women. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/freedom-fighter-g-susheela-passes-away-1033405.html
23-09-2021||South||Incorrect date, venue in vaccination certificate: Kerala High Court directs enquiry by DMO||Incorrect date and venue of second vaccine dose in a Covid vaccination certificate prompted the Kerala High Court on Thursday to order an enquiry to ascertain whether it was a genuine mistake or some mischief. Justice P V Kunhikrishnan said if the incorrect details in the certificate were due to a mischief, then stringent action needs to be taken against the officials involved. The court directed the District Medical Officer of Ernakulam to carry out the enquiry as the venue of the second jab was a vaccination centre there according to the certificate. It said that if it was a mistake, then it was understandable and a new certificate can be issued with corrections. "However, if it was otherwise, if there is some mischief, then stringent action be taken against the officials concerned," the court said and listed the matter after a week. The court was hearing a plea by one K P John, moved through advocates C Dileep and Anushka Vijayakumar, alleging falsification of details in the vaccination certificate. Vijayakumar told the court that her client received the first dose in March and the second in April, both from a vaccination centre in Aluva, and had never gone to Ernakulam for a jab. However, when the vaccination certificate was made available in July, it showed that the second dose was administered in July and that too at a vaccination certificate in Ernakulam. The petitioner has also claimed that a letter was sent to the DMO of Ernakulam and a legal notice was sent to the hospital there where the vaccination centre was located for making corrections in the certificate, but nothing was done till date and therefore, the instant petition was filed. The petitioner has also sought issuance of a corrected vaccination certificate. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/incorrect-date-venue-in-vaccination-certificate-kerala-high-court-directs-enquiry-by-dmo-1033414.html
23-09-2021||South||Thidanadu: The 'matchmaker panchayat' of Kerala||Are you struggling hard to find a suitable partner but not interested to avail the service of matrimonial websites paying high subscription fee? Don't worry as you have a solution for this right now, as a nondescript village panchayat in Kerala is now offering 'credible' matchmaking service that too free of cost to help unmarried people and widows to find suitable partners from across the state. Among the host of other services, the authorities of the ruling CPI(M)-controlled Thidanadu Panchayat here came up with an innovative matchmaking service for common people, after taking serious note of the increasing number of single youths and widows in their area. The service would be credible and the privacy of the registered persons would be protected, they said. A "marriage diary", a registry, was opened by the civic body to help interested persons, who are worried about their delayed marriages or broken relationships, to find life partners cutting across age, caste, religion, gender and economic barriers. People from any panchayat in the southern state could register in the 'diary' and the response of the general public was overwhelming as a total of 2,500 people have already been registered since its launch just four days ago, a panchayat member said. Natives of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki, Malappuram and Kozhikode districts were among those who have registered in the programme seeking life partners, Sherin Perumakkunnel, who co-ordinates the matchmaking programme, said. Also, the president of the health and education standing committees of the panchayat, Perumakkunel said the registration is being done after sending a google form to the interested parties via social media platforms. After filling the application form which includes all the necessary personal and family details, they can submit it online to the panchayat which would verify its authenticity thoroughly and try to find suitable partners for the applicants. "The profiles will be shared with authorities of other local bodies who have expressed interest to co-operate with us in the initiative. The privacy of the applications will be protected. To ensure that, we will use their personal email IDs only for further communication," Perumakkunnel told PTI. Though the project was officially launched only four days ago, wedding bells may soon ring for a couple, who have registered in the ''marriage diary," he said. "A man from Kottayam and a woman hailing from Idukki, registered in our marriage diary, liked their each other's profile. Now discussions between the two families are going on. We can not predict the outcome right now but if everything is ok, the first marriage through our matchmaking will be a reality soon," the member said. If it becomes a reality, the panchayat would like to bring LSGD minister Govindan Master to solemnise the wedding and bless the couple, he added. A recent sample survey, conducted by the panchayat among its people, had paved way for the innovative initiative. It was found in the survey that the number of unmarried men, despite crossing the conventional marriageable age, was very high in Thidanadu panchayat. There were also women whose marriage had been delayed for many reasons and those who had become widow at a young age in the panchayat, as per the survey. "We hope, our registry will help them find suitable life partners as they wish," the member added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thidanadu-the-matchmaker-panchayat-of-kerala-1033440.html
23-09-2021||South||List of Covid-19 deaths will be updated based on Centre's guidelines, says Kerala Health Minister||The list of those who succumbed to Covid-19 was being updated based on the new guidelines of the Centre, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. The minister, speaking to reporters after visiting the new ICUs at the Government Medical College here, also said that even the state's guidelines would be updated as per the Centre's norms and the finalised version would be ready in a few days. She said that the new guidelines would cover various aspects, including considering deaths 30 days after turning negative as a Covid fatality. A comprehensive list will be published in this regard, she added.    Besides that, the Health Department will also be looking into the number of Covid deaths reported in the state and is taking steps to rectify the same, she said, adding that steps are being taken to resolve the complaints and grievances it has received on this issue. She said the state government was of the view that all those who have suffered loss of loved ones due to the pandemic should get some relief and will do everything possible to ensure the same. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/list-of-covid-19-deaths-will-be-updated-based-on-centres-guidelines-says-kerala-health-minister-1033464.html
23-09-2021||South||Kerala's flagship Vizhinjam port to be delayed further||Kerala's major infrastructure project Vizhinjam international container transshipment terminal will be delayed further as the Adani Ports has sought a five-year extension from the Kerala government for commissioning. The back to back natural calamities, Covid pandemic, delay in getting granite rock and delay in land acquisition measures by the state government were learnt to be cited as reasons for the project overshooting the deadlines. The agreement for the port was signed between the Kerala government and Adani Ports in 2015 and construction began in 2017. It was proposed to commence the first phase operation by 2019. Later it was extended further in view of the natural calamities. Cyclone Ockhi and Tauktae had caused damage to the project. Kerala Ports Minister Ahamed Devarkovil who held talks with Adani Ports officials said that the project was expected to become operations by 2023 December. Adani Ports had cited genuine grounds like natural calamities and Covid and hence extension was being given, he said. The Rs. 7,500 crore project is expected to give a boost to Kerala's economic development. The first phase of the project comprises 3.1 kilometres of which around 850 metres has only been completed so far. Recently there were reports that with Adani Ports setting up a container handling facility in Colombo port, the focus on Vizhinjam port may come down. But the Adani Ports authorities had ruled out it. Colombo was quite concerned over the new port coming up in Vizhinjam. As soon as the Vizhnjam port project was announced, the Sri Lankan government had announced sops for Myanmar transshipment operations. A statement of the Sri Lankan government in 2016 had said that Vizhinjam port has a high potential to obtain a significant portion from the transshipment handling market of Western India, Pakistan and the Gulf region and would have a negative effect on transshipment activities of the Colombo port.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-flagship-vizhinjam-port-to-be-delayed-further-1033508.html
23-09-2021||South||Kerala government staff ordered to enhance 'likes' on minister's Facebook page||An order issued by the Kudumbashree Poverty Eradication Mission of Kerala government has raised many eyebrows as it directs staff to enhance likes on the local self-government minister's Facebook page. But the mission authorities clarified that the intention was to expand the reach of development programmes of the state government. Kudumabsree Mission director recently gave the directive to district mission coordinators to take steps to get more 'likes' for local self government minister M V Govindan's Facebook page. An official at the mission director's office said that the intention was to attract more followers on the minister's official facebook page so as to expand the reach of government progammes that were being announced online these days owing to Covid-19. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-staff-ordered-to-enhance-likes-on-ministers-facebook-page-1033519.html
23-09-2021||South||DMK’s strength in Rajya Sabha set to increase||The strength of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in Rajya Sabha is set to increase to 10 with the nomination papers of Dr Kanimozhi N VN Somu and K R N Rajeshkumar for the by-elections being accepted on Thursday.  While nominations filed by independent candidates have been rejected, only Kanimozhi and Rajeshkumar are in contention for two seats for which bypolls are scheduled on October 4. The two candidates will be declared elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha on September 27, the last date for withdrawal of nomination. The by-elections were necessitated after two AIADMK members – R Vaithilingam and K P Munusamy – resigned their posts following their election to the Tamil Nadu Assembly. While Vaithilingam’s tenure ends in 2022, Munusamy’s tenure is till 2026.  A press release from the Assembly Secretariat said Kanimozhi filed nomination for the seat vacated by Munusamy, while Rajeshkumar is in contention for the seat resigned by Vaithilingam. Once their election to Rajya Sabha is announced, DMK’s strength will go up from the current 8 to 10. Out of the total 18 Rajya Sabha seats from Tamil Nadu, eight are currently held by DMK and five by AIADMK, while PMK, Tamil Maanila Congress, and MDMK hold one seat each. Kanimozhi and Rajeshkumar will be announced elected unopposed next week.  Kanimozhi, who unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections twice in 2011 and 2016, is the granddaughter of N V Natarajan, who is one of the five leaders along with C N Annadurai and V R Nedunchezhian formed the DMK in 1949 after quitting the Dravidar Kazhagam then led by social reformer E V R Periyar.  Kanimozhi’s father N V N Somu was Union Minister of State for Defence during the United Front government. He died in a helicopter crash in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh while on an official visit.  Rajeshkumar is in charge of the DMK’s unit in Namakkal district and his nomination is significant given the party makes a concerted effort to make further inroads in the western region, a bastion of the AIADMK.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-s-strength-in-rajya-sabha-set-to-increase-1033521.html
23-09-2021||South||Doctor who underwent surgery for cancer four years ago finishes post-graduation with gold medal||Dr JD (named changed), then 24, underwent Robotic Colorectal surgery for low rectal cancer in 2017. Four years later, she has not only recovered but has also completed her medical post-graduation by winning a Gold Medal. The 28-year-old doctor underwent the surgery at the Apollo Institute of Colorectal Surgery, Chennai. Dr JD’s success also marks the completion of five years since the institute came into existence. Dr Venkatesh Munikrishnan, Consultant Colorectal & Robotic Surgeon, The Apollo Institute of Colorectal Surgery, Chennai said, Dr JD was diagnosed with very low rectal cancer in 2017 when she was 24 years of age, just as she was about to join her medical post-graduation. “With Robotic Colorectal Surgery, we were able to perform the complex surgery to remove cancer and reconstruct the colon to rectal/anal connection, thus avoiding a permanent colostomy. She had an uneventful recovery, went on to finish her course and excelled, getting the gold medal,” Dr Munikrishnan said. At the event to celebrate Dr JD’s success, Apollo Hospitals Group Chairman Dr Prathap C Reddy said cancers, in particular, are taking a big toll and colorectal cancers are showing a rise, thus becoming a major threat. “The Robotic Colorectal surgery program will also be extended to other hospitals in the group. We are confident that along with early diagnosis, this will help in making a significant impact in reducing the morbidity and mortality from colorectal diseases including colorectal cancer,” he said. The Robotic Colorectal Surgery Programme is the busiest in the country with over 600 robotic colorectal surgeries completed since its opening in 2016, of which 450 have been performed by Dr Venkatesh Munikrishnan, the hospital said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctor-who-underwent-surgery-for-cancer-four-years-ago-finishes-post-graduation-with-gold-medal-1033523.html
23-09-2021||South||10 additional judges of Karnataka HC, 2 of Kerala HC elevated as permanent judges||Ten additional judges of the Karnataka High Court and two from the Kerala High Court were elevated as permanent judges on Thursday, the law ministry said. According to notifications issued by the Department of Justice, justices Maralur Indrakumar Arun, Engalaguppe Seetharamaiah Indiresh, Ravi Venkappa Hosmani, Savanur Vishwajith Shetty, Shivashankar Amarannavar, Makkimane Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai and Panjigadde Krishna Bhat, additional judges of the Karnataka High Court, have been made judges of the same high court with effect from the date they assume charge of their respective offices. Another notification said justices Mudalikulam Raman Anitha and Karunakaran Nair Haripal, additional judges of the Kerala High Court, to be judges of the high court with effect from the date they assume charge of their respective offices. As on September 1, the sanctioned strength of the Karnataka High Court is 62, but is functioning with 45 judges. Similarly, the Kerala High Court, with a sanctioned strength of 47, is working with 37 judges. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 high courts in the country is 1,098 judges with 465 vacancies. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10-additional-judges-of-karnataka-hc-2-of-kerala-hc-elevated-as-permanent-judges-1033538.html
23-09-2021||South||CPM-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala backs Bharat Bandh||The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala has called for a hartal in the state on September 27 to express solidarity with the Bharat Bandh called by various farmers' organisations. LDF convenor and CPM acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said that demonstrations would be staged across the state as part of the protest against the anti-farmers laws of the centre. The ruling Front itself calling for hartal is likely to trigger criticisms. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpm-led-left-democratic-front-in-kerala-backs-bharat-bandh-1033550.html
23-09-2021||South||'Love jihad, narcotic jihad': BJP to meet church leaders||Actor-turned BJP Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi said on Thursday that the Centre would convene a meeting of church leaders to discuss their apprehensions like 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad'. Suresh Gopi, who backed a bishop in Kerala who made the 'narcotic and love jihad' remarks against the Muslim community, said that the Centre was already planning a meeting with the community leaders who have been raising such concerns. A two-day meeting with church leaders was even planned in 2019, he said. Even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had presented facts and figures to disprove the 'love jihad' and 'narcotic jihad' allegations, the BJP leader was backing the bishop's contentions by recollecting the recent statement of former Kerala police chief that extremist forces were making Kerala a recruitment ground. Social evils should be nipped in the bud itself, he said. Meanwhile, the Kerala Catholic Bishop's Council will be also holding a meeting next week to discuss the present row, among other issues, said sources. Though the Chief Minister said on Wednesday that those who made the misleading remarks themselves should correct it, Bishop of Pala in Kottayam district Joseph Kallarangatt who made the 'narcotic jihad' was yet to react. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/love-jihad-narcotic-jihad-bjp-to-meet-church-leaders-1033555.html
23-09-2021||South||Madras High Court quashes compensation award for Sasikala's property||The Madras High Court on Thursday set aside an order of the Revenue authorities awarding compensation for the land acquired from V K Sasikala, a close aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, for road-widening works in nearby Panaiyur in 2011. Justice G K Ilanthiraiyan, who quashed the order, directed the Revenue department to conduct an enquiry afresh, after she had earlier moved the court over the matter. The compensation award for taking over the 784 sq.mt, adjoining the Old Mahabalipuram Road in Panaiyur was passed in September 2011. Aggrieved, Sasikala preferred the petition challenging the same in the same year. She contended that necessary notice was not issued to her, before fixing the compensation. The authorities had razed down the compound wall, constructed after spending a huge amount. The property consisted of trees only, she claimed. The state government filed its counter this month, after a gap of 10 years. Holding that the Revenue authorities had failed to issue a notice, as required under Sec. 19(5) of the Land Acquisition Act, the judge quashed the order awarding the compensation in respect of Sasikala's property alone. He also directed the authorities to issue a fresh award within two weeks, after issuing notice to her.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-quashes-compensation-award-for-sasikalas-property-1033579.html
23-09-2021||State||Attack on scribe: Congress demands action||Congress MLAs on Wednesday demanded the state government to initiate immediate action in the assault case of a journalist in Mysuru. This was an incident in Mysuru where Mohammed Safdar Kaiser, editor of an Urdu local ‘The Daily Kausar’ was attacked while he was covering a protest by the Hindu Jagran Vedike. “No FIR has been registered till now. This is nothing but hooliganism on part of those who assaulted him,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah charged. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra assured to look into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/attack-on-scribe-congress-demands-action-1033294.html
23-09-2021||State||Scholarship programme for SC/ST students has poor reach||A little more than 100 students have made use of the scholarship over the last two years indicating poor implementation of the state government’s education programme providing scholarships to SC, ST students wanting to study in universities abroad.  Of this, at least 50 per cent are from Bengaluru Urban district. In the majority of the districts, not a single student has applied for the scholarship. According to government data provided in response to Congress MLA N A Haris’ question in this regard in the Assembly on Wednesday, in 2020-21, 45 students have been selected for scholarships through the social welfare department and seven students through the SC, ST welfare department. In 2019, 49 students were selected from social welfare and six from SC, ST welfare department. In this, at least half of the students are from Bengaluru Urban alone. Other districts have seen one or two applicants, with many districts not having even a single application. Pointing this out, Haris said the government had failed in creating awareness about the programme to the students, deceiving students of the opportunity. Responding to the legislator, Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said the government would make efforts to create more awareness. At present, about 200 universities have been identified abroad, for which the government will provide scholarships, the minister said, adding that two students were studying in the London School of Economics, through this programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/scholarship-programme-for-sc/st-students-has-poor-reach-1033302.html
23-09-2021||State||Karnataka Assembly passes Teacher transfer Bill||The Assembly passed the Karnataka State Civil Services (Regulation of Transfer of Teachers) (Amendment) Bill on Wednesday. Education Minister B C Nagesh said the amendment would give a one-time option for primary teachers transferred outside the taluk and high school teachers transferred outside the district in 2019-20 to return to the taluk or district they were serving.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-assembly-passes-teacher-transfer-bill-1033306.html
23-09-2021||State||Five arrested for practising untouchability in Koppal||The Kushtagi police on Wednesday arrested five people from Miyapur in the taluk for practising untouchability following a complaint lodged by the Social Welfare department. The accused had fined Rs 25,000 on Dalit parents of a two-year-old boy after the latter entered the Anjaneya Temple at the village near Hanumasagar. The incident, which came to light late on Monday, has caused public outrage. Social Welfare Department assistant director Balachandra Sanganal took cognizance of the incident and filed a police complaint on Tuesday night after the parents of the Dalit boy and locals refuse to lodge a plaint, despite repeated requests by the taluk officials. Deputy Commissioner Vikas Suralkar and SP T Sreedhara, along with senior officials, visited the village on Wednesday. The officers held a meeting with the villagers to create awareness against such practices among them. Condemning the incident in question, the deputy commissioner said a secret survey is being conducted through a voluntary organisation to find any such instance of social evil practiced in the district. “If found, stringent action will be taken against the perpetrators,” the DC said. Closure notice to hotel Meanwhile, Channarayapatna (Hassan district) Tahsildar J B Maruti on Wednesday slapped a closure notice on a hotel owner in Dindaguru village following the complaints of practicing untouchability. The hotel owner, belonging to an upper caste, is said to have barred the Dalits from entering his eatery. He used to serve food to Dalits outside the hotel. Tahsildar Maruthi said that he visited the hotel and issued a closure notice to the hotel owner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/five-arrested-for-practising-untouchability-in-koppal-1033312.html
23-09-2021||State||4 Mysuru palace jumbos may find new home in Gujarat temple||With the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru planning to shift four female elephants to a temple in Gujarat, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) has directed the deputy conservator of forests (DCF) to certify the health condition of the pachyderms. The royal family has six elephants and the authorities have decided to shift four to Gujarat. Sita, Ruby, Gemini and Rajeshwari will be sent to Gujarat. Two others, Chanchal and Preethi, will remain in the palace. DCF K Kamala said, “The PCCF has directed to conduct a health check-up and to get the mandatory consent of the chief wildlife wardens of Karnataka and Gujarat to transport the elephants. A veterinarian will examine the jumbos and submit a report, which will be forwarded to the PCCF for his consideration,” she said. The royal family obtained Chanchal and Preethi from the forest department and the palace received the four other elephants from Gemini Circus 18 years ago. The forest department rescued the elephants following a court order and the then scion of the royal family, the late Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar, had decided to provide shelter to these elephants. In 2017, Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, wife of Srikantadatta, urged the forest department to take back three animals. But the department had not obliged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/4-mysuru-palace-jumbos-may-find-new-home-in-gujarat-temple-1033325.html
23-09-2021||State||Vokkaligas in Congress team up to plan for 2023 Karnataka polls||Over a dozen Congress leaders belonging to the dominant Vokkaliga community held a closed-door meeting on Wednesday night where they are said to have discussed a strategy to take on the JD(S) in the 2023 assembly elections.  The Congress and the JD(S) are bitter rivals in the Old Mysuru region that is dominated by the Vokkaliga community and covers the geographies of Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Ramanagara, Chamarajanagar, Chikballapur and so on. The belt comprises some 60-odd assembly constituencies.  The Wednesday night meeting was organised by Rajya Sabha member GC Chandrashekhar, Byatarayanapura MLA Krishna Byre Gowda and former MP N Cheluvarayaswamy.  “The plan is to undermine JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda’s political clout over the community,” a party source said. “The meeting discussed plans to ensure the victory of more Vokkaliga MLAs from the Congress in the Old Mysuru region.” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, the party’s Vokkaliga face, did not attend the meeting. “He was not invited preempting that he would say no as his participation would send out the wrong message because he’s the party president,” the source said. However, Shivakumar’s brother and Bangalore Rural MP DK Suresh attended the meeting.  Shivakumar, who will lead the party into the 2023 polls, is aware of the challenge posed by the JD(S) that mainly depends on the Vokkaligas for votes.  Congress is pursuing some JD(S) legislators. The regional party’s GT Deve Gowda (Chamundeshwari) and K Srinivas Gowda (Kolar) are on their way out to join the Congress and a few others are lined up. The Congress hopes that these jumps will benefit them. The Congress’ Vokkaliga leaders have also discussed touring the Vokkaliga-dominated areas to drum up support. “They discussed promoting youngsters in order to create a second line of leadership,” the source said.  The Vokkaligas are seen as a politically dominant community. They are estimated to make up for about 15% of the state's population, pegging their influence on a par with the Lingayats. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vokkaligas-in-congress-team-up-to-plan-for-2023-karnataka-polls-1033423.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government mulling regularising leased land: R Ashoka||The government is mulling to sell the land leased to various groups and organisations based on current guidance value of the properties, Revenue Minister R Ashoka told the Council. Responding to a question by BJP’s Bharathi Shetty, the minister said the government is not generating the revenue expected by leasing away parcels of land to various groups. “It has also become difficult for us to recover the land as buildings and other structures have come up on these lands. So, the government has decided to sell these lands to the organisations at current guidance value,” he said. According to the minister, instances of the government recovering leased land were few as the lease is usually renewed. “The government is not even generating an annual revenue of Rs 50,000 for a property worth Rs 50 crore. There are also cases where lease fee is just Re 1 or Rs 10,” he said. Organisations which are using the land for the purpose it was leased will be allowed to purchase the property at guidance value. If they have changed the land use, then the organisations will have to pay two and half times the guidance value for regularisation, Ashoka said. Shetty said that land was leased to several organisations in prominent locations. Christian missionaries and other groups have built buildings on such lands and rented out shops for business. “Government should identify leased lands where change of land use was affected and recover them,” she demanded. Relief in a week To a question by Congress member Srinivas Mane, Ashoka said Rs 35.7 crore will be released in a week to provide relief for loss of life and property caused due to heavy rainfall. The government, he said, had already released relief worth Rs 154.65 crore. It was expecting Rs 35.7 crore from the Centre under National Disaster Response Fund. If the Centre delays releasing the fund, the state will release from its coffers to help those affected, Ashoka added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-mulling-regularising-leased-land-r-ashoka-1033299.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt departments caused loss of around Rs 2,500 cr: CAG report||The state government has suffered losses amounting close to Rs 2,500 crore in 2019-20, owing to short-levy of fees, under-assessment of property value and other such irregularities across various departments. A Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) report tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday stated that losses amounting to Rs 2,491 crore were incurred in short-levy or undervalue of sales tax, VAT, stamp and registration fee, state excise, taxes on motor vehicles and mines and geology departments. The state government has suffered a loss to the tune of Rs 216 crore owing to short levy of stamp duty and registration fee by officials in the Stamps and Registration department, the audit found. Illustrating two cases in the sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru Urban district, the report explains how officials levied lesser stamp duty than required on Power of Attorney deeds (for sale of property) leading to a loss of Rs 20.38 crore. While power of attorney for sale of property attracts 5% stamp duty on market value of the property, the sub-registrars had wrongly levied a nominal stamp duty meant for another category of Attorney deeds which exclude rights for sale. Such examples can be found across departments for various services, according to the report. In addition, about 1,652 inspection report involving money value of Rs 2,782 Crore were pending with various departments for settlement by June 2020, it adds. Also, owing to non-updation of revised rates and also non-renewal of registration of shops and commercial establishments by the Department of Labour, there have been losses to the tune of Rs 39.59 Crore. The chief engineer’s office has also caused losses worth Rs 14.63 crore by not levying penalty for delays on part of the contractors, among other issues. Further, the CAG report also highlights irregularities in Bangalore University. As a result of financial misappropriation, there has been a revenue loss of Rs 87.87 lakh. Irregularities were found in disbursal of stipends to research scholars. The report also explains how officials have not remitted on time the DDs to banks (collected from students for registration, admission, examination fee), causing losses. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-departments-caused-loss-of-around-rs-2500-cr-cag-report-1033300.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chanakya varsity Bill gets Legislative Council nod||The controversial Chanakya University Bill was passed in the Legislative Council after a 3-hour-long debate that ended with the Congress and JD(S) walking out in protest against the government allotting KIADB land near Devanahalli to the institute. Opposition parties had sought Council Deputy Chairman M K Pranesh to defer the Bill for discussion to Thursday, as it was not part of the agenda of the Upper House on Wednesday. They accused the government of serving "vested interests" by handing over land worth nearly Rs 300 crore to Centre for Educational and Social Studies. However, the treasury benches were keen on adopting the Bill, which was passed around 9.35 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chanakya-varsity-bill-gets-legislative-council-nod-1033307.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||683 illegal foreigners in Karnataka, 260 with expired visa: Araga Jnanendra||The number of ‘illegal’ foreigners living in Karnataka is two times more than those whose visa has expired, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has told the Legislative Assembly.  According to written replies tabled by Jnanendra in the Assembly, Karnataka has 683 ‘illegal’ foreigners. However, foreigners with an expired visa living in Karnataka are just 260.  This either suggests India’s porous borders or poor data-keeping on the part of the state government.  Of the 683 ‘illegal’ foreigners or immigrants, only 53 have been identified as Bangladeshi nationals, Jnanendra said. A majority of these 683 foreigners are in Bengaluru (619). A total of 112 cases for various offences have been lodged against them.  Jnanendra said the government had filed 88 cases against foreigners whose visa has expired since 2019. Also, 103 such foreigners have been deported. Some are kept in a detention centre as directed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.  “To curb the illegal stay of immigrants, a Special Task Force has been constituted in every city and district. Personnel belonging to the special team and the police are constantly working to identify illegal immigrants,” Jnanendra said, adding that lookout circulars are issued against immigrants who are on the run.  The presence of foreigners is also linked with the drugs business, Jnanendra’s written replies suggest. In this connection, police stations have been asked to track information on foreigners and “special operations are conducted to take strict action against those who are indulging in (drugs).”  NDPS cases The number of ganja addicts has risen since 2019, according to government data. Authorities arrested 1,217 ganja addicts in 2019, which rose to 2,943 in 2020 and 3,255 till August this year. The government arrested 2,526 ganja sellers last year and 1,758, so far, this year.  Of all the cases booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act last year, 2,751 are before the court and this figure is 2,065 this year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/683-illegal-foreigners-in-karnataka-260-with-expired-visa-araga-jnanendra-1033315.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC to run 1,000 extra buses for Dasara, Deepavali||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate 1,000 additional buses to cater to Dasara and Deepavali rush. The corporation will run special buses from October 13 to 21 and from Oct 29 to Nov 7. The extra buses will operate from Bengaluru to Dharmastala, Kukke Subrahmanya, Shivamogga, Hassan, Mangaluru, Kundapur, Sringeri, Horanadu, Mysuru, Madikeri, Davangere, Hubballi, Dharwad, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Gokarna, Sirsi, Karwar, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Koppal, Yadgir, Bidar and other places across the state. Additional buses will also ply to Tirupati, Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Chennai, Coimbatore, Pune. Passengers can book tickets in advance through online by logging on to KSRTC website www.ksrtc.karnataka.gov.in and through advance reservation counters in Karnataka and other states. Travelling public are requested to avail the benefit of these services. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-to-run-1000-extra-buses-for-dasara-deepavali-1033323.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC upholds Arms Act exemption to Kodava, Jamma tenure holders||The High Court on Wednesday upheld the constitutional validity of exemption from some of the provisions of the Arms Act to “every person of Coorg race and every Jamma tenure-holder in Coorg”. A division bench, comprising Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, dismissed the PIL filed by Capt. Chetan Y K, an ex-army officer. The court said that the exemption under section 41 of the Arms Act satisfies the test of reasonable classification under Article 14 of the Constitution. The court also said that the exemption has existed since the pre-independence period and it has rightly been granted. The notification was issued in October 2019. “The Kodava community, which is a marshal community, has been enjoying the benefit of exemption since pre-independence and Jamma tenure holders are enjoying the exemption since pre-independence period. They have rightly been granted exemption for a period of ten years. Exemption granted is subject to certain terms and conditions. Therefore, the constitutional validity of the notification is upheld,” the bench said. Senior counsel Sajan Poovayya, appearing for the Kodava Samaja, Bengaluru, contended that Kodavas are a casteless and a special community. He argued that the gun, Odikathi (a small broad bladed sword) and the Prechakathi (a type of dagger) are as much a part of the life of a Kodava as the Kirpan is for Sikhs. The petitioner had contended that the very classification and use of the term ‘Coorg race’ promotes discrimination between the citizens of Coorg region on the ground of caste and violates Articles 14 and 15 of the constitution. He also claimed that it was never an exemption given on the basis of tradition and culture. The present petition is the third round of litigation. The petitioner had been challenging the exemption provided by way of notification on July 6, 1963. During the pendency of an earlier petition, the union ministry of home affairs stated that it had undertaken the exercise of reviewing the notification. The fresh notification in October 2019 again provided exemption, except some specified categories of Schedule I to the Arms Rules 2016, till October 31, 2029. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-upholds-arms-act-exemption-to-kodava-jamma-tenure-holders-1033324.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Visvesvaraya Technological University to offer BSc course at 66 engineering colleges in Karnataka||In a move to reignite the interest in basic science, Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), the only technological university in the state, has decided to offer general science degree courses from the current academic year. The varsity has already identified 66 affiliated colleges, both government and private, based on the facilities and availability of faculties to offer BSc courses. The proposal is before the state government for approval. According to Vice Chancellor of the University Prof Karisiddappa, it is a four-year BSc (Honours) programme that comes with an exit option as per the National Education Policy (NEP) guidelines. The university has decided to start the courses following a suggestion by the Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan. “Few months ago the minister floated this idea during a meeting. We have placed it before the executive council and academic senate. Following the approval, we have invited applications from the colleges interested,” said Karisiddappa. However, the university has finalised the colleges based on the infrastructure and availability of faculties among other things to offer BSc courses. “Our engineering colleges have the best faculties in physics and mathematics. With this, we can make better use of their knowledge and experience. This year, we have shortlisted 66 colleges and are waiting for the approval from the government,” Prof Karisiddappa said. With this, the engineering colleges will become multi-disciplinary and the students who take up BSc courses at these colleges can study courses like computer science and artificial intelligence (AI) as open electives. The University has also requested the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) to initiate the admission process based on the ranks announced at Karnataka Common Entrance Test 2021. “The priority will be given to those who have written KCET and the seat allotment will be done through KEA. In case there are seats left unfilled, we will allow non-KCET students...,” added the vice chancellor. The intake decided per college is 60 and the certificate will be provided by VTU as an allied science degree course. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/visvesvaraya-technological-university-to-offer-bsc-course-at-66-engineering-colleges-in-karnataka-1033326.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress to organise 'Gandhi March' in Chikkaballapura Lok Sabha constituency||The Karnataka unit of the Congress will organise a workshop called 'Gandhi March' (Gandhi Nadige) in honour of Mahatma Gandhi in the Chikkaballapura Lok Sabha constituency, former Union Minister Veerappa Moily said on Thursday. "We are going to take out a march called 'Gandhi Nadige.' It will be limited to Chikkaballapura Lok Sabha constituency," Moily said at a press conference. The programme will be held on September 26 at SBS Convention Hall in Devanahalli and the second programme will take place on September 29 at Soladevanhalli. The objective of the programme is to purify and revive the party so that it can take on the ruling BJP, the Congress leader said. Moily, a former Chief Minister of Karnataka, said politics today revolves around caste and cash for which he blamed the 'distorted politics' of the BJP. "The BJP has distorted politics with its caste and cash-based politics. It follows the divide and rule policy of the British and is dividing society on the lines of caste and religion," Moily charged. He also said that the BJP's policies have aided only the rich people. Moily also alleged that the BJP has buried the issue of corruption and no anti-corruption crusaders including Anna Hazare are questioning the BJP. The government did not appoint any Lokpal from 2014 to 2017, Moily said adding, the appointment of Lokpal happened after the Supreme Court questioned the Centre. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-to-organise-gandhi-march-in-chikkaballapura-lok-sabha-constituency-1033501.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Government to spend Rs 2,000 crore in Kalyana Karnataka this year: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai assured the Assembly on Thursday that the government would spend Rs 2,000 crore in the current fiscal for the development of the backward Kalyana Karnataka (KK) region. Bommai was replying to the debate on the KK region — Kalaburagi, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal, Raichur and Yadgir districts — that enjoys special status under the Constitution (Article 371J). "In the current financial year, we have earmarked Rs 1,500 crore plus Rs 500 from last year's opening balance. So far, we have released Rs 400 crore," Bommai said. "We want the money to get spent faster. Otherwise, we keep money every year and what's the point if it doesn't get spent? It's not just the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) that's responsible. Even the government is responsible and instructions will be issued to ensure Rs 2,000 crore will be spent this financial year," he said, adding that his government is committed to the region's development. The debate was initiated by former Congress minister and Bhalki MLA Eshwar Khandre. He lashed out at the government for not constituting the KKRDB in the last two years. "The present government has reduced it on the pretext of Covid-19," he said. "There is no one heading the KKRDB and there is no staff. As a result, the funds allocated by the government are going to waste," he said. About 40,000 posts are vacant in the region. That apart, there are about 7,849 promotion posts that are vacant. The government has failed to fill them, he said. Bommai said the KKRDB will be constituted within ten days. "We will also lift the restriction on recruitment. The process will start soon," he said, adding that approval will be given for direct recruitment to 20,000 posts.  Planning, Programme Monitoring & Statistics Minister Munirathna said the government has given KKRDB Rs 8,878 crore so far. "Of this, Rs 6,209 crore is released and Rs 5,918 crore spent," he said.  'Funds to mysterious organisation' Former minister and Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge said the government had given Rs 100 crore of KKRDB funds to a "mysterious organization" known as the Kalyana Karnataka Human Resource, Agriculture and Cultural Society. "What is the intent of this organization? One of its stated objectives is to send people to pilgrimage. Will that give people jobs," he asked. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said the Society would be asked to involve MLAs in its activities. "We will order an inquiry if something has been done in violation of the rules," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-to-spend-rs-2000-crore-in-kalyana-karnataka-this-year-cm-bommai-1033532.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Plea in Karnataka HC seeks regular supply of life-saving drug for Thalassemia patients||The Karnataka High Court on Monday ordered notice to the state government in response to a PIL filed seeking directions to restore the regular supply of a life-saving drug for Thalassemia patients in the state. A division bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, ordered notice on the PIL filed by Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Society of Bangalore and one Namitha A Kumar, a person having thalassemia. The petitioners said that thalassemia patients are suffering due to the non-availability of an essential drug called chelation. Thalassemia is a disability caused due to a blood disorder and is covered under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. The petitioners stated that the patients require frequent blood transfusions and iron tends to accumulate in the bloodstream due to repeated transfusions. Chelation is an expensive drug that removes the excess iron from the body that is accumulated due to frequent transfusion. The petitioner claimed that the drug used to be available for free in government hospitals. However, the supply of the drug has been stopped and authorities have not taken any steps in this regard, especially after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the petitioners said. According to the petition, there are about 17,000 thalassemia patients in the state and chelation costs anywhere between Rs 1,000-1,500 in the open market. They sought directions to restore the regular and free supply of chelation drugs in government hospitals and to ensure that the patients are given adequate, free and timely blood transfusions. The petitioners said that although recognised as a disability, very few of the 17,000 thalassemia patients have been issued the necessary certificate of disability. They also requested a direction to vaccinate all persons with disabilities including thalassemia patients above the age of 18 and their caregivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/plea-in-karnataka-hc-seeks-regular-supply-of-life-saving-drug-for-thalassemia-patients-1033539.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dialysis centres in Karnataka suffer as private firm went broke: K Sudhakar||Several dialysis centres in Karnataka have not been functional in the recent months as the private entity that the government has tied up with went bankrupt, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Thursday. The minister was speaking in the Legislative Assembly in response to a question raised by Tarikere MLA D S Suresh. BR Life, a private entity linked to Abu Dhabi-based Indian billionaire B R Shetty, has gone bankrupt and the quality of the services have either gone down or in many places have been stopped, according to Sudhakar. The state government is in the process of coming up with an alternative and the issue would be resolved within a month, Sudhakar said. "In 2016-17, the then Congress government gave the tender to two organisations. The BR Shetty Group has gone bankrupt and as result the services have been affected," he explained. Owing to this, the state government itself is paying the salaries of staff from May 2021 making use of the National Health Mission (NHM) funds, he added. However, the MLAs contested the minister's version and said the staff had not been paid salaries. Congress MLA Mahantesh Kaujalagi said the staff have not been paid wages from at least eight to ten months. Patients are suffering. In many cases, patients are having to wait mid-way through the dialysis for electricity as generators are not working, he pointed out, urging the government to set up generators. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, too, said the issue with dialysis centres was a statewide problem and asked the government to rectify it at the earliest. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dialysis-centres-in-karnataka-suffer-as-private-firm-went-broke-k-sudhakar-1033540.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KPSC scam: Karnataka govt exploring legal options||Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said that the government was exploring legal options to absorb the gazetted probationers appointed by Karnataka Public Service Commission in 2011. Responding to a query by Congress MLC P R Ramesh in the Council, Madhuswamy said that the government has initiated measures to ensure justice for the candidates selected a decade ago, but whose appointments were rejected in the past. The government is exploring whether to issue an executive order or table a Bill to absorb these candidates, he said. Meeting on Shivaram Karanth layout soon Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that a meeting will be convened shortly with officials and elected representatives from Bengaluru to look into the demands of farmers who lost land for the Shivaram Karanth layout. Responding to a question by Congress MLC M Narayanaswamy, the CM said that Supreme Court has appointed a three-member committee to look into various issues plaguing the controversial layout. Retired High Court judge A V Chandrashekar is heading the committee. Acknowledging that the BDA layout was marred with various problems, Bommai noted that several people have built their homes there. Austerity measures needed: CM on finances Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday told the Assembly that his government would initiate austerity measures, even if they are unpopular, to keep control over the state's bulging expenses. "It's a peculiar financial situation. We will need austerity measures," he said, after tabling supplementary estimates of Rs 10,295 crore that was eventually passed by both houses. To a question by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on GST compensation, Bommai said: "We have estimated Rs 12,708 crore and the Centre has fixed Rs 18,109 crore. So far, Rs 8,542 crore has come. So that's some cushion." Bommai added that his government would urge the Centre to extend GST compensation beyond 2022. Open for discussion on NEP Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government is open for a discussion on NEP and proposed to hold a meeting with all MLCs. Speaking at the Council, Bommai said that NEP was not introduced overnight and there have been differences even among experts about it. Earlier, owing to prolonged discussion on the issue, Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti suggested holding a separate discussion on the subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kpsc-scam-karnataka-govt-exploring-legal-options-1033547.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress to boycott Om Birla's address in Assembly||The Congress has decided to boycott Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's address to a joint session of the Karnataka legislature on Friday.  In a statement, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said his party would boycott the address as it was against the provisions of the Constitution.  "The Constitution authorises only the President of India and the Governor for a joint address of the legislature sitting in the Legislative Assembly. This decision to call the Lok Sabha Speaker for an address in the Assembly is unprecedented and sets a bad precedent," Shivakumar said, alleging that it was politically motivated. "The Vidhana Sabha cannot be used for political purposes." Shivakumar said if at all the Lok Sabha Speaker's speech has to be hosted it can be done in the banquet hall of the Vidhana Soudha and not inside the Assembly. "Even though the party leaders had appealed to Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on this, he did not oblige. Hence, the party will boycott the address," he said. It was Kageri's plan to invite Birla, who will speak on 'safeguarding democratic values'. Earlier in the day, Kageri told the Assembly that it is compulsory for all legislators to attend Birla's address. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-to-boycott-om-birlas-address-in-assembly-1033552.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||LS Speaker Om Birla to address joint session of Karnataka Legislature on Friday||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will address both Houses of Karnataka Legislature on Friday. The theme of Birla’s address will be ‘Democracy – Safeguarding democratic values'. Chairman of Legislative Council of Karnataka Basavaraj Horatti, Speaker of Karnataka Legislative Assembly Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri; ministers, Members of Parliament, MLCs, MLAs and other dignitaries will be present on the occasion. It will be the first time that Birla will be addressing the Joint Session of the two Houses of a Legislature. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ls-speaker-om-birla-to-address-joint-session-of-karnataka-legislature-on-friday-1033557.html
23-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government red-faced after ministers make conflicting statements on Covid-19 death compensation||In a gaffe that left the ruling BJP red-faced, Health Minister K Sudhakar and former chief minister B S Yediyurappa contradicted Transport Minister B Sriramulu’s claims on Covid-19 compensation on the floor of the Assembly on Thursday. This awkwardness happened during a heated debate on the Covid-19 situation that saw the Congress launch an offensive at the government for its handling of the pandemic. KPCC president DK Shivakumar said not a single person who died of Covid-19 had received any ex-gratia from the government despite an announcement by the previous Yediyurappa regime that Rs 1 lakh would be given to BPL families that lose a member due to the virus. Shivakumar specifically cited how the state government failed to send a list of SC/ST and OBC victims of Covid-19 to the Centre for the purpose of compensation. “Don’t bring the Centre’s things into this. Every state has its own guidelines,” Sriramulu said. “The Yediyurappa government gave Rs 1 lakh to each and every family,” he asserted, causing pandemonium with Congress members calling it a lie. Forced to clarify, Sudhakar admitted that no one had been paid Rs 1 lakh ex-gratia. Then, Yediyurappa had to step in. “What Sriramulu said is wrong,” he said. “An order has been issued and Rs 300 crore set aside for it. It’s true it hasn’t reached people. I assure this House that we will go door-to-door to ensure it reaches people,” he said.  Ironically, outside the Assembly, Revenue Minister R Ashoka inaugurated the ex-gratia scheme by symbolically handing over a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to a BPL family. “So far, we have received 7,729 applications,” he said.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah targeted the BJP government for its handling of the devastating second wave. “The government got into a relaxed mode after the first wave. No preparation or precaution was in place,” he said. “Thousands died in the first wave and the second.”  Bringing up the Chamarajanagar tragedy, Siddaramaiah said 36 patients died at a state-run hospital due to lack of oxygen supply. He also demanded an explanation on why no action was taken against the officials concerned for the deaths.  While Shivakumar demanded a death audit saying at least four lakh people died of Covid-19, Siddaramaiah felt that the government’s figure of 37,000 did not account for people who died without beds, ambulances and other medical facilities. “Not even a child will believe the government’s figures.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-red-faced-after-ministers-make-conflicting-statements-on-covid-19-death-compensation-1033560.html
23-09-2021||West||ED to launch probe into Mundra heroin haul under PMLA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) will launch a money-laundering investigation into the recent seizure of nearly 3,000 kgs of heroin from two containers at Mundra port in Gujarat, according to ANI.  The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has so far arrested eight persons including five foreign nationals in connection with the seizure of a staggering 2,988 kg of heroin at Mundra Port in Gujarat, an official release said here on Wednesday. Those arrested included an Indian couple who allegedly ran the firm which had imported the consignment claiming it to be of `semi-processed talc stones'. The drug haul is considered to be one of the biggest in the world with the value of the seized heroin estimated to be Rs 21,000 crore in the international markets. One kg of the drug sells at Rs 5 to 7 crore. "A total of eight persons including four Afghan nationals, one Uzbek and three Indians have been arrested so far. Following the seizure of an astounding quantity of heroin from two containers which had arrived at Mundra Port in Kutch district a few days back, the DRI conducted raids across the country and seized another 16.1 kg of heroin from a godown in Delhi, it said. It took the total heroin seizure in the case to 3,004 kg, said the release. The agency also recovered 10.2 kg of suspected cocaine and 11 kg of another substance suspected to be heroin from "a residential place in Noida", it added. On September 13, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas port of Iran. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed that they contained "semi-processed talc stones". On September 17 and 19 it established that the two containers in fact contained heroin which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones, the release said. The drug had to be "painstakingly separated from the talc stones," it added. The DRI then arrested -- from Chennai -- M Sudhakar and his wife Durga Vaishali who allegedly ran Vijayawada-registered M/S Aashi Trading Company which had imported the consignment of `talc stones'. On Monday, a special court for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in Bhuj remanded the couple in 10-day custody of the DRI. (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-to-launch-probe-into-mundra-heroin-haul-under-pmla-1033395.html
23-09-2021||West||Money laundering case: HC to hear Anil Deshmukh's plea against ED summons on Sept 29||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it would hear on September 29 the plea filed by Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh against summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) could file its affidavit in response to the plea if it felt necessary. Deshmukh had earlier this month filed the petition seeking to quash five summons issued by the ED, and said the case was a result of "political vendetta". On Thursday, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, sought for the matter to be heard virtually so as to enable Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta to appear and argue for the agency. However, senior counsel Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam, appearing for Deshmukh, argued that the court should hear the matter on Thursday itself for grant of interim protection from any coercive action. "The ED has been indulging in demeaning tactics. This petition demonstrates the hapless state of affairs. The tactics (used by the ED) are deplorable," Chaudhri argued. The high court said it would hear all the contentions raised in the plea on September 29. "The ED may file its reply if they deem it necessary," the HC said. The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. Deshmukh in his petition said the agency's whole case was based on “malicious statements” made by dismissed police officer Sachin Waze, who is currently in jail in connection with the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai and the killing of businessman Mansukh Hiren. Deshmukh refuted the ED's claims that while serving as home minister, he misused his official position and through Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was allegedly laundered to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, an educational trust controlled by Deshmukh's family. "The entire claim of Waze giving Rs 4.70 crore to the applicant (Deshmukh) and the same amount being routed by the applicant's family is factually incorrect,” the plea said. It added that the amount received by the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha was donations made before the period in which Waze alleges to have received illegal gratification from bars and restaurants. “There was never any cash received as illegal gratification from bar owners as claimed by Waze,” the plea said. The ED has so far arrested two persons in the case – Sanjeev Palande (additional collector rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant). The agency last month submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court. The CBI had lodged its FIR against Deshmukh after it conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5 this year. Deshmukh resigned from the post of home minister on April 5, but has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/money-laundering-case-hc-to-hear-anil-deshmukhs-plea-against-ed-summons-on-sept-29-1033415.html
23-09-2021||West||Minor girl raped for months in Mumbai; 33 booked, 26 held||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped multiple times over a period of eight months in Maharashtra's Thane district and the police have arrested 24 persons and detained two minors in the case, an official said on Thursday. Based on the girl's complaint, the Manpada police in Dombivli registered a case on Wednesday night against 33 persons under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376 (n) (repeated rape), 376 (d) (gang-rape), 376 (3) (rape on a woman under sixteen years of age) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. Additional Commissioner of Police (East region) Dattatray Karale told reporters that the alleged incidents took place between January 29 and September 22 this year. The girl told a relative about the ordeal on Wednesday following which the complaint was registered, he added. "It all started when the girl's boyfriend allegedly raped her in January and made a video. He then started blackmailing her. Subsequently his friends and acquaintances raped her on at least four or five occasions at different places in the district including Dombivli, Badlapur, Murbad and Rabale," Karale said. A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed under Assistant Commissioner of Police Sonali Dhole to probe the case, he added. "The victim has named 33 persons. Of them, 24 persons have been arrested and two minors detained. The girl's condition is said to be stable," Karale said, adding that search is on for the remaining accused. The arrested men were produced before a court on Thursday and were remanded in police custody till September 29, said another police official. Speaking to reporters in Nagpur, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded that the Maharashtra government make special efforts to prevent such crimes. “An atmosphere of fear is prevailing in the state. The increase in the number of such incidents is worrisome," the former chief minister said. "Such an incident taking place in Dombivli which is known as a peaceful city is very shocking. We demand that the government immediately intervene," Fadnavis added. On the other hand, Shiv Sena leader and deputy chairperson of the Maharashtra Legislative Council Neelam Gorhe said the incident should not be politicized. The survivor should be protected, given counseling and rehabilitated, she said. Earlier this month, the Shiv Sena-led state government had come under fire when a 34-year-old woman died after being brutally raped and assaulted inside a stationary tempo in Mumbai's Sakinaka area. One person was arrested in the case.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/minor-girl-raped-for-months-in-mumbai-33-booked-26-held-1033491.html
23-09-2021||West||Mumbai coastal road project to be ready by Nov 2023: BMC chief||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s flagship project of the coastal road in Mumbai would start functioning from November 2023.  The Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has been controlled by the Shiv Sena for over quarter of a century, is executing the Rs 12,700 crore project.  The project is being done in two phases - the Phase I from Marine Drive to Worli and Phase II from Worli to Kandivli. The project commenced in October 2018, the project was earlier targeted to be completed by 2022, but it got delayed due to litigation. “Around 40 per cent of the project (Phase I) is complete. Work on the project is going on 24x7 in three shifts and the project would be completed by November 2023,” Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said.  The coastal road project from Marine Drive to Worli (27 km in length including 16 km stretch of interchanges) was executed by the BMC out of its own funds.  “This has reached 40% physical completion now, including completion of a 1 kilometre long,4 0 feet diametre tunnel under Malabar Hill. Only 900 metres length of tunnel remains now. This is the first of its kind under-sea tunnel of 40 feet diameter executed in our country,” he said.  According to him, this will also include a 125 acre garden on the reclaimed land abutting the coastal road with 1,852 underground car parking. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-coastal-road-project-to-be-ready-by-nov-2023-bmc-chief-1033499.html
23-09-2021||West||Ahead of COP26, 43 Maharashtra cities to join UN-backed 'Race to Zero' climate campaign||Furthering its efforts of progressive climate action, the Maharashtra government on Thursday announced that 43 AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) cities and urban clusters from the state will join the global ‘Race to Zero’ campaign, ahead of Climate Week NYC 2021 and as part of the Global Citizen Live campaign. Cities joining ‘Race to Zero’ will seek to prevent future climate threats, create jobs, and unlock equitable, sustainable growth. These cities must publicly acknowledge and recognise the global climate emergency, keeping climate resilience in line with urban decision making and pledging to reach net-zero in the 2040s or sooner. They will also have to identify priority actions over the next decade. Maharashtra’s environment minister Aaditya Thackeray made the announcement at India's Road to COP26 event, part of The Hub Live at Climate Week NYC 2021. "Joining the Race to Zero campaign is our contribution to the global fight against climate change. We cannot keep emitting carbon. We don't have the luxury of time. Maharashtra will set an example of how subnational governments can act on climate change despite being a massively industrialised state,” he said. Five cities — Mumbai, Nashik, Aurangabad, Kalyan-Dombivali, Pune and Nagpur — already joined the campaign earlier this year. The environment department will undertake a greenhouse gas emission inventory exercise for all the cities and clusters, which account for a floating population of 5 crore.  Within 12 months of joining, the cities will have to explain what actions will be taken toward achieving both interim and longer-term pledges and commit to report publicly both progress against interim and long-term targets. They will also have to report the actions being taken at least once a year. With a population of 11.2 crore, Maharashtra is India's second most populated and second most industrialised state.  In 2020, 45.23 per cent of the state's population was concentrated in urban areas, compared to 28.22 per cent in 1960. Maharashtra's rapid urbanisation and industrailisation is a result of mass migration to urban areas. A majority of Maharashtra's citizens migrated to urban areas, resulting in rapid urbanisation and industrialisation. With the announcement, the state aims to reduce its rapidly increasing carbon footprint, which largely comes from its urban centres. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahead-of-cop26-43-maharashtra-cities-to-join-un-backed-race-to-zero-climate-campaign-1033512.html
23-09-2021||West||Maharashtra senior Congress leader Sharad Ranpise dies at 71||Senior Congress leader and the party's group leader in the Maharashtra Legislative Council Sharad Ranpise died at a private hospital here on Thursday, sources said. Ranpise (71) had suffered a heart attack a few days ago and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, a party leader said. "The demise of senior Congress leader and group leader of the Legislative Council, Sharad Ranapise, has taken a heavy toll on the Congress party, which has lost a studious personality. A heartfelt tribute to him," the Maharashtra Congress said in a tweet. Ranpise had been a corporator in the Pune Municipal Corporation and a two-time MLA from Parvati constituency in the district. He was an MLC and the Congress' group leader in the state legislative council. Check out DH's latest vidoes:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-senior-congress-leader-sharad-ranpise-dies-at-71-1033514.html
23-09-2021||West||Distillers call for government support to help feni go international on par with vodka, sake||Feni distillers in Goa on Thursday requested the Goa government for insititutional support to market the indigenous alcohol brewed from fermented cashew apple juice internationally, on par with Russian vodka and Japanese sake. The Goa Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association also sought subsidies from the state government in order to boost and streamline production of the cashew fruit in the state, which the association's Secretary Hansel Vaz said would also help afforestation of bald hillocks and barren areas in the state. "It should be standard product like scotch, champagne... Like Mexico's tequila, Russian vodka and Japan's sake, we need to export our feni across the country and the world and the local distillers should also benefit economically," Vaz told a press conference in Panaji. Feni is one of the most popular indigenous alcohols in Goa, which is extracted from the fermented distilled juice of cashew apples. Feni also has a geographical indication tag which is owned by the Goa government's Science and Technology department and the Association. Feni was first manufactured in Goa in the 1600s, after the Portuguese imported the cashew plant from Brazil to India. There are currently 26 varieties of feni manufactured in Goa.  While feni was earlier branded as a "country liquor", it was upgraded to a state heritage spirit some years back. Earlier this year, the state government announced a special policy to promote the feni industry. But a lot more needs to be done to boost the industry in a holistic way, treasurer of the Association Tukaram Haldankar said. "We request the government to allow sale of feni in duty-free stores in airports and cruiserliner terminals. The government should also support us through Department of Tourism, so that feni can be promoted in its programmes. If you go to Scotland, they promote Scotch. Goa should promote its feni to Goa," he said. "We also need to standardise the processes of feni production, which would require another set of subsidies and financial assistance from the government. The subsidies and financial assistance would help put feni on par with internationally celeberated alcohols," Haldankar also said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/distillers-call-for-government-support-to-help-feni-go-international-on-par-with-vodka-sake-1033526.html
23-09-2021||West||Customary divorce a 'social evil' that can never be approved by law: Gujarat HC||The Gujarat High Court declined to recognise a customary divorce to a woman from the Leuva Patel community on the ground that there was nothing to prove that the community had any such ancient custom as required by the law. It noted that the practice is "undoubtedly a social evil" and was "happening on account of the attitude of ill-minded male chauvinists." It was dealing with the case of a woman from Amreli district who was separated through customary divorce. Such a divorce is recognised by law only if the practice is deemed ancient or existed prior to Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. The litigant wants and is hoping for a valid decree passed by a competent court as she wants to remarry and settle abroad. She moved the Ahmedabad civil court to obtain the decree which was denied on the ground that she failed to prove that customary divorce is prevalent in the Leuva Patel community. While challenging the order in the High Court, the woman produced affidavits filed by five individuals claiming that the community has such a mechanism for separation.  The division bench led by justice Pardiwala stated that evidence of the plaintiff doesn't prove that customary divorce was prevailing in her community or that it was ancient and prior to the passage of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. Terming such divorce as "a social evil," the bench has said, "Customary divorces undoubtedly are happening on account of the attitude of ill-minded male chauvinists. Customary divorces are decided by few persons, who may not have much idea about the social developments and the constitutional perspective. Be that it be, the only concern of this Court is that such customary divorces are approved by the Civil Courts even without ascertaining the basic factors regarding the customs prevailing as well as practice. Customary divorce can never be approved nor recognised by the law."   The bench has also stated that "As far as our Indian society is concerned, divorce is a social evil." "Characteristically molded individuals alone can constitute a good family. A good family constitutes a good Nation. A good Nation alone can prosper in developmental activities. Thus, good families are the foundation for the development of our great Nation. The concept of family, even during ancient times, considered as the root for unity and for individual developments. When these all are the concepts being adopted by the Indian Society, even during primitive days, still we love and recognize the concept of family. The man being a social animal cannot live separately. Under these circumstances, on the one hand we are talking about women empowerment, opportunity for women in all fields and at all levels, however, we are neglecting certain other factors, like, grant of divorce, non-maintenance etc," the order reads. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/customary-divorce-a-social-evil-that-can-never-be-approved-by-law-gujarat-hc-1033537.html
