24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Parts of Mysore Palace get new coat of paint for Dasara||Authorities are eager to ensure that Mysuru Palace, the cynosure of the nine-day festival, will live up to its reputation though Mysuru Dasara is going to be a low-key affair. Some parts of the Palace are being spruced up for the celebration with a new coat of paint, minor restoration and beautification works. The Palace will be decked up and the structure will be illuminated during Dasara festival. In order to ensure speedy completion of the works, the authorities have taken up the works in three categories. While painting, restoration and patch works are taken up under civil works, replacement of bulbs, maintenance of sound and light units are done under electric works and the horticulture department has taken up gardening. Painters are at work on some parts of the main building and interiors of the Palace. Minor repair and plastering of walls have commenced at Balarama, Jayarama and Jayamarthanda gates of the palace. The lift, a few rooms and heritage grills are being painted. Works at even the residential part of the erstwhile royal family have been taken up. The authorities are concentrating more on lighting. Electricians have taken up annual maintenance of the electric circuits, bulbs and other units. The heritage light poles, five light poles and sound and light units are also being painted and minor works are being carried out. According to officials, a large number of incandescent golden hue bulbs used to illuminate the Palace will be replaced with new ones. The palace will be illuminated with one lakh bulbs and nearly 15% of them will be replaced. The horticulture department has planned to arrange flowering plants on the Palace premises. The authorities have planned to display more than 1,000 plants to add life to the palace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/parts-of-mysore-palace-get-new-coat-of-paint-for-dasara-1033592.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers allege irregularities in distribution of fertilisers, sek probe||Farmers in the district have levelled charges of irregularities of crores of rupees in distribution of fertilisers. Farmers alleged that the officials connived with private dealers and huge quantities of fertilisers had been diverted to the traders creating artificial scarcity. Agriculture activities had started, but fertilisers were not available either at primary cooperative agricultural credit cooperative societies or other societies. Private dealers had huge stocks of fertilisers, farmers alleged. They alleged irregularities of several crores in the fertiliser load that reached Mandya on September 17. Around 1,500 tonnes of fertiliser arrived, but only around 300 tonnes was supplied to cooperative societies. The rest was diverted to private traders betraying innocent farmers. "The fertilisers should be distributed among cooperative and other societies. The officials are neglecting the norms," said Raitha Sangha president Kempugowda. "Just 80 tonnes of fertiliser has been supplied to Karnataka State Cooperative Marketing Federation (KSCMF) in Mandya. About 300 tonnes was supplied to a private trader. How did the officials permit this? A comprehensive probe should be conducted on the loads supplied to Mandya from April to September," urged farmer leader Basavaraj. "A bag of urea weighing 45 kg costs Rs 265. A few traders sell it for Rs 310. If the difference is pointed out, they refuse to sell urea," a farmer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-allege-irregularities-in-distribution-of-fertilisers-sek-probe-1033596.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Dasara elephants continue weight training||Dasara elephants continued weight training on the famed Mysuru Palace premises for the fourth day on Thursday. Abhimanyu, who is likely to carry the 750-kg golden howdah during the Jamboo Savari, successfully carried sandbags weighing 500 kg. The weight training started on Monday and the authorities are training the jumbos in three cycles. In the first cycle, Abhimanyu was given weight training and in second and third day cycle, Dhananjaya and Gopalaswamy carried sandbags mounted on their back. In the first cycle, the elephants carried sandbags weighing about 275 kg. Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) Wildlife V Karikalan said the elephants are undergoing training successfully. The elephants will be made to walk 3 km carrying weight and 3.5 km without weight, the officer said. In order to ensure good health and to improve physical condition, the elephants are put under a special diet from Wednesday. They gain weight during their stay in Mysuru to participate in Dasara. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dasara-elephants-continue-weight-training-1033597.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Traders seek action against policemen for assaulting hotelier||The Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru (FOA) members have condemned the attack on a restaurant owner and staff by the Mandi station policemen. The FOA members, who had recently demanded lifting of the weekend curfew, submitted a memorandum to police commissioner Chandragupta demanding action. They have decided to urge deputy commissioner Bagadi Gowtham to lift the night curfew. The policemen assaulted Javid Ahmad Pasha of Hotel Big Grill, opposite Suhasini Palace, near RMC Yard, new bamboo bazaar on Sayyaji Rao Road on the night of September 22 as it was reportedly open beyond 9, a violation of night curfew guidelines. A video of the attack has gone viral on social media. "The hotel was opened only on September 16. It was closed by 9 pm, but the last two customers, who had come before 9, were still having dinner when the policemen entered inside and assaulted the staff and owner. The incident was recorded on CCTV camera,” Mysuru Hotel Owners Association president C Narayana Gowda claimed. "Is this the kind of respect a hotelier gets in the city? The police are exploiting night curfew to harass traders and hoteliers. We seek the government to lift the night curfew. Dasara has set in, a major season for the tourism and hospitality sectors, providing direct or indirect employment to over 30% of the residents,” Gowda added. "The police should first talk to a trader if there is any violation. We will stage protests if such incidents are repeated," he warned. “We condemn the inhuman treatment of a restaurateur. Hotels are slowly picking up business. No service provider violates the law intentionally. They are harassing traders instead of checking violations and crimes. The police start wielding the cane from 8.30 pm itself though the night curfew starts from 9 pm," stated an FOA press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/traders-seek-action-against-policemen-for-assaulting-hotelier-1033603.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman found dead, murder suspected||A body of an unidentified woman was found on the outskirts of Periyapatna town in Mysuru district on Thursday. The woman is said to be around 35 years old. As the body bore injuries, the police suspect that she might have been murdered elsewhere and the body has been dumped on private land. The farmers alerted the police after they spotted the body. Fingerprint experts and a dog squad were pressed into service. The victim is suspected to belong to a tribal community. A probe is on to establish her identity," DySP P P Ravi Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-found-dead-murder-suspected-1033604.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chicken transporting vehicle catches fire in Belagavi||A chicken transporting vehicle caught fire while on the move at Congress Road near third railway gate here on Thursday night. Fire was noticed under bonet of the vehicle and within no time spread upto front wheels. Driver halted the vehicle and himself with cleaner jumped out of the vehicle and saved themselves. Fire and Emergency Services personal doused the vehicle by using one water canon. Tilakwadi police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chicken-transporting-vehicle-catches-fire-in-belagavi-1033618.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada administration mulling over street festival in Mangaluru||Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that the district administration is mulling over organising street festivals — food and art festivals — during weekends in Mangaluru. “With the stretch of the road from Clock Tower to A B Shetty Circle being converted into one-way for traffic, we get nearly a six-lane road. One portion of the road can be blocked for hosting street festivals on the stretch and even Kadri Park Road will also be used for street festivals," he said. A calendar of events will be prepared in advance for the people to know what is happening during the weekends once the Covid-19 positivity rate reduces and the threat of the third wave of Covid-19 is overcome.” he told media persons during an interaction organised by DK Working Journalists Association, on Friday. Stakeholders' meet The DC said that on World Tourism Day, the DK tourism development committee will organise a workshop to discuss the path of development, reasons for lagging behind in the tourism sector with a focus on beach tourism, religious tourism, medical tourism, ecotourism, and cultural tourism with the stakeholders. The theme of this year’s Tourism Day is inclusive growth. Trekking trail The DC said that there are trekking trails in Belthangady, Sullia, Puttur taluks. “The district administration has held discussions with DCF Wildlife of Karkala on promoting such trails using the local guides. This, in turn, will also help the homestays that are situated nearby.” There are also plans to resume Kambala in Pilikula. The elected representatives of the region have submitted proposals to develop kudrus (islands) at an estimated cost of Rs 130 crore to the Centre. Accordingly, plans are being worked out under an integrated island zone management plan. The district administration will also rope in both private operators and the KSRTC to operate hop-on-hop-off buses to tourist destinations. Even the hotel industries will be involved. “I have also written to the government to include either Deputy Commissioner or Principal Secretary in the board of trustees of NMPT. This, in turn, will help the district administration to raise the issues pertaining to fishermen and also on promoting tourism,” added the DC. As a chairman of Pilikula Development Authority, efforts are being made to get an elephant, zebra and giraffe to the Pilikula Biological Park either through an animal exchange programme or through other projects. “Efforts are being made to promote tourist spots of Dakshina Kannada in major airports in the country. There are seven to eight archaeological sites in Dakshina Kannada. Efforts will be made to connect it through QR code to the tourists,” explained the DC. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-administration-mulling-over-street-festival-in-mangaluru-1033845.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tannirbavi and Idya beaches shortlisted for Blue Flag certification||Tannirbavi and Idya beaches have been shortlisted for Blue Flag certification. An action plan for the development works to be initiated in these two beaches has been submitted to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for approval. The funds will be released by the Centre to the state government for the development of these beaches, DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said on Friday. About 1-km stretch on Tannirbavi and Idya beaches will be developed for Blue Flag certification. Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance was received for international convention centre and golf course projects to be developed on 135 acre land in Bengre. A global tender for the same was invited in 2007-08. The district administration will take steps to fence the area to check encroachments, said the DC. Efforts are on to get at least two jungle lodge resorts near beaches in Mangaluru. Though the district administration has Rs 5 crore to develop Sasihithlu beach, sea erosion is posing a threat. The minor irrigation department has been asked to prepare an action plan to construct an embankment near the Nandini river to check the erosion in Sasihithlu. Surfing schools are also planned at Sasihithlu and Thannirbavi beaches, deputy commissioner informed. Steps will be taken to install toilets, changing rooms, and high mast lights on beaches. To a query on maintenance of Panambur beach, the DC said that tender was invited with focus on water sports, uniformity in developing shops and safety aspects in the beaches. As none could fulfill the conditions, the tender was cancelled. Now, the district administration has decided to call for a pre-bid meeting. Potential bidders will be invited for the meeting, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tannirbavi-and-idya-beaches-shortlisted-for-blue-flag-certification-1033847.html
24-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Former Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa wins maiden Best Legislator award||Senior BJP leader and Shikaripura legislator BS Yediyurappa won the inaugural edition of the 'Best Legislator' award on Friday.  Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri announced the award at a joint session of the legislature in the presence of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti.  Yediyurappa, a four-time chief minister and an eight-time legislator, was chosen for the award by a committee headed by Kageri with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and senior Congress MLA RV Deshpande as members.  Yediyurappa, 78, resigned as chief minister on July 26, making way for Bommai to take up the state’s mantle. He has represented Shikaripura eight times since his first election in 1983.  “We discussed the names of several seniors. It was a difficult choice,” Kageri said, adding that Yediyurappa’s selection was unanimous.  The 'Best Legislator' award will be given every year, Kageri said. “It will be a once-in-a-lifetime recognition.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/former-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-wins-maiden-best-legislator-award-1033800.html
24-09-2021||National||OIC asks India to reverse decision of scrapping special status of Jammu and Kashmir||The Contact Group of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), in its meeting on the sidelines of the 76th UN General Assembly, has asked India to reverse its decision of scrapping the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. India has asked the OIC to refrain from allowing vested interests to exploit its platform for comments on internal affairs of the country. "The OIC has no locus standi in matters relating to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral part of India. It is reiterated that the OIC General Secretariat should refrain from allowing vested interests to exploit its platform for comments on internal affairs of India," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in August. A Joint Communique was issued after the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the OIC Contact Group on Jammu and Kashmir, which met under the Chairmanship of the Secretary General of the OIC, according to Pakistan's Foreign Office (FO). It said that the group demanded India to “reverse all illegal and unilateral measures taken on or after August 5, 2019, stop the gross, systematic and widespread human rights abuses" in Jammu and Kashmir. It said that lasting peace in South Asia cannot be achieved without a just settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute in accordance with UNSC resolutions. India abrogated the Article 370 of the Constitution to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. India’s decision evoked strong reactions from Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties and expelled the Indian envoy. India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of the Article 370 was its internal matter. India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oic-asks-india-to-reverse-decision-of-scrapping-special-status-of-jammu-and-kashmir-1033584.html
24-09-2021||National||Punjab CM Channi meets top Congress leaders in Delhi to discuss cabinet formation||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is learnt to have discussed the formation of his cabinet with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Thursday, sources said. Channi, who arrived in the national capital in the evening, earlier discussed the list of names for inclusion in his cabinet with All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. Thereafter, the two leaders are learnt to have met and discussed the same with Gandhi. Channi is likely to replace a few ministers who are said to be loyal to former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. There are also two vacancies that have to be filled in place of Amarinder Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sidhu's post has not been filled since he resigned from the Punjab cabinet in 2019. Working president of the Punjab Congress Sangat Singh Gilzian and party leader Manpreet Singh Badal were also in Delhi, the sources said. Channi's visit to the national capital assumes significance as Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra returned to the national capital from Shimla on Wednesday. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar had accompanied Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi on a flight to Delhi. Channi, his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni and Sidhu went to Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the expansion of the state cabinet with the Congress leadership. They met AICC general secretary K C Venugopal and Rawat. The cabinet is likely to see some fresh faces, the sources said. The names of Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Surjit Dhiman, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are doing the rounds. Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, is at present the Punjab Congress general secretary and Gilzian is a working president of the party's state unit. There is a speculation that Amarinder Singh's staunch loyalists -- Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who was the sports minister, and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who was the social justice empowerment minister -- may be dropped from the cabinet. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-channi-meets-top-congress-leaders-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-formation-1033586.html
24-09-2021||National||NGT asks CPCB, SPCBs to submit state action plans for air pollution by Oct 10||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards (SPCBs), including the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, to submit the status of State Action Plans (SAPs) to combat air pollution in cities by October 10. The Green Bench also said the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) is applicable to all cities and the state pollution control boards must submit status reports about steps they have taken to check rising pollution. The Programme is a national-level strategy launched by the Union Environment Ministry in 2019 for an effective ambient air quality monitoring network. According to the Programme, cities declared non-attainment if they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for PM 10 (Particulate matter 10 microns or less in diameter) or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) over a five-year period. The NCAP has identified 132 non-attainment cities across India. The states have to prepare an action plan to combat pollution. Earlier, the CPCB had informed the Tribunal that the formulation of 'Guidelines for State Action Plan' was due to Covid-19 and sought two more months for their preparation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-asks-cpcb-spcbs-to-submit-state-action-plans-for-air-pollution-by-oct-10-1033598.html
24-09-2021||National||MSMEs vulnerable to cyber threats with growing digitalisation: Officials||With growing digitalisation globally, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are vulnerable to cyber attacks with lack of understanding of security risks and limited capital allocation to mitigate such threats, officials said on Thursday. There is a need to equip these businesses with knowledge and hands-on training on how to identify and combat these threats, and, become more cyber-resilient, Union MSME ministry's director SK Sahoo said. Cybersecurity remains an "area of serious concern" for the MSMEs, and the vulnerabilities of these businesses stem from several factors such as "lack of understanding of cyber security risks, less prioritisation for safety and limited capital allocation, he said in a workshop here. It is important to bridge these gaps by imparting skills and knowledge on how to react when faced with cyber security breaches, Sahoo said. The workshop was organised by the US Consulate General Kolkata and CUTS International, in collaboration with MSME-Development Institute, Ranchi, and the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC). Noting that limited awareness resulted in a drastic increase in cybercrime, C-DAC Patna director and centre head Aditya Kumar Sinha said the risk of SME's increases many folds seeing their cyberspace vulnerability. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msmes-vulnerable-to-cyber-threats-with-growing-digitalisation-officials-1033620.html
24-09-2021||National||PM Modi meets US Vice President Kamala Harris; discusses bilateral ties, Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday described India and America as "natural partners" as he held the first in-person meeting with Vice President Kamala Harris at the White House during which they decided to further cement the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed global issues of common interest, including threats to democracy and the Indo-Pacific. "India and America are natural partners. We have similar values, similar geopolitical interests," Modi said in a joint media appearance with Harris, the first-ever person of Indian origin to be elected as the vice-president of the United States. Noting that India and the US are the largest and oldest democracies, Modi said the two countries share values and their coordination and cooperation is also gradually increasing. This is the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone in June during the Covid-19 crisis in India. "You are the source of inspiration for so many people across the world. I am completely confident that our bilateral relationship will touch new heights under President Biden and your leadership," Modi told Harris. The two leaders were wearing masks as they both spoke in front of a battery of pool reporters from both India and the US. He invited the 56-year-old Democratic leader to visit India. "Both President Biden and you assumed office at a time when our planet faced very tough challenges. In a short time you have had many achievements to your credit be it Covid-19, climate change or the Quad," Modi said. "As relates to the Indo-Pacific, the US stresses on maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific,” Harris said, amidst China's aggressive moves in the strategically vital region. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the region China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. She said the world is more interconnected and more interdependent than ever before. “And the challenges that we face today have highlighted that fact. Covid-19, climate crisis and the importance of our shared belief in the Indo-Pacific region,” she said. Modi noted that he had the opportunity to speak to Harris after she assumed the Vice Presidency. "One of our interactions happened when India was battling a very tough wave of Covid-19 infections. I recall your kind words of solidarity that time," Modi said. India was confronted with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. A very difficult time for India, he said. “Like a family, the sense of kinship and so warmly, you extended a helping hand, the words that you chose when you spoke to me, I will always remember that, and I'd like to thank you from the bottom of my heart,” the prime minister said. “Like a true friend, you had given a message of cooperation, and were very full of sensitivity and immediately after that we found that the US government, the US corporate sector and the Indian community, all came together to help India,” he said. Modi said that the US Government, companies based in the USA and the Indian diaspora were very helpful when India was fighting a tough wave of Covid-19 infections. He said that four million people of Indian origin are acting as a bridge of friendship between the two countries. Harris described India as a "very important partner" to the US and welcomed New Delhi's announcement that it will soon resume vaccine export. India stopped the export of Covid-19 vaccines after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country in April this year. On Monday, India said that it will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the ''Vaccine Maitri'' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. On the issue of the climate crisis, she told Modi that the US working together with India can have not only a profound impact on people of nations but around the world itself. Harris said that it is incumbent on the two nations to protect democracies in the best interests of people of the two countries. "As democracies around the world are under threat, it is imperative that we defend democratic principles and institutions within our respective countries and around the world. And that we maintain what we must do to strengthen democracies at home and it is incumbent on our nations to of course protect democracies in the best interests of people of our countries,” she said. Their meeting comes a day ahead of the maiden bilateral meeting between Modi and President Joe Biden and the Quad Leaders' Summit at the White House on Friday. Since taking office, Harris has met with or spoken to over 30 world leaders, promoting US interests on issues ranging from global health to climate change to cyber threats.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-us-vice-president-kamala-harris-discusses-bilateral-ties-indo-pacific-1033621.html
24-09-2021||National||Congress, Left conspired against Modi in 2nd Covid wave: Himanta||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday attacked the opposition Congress and Left parties for allegedly conspiring to put Prime Minister Narendra Modi in difficulties during the second wave of Covid-19. Addressing the Assam BJP's executive committee meeting at Amingaon locality here, Sarma said other political parties supported the government in the twin calamities of flood and pandemic. "For the first time, all political parties supported the government in the flood and pandemic. But a conspiracy was hatched under the leadership of the Congress as they thought there would be no better opportunity to put Narendra Modi in an embarrassing situation," he alleged. The Congress leaders were not worried about Covid-19 and loss of human lives, and their only aim was to put Modi into problems, Sarma claimed on the concluding day of the two-day session. "The so-called Leftists, who claim to be liberal-secular, also hatched a conspiracy against Narendra Modi rather than standing beside the people. But the motherland's blessings were on Narendra Modi. Oxygen was arranged and gradually vaccines also reached us," he added. Without naming anyone, Sarma said all those questioning the government over lack of vaccines and oxygen supplies have gone completely silent. "Because they were never concerned about vaccines and oxygen. They were only waiting to put Narendra Modi in a fix," he said. The last battle for the Assamese civilisation and culture will be fought in the next five years, he said appealing to all party members to work hard in this direction. "In the land of Sanatan civilisation and culture, we worship cows on Goru Bihu (one of the three Bihu festivals). We bathe them with 'maah' (black gram pulses) and turmeric. Will cows be killed on that land? Will we feel proud by consuming beef? We have to find the answer to that question. "We have to move ahead in the battle of civilisation and culture. Indianness and rights of different tribes and communities have to be established in this Assam. I don't have any doubt that we have come out for a fixed goal and till we reach that, relentless work will go on. We don't have time to care for what others say," he added. Sarma said the BJP won the last Assembly polls on the issues of fight for civilisation, culture and development. "After forming the government, we are working against drug cartels and cow (smuggling) syndicates. Someone asked me why encounters are taking place? The reply will come later, but first answer me why drugs are found in Sankardeva's land?" he said. Srimanta Sankardeva is a 15th century cultural and religious icon of the state. At least 26 suspected militants and criminals were shot dead in police encounters in the state since May as they reportedly tried to snatch service weapons or attempted to escape from custody, while 43 accused were injured along with some policemen. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-left-conspired-against-modi-in-2nd-covid-wave-himanta-1033632.html
24-09-2021||National||PM Modi, Japanese Premier Suga reaffirm commitment for free, open Indo-Pacific ahead of Quad meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga have reaffirmed their commitment towards a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region, as they reviewed the multi-faceted bilateral relationship and exchanged views on recent global developments, including in Afghanistan, ahead of the first in-person Quad meeting to be hosted by US President Joe Biden. During their meeting here on Thursday, the two Prime Ministers agreed to enhance bilateral security and defence cooperation, including in the area of defence equipment and technologies, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Prime Minister Modi thanked Suga for his personal commitment and leadership, both as Prime Minister and Chief Cabinet Secretary earlier, in enabling great advances in the India-Japan Special Strategic & Global Partnership over the last few years, it said. "The two Prime Ministers reviewed the multi-faceted relationship between the two countries and exchanged views on recent global and regional developments, including in Afghanistan. They reaffirmed their commitment towards a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region," it said. The two Prime Ministers welcomed the increasing economic engagement between the two countries. "Furthering friendship with Japan," the MEA said in a tweet after the meeting. "Prime Ministers @narendramodi and @sugawitter had a fruitful meeting in Washington DC. Both leaders held discussions on several issues including ways to give further impetus to trade and cultural ties," it said. "Discussed a range of issues: Indo-Pacific, regional developments, supply chain resilience, trade, digital economy & P2P ties," the MEA said in another tweet. A special strategic and global partnership with Japan- firmly rooted in history and based on common values, it further said. They welcomed the launch of the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative (SCRI) between India, Japan and Australia earlier this year as a collaborative mechanism to enable resilient, diversified and trustworthy supply chains, the statement said. Prime Minister Modi highlighted the need to develop bilateral partnerships in manufacturing, MSME and skill development. Prime Minister Suga informed Modi that in order to operationalise the Specified Skilled workers (SSW) agreement which was signed earlier this year, the Japanese side would be undertaking skill and language tests in India from early 2022, it said. They discussed the Covid-19 pandemic and efforts to address it and highlighted the increasing importance of digital technologies and in this regard positively evaluated the progress in the India-Japan Digital Partnership, especially in start-ups. The two leaders exchanged views on further collaboration in various emerging technologies. Discussions also took place on climate change issues and green energy transition, and the potential for Japanese collaboration with India’s National Hydrogen Energy Mission, the statement said. The two prime ministers reaffirmed their commitment to advance efforts to facilitate the smooth and timely implementation of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) project. They also welcomed the progress in bilateral developmental projects in India’s North Eastern Region under the India-Japan Act East Forum, and noted possibilities for further enhancement of such cooperation, it said. Prime Minister Suga expressed confidence that the strong momentum attained by the India-Japan partnership in the last few years will continue even under the new administration in Japan. Modi conveyed that he was looking forward to welcoming the next prime minister of Japan to India for India-Japan Annual Summit in the near future. Modi and Suga spoke in April this year and the two leaders underscored the importance of working together to create resilient, diversified and trustworthy supply chains, ensuring reliable supply of critical materials and technologies, and developing new partnerships in manufacturing and skill development to deal with the crisis. Suga had called off a scheduled visit to India in April end in view of the coronavirus situation. Speaking after virtually inaugurating a Japanese Zen garden and Kaizen Academy set up at the premises of the Ahmedabad Management Association (AMA) in June, Modi had described Suga as a very straight-forward person. "Prime Minister Suga and I believe that during the time of this Covid-19 pandemic crisis, the Indo-Japanese friendship and our partnership have become even more relevant for global stability and prosperity. Today, when we are facing several global challenges, it is the need of the hour that our friendship and relationship get stronger day by day," Modi had said. He said efforts like setting up of the Kaizen Academy are a beautiful reflection of this relationship. Modi said the launch of the Zen garden and Kaizen Academy is a "symbol of the spontaneity and modernity of India-Japan relations". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-japanese-premier-suga-reaffirm-commitment-for-free-open-indo-pacific-ahead-of-quad-meeting-1033639.html
24-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Gambling is a bad habit!'||Taking no ‘chances’, the state government is moving to ban all forms of betting in online games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-gambling-is-a-bad-habit-1033641.html
24-09-2021||National||Indian doctors scale rockslides, invoke gods to vaccinate Himalayan villages||To visit the Indian village of Malana deep in the Himalayas, a Covid-19 vaccination team scrambled over a landslide that blocked the road the day before, scaled a retaining wall and then began a three-hour trek down and up a river valley. Despite the hostile terrain, the northern state of Himachal Pradesh, where Malana is located, earlier this month became the first in India to administer at least one Covid-19 vaccine dose in all its adults. The steep topography was one challenge overcome by health workers walking for hours or days to reach remote villages and another was religious beliefs, as the tourism-dependent state immunised its roughly 5 million adults. On Sept. 14, a team of five led by district health officer Dr Atul Gupta set out to Malana to administer second vaccine doses. Blocked by the landslide, they left their vehicle with two blue vaccine boxes slung over their shoulders to manoeuvre over the rubble, climb the wall and then walk to the trailhead leading to the village, accompanied by a Reuters photographer. Before beginning the trek to the village, Gupta and his team placed the boxes onto a gondola connected to pulleys to carry the medicine across the river gorge that separates Malana from the road. That lightened their walk considerably as they set off to cross the gorge which drops down about 100 metres (330 feet). During a rest break on the trek, Gupta said that to convince Malana's 1,100 adults to take their first shots in August, its district chief had priests invoke a local Hindu deity. This helped health workers cover up to 700 people in three days, he said. When Gupta's team reached the village on Sept. 14, nearly three dozen people, who took their first shots before the invocation, lined up to get their second shots just opposite an ancient temple to the deity. "People were initially scared to take the vaccine, worried they would fall sick or die," said village head Rajuram, who gave just one name, sitting by the carved wood and concrete walls of the temple. "Then I took it and others also mustered the courage." Himachal Pradesh's Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur pins the state's vaccination success to its village-to-village drive, its decision to involve local-level politicians, and the federal government's push to prioritise immunisations in tourist hotspots. India wants to vaccinate nearly all of its adults by December, having administered at least one dose to two-thirds of people and two doses in less than a quarter. Thakur wants Himachal Pradesh to be the fastest state to reach the two-dose milestone, hopefully by November. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-doctors-scale-rockslides-invoke-gods-to-vaccinate-himalayan-villages-1033650.html
24-09-2021||National||Supreme Court directs all states to ensure internet facility at jails||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Chief Secretary of every state to ensure availability of internet with adequate speed in each jail to avoid non-release of prisoners after grant of bail due to delay in communication. "We are concerned about the plight of the jail inmates who are not released despite the bail orders passed by this court due to delay in communication of such orders. It is high time to utilise the Information and Communication Technology tools for efficient transmission of court’s orders," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. Taking up a Suo Motu matter, the court noted 19 states have submitted a report with regard to availability of internet facility in prisons. The states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Assam and Mizoram informed about non-availability or partial availability of internet connectivity.  The court ordered the states to take necessary steps to arrange for internet facility expeditiously wherever it was not available.  However, till then, communication should be made through the nodal officers of the state governments under the FASTER (Fast and Secured Transmission of Electronic Records) system which proposed transmission of e-authenticated copies of the interim orders, stay orders, bail orders and record of proceedings to the duty-holders for compliance and due execution, through a secured electronic communication channel, the bench said. The court ordered Director General, National Informatics Centre, Secretary (Home) of all the states and Union Territories and the Director General of Prisons of all the states to ensure smooth and successful implementation of FASTER system. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant, directed the authorities to recognise the e-authenticated copy of the order of the top court communicated to them through FASTER system. On July 16, the top court initiated Suo Motu proceedings while expressed its annoyance at slow pace of communication of its orders related to bails, delaying the citizens fundamental right of liberty. It decided to launch a scheme setting in motion an innovation aimed at revolutionising transmission of court orders to all concerned in a fast and secure manner. A report submitted by the court's Secretary General Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar stated that the FASTER system proposed to provide secured communication channel between the duty-holders. "Two-factor authentication will further ensure authorised user access on the email domain. Automatic delivery notification will ensure that the email is properly delivered to the recipient," it said. In order to create authentication mechanism, unique QR Code was proposed to be appended on each of the page of judicial record which will lead the user to the website of the Supreme Court where the relevant record of proceedings or orders were uploaded, for the purpose of verification, it added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-directs-all-states-to-ensure-internet-facility-at-jails-1033659.html
24-09-2021||National||'Advancing friendship with Australia': Modi, Scott Morrison discuss bilateral, regional, global issues||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has met his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison here ahead of the first in-person Quad meeting to be hosted by US President Joe Biden and discussed a broad range of issues of bilateral, regional and global importance, including the Indo-Pacific. The meeting between Modi and Morrison on Thursday came a week after they spoke over phone and reviewed the rapid progress in the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, including through the recent 'two-plus-two' dialogue, and exchanged views on regional developments and the forthcoming Quad meeting. This was the first in-person meeting between the two leaders in the post-pandemic period. “They reviewed progress since the last leader's summit that was held virtually in June 2020, and they resolved to continue their close partnership and cooperation for the mutual wellbeing of both sides,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters while details of the meeting. The last bilateral meeting was the Leaders’ Virtual Summit held on June 4 last year when the Strategic Partnership between India and Australia was elevated to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement. During the meeting here, Modi and Morrison discussed a broad range of issues of bilateral, regional and global importance, it said. The Prime Ministers “resolved to continue close cooperation for mutual well-being and towards advancing their shared objective of an open, free, prosperous and rules-based Indo-Pacific region,” the MEA said. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the region. China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. “Great to meet with my good friend and a great friend of Australia, Indian PM Narendra Modi during my visit to the US,” Morrison tweeted. “A wide-ranging and productive discussion ahead of the first in-person Quad meeting as we look to further deepen the partnership between our two countries,” Morrison said. Prime Minister Modi in a tweet said, "It is always wonderful to interact with my good friend, PM @ScottMorrisonMP. We had wide-ranging deliberations on strengthening cooperation in the fields of commerce, trade, energy and more." According to the MEA statement, in their meeting, Modi and Morrison reviewed the ongoing negotiations on a bilateral Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) and welcomed the visit to India by former Australian prime minister Tony Abbott as Morrison’s Special Trade Envoy for India, and noted the commitment of both sides to achieve an early harvest announcement on an interim agreement by December 2021. They underlined the need for the international community to address the issue of climate change on an urgent basis as Prime Minister Modi highlighted the need for a broader dialogue on environment protection, it said, adding that both the leaders also discussed possibilities of providing clean technologies. Modi and Morrison agreed that “as two vibrant democracies in the region, the two countries needed to work closer together to overcome the challenges in the post-pandemic world, inter alia to enhance supply chain resilience,” the MEA said. “Both leaders lauded the immense contribution of the Indian diaspora to Australia’s economy and society, and discussed ways to enhance people to people ties,” the statement added. Prime Minister Modi also invited Morrison to visit India. “The Prime Minister mentioned that the Indian community was very well looked after during the Covid crisis in Australia. He especially mentioned that to the Prime Minister and there was an appreciation of the contribution of the Indian diaspora in Australia,” Shringla said. Earlier, Office of Prime Minister Modi said on Twitter: “Advancing friendship with Australia. PM @ScottMorrisonMP held talks with PM @narendramodi. They discussed a wide range of subjects aimed at deepening economic and people-to-people linkages between India and Australia. Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi termed the meeting as “another chapter in our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with Australia”. “Another chapter in our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with Australia! PM @narendramodi and @ScottMorrisonMP met today. Discussed regional & global developments as well as ongoing bilateral cooperation in areas related to Covid-19, trade, defence, clean energy & more,” Bagchi said on Twitter. The meeting assumes significance as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on September 11 held the 'two-plus-two' talks in New Delhi with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. It was the first meeting between the prime ministers of India and Australia since the AUKUS (Australia, the UK and the US) security partnership was unveiled last week by US President Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Morrison. In response to a question, Shringla said that Prime Minister Morrison did briefly mention rationale from the Australian side in seeking to initiate the AUKUS Alliance. “He felt that the technology that they received was appropriate and there was a brief discussion in that regard,” he said. In a tweet, the prime minister's office described it as advancing friendship with Australia. “They discussed a wide range of subjects aimed at deepening economic and people-to-people linkages between India and Australia,” the PMO tweeted. Advancing friendship with Australia. The AUKUS partnership, seen as an effort to counter China in the Indo-Pacific, will allow the US and the UK to provide Australia with the technology to develop nuclear-powered submarines for the first time. Australia said its decision to join a security alliance with the US and the UK is aimed at developing capabilities that can contribute along with India and other countries in deterring behaviour that threatens the peace and security in the Indo-Pacific. In the first reaction from India on the contentious alliance, Shringla on Tuesday said that the new security agreement among the US, the UK and Australia is neither relevant to the Quad nor will have any impact on its functioning, and they are not groupings of a similar nature. Shringla said while the AUKUS is a security alliance among the three countries, the Quad is a plurilateral grouping with a vision for a free, open, transparent and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The Quad comprises India, the US, Japan and Australia. US President Biden is hosting the first in-person Quad summit at the White House on September 24 to be attended by Modi, Morrison and Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. Developments in Afghanistan, the Covid-19 pandemic and ways to expand cooperation for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific are set to be the central focus of the four-nation grouping Quad. France reacted angrily to the formation of the new AUKUS alliance as it resulted in Paris effectively losing a multi-billion dollar deal to build 12 conventional submarines for Australia. France is also upset over its exclusion from the alliance. China has also slammed the formation of the AUKUS. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advancing-friendship-with-australia-modi-scott-morrison-discuss-bilateral-regional-global-issues-1033671.html
24-09-2021||National||India military accelerates historic overhaul to counter China||India’s long-delayed plans to overhaul its military are getting a new life as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government moves closer to the US and its allies, which are strengthening defense cooperation against China.  Modi, who will attend a meeting of Quad leaders at the White House Friday along with Australia’s Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga, is taking steps to undertake the biggest reorganisation of India’s military since independence in 1947. The moves to integrate the army, air force and navy -- which now operate with little coordination -- come as the US and UK work with Australia to put more nuclear-powered submarines in Asia-Pacific waters. Last month, a newly created Department of Military Affairs ordered the Indian Army unit overseeing the Pakistan border to draw up a plan for integrating with the navy and air force, according to officials aware of the developments. That model will be replicated throughout the country so the entire military is under a new operating structure by 2024, said the officials, who asked not to be identified due to rules for speaking to the media.  A more unified Indian armed forces would make it easier for the country to link up with militaries from the US and its allies in the event of a conflict. A key aspect of the AUKUS partnership announced last week by the US, Australia and UK involves interoperability in a range of defense areas -- something India currently lacks within its own forces. “The Quad partners have previously found that they can only exercise with one Indian service at a time -- for example, the navy but no air force, or air force but not navy,” said David Brewster, senior research fellow at the National Security College of the Australian National University who wrote the book “India as an Asia Pacific Power.” “This severely hampers cooperation when many if not most operations will be joint.” On Thursday in the US, Modi met separately with Morrison, Suga and US Vice President Kamala Harris ahead of the Quad meeting at the White House. In a tweet, his office noted India’s “shared values” with the US and said cooperation was “gradually increasing.” Over the decades, Indian leaders kept military command and control divided to avoid coups that were once common in the neighborhood. While bureaucrats and military officials have resisted proposals for unification that have been around since the 1990s, mostly due to turf wars, the current structure is proving a disadvantage in countering China, which moved to a similar model as the US and Australia in 2016.  “The modernisation of the Indian military is underway to meet the regional challenges and technological changes,” A. Bharat Bhushan Babu, a Defense Ministry spokesperson, said without providing more details on the plan. The Indian Navy, Army and Air Force didn’t comment immediately. The reorganisation would create at least four theater commands: One in the west looking at Pakistan, another in the east focused on China, a maritime command for the Indian Ocean region and an air defense command, the officials said. The restive northern section of Jammu and Kashmir will remain untouched for now, they added. The move is designed to allow India’s military to operate seamlessly across land, sea, and air. The theater commands would pool warships, patrol craft, soldiers and fighter jets, and work with other missile and gun regiments that have a network of ground radars to handle threats along its disputed borders with China and Pakistan, the officials said. While China has the largest standing army in the world, with more than 2.1 million troops, India is second with a bloated ground force of 1.2 million regular soldiers and 960,000 reserves whose pay and pensions absorb most of the defense budget. The Indian Army estimates that organizing along theaters will yield economies of scale, cutting expenditure by about one-third while concentrating power in a single office: the Chairman of the Joint Staff Committee. “India’s siloed approach to training, planning and operations created a dissonance when working with other more ‘modern’ militaries,” said Anit Mukherjee, associate professor at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. “Over the last five years, the challenges to the Indian military have grown manifold and it is an open question whether they have been able to match those challenges.” The Indian Air Force in particular has opposed the concept of multiple theaters, arguing that its scarce resources will be spread too thin if they aren’t able to respond to threats in different parts of the country, officials said. The three services still don’t have a common secure communication network, which was evident in 2019 when Indian Air Force jets fired missiles into Pakistan to destroy an alleged terror training camp in response to a suicide attack in Jammu and Kashmir that left 40 soldiers dead. Indian Army units were put on alert but they weren’t told why or what to expect, according to a senior officer who asked not to be identified.  While India’s military answers to elected representatives, a tradition of political non-interference has also allowed feuds between the three main services to flourish. That has also strengthened the army, which commands more than 60% of total military spending, leading to a greater focus on land borders over building the capacity to become a force in Indo-Pacific waters.  “The problem with India’s reorganisation so far is the tendency to reinforce army dominance of the defense force and reinforce a narrow focus on continental defense,” said Brewster from the Australian National University. “This may mean a reduced capability of Indian armed forces to project power around the Indo-Pacific region in cooperation with the Quad partners.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-military-accelerates-historic-overhaul-to-counter-china-1033674.html
24-09-2021||National||Boats and nets of Indian fishermen damaged in alleged attack by SL navy||Boats and fishing nets of Indian fishermen from here were damaged in alleged attack by the Sri Lankan Navy, Tamil Nadu Fisheries officials said on Thursday. The incident happened late on Wednesday near Katchatheevu when Lankan Naval personnel, who came in about 10 patrol boats, hurled glass bottles and stones, they said. While nobody sustained injuries, about 25 boats were damaged in the incident while the personnel damaged fishing nets in about 40 craft, officials said. The damaged boats were towed to the shore with the help of others. Fishermen association representatives N Devadass and P Sesuraja expressed concern over such incidents and said the fishers were apprehensive of carrying on with their vocation in the seas due to such recurring incidents. A complaint was lodged with the local Fisheries officials over the matter.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boats-and-nets-of-indian-fishermen-damaged-in-alleged-attack-by-sl-navy-1033676.html
24-09-2021||National||India logs 31,382 new Covid-19 cases, 318 deaths - Active cases lowest in 188 days||India logged 31,382 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,35,94,803, while the active cases declined to 3,00,162, the lowest in 188 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,368 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.89 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 1,478 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.   India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-31382-new-covid-19-cases-318-deaths-active-cases-lowest-in-188-days-1033684.html
24-09-2021||National||It’s not Narendra Giri’s handwriting in suicide note: Seer||A prominent seer of Niranjani Akhara, Acharya Mahamandleshwar Kailashanand, on Wednesday claimed that the purported suicide note of spiritual guru Narendra Giri, does not have his handwriting. “I do not consider this suicide note authentic as it does not have Giri’s handwriting. I knew him for the last 20 years. He did not use to wite,” said Kailashanand, considered very close to Giri. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-s-not-narendra-giri-s-handwriting-in-suicide-note-seer-1033693.html
24-09-2021||National||ICMR Covid taskforce drops Ivermectin, HCQ drugs||The Indian Council of Medical Research-led Covid-19 National Task Force has dropped the usage of Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drugs from the revised "clinical guidance for management of adult Covid-19 patients". More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-covid-taskforce-drops-ivermectin-hcq-drugs-1033694.html
24-09-2021||National||Govt seals mega deal with Airbus for purchase of 56 C-295 military aircraft; 40 to be made in India||The Defence Ministry on Friday signed a Rs 21,000 crore deal with Airbus to procure 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force to replace its aging Avro fleet, ending a six-decade-long wait for the European aviation major to secure an Indian military contract. The pact also marks the entry of the Tata Group as the first private player to manufacture military aircraft in India, terminating a monopoly enjoyed by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics limited as 40 of the 56 aircraft would be made in India by a Tata-Airbus consortium. The remaining 16 aircraft will be delivered in a flyaway condition by Airbus Defence and Space from its assembly line in Seville, Spain within 48 months of signing the contract. “The project offers a unique opportunity for the Indian private sector to enter into technology-intensive and highly competitive aviation industry. All the deliveries will be completed within ten years of signing the contract,” a Defence Ministry spokesperson said in a statement. The aircraft is capable of operating from semi-prepared strips and has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para dropping of troops and cargo. Powered by two Pratt and Whitney PW127G turboprop engines, the C295 has a very long endurance of up to 13 hours in the air. The aircraft can carry 71 personnel on board cargo up to 9 tonnes and will give a major boost to the tactical airlift capability of IAF, especially in the northern and North-Eastern sector and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite. In a signed statement, Ratan Tata, chairman of Tata Trusts said the clearance of the joint project between Airbus Defence and Tata Advanced Systems to build the aircraft was a "great step forward” in the opening up of the aviation and avionics projects in India. “It will create a domestic supply chain capability to international standards, which has never been undertaken before. The Tata Group congratulates Airbus and the Indian Defence Ministry for this bold step in fully building this state-of-the-art multi-role aircraft in India in support of the Make-in-India thrust to bolster the country's equity framework,” he said. Significantly, the ministry signed the commercial contract just after two weeks of securing a nod from the Cabinet Committee of Security, ending the IAF’s long wait to find a replacement for the slow-moving Avro planes. For Airbus, it is the first defence contract after the 1960s when it bagged a deal to supply Cheetah and Chetak helicopters to India. The European aircraft manufacturer was earlier shortlisted in three Indian programmes, none of which materialised. The Defence ministry also inked an offset contract with Airbus Defence and Space through which Airbus will discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners. Before completion of deliveries, a top class servicing facility for C-295MW aircraft will be set up in India to act as a regional Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft operating in the region. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seals-mega-deal-with-airbus-for-purchase-of-56-c-295-military-aircraft-40-to-be-made-in-india-1033708.html
24-09-2021||National||Kamala Harris source of inspiration for many around the world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described US Vice President Kamala Harris as a "source of inspiration" for many people around the world and expressed confidence that bilateral relations will touch new heights under President Joe Biden and her leadership. Modi made these comments during a joint press appearance with Harris at the White House on Friday ahead of their bilateral meeting. "You are being elected as the Vice President of America has been such an important and historic event. You are the source of inspiration for so many people around the world," Modi said. Harris, 56, is the first-ever person of Indian origin to be elected as the vice-president of the United States. Harris is the first woman, the first Black American, and the first South Asian American to be elected Vice President, as was the case with other offices she has held, her biography on the White House website says. "I am so confident that under President Joe Biden and your leadership, our bilateral relationship will touch new heights," the prime minister said. Modi also extended an invitation to Vice President Harris and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff to visit India. "Continuing on your journey of victory, Indians would also want you to continue that in India and wait for you to come to India and therefore, I extend to you an invitation to visit India," he said. Recalling his conversation with Harris in June during the second wave of the pandemic in India, Modi said, "A few months ago, we had an opportunity to talk to each other over the phone. We had a detailed discussion at that time and the way you spoke to me so warmly and naturally, I will always remember that." "It was a very difficult time. India was confronted with the second wave of the pandemic but like a family, the sense of kinship and so warmly you extended a helping hand. "The words that you chose when you spoke to me, I will always remember that and I would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart," he said. "Like a true friend, you had given a message of cooperation and full of sensitivity and immediately we found that the US government, corporate sector and the Indian community all came together to help India," he said. Harris was born to two immigrant parents -- a Black father and an Indian mother. Her father, Donald Harris, was from Jamaica, and her mother Shyamala Gopalan was a cancer researcher and civil rights activist from Chennai. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamala-harris-source-of-inspiration-for-many-around-the-world-pm-modi-1033711.html
24-09-2021||National||Kerala Tourism showcases recovery from Covid-19 at Ahmedabad travel fair||As tourism in Kerala is regaining the pre-pandemic exuberance, the state has made a strong presence as a prime safe and clean destination of the country at the Travel and Tourism Fair (TTF) that opened in Ahmedabad on Thursday. Around 14 tour operators and hoteliers are participating as co-exhibitors at the Kerala pavilion set up by the State Tourism Department at the three-day expo at The Forum Celebration and Convention Centre, Ahmedabad, an official statement said. India's biggest travel trade show, TTF provides a strong marketing and networking platform for the travel and tourism industry by bringing together major sellers and buyers. The theme of Kerala Tourism is 'A Change of Air', which subtly sums up the fresh ambience palpable in all destinations in the state, offering a novel experience for visitors. Setting the highest priority on the safety of visitors, the southern state has put in place an efficient and meticulous bio-bubble model, creating protective layers of inoculated service providers to receive and host tourists, it said. The state had also conducted a targeted campaign to vaccinate all the tourism stakeholders in tourism destinations. V R Krishna Teja, Director, Tourism, Kerala, said, "this is the first major tourism fair of the country after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic that devastated the industry across the world. So, TTF offers us a strong platform to present before the major players how fast we are recovering from the damage inflicted by the pandemic." TTF-Ahmedabad was also important for Kerala as the state hosts a good number of guests from Gujarat regularly, he said, adding that forums like this would help reinforce the mutual confidence of stakeholders. Kerala Tourism would also be participating in the Travel and Tourism Fair- Mumbai starting at Nehru Centre, Worli, on September 29, as per the statement. Signaling the revival of tourism in the state in full swing, the Lakshadweep-bound luxury liner M V Empress with 1,200 cruisers on board called at Kochi on September 22, and 300 of the passengers disembarked at the port city for day-long sight-seeing. Recently, the state announced a stakeholder-friendly Caravan Tourism Policy, promising the visitors safe, customised and closest-to-nature travel experience. Kerala Tourism has also launched a tourism mobile app that provides detailed information about all the destinations, hotels and other amenities to tourists while travelling within the state. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-tourism-showcases-recovery-from-covid-19-at-ahmedabad-travel-fair-1033715.html
24-09-2021||National||Top US CEOs appreciative of recent reform measures in India, says Shringla after their meetings with Modi||Top American CEOs and business leaders during their meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi here were appreciative of the recent reform measures in India and felt that there were significant investment opportunities in the country, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. Modi, who arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden on Friday, held separate meetings with top American CEOs and business leaders on investment in India on Thursday. Modi met Vice President Kamala Harris on Thursday. “Through the morning, had extensive discussions with top CEOs and business leaders on investment in India. They were appreciative of India’s reform trajectory. Closer economic linkages between India and the USA benefit the people of our nations,” Modi said in a tweet. Through the morning, had extensive discussions with top CEOs and business leaders on investment in India. They were appreciative of India’s reform trajectory. Closer economic linkages between India and USA benefit the people of our nations. These CEO's included Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics, Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. “There is a clear message from the business leaders of their appreciation of the recent reform measures in India that has made India a more business-friendly environment, liberal investment rules across different sectors and they felt that there were significant investment opportunities in India,” Shringla told reporters after the meetings. The prime minister discussed 5G connectivity and the Digital India flagship programme with Amon, the CEO of Qualcomm. “The CEO was very very optimistic about India. He called it the number one growth destination for companies in the world,” Shringla said. In his meeting with Narayen, the Adobe CEO, the Prime Minister discussed education technology, startups, innovation, animation for the youth. There was a lot of discussion on how technology can benefit younger people, particularly students, school going students,” he said. Modi in a tweet said that Narayen is a great friend of India. “I sat down with him to discuss interesting ideas relating to ed-tech, supporting Indian start-ups and boosting innovation. Shantanu expressed keenness to take the joys of video and animation to every child in India,” Modi said. The CEO of First Solar, Mark Widmar, discussed the green hydrogen mission that the Prime Minister announced. There was a sense of interest in the Prime Minister's vision of 'One world, One sun and One grid''. In his meeting with Lall, Chief Executive of General Atomics, the discussions centred around India's recent drone policy, including the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme. “Drone is an upcoming sector in India and it is of particular interest to the youth. Interacted with Mr Vivek Lall of General Atomics Global Corporation and spoke about how India is ushering a paradigm shift in drones policy, seen in our PLI scheme and reform measures,” Modi tweeted after the meeting. During his meeting with Stephen Schwarzman, the CEO of Blackstone Group, investment opportunities in India, including those arising due to the National Infrastructure Pipeline and National Monetisation Pipeline were discussed. The Blackstone Group has a very large presence in India and is a very significant investor in India. “He (Schwarzman) referred to India as the number one performing country in the world,” said the foreign secretary. “His commercial success and intellectual prowess are admirable. We talked about India’s investment potential and why our country is one of the world’s most attractive destinations for investment,” Modi said in a tweet after the meeting with the Blackstone CEO. In a statement, Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon said he appreciates Modi’s commitment to growing India’s technology sector and creating a business-friendly environment. “We discussed the importance of semiconductors and the need for a reliable and geographically diverse supply chain,” he said. “I also expressed Qualcomm’s continued support for India’s transition to 5G and a digitally empowered society, as well as its semiconductor supply chain initiatives. 5G represents a substantial opportunity for India and we look forward to working with the government, India’s technology-forward startup community and local industry to make it a reality,” Amon said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-us-ceos-appreciative-of-recent-reform-measures-in-india-says-shringla-after-their-meetings-with-modi-1033717.html
24-09-2021||National||3, including gangster Jitendra Gogi, killed in firing at Rohini court in Delhi||Two men pretending to be lawyers opened fire at a rival gangster inside a courtroom in the national capital on Friday afternoon killing him, an incident that also led to a dramatic shootout in which police shot dead the attackers within minutes. The incident, considered a massive security breach, appeared as if it were straight from a movie. Two men in lawyer's attire patiently waited for their target Jitender Mann 'Gogi', a wanted gangster who was brought to the court for a hearing, and pumped bullets into him as soon as he entered room 207 in Rohini Court. Acting swiftly, a special team of Delhi Police, which had brought Gogi, an undertrial prisoner, to the court from the prison, opened fire at the two attackers, as a few panicky people present inside the courtroom scrambled for safety. The attackers, believed to be members of Gogi's rival gang led by Tllu Tajpuria, were killed on the spot. An injured Gogi was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead. "Police action was very swift. There are no reports of injuries to civilians. Two men wearing lawyers' uniforms attacked Gogi. The two also have been shot dead by police," Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said. Former IPS officer Dr NC Asthana tweeted, "More fundamental questions must be asked. How could a weapon be smuggled inside despite metal detectors in the first place? Responsibility to be fixed and complicity angle to be probed. Such incidents have taken place elsewhere too and probes never taken to logical conclusion." Delhi Police officials said the Commissioner would review the security arrangements in the courts. A detailed report will be submitted soon on how the weapons reached the court premises, they said. Gogi has over a dozen cases, including those of murder and extortion, registered against him in Delhi. A special team of Delhi Police has been taking Gogi for court hearings after one of his associates had fled from police custody while he was being brought to a court a few months ago. Police officials said that Gogi and Tillu were rivals and had been running extortion rackets for years. Around a dozen belonging to both sides were killed in rivalry in the past six years. The rivalry between both Gogi and Tillu goes back several years with one version claiming that it started during their student days. Tillu was arrested in 2015 and is presently lodged in Sonepat Jail. Gogi was arrested in March 2020 and was in custody since then.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-including-gangster-jitendra-gogi-killed-in-firing-at-rohini-court-in-delhi-1033733.html
24-09-2021||National||BJP MLA Nimaben Acharya set to become Gujarat Assembly's first woman Speaker||Senior BJP MLA Nimaben Acharya is all set to become the first woman Speaker of the Gujarat Legislative Assembly as the opposition Congress has supported her nomination for the post. She is likely to be elected unopposed to the post when the Assembly meets for two days on September 27 and 28 for the monsoon session. The speaker's post fell vacant after Rajendra Trivedi resigned on September 16 and joined the new state cabinet of Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel. Trivedi is now Revenue as well as Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Minister in the BJP government. Ahead of the session, the Assembly secretariat had invited nominations for the election of new speaker and deputy speaker. On Friday, Trivedi along with the party's chief whip Pankaj Desai presented the nomination papers of Acharya for the post of speaker and that of Jetha Bharwad for the post of deputy Speaker. "The Assembly secretary has checked and accepted the nomination papers of both Nimaben and Jetha Bharwad. Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani has also supported Nimaben's nomination for the post," Trivedi told repoters in Gandhinagar. However, although the Congress has agreed to support Acharya's nomination, the party has decided to field their own candidate for the post of deputy Speaker citing the "past tradition" of the Assembly. "As per the tradition, the post of deputy speaker was always given to the opposition. When Congress was in power, we followed it and gave this post to the opposition. But the BJP never respected this tradition ever since it came to power in Gujarat," Dhanani told reporters. "While we support Acharya for the post of speaker, we have decided to field our senior MLA Anil Joshiara, who is a tribal and a qualified doctor, for the post of deputy speaker," the Congress leader added. Now, an election for the post of deputy speaker is imminent when the House meets on September 27. However, the numbers are not in favour of Congress. In the 182-member Assembly, Congress' strength is just 65, while the BJP enjoys majority with 112 MLAs.  Check out latest videos from DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mla-nimaben-acharya-set-to-become-gujarat-assemblys-first-woman-speaker-1033737.html
24-09-2021||National||Landslides in Kinnaur, Shimla following heavy rains||Heavy rain has triggered landslides in Kinnaur and Shimla districts of Himachal Pradesh, a senior disaster management official said on Friday. State Disaster Management Director, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, said the national highway from Puwari to Kaza in Kinnaur district has been blocked after a landslide on Thursday evening. In Shimla, a road near Home Guard Office has been blocked due to a landslide on Thursday evening and road restoration work is underway. The official said that Naina Devi in Bilaspur received 180.6 mm rain followed by Kandaghat in Solan that received 65.2 mm rain. Shimla received 54.6 mm in the 24- hour period ending 9.30 am on Friday. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/landslides-in-kinnaur-shimla-following-heavy-rains-1033746.html
24-09-2021||National||After SC verdict, UPSC allows unmarried women to apply for national defence, naval academy exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has allowed unmarried women to apply for the national defence academy (NDA) and naval academy exam, an official statement said Friday. The move follows a Supreme Court directive on the issue last month. In compliance with the apex court's interim direction, the UPSC has decided to open the application on upsconline.nic.in for this exam to enable "unmarried women candidates only" who are otherwise eligible in terms of nationality, age, educational qualification etc., the statement said. Physical standards and the number of vacancies for women candidates would be notified after it is received from the Ministry of Defence, it said. The application window will remain open for women candidates from September 24 to October 8 (till 6 PM), said the statement issued by the UPSC. No application will be accepted beyond the prescribed last date/time, i.e., 08.10.2021(till 6 PM) or through any mode other than the aforesaid online mode, it said. "Women candidates are not required to pay fee for their application for this examination," the statement said. The examination is scheduled to be held on November 14, an official said. The admission of the women candidates in the national defence academy and naval academy examination (II), 2021, will remain provisional and subject to the final outcome of a writ petition pending in the court or such other order(s) as may be passed by the Supreme Court and action by the government of India in the matter, the statement said. In a major step towards gender equality, the apex court had on August 18 allowed eligible women to take the examination for admission to national defence academy. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy passed the interim order on a plea filed by a person named Kush Kalra who sought a direction to the authorities concerned to allow eligible female candidates to appear in the ‘national defence academy and naval academy examination’ and train at the NDA. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-sc-verdict-upsc-allows-unmarried-women-to-apply-for-national-defence-naval-academy-exam-1033760.html
24-09-2021||National||HC to go through CCI report; refuses to pass order on Google's plea to restrain leakage of information||The Delhi High Court on Friday decided to go through a report by the Director General into the proceedings initiated by the Competition Commission of India into alleged unfair trade practices on behalf of search engine Google. A bench of Justice Rekha Palli refused to pass any order on a plea filed by Google for restraining the CCI from leaking its investigation report to the media. The court put the matter for consideration on Monday, September 27. "How can we pass orders without looking at DG's report," the bench asked. The court also took exception to a letter written by a California-based senior officer of Google to the CCI warning of legal action over the alleged leak.  "Your client had no business writing to the adjudicating authority. If your client wanted to inform, it could've written to the CCI Registrar," the court told Google's counsel. Arguing for Google, senior advocate A M Singhvi contended that this leakage should not continue even for a minute. He alleged that information were being passed on to media houses and there should be an order against it. "CCI must be restrained from any leak. It can't be leaking information like a sieve to news portals while denying it to us," he said. Additional Solicitor General N Venkataraman, appearing for CCI, submitted that Google's plea was filed to frustrate our proceedings.  No order can be passed in the absence of any proof that we have leaked it. "There is nothing to show that we have leaked it. What is the confidentiality in this? They are making this trend on the statutory body. What are the newspapers saying that the CCI is investigating. What else is being revealed," he asked. "If they are so aggrieved, they should make these newspapers parties to the case. Let them respond," he submitted further. In its plea filed on Thursday, technology giant Google said that the “unlawful disclosure” of the Director General’s Report and CCI’s failure to preserve confidentiality damaged its reputation. It is further prejudicial and renders its rights of defense and due process redundant in proceedings before the CCI and the DG, it claimed. The company also contended that leakage of information in the ongoing investigation by the CCI into its Android smart phone agreements, violated its “freedom of trade” and “severely" affected the right to conduct business. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-go-through-cci-report-refuses-to-pass-order-on-googles-plea-to-restrain-leakage-of-information-1033771.html
24-09-2021||National||Commerce ministry for imposing anti-dumping duty on pharma API from China||The commerce ministry has recommended imposition of anti-dumping duty on a pharma raw material - Ceftriaxone Sodium Sterile - from China to guard domestic players from cheap imports. Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has recommended the duty after concluding in its probe that the API (active pharma ingredient) from China has been exported at dumped prices into India, which impacted the domestic industry. "The authority recommends the imposition of the anti-dumping duty on the imports of subject goods...," the directorate has said in a notification. Ceftriaxone Sodium Sterile is an API used in formulation for treating disease like lower respiratory tract infection, skin and skin structure infection, and surgical prophylaxis. DGTR had conducted the probe following a complaint from Nectar Life Sciences and Sterile India about the dumping of the chemical. The recommended duty is $12.91 per kg. The finance ministry takes the final decision to impose duty. In a separate notification, DGTR has said it has started a sunset review probe to review the need for continued imposition of anti-dumping duties on aluminium foil from China. The imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organisation (WTO) regime. The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commerce-ministry-for-imposing-anti-dumping-duty-on-pharma-api-from-china-1033772.html
24-09-2021||National||Govt withdraws Covid-linked expenditure restrictions||The Finance Ministry on Friday withdrew expenditure curbs on various departments and ministries imposed in June in the wake of the Covid-19 second wave, reflecting improvement in public finances and the urgency to step up growth. The expenditure restrictions are being withdrawn with immediate effect following a review of the guidelines, said an office memorandum issued by the Economic Affairs Department of the Finance Ministry. The June 30 guidelines regarding regulating the overall expenditure within 20 per cent of the Budget Estimate (BE) in the second quarter (July-September, 2021) have been reviewed, according to the office memorandum. The guidelines "stand withdrawn with immediate effect," it said. Accordingly, it said, all ministries and departments are now permitted to spend as per their own approved monthly expenditure plan or quarterly expenditure plan (MEP/QEP) until further orders during the remaining part of this financial year. Items of large expenditure of over Rs 200 crore will be governed by the guidelines issued by the Budget Division under the Department of Economic Affairs dated August 21, 2017, it added. These directions have been issued with the approval of the competent authority. "Any deviation from these guidelines would require prior approval of Ministry of Finance. Any communication by ministries/departments on the subject cited above should be addressed to the Secretary, Department of Expenditure,” the memorandum said. Earlier in June, the Finance Ministry had asked various ministries and departments to restrict expenses to a maximum of 20 per cent of their annual budgetary allocation in the September quarter as part of austerity measures amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, the restrictions on expenditure for the second quarter (July-September period) of the current fiscal were not applicable for select ministries and departments, including health, agriculture, fertilisers, pharmaceuticals and food. All other ministries and departments “will require to restrict overall expenditure within 20 per cent of BE 2021-22 in Quarter 2 (July to September 2021),” according to an office memorandum issued by the Department of Economic Affairs in June this year. The curbs were also not applicable for activities such as pension payments, interest payments and transfer of funds to states. With the drastic drop in Covid-19 cases, there has been increased economic activity, leading to the expectation of double-digit growth during the current fiscal. There has been an improvement in revenue collection on the back of a pick-up in economic activities. For instance, GST revenue remained above Rs 1 lakh crore mark for the second straight month in August at over Rs 1.12 lakh crore, 30 per cent higher than the collection in the year-ago period. The mop-up in August was, however, lower than Rs 1.16 lakh crore collected in July 2021.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-withdraws-covid-linked-expenditure-restrictions-1033782.html
24-09-2021||National||Maharashtra police reduce duty hours of women constables to help them balance home life||The Maharashtra police has reduced working hours of its women constables from 12 hours to eight hours, to help them balance their professional and personal lives, a senior official said on Friday. State Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey confirmed the implementation of the initiative, which was first tried out in Nagpur city, Amarvati city and Pune Rural. The initiative was implemented on an experimental basis in the three regions last month, and will come into force in other cities and districts in the state in some days, the official said. Considering the commitments of women constables have at home besides their professional duties, the initiative was started a month ago and gave good results, he said. Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar, who first implemented the move from August 28, said the move was started to help women constables balance their personal and professional lives. After their duty hours were reduced, women constables were able to give time to their children and other family members, he said "We saw some positive results through this initiative. Women constables were able to perform their professional duties in a stress-free manner and could give more time to their families as well," said Arti Singh, commissioner of police, Amaravati city. Although the duty hours will be reduced to eight hours, there may be exceptional circumstances such as bandobast during events or festivals, another official said. In such instances, officers in-charge can increase the hours with permission from the deputy commissioner of police in cities and other senior officers in the districts, he added. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-police-reduce-duty-hours-of-women-constables-to-help-them-balance-home-life-1033787.html
24-09-2021||National||#WorldGratitudeDay: These five Indian cities tweet the most about gratitude||When it is not filled with memes and discourses, Twitter also has scores of messages about gratitude and Delhi sees the most number of tweets about gratitude.  Be it the frontline workers of the pandemic; family, friends, colleagues, neighbours and pets who picked us up when the times were bleak to lend that helping hand (or paw!); or just kind or relatable words from strangers on the internet - there’s been an outpour of Tweets expressing #Gratitude.  According to Twitter internal data, since January 1, 2021, Chennai follows Delhi in the second place. Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad follow on the list.  On #WorldGratitudeDay, let's take a look at some heartwarming Tweets expressing gratitude: Today is 33 years to the day since my parents moved to Australia from India and brought baby me along with them for the ride!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worldgratitudeday-these-five-indian-cities-tweet-the-most-about-gratitude-1033804.html
24-09-2021||National||NIA names TMC member, 12 others in Rajdhani Express hostage case||The NIA has named Trinamool Congress member Chhatradhar Mahato and 12 others in its chargesheet in the 2009 Rajdhani Express hostage case, an official of the investigating agency said on Friday. It has named Mahto, who was the convenor of the Maoist-backed People Against Police Atrocities (PCPA), as the prime accused along with his brother Shashadhar Mahato and the late Maoist commander Kishenji in its around 50-page chargesheet filed before an NIA special court on Thursday, the official said. All the accused have been charged under multiple non-bailable sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, he said. Kishenji was killed on November 24, 2011, in a operation by Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) assisted by over 1,000 members of the Central Reserve Police Force, who had cordoned off a forested area in West Midnapore district near the Bengal-Jharkhand border. Chhatradhar Mahatao, who was one of the frontline leaders of the Lalgarh movement had been arrested in September 2009 by West Bengal Police who had posed as journalists in connection with a landmine blast set up by Maoists in Salboni in 2008 for the convoy of the then West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and the then union steel minister Ramvilas Paswan. Santosh Patra had taken over PCPA's leadership after his arrest. The New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Rajdhani Express was held hostage a month later October 27, 2009 by the PCPA, which had kidnapped two drivers of train near Banstala in West Midnapore district for allegedly flouting its rail roko call. Mahato, who was convicted in 2015 and sentenced to life imprisonment, was released from prison after 11 years in February 2020. Soon after his release he had joined the ruling Trinamool Congress. He was, however, arrested by the NIA on March 26 this year, the day after polling was conducted in Jangalmahal. The chargesheet has been filed within 180 days of his arrest, the official added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-names-tmc-member-12-others-in-rajdhani-express-hostage-case-1033813.html
24-09-2021||National||71% urban millennials opted for fad diets during pandemic, says survey||Concerned about weight gain, over 70 per cent of urban millennials leaned towards "fad diets" -- including keto, intermittent fasting, and weekly detox plan -- during the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a survey released on Friday. The survey titled "Changing lifestyles and dietary habits of Urban Indian consumers post Covid-19" covered 1,000 respondents across the four metro cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, and Kolkata. "It outlined that weight watchers must understand the significance of having meals on time and consuming nutrient-rich breakfast. Further, it found that 71 per cent of urban millennials leaned towards the popularity of fad diets to maintain weight," read the findings of survey. The survey was conducted jointly by London-based market research company Euromonitor International and PepsiCo India between March 2020 till February 2021. While "increased consumption of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains including oats" emerged as one of the key trends during the pandemic, over 40 per cent of its respondents were found to "skip breakfast", said the report tracking a changing dietary pattern, particularly amongst urban millennials. Over 30 per cent prefer consuming oats for breakfast as a "main dish" for its nutritional value, digestibility and weight management qualities, it noted. "Forty-four per cent of urban millennials skipped breakfast and delayed meals due to increased household chores and late start to the day. Men skip breakfast more often than women," it added. Further, according to the report, with immunity emerging as one of the top concerns among the urban millennials, nearly "60 per cent" of them admitted of starting doing "yoga and walking/running" during the Covid-19 pandemic for their physical and mental wellness. “Popular fad diets are supporting this behaviour of skipping breakfast. However, Covid-19 has brought about some positive dietary changes as well among the younger group, with increased intake of fruits, salads, and oats, and improved the willingness to look for healthier alternatives while shopping”, said Vidhi Sharma, consultant, Euromonitor International. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/71-urban-millennials-opted-for-fad-diets-during-pandemic-says-survey-1033824.html
24-09-2021||National||Elgar Parishad case: Varavara Rao's bail plea hearing adjourned; he need not surrender till Oct 14||The Bombay High Court on Friday adjourned till October 13 the hearing on a bail extension plea filed by poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, and said he need not surrender before Taloja jail authorities till October 14. Rao (82) was granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the HC on February 22 this year, and was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. However, Rao filed an application, through his lawyers R Sathyanarayanan and senior counsel Anand Grover, seeking extension of such bail, as well as permission to stay in his hometown, Hyderabad. while out on bail. On Friday. a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar adjourned the hearing on his plea due to paucity of time, and said Rao needn't surrender until October 14 after the NIA said it was willing to extend till that date its interim statement that no coercive action will be taken against Rao. The NIA, in an affidavit filed earlier this month, opposed Rao's plea saying the 82-year-old's medical reports do not indicate that he suffers from any serious medical ailment, which made it necessary for him to take treatment at Hyderabad, neither did it form a ground for further extension of bail. The NIA affidavit said Taloja prison had adequate health care facilities, and Rao can be provided with the"best medical facilities" there. At the time of being granted bail, Rao was undergoing treatment at Nanavati Hospital here for multiple ailments. As part of the stringent conditions imposed while being given interim bail by HC, Rao has been staying with his wife in a rented accommodation in the city. In his plea seeking extension of medical bail and modification of bail conditions, Rao has said that, as per the doctors at Nanavati hospital, he is suspected to have a neurological issue known as cluster headache that needs further examination. Rao has further said in the plea that he continues to suffer from multiple ailments, including urinary tract infection with recurrent hyponatremia, suspicion of Parkinsons' disease, lacunar infarcts in six major lobes of the brain, and some eye problems. He said in his plea that if he returned to custody in the Taloja prison, which was not equipped to cater to his medical problems, his health would certainly deteriorate and he might die. Rao, who sought that his medical bail be extended for another six months, in his plea said he found living in Mumbai and accessing health facilities in the city unaffordable and had urged HC to let him stay in Hyderabad while out in bail.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-parishad-case-varavara-raos-bail-plea-hearing-adjourned-he-need-not-surrender-till-oct-14-1033849.html
24-09-2021||National||Amit Shah to address maiden conference of cooperatives||Cooperation Minister Amit Shah will address the first mega-conference of cooperatives here Saturday, and crores of people linked to these collective bodies across the world will join the programme virtually, the BJP said Friday. Over 2,000 people associated with cooperatives will be present at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium venue of the programme, it added in a statement. Shah, who is also the Union home minister, is likely to outline the government's vision and roadmap for the development of the sector. This is the first Sehkarita Sammelan, or National Cooperative Conference, that Shah is scheduled to address as minister in-charge of the new Ministry of Cooperation, which was created in July this year with an aim to strengthen the cooperative movement in the country. The conference is being organised by cooperative bodies IFFCO, National Cooperative Federation of India, Amul, Sahakar Bharti, NAFED, KRIBHCO, among others. Minister of State for Cooperation B L Verma and International Cooperatives Alliance (Global) President Ariel Guarco will also be present at the event. "This is the first big event (where) the minister will address the cooperatives and will share the government's vision and outline the roadmap for development of this sector in the country," the ministry's spokesperson had earlier told reporters. This will be the first opportunity where the members of cooperatives will hear from the minister directly about the government's plan for the sector, the official said. The event will see virtual participation of over 8 crore people. Around 3 million cooperatives from 110 countries associated with the International Cooperative Alliance (Global) are also expected to join virtually, an IFFCO official said. This conference will also play an important role in strengthening Indian cooperatives on the global stage. It will also work towards realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s aim of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', IFFCO had earlier said in a statement. The ministry's core mantra is to strengthen the cooperative movement in the country, provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework and streamline the processes to enable the development of Multi-State Cooperative Societies (MSCS), it added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-address-maiden-conference-of-cooperatives-1033850.html
24-09-2021||National||Net direct tax mop-up grows 74% at Rs 5.70 lakh cr so far this fiscal||The net personal income and corporate taxes collection grew 74 per cent to Rs 5.70 lakh crore so far this fiscal, driven mainly by advance tax and TDS payments. The mop up of net direct tax (which is arrived at after deducting refunds from gross collection) between April 1-September 22 was at Rs 5,70,568 crore, a 74.4 per cent growth over Rs 3.27 lakh crore collected in the same period last fiscal, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. It is 27 per cent growth over Rs 4.48 lakh crore collected in 2019-20. The gross direct tax collection so far this fiscal stands at over Rs 6.45 lakh crore, a 47 per cent growth over Rs 4.39 lakh crore mopped up in the corresponding period of the preceding year. The gross collection was 16.75 per cent higher than Rs 5.53 lakh crore collected between April 1-September 22 of 2019-20 fiscal. While over Rs 2.53 lakh crore has been collected through advance tax, Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) mop-up was over Rs 3.19 lakh crore. Self-assessment tax worth Rs 41,739 crore, regular assessment tax of Rs 25,558 crore, dividend distribution tax of Rs 4,406 crore and tax under other minor heads of Rs 1,383 crore has been mopped up. "The cumulative advance tax collections for the first and second quarter of the FY 2021-22 stand at Rs 2,53,353 crore as on September 22, 2021, against advance tax collections of Rs 1,62,037 crore for the corresponding period of the immediately preceding financial year i.e 2020-21, showing a growth of 56 per cent," the statement said. The advance tax collection comprises corporation tax (CIT) at Rs 1.96 lakh crore and personal income tax (PIT) at Rs 56,389 crore. The gross CIT mop up was Rs 3.58 lakh crore and PIT was over Rs 2.86 lakh crore, while net CIT was at Rs 3.02 lakh crore and PIT was at Rs 2.67 lakh crore. Refunds amounting to Rs 75,111 crore have also been issued in the FY 2021-22 so far. The CBDT said that despite extremely challenging initial months of the fiscal year 2021-22, the advance tax collection in the second quarter (July 1 to September 22, 2021) of FY 2021-22 is Rs 1.72 lakh crore, which shows a growth of 51.50 per cent over the corresponding period in FY 2020-21 when the advance tax collection was Rs 1.13 lakh crore. Nangia Andersen LLP Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said businesses, although not unscathed, were better prepared to ride the second wave. "The significantly higher tax collection numbers bear proof of the projected improvement in India's economic growth rate. FY 2020-21 was a one of a kind year that caught taxpayers and governments across the world by surprise. Therefore, the 27 per cent improvement in tax collection from FY 2019-20, when the economy was more stable than it is today, may be more reassuring than the 74.4 per cent improvement from FY 2020-21 when businesses experienced a significant dip," he said. Jhunjhunwala further said that the improvement in advance tax collection over 2019-20 demonstrates a strong bounce back.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/net-direct-tax-mop-up-grows-74-at-rs-570-lakh-cr-so-far-this-fiscal-1033862.html
24-09-2021||National||SC refrains from passing order on Tamil Nadu's plea against NGT order on Mekedatu||The Supreme Court on Friday refrained from passing any order on the Tamil Nadu government's plea against the National Green Tribunal's order closing the suo motu proceedings related to the formation of a committee on the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project with an estimated cost of Rs 5,912 crores. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said the petition filed by Tamil Nadu would be considered after the pronouncement of judgement on suo motu power of the NGT. The top court had separately reserved the judgement on the legal issue of whether the NGT could exercise suo motu jurisdiction under the 2010 Act, on the basis of a letter or news report. On Friday, senior advocate Shekhar Naphade appeared for Tamil Nadu and senior counsel Shyam Divan for Karnataka. Tamil Nadu was aggrieved with the order by the green tribunal passed on June 17, 2021. The tribunal at New Delhi had then allowed a review application by Karnataka against the Southern bench's order forming a joint committee for inspection on the basis of a news report on preliminary works allegedly being undertaken for the project. In its plea, Tamil Nadu said, the tribunal failed to consider the environmental damage likely to be caused by the continuation of the construction works which involved a large extent of Reserve Forests and Wildlife Sanctuaries. It also contended that the tribunal erred in holding that the issue was sub-judice before the top court which, in fact, pertained to the grant of permission for conducting a feasibility report and the detailed project report.  "The issue involved in the NGT was regard to the alleged initiation of activities in the reserved forest without any clearances," it said. The state government further said the principal NGT bench proceeded to hear the review application, instead of relegating the applicant state of Karnataka to the Southern bench which passed the order under review. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refrains-from-passing-order-on-tamil-nadus-plea-against-ngt-order-on-mekedatu-1033863.html
24-09-2021||National||SC sets aside 'unnecessary observation' by Madras HC on EWS reservation in NEET AIQ||The Supreme Court on Friday set aside "unnecessary" observations by the Madras High Court, that reservation for economically weaker sections in the NEET-All India Quota (AIQ) medical seats can be implemented only after the approval of top court’s Constitution bench.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said that the High Court was examining a contempt petition, which sought implementation of OBC reservation in NEET-AIQ, therefore observations on 10 per cent EWS quota was transgression of its jurisdiction.  Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, appearing for the Centre, contended that the High Court should not have made the observation, while it was exercising its contempt jurisdiction. Agreeing to the submission, the top court said when the High Court found no contempt, it should not have gone into wider spectrum. “There the High Court has really erred……..when you are in contempt jurisdiction, you just need to see if the order has been complied or not," the bench said.  In its August judgment, the High Court had said, “The additional reservation provided for EWS in the notification of July 29, 2021 cannot be permitted, except with the approval of the Supreme Court in such regard".  It had also noted that the Constitution bench was examining the validity of the 103rd constitutional amendment, which provided the EWS reservation.  On Friday, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the DMK submitted that the issue was "complicated", and the plea filed by the Centre should be heard with other petitions challenging the EWS/OBC quota in the NEET-AIQ.  The court, however, clarified it was not saying anything on the merits of the EWS quota in NEET-AIQ. The court would take up on October 7, petitions challenging the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC, EWS quota in NEET-AIQ from current academic session. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sets-aside-unnecessary-observation-by-madras-hc-on-ews-reservation-in-neet-aiq-1033871.html
24-09-2021||National||Home Minister Amit Shah to review situation in Naxal-hit areas with 10 CMs on Sunday||Home Minister Amit Shah is meeting chief ministers of 10 Naxal-affected states on Sunday to review operations and chart a roadmap for the future. The Sunday deliberations, at Vigyan Bhawan here, will be the first physical meeting of chief ministers, director-general of police, chief secretaries during the Covid-19 pandemic. The review by the Union Home Minister comes against the backdrop of a spurt in Naxal activities in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Chhattisgarh had witnessed one of the worst attacks by Naxals in April this year when 22 security personnel were killed in an ambush. Chief Ministers of Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala have been invited for the meeting. In July, the government had told Parliament that there has been a decrease in the Naxal activities in the country in the last three years. As many as 833 incidents of violence by left-wing extremists (LWE) were reported in 2018 that led to 240 deaths. The following year reported 665 incidents of violence that resulted in 202 deaths. In 2020, 665 incidents of LWE violence were reported that led to 183 deaths. The government also listed out developmental initiatives in LWE affected states which include sanction of 14,630 km of the road out of which 9,164 (63%) have already been constructed. To improve mobile connectivity in LWE affected districts, 2343 new mobile towers have been installed and further sanction has been accorded for the installation of 4,072 additional towers. For financial inclusion of people in LWE affected districts, 1,236 Bank Branches, 1,077 ATMs and 14,230 banking correspondents have been institutionalised. The government said it had released Rs 2,598.24 crore to LWE affected states under Special Central Assistance (SCA) Scheme for further impetus to development in the most affected districts.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-to-review-situation-in-naxal-hit-areas-with-10-cms-on-sunday-1033872.html
24-09-2021||National||India, China engaged in war of words over Galwan Valley clash hours before Quad summit||Just hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian, Japanese and American counterparts held the first in-person summit of the Quad in Washington D.C., India and China had a war of words over the violent face-off at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, 2020. Beijing held the Indian Army responsible for the clash with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Galwan Valley. The Indian Army had lost 20 of its soldiers in the violent face-off, which had taken place 15 months back. The Chinese PLA had also suffered casualties but revealed the identities of its four slain soldiers only on February 19 this year. Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Chinese government, said in Beijing that the series of agreements signed by China and India on maintaining peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations had played an important role in maintaining the stability in the border region. “The Galwan River Valley incident occurred last year because India violated the agreement signed by the two countries and illegally crossed the LAC and encroached on the territory of China,” said Zhao. He said that China would expect India to strictly abide by the relevant agreements signed by the two countries and take concrete actions to maintain peace and stability in the border area. The Modi government sharply reacted and dismissed Beijing’s bid to lay the blame on the Indian Army. “We reject such statements. Our position with regard to developments last year along the LAC in eastern Ladakh has been clear and consistent,” Zhao’s counterpart in New Delhi, Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said in a statement. New Delhi has been maintaining that the stand-off in eastern Ladakh had started in April-May 2020 because China had deployed a large number of troops along its LAC with India, flouting its 1993 and 1996 border peace pacts with India. The stand-off reached a flashpoint with the Galwan Valley clash.  “It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity. This has also impacted bilateral relations,” the MEA said in the statement issued in New Delhi. It referred to what External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar pointed out to the Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi during a meeting in Dushanbe on September 16. “As emphasized by the External Affairs Minister in his meeting with the Chinese FM earlier this month, it is our expectation that the Chinese side will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols.” The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA mutually withdrew frontline troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso as well as from the face-off point at Gogra Post earlier this year. But the stand-off remained unresolved in other locations along the LAC, even as one-and-a-half years passed since it had started.  New Delhi and Beijing had the latest round of war of words just hours before the Prime Minister joined the US President Joe Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga for the first in-person summit of the Quad – a coalition forged by India and the three other democratic nations to counter the hegemonic aspirations of China in the Indo-Pacific region. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-engaged-in-war-of-words-over-galwan-valley-clash-hours-before-quad-summit-1033884.html
24-09-2021||National||Remove PM's photo from footer of official emails: SC tells National Informatics Centre||The Supreme Court has removed a banner of the Union government and a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the footer of its official e-mails. It was stated that the photograph of Prime Minister Modi along with a slogan — "Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas Sabka Vishwas" — was appended at the foot of the official email. The National Informatics Centre (NIC) was directed by the apex court to use a picture of the SC instead. "Late last evening, it was brought to the notice of the SC registry that the official emails were carrying an image as footer which had no connection whatsoever with the functioning of the judiciary. The NIC which provides email services to the apex court, was directed to drop that image," an official said. The NIC has complied with the direction and has changed the picture at the footer to that of the top court. Some of the lawyers had lodged a complaint in this regard. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remove-pms-photo-from-footer-of-official-emails-sc-tells-national-informatics-centre-1033889.html
24-09-2021||National||China's 'provocative behaviour' disturbed peace in eastern Ladakh, says India; rejects fresh Chinese comments on Galwan||India on Friday strongly rejected China's fresh comments blaming it for the Galwan valley clashes and asserted that the "provocative behaviour and unilateral" attempts by the Chinese side to alter the status quo in eastern Ladakh resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity in the mountainous region. Reacting to the Chinese remarks made earlier in the day, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also said Chinese actions have impacted bilateral relations. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson had again claimed at a media briefing in Beijing that the Galwan valley clashes took place because India "encroached upon China's territory" and violated all agreements. "We reject such statements. Our position with regard to developments last year along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh has been clear and consistent," Bagchi said in response to a question on the fresh remarks by China. "It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity. This has also impacted the bilateral relations," he said. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in deadly clashes with the Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year that marked the most serious military conflict between the two sides in decades. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. "As emphasized by the external affairs minister in his meeting with Chinese foreign minister earlier this month, it is our expectation that the Chinese side will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols," Bagchi said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi had met in Dushanbe on the sidelines of the SCO summit last week. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said that all the agreements and treaties signed between China and India on upholding the peace and stability in the area of the LAC have played an important role in upholding stability in the border areas. "Last year's Galwan valley incident took place because India violated all the signed agreements and treaties and encroached upon Chinese territory and illegally crossed the line," Zhao claimed. "We hope India will abide by all the signed agreements and uphold peace and stability in the border region with concrete actions," Zhao said in reply to a question on India's border patrol protocols. At the meeting with Wang on September 16, Jaishankar conveyed that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues. According to the Ministry of External Affairs, the two foreign ministers agreed that the military and diplomatic officials of both sides should meet again and discuss resolving the remaining issues at the earliest. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area in eastern Ladakh last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-provocative-behaviour-disturbed-peace-in-eastern-ladakh-says-india-rejects-fresh-chinese-comments-on-galwan-1033908.html
24-09-2021||National||UPSC: Latur man credits study, hard work for success||Nilesh Gaikwad from Latur in Maharashtra, who achieved 629th rank in the UPSC 2020 exams, credited continuous study and self-confidence for his success. The Union Public Service Commission on Friday declared the results of the examination, conducted annually to select IAS, IFS and IPS officers, among other civil servants. A total of 761 candidates cleared the coveted civil services examination 2020, with engineering graduates Shubham Kumar, an IIT Bombay graduate, and Jagrati Awasthi, who completed B.Tech (electrical engineering) from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT), Bhopal, bagging the first and second ranks respectively.  "Continuous study, self-confidence, hard work and perseverance are key to success," Gaikwad, an IIT Bombay alumni, who had cleared the UPSC exams earlier and was undergoing training as 'assistant defence controller', said. He thanked his parents, Dr Shrikant Gaikwad, a former principal, mother Professor Anita Gaikwad and brother Shailesh as well as teachers for being successful in an extremely tough and competitive exam. The civil services (preliminary) examination, 2020 was conducted on October 4 last year. As many as 10,40,060 candidates applied for the examination, out of whom 4,82,770 appeared, a UPSC statement said. A total of 10,564 candidates qualified for appearance in the written (main) examination which was held in January 2021, and, of them, 2,053 qualified for the personality test (interview), from which 761 were finally selected, it said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-latur-man-credits-study-hard-work-for-success-1033910.html
24-09-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination figure crosses 84.42 crore doses||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 84.82 crore on Friday, the Union health ministry said. More than 64 lakh (64,58,806) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm, it said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination started from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-figure-crosses-8442-crore-doses-1033922.html
24-09-2021||National||At their first meet, what PM Narendra Modi gave US VP Kamala Harris||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday gave the United States Vice President Kamala Harris a special gift – two old notifications issued by the Government of India in 1956 and 1966 about the services of her grandfather and eminent bureaucrat P V Gopalan, both in handcrafted wooden frames. Modi also gifted Harris a Gulabi Meenakari chess set made by the craftsmen of his constituency, Varanasi. The January 21, 1956 Government of India notification was about the transfer of Gopalan, who was then a permanent Grade I officer of the Central Secretariat Service, from the post of the Under Secretary in the Ministry of Transport (Roads Wing) to the Ministry of Rehabilitation with effect from December 31, 1955. The January 28, 1966 notification was about Gopalan relinquishing the office of the Joint Secretary of the Ministry of Rehabilitation with effect from January 28, 1966, as he was placed on a deputation to the Government of Zambia as Director of Relief Measures and Refugees. This was the first meeting between Modi and Harris after the Indian-American became the Vice President of the US. Harris, who represented California in the US Senate since 2017, never distanced herself from her biracial identity, unlike some other Indian-American politicians. She has rather always proudly talked about her upbringing that was greatly influenced by her grandfather, Gopalan, who served as a bureaucrat in the Government of India, and her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who was born in Chennai, migrated to the United States in pursuit of a career in medical research, joined civil rights movement, married another immigrant from Jamaica, Donald Harris, and fought against all odds to raise two daughters after her divorce. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-their-first-meet-what-pm-narendra-modi-gave-us-vp-kamala-harris-1033927.html
24-09-2021||National||Rahul targets PM Modi over eastern Ladakh standoff||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that he is "scared" of China. "Mr 56-inch is scared of China," he said on Twitter, putting out a short video clip detailing the events at the border with China. The video, titled 'chronology samajhiye' (understand the chronology), is a compilation of news reports on the Sino-India military standoff that erupted in eastern Ladakh on May 5 last year. The 54-second video also showed the chronology of the events in eastern Ladakh since the standoff broke out. Gandhi and his Congress party have been critical of Prime Minister Modi's policy on China. India on Friday asserted that the "provocative behaviour and unilateral" attempts by the Chinese side to alter the status quo in eastern Ladakh resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity in the mountainous region. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi rejected China's fresh comments blaming India for the Galwan valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel and at least five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed. "Our position with regard to developments last year along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh has been clear and consistent.... It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity. This has also impacted the bilateral relations," Bagchi said. PTI SKC SMN GSN SMN Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-targets-pm-modi-over-eastern-ladakh-standoff-1033928.html
24-09-2021||National||Dissent needed, but not disruption: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday said dissent is necessary in the parliamentary system, but termed as “wrong” any attempts to disrupt legislature proceedings. Birla was addressing a joint session of the state legislature in the Assembly, a first for a Lok Sabha Speaker. Birla’s audience consisted of BJP and JD(S) lawmakers. The Congress, the principal Opposition, boycotted it.  “Opposition, dissent, arguments and protests are all necessary in a parliamentary democracy. But, it is wrong to indulge in sloganeering or unruly behaviour and not let the House function,” he said.  Birla called upon legislators to “rethink” on making democratic institutions more accountable to the people.  “Legislature is the soul of democracy. It can be made more responsible when it takes up discussions in the interest of people. Legislators play a key role because the legislature makes laws in response to the aspirations of people. We see that the amount of participation required in lawmaking is not there. This is a concern,” he lamented. He advised all parties to “sit together and come up with a workable plan” to maximise participation of legislators in the lawmaking process.  Soon after Birla began his speech, there were calls by some JD(S) members for him to speak in Kannada. One of them even flashed the red-and-yellow Karnataka flag.  Anubhava Mantapa Earlier, Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti submitted a petition addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Birla requesting one of the new Parliament buildings to be named as Anubhava Mantapa to honour social reformers Basavanna and Allama Prabhu.  Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, in his address, lamented that the Congress boycotted the joint session. “This session is convened by Horatti and me. We are carrying out constitutional responsibilities. It’s disappointing that Congress did not show up despite requests,” he said.  Speaking to reporters, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said there is no provision for a Lok Sabha Speaker to address a joint session of both Houses. “Tomorrow, they may invite (RSS chief) Mohan Bhagwat. Can we keep quiet,” he asked. “Only Presidents and Governors can address joint sessions.”  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dissent-needed-but-not-disruption-om-birla-1033931.html
24-09-2021||National||PM Modi holds first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden||The relationship between India and US, the two largest democracies in the world, is destined to be "stronger, closer and tighter," US President Joe Biden said on Friday as he hosted Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House for the first bilateral meeting during which the two leaders discussed a wide range of priority issues, including combating Covid-19, climate change and economic cooperation. Prime Minister Modi, who is visiting the US for the 7th time after assuming office in 2014, described Friday’s bilateral summit with Biden as important as they're meeting at the start of the third decade of this century. "Your leadership will certainly play an important role in how this decade is shaped. The seeds have been sown for an even stronger friendship between India and the US,” Prime Minister Modi told Biden. Biden said the relationship between India and the US, largest democracies in the world, is "destined to be stronger, closer and tighter.” "We are watching a new chapter in India-US ties,” he added. Modi said this decade will be shaped by talent and people-to-people linkages. “I am glad the Indian diaspora is making an active contribution towards the US’ progress." He said that technology is becoming a driving force. “We have to utilise our talents to leverage technology for greater global good.” Noting that trade will be an important factor in Indo-US ties in the coming decade, the Prime Minister said that there is much to be done in the area. While the two leaders have met earlier when Biden was the Vice President of the country, this is for the first time that Biden is meeting Modi after he became the 46th president of the US in January. Both Biden and Prime Minister Modi have spoken over the phone multiple times and have attended a few virtual summits, including that of the Quad in March hosted by the US president. The last telephone conversation between them took place on April 26. "This morning I’m hosting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House for a bilateral meeting. I look forward to strengthening the deep ties between our two nations, working to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, and tackling everything from Covid-19 to climate change," President Biden tweeted minutes before the meeting. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-first-bilateral-meeting-with-us-president-joe-biden-1033933.html
24-09-2021||National||Dream to join IAS and serve underprivileged realised: Civil services exam topper Shubham Kumar||Civil services exam topper Shubham Kumar on Friday said his dream to become an IAS officer and to serve the underprivileged has been realised. Speaking to PTI, he said development of villages, employment generation and poverty alleviation in rural areas of the country would be his focus areas. Kumar, aged 24 years, topped the civil services examination in his third attempt. He got selected in the Indian Defence Accounts Service (IDAS) after qualifying the civil services examination 2019. Kumar could not make it in his first attempt in the 2018 examination. A Bachelor of Technology (civil engineering) graduate from IIT Bombay, he has qualified the 2020 examination with anthropology as his optional subject. Kumar, who hails from Katihar in Bihar, is currently undergoing training at the National Academy of Defence Financial Management (NADFM), Pune. "My dream was to get into the IAS as it gives a wider platform to work for the betterment of the people. It has been realised and I would like to work for the underprivileged people, especially in rural areas," he said. Kumar said areas like poverty alleviation and development of villages and its people would be his focus area while in the service. "There are lots of areas in which we all can work to uplift the underprivileged and bring positive changes," he said. Kumar said he got a lot of support from his father and the academy, especially its director, in preparing for the examination. Younger of the two siblings, his elder sister work as a scientist in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). "My father used to motivate me a lot and helped me in maintaining a positive attitude that helped me in clearing the exam,” said Kumar, adding that his father works as a bank manager in Bihar. Second rank holder Jagrati Awasthi, who hails from Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, said she would also like to join the IAS and work for rural development, besides women and child development. "I have opted for IAS. I got motivated from people around me. I would like to work for development of rural areas besides women and child development,” she told PTI over phone from Bhopal. Awasthi, aged 24 years, believes skilling women, especially from rural areas, in handicrafts can make India a world leader in the sector. She completed her schooling from Maharishi Vidya Mandir and graduation in electrical engineering from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT), Bhopal. Awasthi qualified the examination with sociology as her optional subject. Awasthi said she had left her job at Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Bhopal to prepare for the examination. "I worked with BHEL for two years after completing my graduation in 2017. I could not clear the examination in first attempt. This was my second exam,” said Awasthi, who is also the overall topper among women candidates. She said her brother, who is pursuing medical studies in Bhopal, was the biggest source of inspiration for her. Awasthi's father is a professor and mother is homemaker. A total of 761 candidates -- 545 men and 216 women -- have cleared the civil services examination 2020, results of which were declared on Friday by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The civil services examination is conducted annually by the UPSC in three stages -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. The UPSC said that the top 25 candidates comprise 13 men and 12 women. Ria Dabi, who is the sister of 2015 civil services exam topper Tina Dabi, has secured 15th rank in the examination. Tina Dabi, an IAS officer, is currently posted in her cadre state Rajasthan.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dream-to-join-ias-and-serve-underprivileged-realised-civil-services-exam-topper-shubham-kumar-1033944.html
24-09-2021||National||Children less severely impacted by Covid-19 pandemic: WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan||Children have been less severely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and their chances of recovery are very well, World Health Organisation (WHO) chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Friday. However, she said though the SARS-CoV2 virus may not disappear, it will not cause the kind of impact and panic it did over the last two years. Participating in a virtual session on 'Priorities after Pandemic; What Young India wants?'- Indian Student Parliament, Swaminathan said the reason why people talk about children being susceptible is because vaccination programmes today in most countries are targeting people above the age of 18 and elderly as they are the most vulnerable. "When you do that, you are left with younger, and younger people who are unvaccinated. And, therefore, when you have the virus circulating in the community, those people are basically the susceptible population," she said in response to a question. In many countries, it is seen that by vaccinating older people, the infection pattern shifts to younger people.  "I want to assure you that children on the whole have been less severely impacted by this pandemic. Not that they don't get infected. Yes, they do get infected as adults but they don't get severely ill. Clearly, it is an age-related correlation with the severity," she said.   "Even if they get infected, the chances are that they recover very well," the WHO chief scientist said. On inoculation of children against the virus in India, she said there will be vaccines for children. The drug regulator has given a nod to Zydus Cadila for administering to adolescents over 12 years, besides the age group of 18 years and above. The phase 2/3 clinical trial data of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in the age group two to 18 years is under way. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in July granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax on children aged two to 17 years with certain conditions. Swaminathan added that many countries have third, fourth and fifth waves and hoped that India will not have a third wave. Commenting on how the pandemic could shape, she said Covid-19 is going to become the next respiratory virus. Stressing that vaccines are working very well and give a good deal of protection, she said wearing a mask, avoiding crowds and mass gatherings, being in a well-ventilated place and respiratory hygiene are some of the measures that can keep the spread of the virus under control.  "The virus may not disappear. But it is not going to cause the kind of impact, the kind of panic caused over the last two years. Some of these precautions will become part of our life," she said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-less-severely-impacted-by-covid-19-pandemic-who-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-1033950.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||UP Congress vice-president Lalitesh Pati Tripathi quits party||Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, vice-president of Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit and great grandson of former chief minister Kamlapati Tripathi, on Thursday said he has resigned from all posts and primary membership of the party. He shared a video of his announcement at a press interaction on Twitter in which he said it had become untenable for him to continue in the party as workers who had given their "blood and sweat" for the Congress were not being respected. Tripathi's announcement to quit the Congress came after days of speculation that he is likely to resign and join the Samajwadi Party. However, the former Marihan MLA denied he was joining any party as of now, and asserted that he would take a decision on his future course of action after consulting his supporters. Tripathi said it was an emotional decision for him to move away from the commitment of more than 100 years that his family had shown, but in the present circumstances "when the families that had given their blood and sweat for the party and the workers who braved beatings for the party movement were not being respected, his conscience does not allow him to continue in any position". "I thank Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for giving me many major responsibilities. I will always be grateful to them," Tripathi said. The development comes as a jolt to the Congress which is preparing for the Assembly polls in the state next year and has asserted that it will fight the elections without aligning with any big political party. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-congress-vice-president-lalitesh-pati-tripathi-quits-party-1033583.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||Shortcuts will cut you short: Gadkari takes a dig at ministers for putting up their own cutouts||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari took a swipe at ministers who publicised their birthdays and became famous by putting up their own cutouts and hoardings, saying that these ‘shortcuts’ will not help in their political careers. Speaking to students at a national conclave of Bharatiya Chhatra Sansad, Gadkari, without taking any names, said he couldn’t understand why politicians “spend out of their pocket” to put their own cutouts in cities and towns.  Lauding great social leaders who valued honesty and didn’t compromise on their beliefs, Gadkari said those who shift parties and become ministers or chief ministers “don’t remain in public memory for long”.  He also spoke about being photographed during the pandemic when he was helping out people in his constituency. “I soon felt bad about it and asked people not to take my pictures. I got more satisfaction when people appreciated the work,” he said. Gadkari also urged young politicians and leaders that between a person and a party, the party is bigger and between the party and ideology, ideology takes precedence. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shortcuts-will-cut-you-short-gadkari-takes-a-dig-at-ministers-for-putting-up-their-own-cutouts-1033705.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||BJP to fight UP Assembly elections along with Nishad Party, Apna Dal||BJP on Friday finalised its alliance with the Nishad Party and Apna Dal in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are due in March next year. Announcing the alliance at a press conference, Union minister and UP in-charge of the party Dharmendra Pradhan said that some other smaller outfits were also in touch with the saffron party and that the BJP could also include them in the alliance. ''We will contest the polls in alliance with Nishad Party and Apna Dal...some other outfits may also join the alliance in the days to come,'' Pradhan said. He, however, did not disclose the seats to be contested by each of the parties nor the names of the other outfits, which were in touch with the saffron party. ''It will be announced at the appropriate time,'' he remarked. Pradhan also made it clear that the BJP would go to the polls under the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. ''Adityanath will be the face of the party in UP polls,'' he added. Nishad Party has considerable clout among the fishermen and boatmen community, who are in sizable numbers in around a dozen eastern UP districts, including Gorakhpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Mirzapur and some others. The Apna Dal also enjoys widespread support among the 'Kurmi' community, which is a deciding factor on over 50 assembly seats mainly in the eastern UP districts of Varanasi, Chandauli, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and some others. Check out the latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-fight-up-assembly-elections-along-with-nishad-party-apna-dal-1033748.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||Congress underplayed Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's contribution, legacy: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh Friday accused past Congress governments of underplaying Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's contribution and legacy for political and dynastic considerations. He was speaking after inaugurating a digital exhibition on the life and contribution of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose at the North Block. The minister said the event was an occasion to seek to restore the deserved glory of unsung heroes and undo the injustice done to them by history for whatever reason. Singh said the nation owes it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for reviving and reminding people of the contribution of unsung heroes and freedom fighters including Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Baba Saheb Ambedakar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, and Sardar Patel. He said their sacrifices and achievements were always "downplayed" by successive Congress governments for political and dynastic considerations. He also mentioned the call given by Modi from the ramparts of red fort on Independence Day when he had reminded people of the significance of the 75th year of independence, describing it as "Amrit Mahotsav", and also advised them to prepare the roadmap for the next 25 years when Independent India turns 100. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said the next 25 years of journey of 'Sankalp se Siddhi' will definitely establish India as a Vishwaguru and, therefore, there is need for the young generation to take a pledge to rededicate themselves in the service of the nation, an official statement said. The minister reiterated that the celebrations which will continue till 15 August, 2023 will have five pillars -- freedom struggle, ideas at 75, achievements at 75, actions at 75 and resolves at 75. The minister informed that the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) will organise exhibitions on different themes every year, it said. Secretary, DoPT P K Tripathy, Additional Secretary Rashmi Chowdhary, and senior officials took part in the exhibition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-underplayed-netaji-subhash-chandra-boses-contribution-legacy-jitendra-singh-1033792.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||Rahul's move of choosing Channi as new Punjab CM bold decision: Jakhar||Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, who appeared close to succeeding Amarinder Singh as chief minister, Friday dubbed Rahul Gandhi's move to choose Charanjit Singh Channi a "bold decision". He also slammed the Congress' rivals for attacking the party over the choice of the chief minister, saying they are missing the forest while counting trees in attributing political motives to the decision. "What (former party president) Rahul Gandhi has done by choosing Charanjeet Channi as chief minister is that he has broken the barely perceptible 'glass ceiling'," Jakhar said in a statement shared on his Twitter handle. Channi is the first Dalit chief minister of the state. "This bold decision, though very much rooted in the ethos of Sikhism, is nevertheless a watershed moment not only for the polity but also for the social fabric of the state," he said. Jakhar's statement came two days after he accompanied Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on a flight to Delhi as they returned from the state. Channi was sworn in as the chief minister of Punjab on Monday following the unceremonious exit of Amarinder Singh. Jakhar, a Hindu face, was among the frontrunners for the post. However, the party leaders including Ambika Soni had suggested that a Sikh should be appointed. Later, it was learned that a "miffed" Jakhar turned down the offer of deputy chief minister post. "Petty-minded small people occupying high positions were trying to divide Punjab on the basis of race/caste/identities," he had then tweeted in the midst of speculations. There are now muted talks that Jakhar may be rehabilitated with some post. Jakhar on Friday said, "The warp and weft of this fabric is a complex interplay of aspirations and anxieties of all sections of society. This must be respected, maintained, and nurtured as 'Raj Dharma' at all times." He, however, said, "But there is a clear and present danger of Punjabiat being put to test once again with usual divisive forces already weaponising this transformative initiative to fragment the society." "This threat just cannot be wished away. Also coupled with this, if handled in an inept and/or biased manner the prevailing robust brotherhood and amity, which has always been the pride of Punjab even in testing times, can be just as fragile and shatter just as easily as a 'glass house'," he stated. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahuls-move-of-choosing-channi-as-new-punjab-cm-bold-decision-jakhar-1033799.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||Yogi Adityanath will lead BJP in UP Assembly polls, issue of next CM 'settled': Dinesh Sharma||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma has said the issue of the state’s next CM is already “settled” with the BJP top brass making it clear that the coming assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of Yogi Adityanath. In an interview with PTI, Sharma accused the opposition of fanning discontent among farmers and shot down the claim that their continuing protest will cost the BJP dearly in western UP, which accounts for over 100 of the state’s 403 seats. He said the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya was not a political issue, but a matter of faith for the Bharatiya Janata Party. The minister was asked if the BJP leadership could look for another personality as chief minister if it returns to power after the 2022 polls. "This is a settled issue as the central leadership has already made it clear that the party will contest the election under Yogi Adityanath ji to return to power," Sharma, who himself was a strong contender for the post in 2017, said. On the possible loss of Brahmin votes, he said this was false narrative put out by the rivals and the BJP government has worked for every section of society, without seeing anybody through the lens of caste and creed. “Efforts to organise Brahmin meets by the opposition are basically meant to say sorry to them for neglecting them during their regime," Sharma, who is considered as a Brahmin face in UP’s ruling party, said. On the induction of Brahmin leader Jitin Prasada in the party, said to have been triggered by the worry over losing the community’s support, the minister claimed that the Congress man wanted to join the BJP way back, inspired by the work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asked if the upcoming polls will be a direct fight between the BJP and the SP or a triangular contest involving Mayawati's BSP as well, Sharma said, “The BJP is winning hands down.” “In fact, these opposition parties are fighting against themselves to elbow out one another," he claimed. On the prospects this time of the Congress, led by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in UP, he said, "People know very well who stands with them throughout and also about political tourists who visit them when the elections are around the corner." Asked if Ayodhya will be the fulcrum for his party in the elections, Sharma said, "For the BJP, construction of the Ram Temple was never a poll issue, but a matter of faith.” “It was the BJP alone which extended support to the Ram temple movement and worked to remove the obstacles,” he said. “Kalyan Singh ji even resigned,” he said, referring to the then CM's decision to step down after failing to stop the 1992 demolition of the Babri mosque located at the disputed site in Ayodhya. Indirectly, he compared this with the police firing in 1990, when the SP was in power, at “kar sevaks” heading towards the mosque. “Ram devotees were fired upon during the regime of those who are organising meetings of intellectuals today. So whom will the public support? Those who fired ‘goli’ (bullets) on them or those who stood by them as they raised the 'Ram naam kee boli’ (chanting Ram’s name)?” He dismissed the possibility of the farmers’ agitation over the central laws hurting the BJP. "These parties have lost elections to us one after the other. Now they will disguise their workers and indulge in protests of different kinds,” he said. “Now you will see agitations by traders, students and even workers,” he said accusing the opposition leaders of remaining confined to their homes during the past four and a half years." They will take on “different looks” in an attempt to win the election, he claimed. “The 'annadata' farmers are the highest priority of the BJP,” he said, adding that people will never accept those who “disguise” themselves as farmers for their vested interest. Sharma, who holds the secondary and higher education portfolio, said the BJP government has brought a major turnabout in the field of education. "From the days when the state government was known for issuing tenders for organising mass scale cheating in board examinations, UP is now winning accolades for conducting cheating-free exams and providing subsidised books to students.” The “tenders for cheating” allegation referred to what Modi had said at a 2017 election rally in Gonda. “UP which was in 'C' grade in the field of education has moved to 'A' grade," he said. Asked if he would contest the assembly polls, Sharma said such decisions are taken in the BJP by the party leadership. As disciplined soldiers party members perform the assigned task, he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-adityanath-will-lead-bjp-in-up-assembly-polls-issue-of-next-cm-settled-dinesh-sharma-1033835.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||Power tussle in Chhattisgarh: Quiet at top but tension simmers below||The tussle for power between Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo appears to have quietened at the top, but the feud is very much visible at the lower level in the ruling Congress. The recent change in leadership in Congress-ruled Punjab has added to the uncertainty, political observers here believe. On Thursday, a local unit of the Congress in Bilaspur demanded expulsion of a party MLA after he protested against the registration of a police case against another local leader, a supporter of Singh Deo. The demand of change of guard reared its head after Baghel completed two and a half years as chief minister in June 2021. The Singh Deo camp claimed that the high command in 2018 had agreed to hand over the post to him after the government completed half its term. Congress in-charge of the state P L Punia has time and again denied that any such deal was struck in 2018 when the party came to power by dislodging the BJP. In July, Congress MLA Brahaspat Singh alleged that there was a threat to his life from Singh Deo. The MLA, who hails from Singh Deo's home turf Sarguja, later withdrew the claim. The Congress high command summoned both Baghel and Singh Deo to Delhi in August to resolve the feud. It appeared that Baghel had won this round when he told reporters upon return that party leader Rahul Gandhi had agreed to visit the state `on his invitation', and those talking about rotating the CM's post were promoting political instability. As many as 54 out of 70 Congress MLAs had visited Delhi separately when Baghel was in the national capital, in an apparent show of strength on his side. While both Baghel and Singh Deo have desisted from saying anything about the leadership issue since then, the feud has not abated. On Tuesday, Bilaspur police registered a case against Pankaj Singh, a former secretary of state Congress and a supporter of Singh Deo, for allegedly assaulting an employee of a government hospital. The next day, Congress MLA Shailesh Pandey, another staunch supporter of Singh Deo, reached the police station with his supporters and lodged a protest against the action. Without naming anyone, Pandey alleged that the action was taken at the behest of senior leaders. The issue did not end there as on Thursday a local unit of the party in Bilaspur district recommended Pandey's expulsion for "facilitating anti-party activities". Bilaspur Urban Congress Committee chief Pramod Nayak said it had sent a proposal to state Congress chief Mohan Markam seeking to expel Pandey from the party for six years. Nayak was accompanied at the press conference by state Congress vice president Atal Shrivastav, who is known to be close to chief minister Baghel. “Till the party high command does not clear the air over the leadership issue, workers would continue to pay the price for the tussle between the two senior leaders,” said R Krishna Das, a senior journalist and political analyst. The recent change in leadership in Punjab has created a sense of uncertainty among Congress cadres in the state, he told PTI. Caste equations were apparently an important factor which propelled Baghel to the top post in 2018. The chief minister belongs to the Kurmi caste, an influential OBC group. In Chhattisgarh, Other Backward Classes (OBCs) account for around 45 per cent of over 2.55 crore population. Singh Deo belongs to the erstwhile royal family of Surguja. Baghel is likely to visit Delhi in the first week of October to meet Rahul Gandhi to `finalize the itinerary' of the latter's proposed visit to the state, sources said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/power-tussle-in-chhattisgarh-quiet-at-top-but-tension-simmers-below-1033857.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||BJP targeting 'fearless' TMC with central agencies because it refuses to bow down: Mamata||Launching a blistering attack on the BJP, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that the central agencies were slapping cases on the Trinamool Congress (TMC) because the party refuses to be cowed down from the agencies' pressure tactics. She made the remarks while addressing a public meeting at Bhabanipur in Kolkata on Friday. The Chief Minister also asked how many cases were registered against CPI(M) leaders who have ruled the State for 34 years. “They (CBI and ED) even arrested Congress leader P Chidambaram. They have slapped cases on all the leaders of our party because we never surrendered to them. The party which is the most honest and fearless is being targeted,” said Mamata. She said even senior leaders such as MP Sougata Roy and minister Partha Chatterjee were being targeted by the central agencies. The TMC supremo alleged that the BJP manipulated votes at Nandigram during the last Assembly election using central agencies and weapons. “But they don’t know that Mamata Banerjee does not bow down to anyone. Votes were tampered with at several polling booths in Nandigram,” the CM said. Dubbing Pegasus as “dangerous”, the Chief Minister alleged that the BJP had snooped on those attending a meeting at her Kalighat office in Kolkata using the Israeli spyware. “Me, Abhishek (Banerjee) and PK (Prashant Kishor) were talking at my Kalighat office and the BJP watched it through a phone. It was all done with Pegasus,” said Mamata. Referring to the incidents of police firing on alleged encroachers in Assam and a shoot out inside a court in Delhi, the Chief Minister: said “see what happened in Assam… What kind of humanity is this? But they raise questions on human rights in Bengal.” She also said that to prevent the TMC from holding political programs in Tripura, the BJP government there had imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC. A bypoll will be held in the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency on September 30. The election was necessitated after TMC’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigned as MLA to pave the way for Mamata to contest from there. Mamata had earlier lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram by a narrow margin. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-targeting-fearless-tmc-with-central-agencies-because-it-refuses-to-bow-down-mamata-1033866.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||Focus shifts to Rajasthan as Rahul, Priyanka meet Sachin Pilot||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot met former party chief Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday amid speculation over Cabinet expansion and organisation rejig in Rajasthan. The discussion between the former deputy chief minister and the Gandhi siblings comes days after the dramatic developments in Punjab where the Congress replaced Amarinder Singh as chief minister and appointed Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit leader, to the top post of the state. Pilot, who had also met Gandhi last week, met him at his Tughlaq Road residence and Priyanka Gandhi was also present during the meeting. Since the developments in Punjab, the power circles in the Congress are abuzz that Rajasthan, where Pilot and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot have been locked in a leadership tussle, as well as Chhattisgarh were next on the list of Rahul Gandhi to set the party's house in order. Though there was no official word on what transpired at the meeting, sources said the impending cabinet expansion and organisational rejig were discussed. Pilot for long has been demanding that Cabinet expansion should happen and appointments to boards and corporations in the state be made soon. He has been asserting that Congress workers and leaders working closely with him for the party should be given their dues. There is also talk of Pilot being brought back as chief of the state unit even as his supporters insist that a leadership change should be effected in Rajasthan by replacing Gehlot. Pilot and the MLAs supporting him had revolted against Chief Minister Gehlot last year over his style of functioning, after which Pilot was removed from the posts of the state party chief and the Rajasthan deputy chief minister. Sources said the leadership is keen to resolve all issues in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, where Health Minister T S Singhdeo is seeking to replace Bhupesh Baghel as chief minister citing a verbal agreement that the leadership position would be shared between the two for two and a half years each, ahead of the next round of assembly polls. Congress general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken had said last week that the roadmap is ready for cabinet expansion and organisational rejig in the state. "If Ashok Gehlot had not fallen ill we would have done cabinet expansion and the roadmap is ready for appointment at board corporations and district presidents," Maken had said at a press conference. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/focus-shifts-to-rajasthan-as-rahul-priyanka-meet-sachin-pilot-1033906.html
24-09-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi is a part-time politician: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday criticised that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is a non-serious and part-time politician who gives immature statements. "Rahul Gandhi neither knows anything about the past and nor about the future of the country. India is growing as a global power," Joshi said. Replying to Rahul Gandhi's tweet 'Mr 56" is scared of China', Joshi added, "Rahul should not be taken seriously. Whenever there is some serious issue, he would be on foreign tour". Commenting on the issue of the Congress legislators boycotting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's address to the joint sitting of the Karnataka Legislature, he stated that the Congress leaders should have discussed with the Legislative Assembly speaker and should have taken part in the event. "Politics should not be played in everything. Lok Sabha speaker is not related to any political party," he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-is-a-part-time-politician-pralhad-joshi-1033907.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Hate speech case: Delhi High Court grants bail to Jantar Mantar event organiser||The Delhi High Court Friday granted bail to Preet Singh, an organiser of the Jantar Mantar event where communal slogans were allegedly raised last month, saying his custodial interrogation in the hate speech case is not required any longer. Justice Mukta Gupta directed that the accused be released on bail on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties of the like amount. “The petitioner has been in custody since 9/10.08.2021. The petitioner is no more required for custodial interrogation. It is, therefore, directed that the petitioner be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs 50,000 with two surety bonds of the like amount subject to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court/ Duty Magistrate,” the judge stated. The release is subject to the accused not leaving the country without prior permission of the court and in case of change of residential address and/or mobile phone number, is to be intimated through an affidavit. The court said that as per the record, the accused had left the venue at around 2.00 PM while “the main provocative words/ slogans were shouted by the co-accused at around 4.00 PM”. It added that at this stage, “it would not be appropriate” to express any opinion on whether the “words spoken by the petitioner make out an offence under Section 153A IPC (hate speech)” as it would be gone into at the stage of charge or during the trial. The order said: "The interview by the petitioner was not an isolated interview and was part of simultaneous conversation with number of speakers. Further large number of people gathered at the spot due to petitioner co-organizing the protest and therefore the petitioner would be liable for any offence committed in furtherance of the common object of the assembly. "However, as per the video footage and the call records of the petitioner, the petitioner left the spot at around 2.00 PM whereafter the main provocative words/ slogans were shouted by the co-accused at around 4.00 PM”. Singh, who was remanded in judicial custody on August 10 after his arrest, is accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar here on August 8. Seeking bail, his lawyer Vishnu Shankar Jain, Singh argued that the demand of a “Hindu Rashtra” did not amount to promoting enmity between religious groups. Nothing is said by my client which attracts Section 153A IPC. They are putting a case of Section 34 IPC (common intention) but the event ended at 11:45 am and sloganeering happened at 3:45 pm. My client was not present at the time,” he had stated. Counsel Tarang Srivastava, representing the prosecution, opposed the grant of bail, saying that the investigation was still ongoing and Singh's absence at the time of chanting of allegedly communal slogans would not absolve him from any liability as all accused were acting in concert. He added that even in his interview, Singh referred to a specific community, which was “part of a series of same transaction.” On August 27, the trial court had refused bail to Singh, saying that prima facie, there had been active participation by the accused in his individual capacity and also as the main organiser of the event itself. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hate-speech-case-delhi-high-court-grants-bail-to-jantar-mantar-event-organiser-1033699.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||CBI takes over Narendra Giri's death case||The Centre has given its approval for a CBI probe into the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri in Allahabad, officials said on Friday. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging by his disciples at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on Monday. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has issued a notification for the CBI probe into the death of the Mahant. The move came following a request by the state government. "On the instructions of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a probe by the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) has been recommended in the incident pertaining to the sad death of the chairman of Akhara Parishad Mahant Narendra Giri," the Uttar Pradesh’s home department had said on Wednesday. The Uttar Pradesh Police had constituted an 18-member SIT on Tuesday to probe the death of the seer and detained a disciple of his in Haridwar. A purported suicide note was also found, in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and upset with one of his disciples, the police had said. Former Union minister Swami Chinmayanand had on Tuesday demanded a CBI inquiry into the death. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-takes-over-narendra-giris-death-case-1033701.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Appointment of Narendra Giri's successor halted over suicide note row||“We are shocked by the death of Mahant Narendra Giriji under suspicious circumstances. It is a great loss for us. The post of Baghambari Gaddi Mahant was a very personal one and Narendra Giriji mentioned Balbeer Giri as his successor in the purported suicide note. He also mentioned that there is also a registered will that he made, but we have not seen it yet. If the letter is found to be genuine then, it’s all well and good. If it isn’t, we all will sit together and appoint an able successor,” Acharya Kailashanand Giri told the publication. Mahant Narendra Giri was found dead on Monday at the Baghambari Math. It is suspected to be a case of suicide as the police found a seven-page ‘suicide note’ from the spot. In the note, it is mentioned that he was mentally disturbed.  The note also mentions Balbeer Giri as the successor of Narendra Giri, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India. Talking about it, Acharya Kailashanand Giri said to the publication, “It will depend on the findings of the CBI probe.” “However, I wish to add that we believe that the purported suicide note is forged. Today, we were told that Mahant Narendra Giriji cleared his Class 10 exam. I knew him for over two decades and he always told me he was illiterate. I never saw him writing even two lines, and such a person penning eight pages seems impossible,” he added. With the Uttar Pradesh government’s request, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has issued a notification for the CBI probe into the matter. The UP Police have formed an 18-member SIT to investigate the case and so far they have arrested three people in connection to Giri’s death. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/appointment-of-narendra-giris-successor-halted-over-suicide-note-row-1033707.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Muslims should bow to ‘Indian culture’, Ram, Krishna, Shiva were their ancestors: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla has said that lord Ram, Krishna, and Shiva were the ancestors of Indian Muslims and they should bow to the “land and culture of India”. In provocative remarks here, the minister of state for parliamentary affairs also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have defeated the mindset which intended to create an Islamic State in the country by raising the flag of Hindutva and “Indian culture”. Presenting the account of Adityanath government's work during the last four-and-a-half-years before the media on Thursday evening, Shukla said: “The ancestors of the Muslims of India are lord Ram, Krishna and Shankar (Shiva). They do not need to see the land of Kaaba. These people should bow to the land and culture of India.” After Syria and Afghanistan, some people from different countries want to make the world an Islamic State. Some in India have this mindset too. But, the Modi and Adityanath governments at the Centre and state have raised the flag of Hindutva and "Indian culture" in the country and defeated this mindset, Shukla said. Referring to controversial posters put up in Sambhal recently, Shukla said they were the outcome of Samajwadi Party’s support to Islamic terrorists and its MP Shaifur Rehman Barq's statement supporting the Taliban. Posters calling Sambhal the land of the "ghazis", an apparent reference to Islamic warriors, had come up ahead of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's meeting there earlier this week. The BJP had strongly objected to the posters, after which they were removed by workers of the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). Shukla said ghazis have been completely eradicated from Uttar Pradesh. Such powers will not be able to raise their heads in future, he said. Attacking Owaisi, Shukla said his ancestors wanted to make Hyderabad a separate nation but could not succeed. "There are still people with such mentality. These are stupid people. Their ancestors became Muslims out of fear. This kind of thinking cannot flourish under the Modi and Adityanath governments," he said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-should-bow-to-indian-culture-ram-krishna-shiva-were-their-ancestors-up-minister-1033724.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Farmers urge Biden to ask Modi to repeal farm laws||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with him, farmers' groups have urged US President Joe Biden to raise the issue of repeal of three farm laws. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait made the demand saying that more than 700 farmers had died during the last 10 months of protests on the borders of the national capital. “Dear @POTUS, we Indian Farmers are protesting against 3 farm laws brought by PM Modi's govt. 700 farmers have died in the last 11 months protesting. These black laws should be repealed to save us. Please focus on our concern while meeting PM Modi,” Tikait said. Earlier, Tikait had appealed to Indians living in the US to hold a protest during Modi's visit to New York. The appeal came amid a Bharat Bandh call given by farmers' organisations on September 27 to mark the completion of 10 months of their protests against the three farm laws. The farmers have urged government and private offices, educational institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments to observe a shutdown on Monday. Hundreds of farmers have been camping at three sites – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- on the borders of Delhi since November last year under the banner of Samyuka Kisan Morcha (SKM), demanding repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price of crops. The SKM has urged all political parties and state governments to support the 'Bharat Bandh' and stand with the farmers in their “quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism”. At the same time, the farmers' groups reiterated their stand of not allowing representatives of political parties to share their stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-urge-biden-to-ask-modi-to-repeal-farm-laws-1033749.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh schools to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from Monday||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from Monday, an official said here on Friday. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. Students of Classes 10 and 12 will attend school on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, whereas those of Classes 9 and 11 will come to school on Thursday, Friday and Saturday in a week, he added. Online studies and examination for Classes up to 8 will continue, he added. The Cabinet also decided to create and fill 8,000 posts of multi-task workers in educational institutions as per provisions of the Part Time Multi-Task Workers Policy, 2020. As per the policy, the multi-task workers will be provided with a consolidated honorarium of Rs 5,625 per month for 10 months in an academic year. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-9-to-12-from-monday-1033776.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Expelled BSP leaders Lalji Verma, Ram Achal Rajbhar meet Akhilesh||Expelled BSP leaders Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar met Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav here on Friday triggering speculations about their political future, but Yadav described it as a courtesy call. Yadav posted a picture of their meeting on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, "Courtesy meeting with Shri Lalji Verma ji and Shri Ram Achal Rajbhar ji." The meeting triggered speculations about what Verma and Rajbhar may do next. Uttar Pradesh goes to assembly polls early next year. Verma was the BSP Legislature Party leader and Rajbhar a former president of the party's Uttar Pradesh unit when they were expelled from the party. On June 3, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati had expelled them from the party on charges of anti-party activities during the recent panchayat elections. After their expulsion, Verma and Rajbhar had said they were not aware of the reasons for their expulsion. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/expelled-bsp-leaders-lalji-verma-ram-achal-rajbhar-meet-akhilesh-1033783.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||HC stays NCDRC order of 3-year jail to Supertech MD, directs Rs 50 lakh be paid to home buyer||The Delhi High Court Friday stayed an order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) sentencing Supertech’s MD Mohit Arora to 3-year imprisonment and issuing an arrest warrant against him for non-compliance with an order in a case by a home buyer. Justice Amit Bansal directed the realty firm to deposit Rs 50 lakh, out of the outstanding Rs 1.75 crore, in the home buyer's account within a week to show its bona fide to the court. The NCDRC order, to the extent that the company's MD is sentenced to 3-year imprisonment, shall remain stayed till the next date of hearing - October 4. The court also directed both the company and the home buyer to place on record the statement of the amount due as per the NCDRC order. The high court was hearing Supertech's plea challenging the September 20 order by which Arora was given 3-year jail and the arrest warrant was issued against him for non-compliance with NCDRC directions. The NCDRC case pertained to the home buyer's complaint about the delay in giving possession of a villa in one of the company's projects in Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Area, which was allotted for over Rs 1 crore. Senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, representing Supertech, argued that the NCDRC order was beyond the provisions of section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act and there was no provision it which casts vicarious liability on the MD to make him liable in criminal or civil matters in case of default by the company. The MD was sentenced without even conducting a trial, he said, added, “so the man goes to jail if the company does not comply with the order in seven days”. The plea was opposed by home buyer Kanwal Batra’s counsel who said the company was in repeated default of the NCDRC order and has gone back on its undertaking to the forum. Advocate Shailesh Madiyal, appearing for Batra, said every time the company gives an undertaking to NCDRC and then fails to turn up the next time and warrants have to be issued. During the hearing, Supertech’s counsel offered to pay Rs 40 lakh to the home buyer within a week to show bona fide, however, the complainant’s counsel said it was too small. The court then directed the company to deposit Rs 50 lakh within a week after which it will again hear the matter and added that substantial money has to come back. The high court was earlier informed that the arrest warrant was issued on September 20 by the NCDRC which had on September 13 rejected Supertech's plea for fixing 12-month instalments for payment of the decretal amount. In April 2019, the NCDRC had ordered the company to either give possession of the villa within six months, along with compensation and costs or refund the entire amount received by it along with compensation. On July 20, the MD had assured the NCDRC that the order would be complied with within 60 days. However, on September 20, NCDRC noted that in spite of the commitment, the order was yet to be implemented and opined that the company was “evading the implementation of the decree”. It had thus issued an arrest warrant against the MD and sentenced him to three years imprisonment subject to the implementation of the order within a week. “In view of non-compliance of the direction and dishonouring his own commitment, we sentence the MD of the Judgement Debtor company, as per powers under Section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, for three years imprisonment and issue warrants of arrest against the managing director of the Judgment Debtor company. The warrants shall not be executed, if the Judgment Debtor deposits the decretal amount before this Commission within one week,” it had said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-stays-ncdrc-order-of-3-year-jail-to-supertech-md-directs-rs-50-lakh-be-paid-to-home-buyer-1033809.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Centre disempowering people of Kashmir: Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said the Centre was “disempowering” the people of Jammu and Kashmir and suspecting them for having alleged links with militants is the new excuse used to “dispossess and humiliate” Kashmiris. She was reacting to the recent termination of six government employees on charges of alleged anti-national activities. She said “hounding” Kashmiris endlessly deflates the Centre's “fake narrative that all is well in J-K”. “Links to militants is the new excuse used to dispossess & humiliate Kashmiris,” she said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-disempowering-people-of-kashmir-mehbooba-1033810.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Admin orders transfer, posting of senior police officers in Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has ordered the transfer and posting of 13 police officers including police chiefs of several districts in the Valley. In an order issued late Thursday night, Superintendents of Police (SPs) and Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs) of several districts were shifted. IPS officer Sunil Kumar, who was awaiting orders of posting, was posted as ADGP, Railways, J&K, against an available vacancy. Deepak Kumar (IPS) was handling the additional charge. Ashish Kumar Mishra (IPS), SSP, Pulwama, was transferred and posted as SSP, Anantnag, in place of Imtiyaz Hussain Mir, who was transferred and posted as commanding officer of IRP 8th Battalion. Nikhil Borkar, IPS, Additional SP headquarters, Anantnag, was transferred and posted as SP, Ganderbal, in place of Suhail Munawar Mir, who was transferred and posted as CO of J&K Armed Police 5th Battalion. Randhir Singh, who was awaiting orders of posting, was posted as SO to Commandant General, Home Guard/Civil Defence/State Disaster Response Force, J&K, as per the order. Ghulam Jeelani Wani, who was CO, IR-3rd Bn, was transferred and posted as SSP, Pulwama. Al-Tahir Geelani, SP, Anti Corruption Bureau, was recalled from deputation and posted as SP West, Srinagar, replacing Perbeet Singh, who was transferred and shall report to the PHQ awaiting further posting, the order said. Mukesh Kumar Kakkar, Additional SP Baramulla, was transferred and shall report to the PHQ and await further posting, it said. Rakesh Kumar Parihar, Deputy CO IR-14th Bn, was transferred and posted as Additional SP, Baramulla. Zoheb Tanveer, Additional SP Kupwara, was transferred and posted as SP North, Srinagar, in place of Mubbasher Hussain, who has been asked to report to the PHQ and await further posting, the order read. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/admin-orders-transfer-posting-of-senior-police-officers-in-kashmir-1033814.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Mere mention of UP CM's name gives criminals the shivers: Rajnath lavishes praise on Yogi Adityanath||Lavishing praises on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said no one can cast doubts on his honesty and that mere mention of his name gives criminals the shivers. Describing Adityanath as a personality who can play multiple roles, Singh said he is working for strengthening both 'sanatan dharma' and the state. Underlining that there should be proper law and order to ensure development, Singh said, "Criminals start shivering on hearing Yogi's name and their hearts start beating fast." "No one can doubt Adityanath's honesty, even if they are sleeping," he said. At a press conference in Delhi when asked if the BJP has decided that Adityanath will be its face for the UP assembly polls, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi shot back if there is any doubt about it. "Do you have any doubt about this? This is very much visible," he said. Uttar Pradesh goes to assembly polls early next year. Singh, a senior BJP leader, unveiled a statue of Adityanath's religious guru Avaidyanath here. He said Adityanath is walking on the path shown to him by his religious guru. Singh also hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his strong leadership and said after consulting him, he has given instructions to armed forces personnel not to initiate any attack but to give a befitting reply to any instigation from other countries. Singh also recalled his student days at Gorakhpur University and said he had long association with Gorakhnath peeth head Avaidyanath. Speaking at the event, CM Adityanath hailed Singh and said that working along with Prime Minister Modi, he has strengthened the security of the country. Check out the latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mere-mention-of-up-cms-name-gives-criminals-the-shivers-rajnath-lavishes-praise-on-yogi-adityanath-1033855.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 curfew imposed in parts of Srinagar for 10 days||Authorities in Srinagar on Friday imposed a curfew in parts of the city for 10 days in view of a steep rise in the number of Covid positive cases over the last few weeks. The order to impose the curfew was issued by Srinagar District Magistrate Mohammad Aijaz Assad. "There has been a steep rise in Covid positive cases in Srinagar in the last 24 days which need interventional and effective measures," the order read. The identified hotspots have been declared as micro-containment zones vide various orders in order to check the spread of the disease, it said. "Whereas, certain measures, u/s 144 CrPC were in place for containment of the spread of coronavirus, largely aimed at prohibition on public gathering and movement of public transport, it has observed that around 70 per cent of the daily positive cases during these days have been detected from few particular areas,” Assad said in the order. He said as measures have not led to a significant decline in the number of cases, more stringent steps are needed to ensure that the infection does not spread exponentially. "Strict containment measures are also required in order to ensure safety of the general public and to prevent transmission of Covid to other parts of Srinagar,” he said. Assad said the situation has been reviewed and after obtaining feedback from the stakeholder agencies, it has been felt expedient to put in place reasonable restrictions to minimise the chances of public gatherings and contain the spread of Covid infection. "... I hereby order that there shall be strict Corona curfew in the areas of Zadibal (SMC Ward No's: 55-Hawal, 56-Alamgari Bazar, & 63-Kathi Darwaz) and Lal Bazar (SMC Ward No's: 59-Lalbazar, 60-Botshah Mohalla, 61-Umer Colony) for a period of 10 days starting from today,” the order read. The district magistrate said all essential services shall be allowed to continue, both in the public and private sectors. Standalone grocery/ vegetable/ meat/ milk shops may also remain open and functional to ensure provisioning of essential supplies from 7 am to 11 am only, he said. The order said there will be no hindrance to the smooth movement of goods and essential supplies, and there shall be no restriction on the movement of government officials for attending office/ duties, on production of I-cards/ official orders. All development/ construction work shall be allowed to continue without any hindrance, and the vaccination drive shall not be halted. Localised mobile teams shall be constituted to provide vaccination in colonies, residential areas and containment zones. However, there shall be a 24-hour complete 'Corona' curfew with no movement of people except for permissible activities only, the order read. All educational institutions shall remain closed, all shopping complexes, bazaars, saloons, cinema halls, restaurants, sport complexes, gyms, spas, swimming pools, parks, zoos, etc. shall remain closed, it said. No social gatherings whether indoors or outdoors shall be allowed and the permitted ceiling for marriage shall be restricted to 20 people only. The gathering at funerals shall be limited to 10 people only. The district magistrate also ordered barricading of the restricted areas and intensive door-to-door RAT/RT PCR testing in the mentioned wards. He directed the Srinagar senior superintendent of police to ensure strict implementation of the order. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curfew-imposed-in-parts-of-srinagar-for-10-days-1033893.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Multiple shots fired within minutes, seemed like terror attack: Rohini court shootout witnesses||It seemed like a terror attack as gunshots rang out in staccato bursts, leaving people scrambling for cover behind doors and under tables and chairs in the courtrooms of the Rohini court complex, eyewitnesses said on Friday after the shootout in which three persons were killed. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside crowded courtroom number 207 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers belonged to a rival gang, officials said. In videos recorded by eyewitnesses, which went viral on social media, at least 10 gunshots can be heard and people, including children, can be seen running for cover as armed police personnel enter the courtroom. Judge Gagandeep Singh sat in the court around 10.15 am and around 11.40 am, Gogi accompanied by Delhi Police personnel, including commandos, was brought for the hearing, advocate Sunil Tomar, who was present in the courtroom said. "Within five minutes, two men in black dresses entered the court and started shooting at Gogi. Policemen retaliated and killed both of them," Tomar told reporters. The lawyer said that unable to understand what was happening, he took cover behind a door with others. "I believe, the assailants conducted a recce before Gogi came into the court. I had spotted one of the assailants in the court complex. The person was well-built. But I did not pay attention, thinking he would be a lawyer," Tomar said. Eyewitnesses claimed that around 15 to 17 people were present in the courtroom when the firing started. Lawyer Manoj Nigam claimed that a woman advocate was injured in the shooting. "I was in another courtroom when the incident happened. Everyone got scared. The attackers came dressed like lawyers. I want that even lawyers should be checked by police so that no other person enters the court’s premises," he said. Some of the eyewitnesses, who ran for cover as shots were fired, assumed it was a terror attack. "I felt it was a terrorist attack. So many shots were fired and we were scared and feared for our lives,” said advocate A P Singh. Jitender Maan alias Gogi, who carried a reward of Rs 6.5 lakh, was arrested along with his three of his accomplices from Gurgaon in March, according to police. A few months ago, Gogi's associate Fajja escaped from police custody when he was produced at the Karkardooma court. Since then, the counter intelligence team of the Special Cell was accompanying Gogi and his associates to court-related hearings, said a senior police officer. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/multiple-shots-fired-within-minutes-seemed-like-terror-attack-rohini-court-shootout-witnesses-1033921.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Made additional efforts to clear Punjab's GST dues: FM Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said she made additional efforts to clear Punjab's pending GST dues of more than Rs 1,400 crore, which should be recognised. Her remarks came against the backdrop of the Congress-led Punjab government often accusing the Centre of delaying Goods and Services Tax (GST) payments to the state. At the same time, she lauded the Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government for handling its fiscal affairs very well, noting that the state had not resorted to availing additional borrowings which were extended by the Centre for all states because of the Covid-19 pandemic.        "I definitely want to say what I did for Punjab," Sitharaman said while replying to a question at a press conference here. She highlighted the assessment of some calculations based on the 2015-16 base year. She said in 2019, Manpreet Singh Badal, who was Punjab's finance minister at that time, met her. "He told me there is a problem... I particularly paid attention to it and I cleared over Rs 1,400 crore for Punjab. For Punjab, it is not negative or less. I made additional efforts to clear their funds in GST. Please recognise it," she said. On the funding pattern for the Border Area Development Programme, she said the northeastern and Himalayan hilly states get funds from the Centre in the ratio of 90:10 (Centre's share: state share). For other states, including Punjab, the ratio is 60:40, she said, while asserting that the Central government did not fix it arbitrarily. It has been fixed at the recommendation of the Finance Commission, she stated. Punjab has been asking the Centre to increase the funding ratio to 90:10. To a question on how better Haryana is placed in terms of fiscal management, she said, "I must say that it is one of those states which is absolutely consciously managing its fiscal affairs in a very balanced and in an objective way. I am not saying because I am sitting here and I have Haryana ministers here." She said every state's borrowing capacity was widened in the wake of the pandemic. "Haryana is one state which did not utilise its additional capacity of borrowings. They thought they would be able to manage and they managed without borrowing additionally," she said. Sitharaman added she had a quick word with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on the matter and he said, "We did not require to borrow." "So, yes Haryana is managing its fiscal matters very well," she said. Sitharaman was here to take part in party events in Panchkula, Haryana in connection with the 'Seva and Samarpan' campaign.  To mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two decades in public service, the BJP is organising a 20-day 'Seva and Samarpan' campaign comprising various welfare activities that commenced on his birthday on September 17. Haryana BJP chief O P Dhankar and former union minister Rattan Lal Kataria were also present at the press conference. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/made-additional-efforts-to-clear-punjabs-gst-dues-fm-sitharaman-1033924.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi logs zero deaths, 24 new Covid-19 cases; test positivity rate drops to 0.03%||Delhi on Friday recorded zero death due to Covid-19 and 24 fresh cases, as the positivity rate dropped to 0.03 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. Three fatalities due to the coronavirus infection have been reported this month one each on September 7, September 16 and September 17, according to official figures. The death toll due to Covid in Delhi stands at 25,085. On Friday, 24 cases were recorded with a reduced positivity rate of 0.03 per cent, according to the latest health bulletin. On Thursday, 48 cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, while on Wednesday, 30 cases were logged with a positivity rate of 0.04 per cent. On August 21, Delhi had recorded a low positivity rate of 0.03 per cent when 19 cases and zero deaths were reported. The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 14,38,658. Over 14.13 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. A total of 69,465 tests — 46,555 RT-PCR tests and 22,910 rapid antigen tests — were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. On Tuesday, 39 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.06 per cent. Daily case count had dropped to 17 on September 13, with no death being recorded, while the positivity rate stood at 0.04 per cent, according to official figures. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, and the oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals had added to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, according to the official data. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several weeks.  Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain recently had said that medical infrastructure was being ramped up and 37,000 beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients were being set up to tackle the anticipated third wave of the pandemic in the national capital. On Wednesday, however, he said that the number of Covid-19 cases has also been under control for the last two months, and together the society and the government can strive and win over it, by following all Covid-appropriate behaviours. The number of active cases decreased to 391 on Friday from 433 a day before, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation was on 124 Friday while it was 128 a day before, and the number of containment zones stood at 98 on Friday as on Thursday, the bulletin said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-logs-zero-deaths-24-new-covid-19-cases-test-positivity-rate-drops-to-003-1033930.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||CJI Ramana expresses concern over Rohini court violence||The Chief Justice of India expressed deep concern over the shooting in Rohini Court Complex in Delhi.   Two men pretending to be lawyers opened fire at a rival gangster inside a courtroom in the national capital on Friday afternoon killing him, an incident that also led to a dramatic shootout in which police shot dead the attackers within minutes. CJI N V Ramana spoke to the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the court remains functional. Friday's violence could push the matter of Safety and Security of Court Complexes and judicial personnel which is already under SC's consideration. The matter may get prioritised next week. Check out the latest DH videos here:  (edited)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cji-ramana-expresses-concern-over-rohini-court-violence-1033932.html
24-09-2021||North and Central||SC transfers trial in murder case of right-wing leader from Lucknow to Prayagraj||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the transfer of trial in the murder case of right wing Hindu Samaj party leader Kamlesh Tiwari from Lucknow to Prayagraj on a plea by accused claiming communally-surcharged atmosphere there. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul took into consideration a plea moved by Ashfaq Husen and nine others accused. The plea, filed through advocate Somesh Chandra Jha, claimed “petitioners would be risking their life, if the trial is conducted in Lucknow district, as they have been already threatened through local lawyers”.  The plea contended that it was not safe for the petitioners, who are already on bail, to go alone and attend the court.  “The petitioners have been already physically and mentally harassed in the presence of police officials and in the court of law, it alleged.  On January 18, 2020, the petitioners and their counsel were man-handled and also a false and frivolous FIR was lodged against them. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora appeared for the petitioners.  After hearing arguments, the bench directed for transfer of trial from Lucknow to Prayagraj.  The plea contended that since the petitioners are not able to represent themselves in a just and proper way before the trial court owing to the backlash faced by them, it would be in interest of justice if the case is transferred from Lucknow to a neutral place.  It also claimed seven out of 10 petitioners have gone unrepresented for many dates and bail applications of two accused got dismissed for non-prosecution on July 21, 2020. Kamlesh Tiwari was murdered in Lucknow in October 2019 with stabs and a gun shot. In December 2020, the Uttar Pradesh police had filed chargesheet against 13 accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-transfers-trial-in-murder-case-of-right-wing-leader-from-lucknow-to-prayagraj-1033938.html
24-09-2021||Oasis||Serve always, with a smile||Last week I had two experiences with the service providers. One, as always, was dependable, innovative and most responsive, even when problems arise. The other was difficult, uncooperative, unwilling to find solutions, clearly adopting a take-it-or-leave-it attitude, blaming it all on the customer. In one case, I was left thinking that they are such a blessing, while a finance company accepting investments raised my hackles and drove me up the wall. And although I know that this is how things are most of the time, I couldn’t help wondering why people are so unpleasant when offering any kind of service — the services they get paid for. The  I-am-doing-you-a- favour kind of approach does no good for either party. I am not suggesting they must romanticise the concept of service and how noble or how privileged or lucky they are to serve. All I am saying is, okay, it might be a job like any other most of the time, maybe even one the person doesn’t like, but shouldn’t one try to at least perform it decently and if motivated enough exceed expectations and delight the customer? Perhaps it is asking for too much. As Vince Lombardi said, “It takes months to find a customer and seconds to lose one.” Could it be that the companies that adopt this attitude have rarely experienced a happy customer or had a taste of what it is like to bring joy to someone by going the extra mile? That said, throughout this pandemic and earlier natural calamities like floods, we have seen dozens of heroes not stopping to think twice, even putting themselves and their lives online to reach out to someone in need whether it is a man, woman, child or pet. Is it a lack of sensitivity, empathy, pure selfishness or pent-up emotional baggage that is responsible for poor service or is it a question of attitude that I couldn’t be bothered, the customer can go take a walk mentality? These are values that can never be taught. The lesson will most likely only be learnt when the service providers themselves are at the receiving end and realise that the customer is not always wrong as they tend to believe!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/serve-always-with-a-smile-1033601.html
24-09-2021||Opinion||Open market behind Himachal's apple prices crash||The tale of an apple farmer's woes, especially in marketing, is agonising. In the early 1990s, apples were marketed mainly in open markets in Chandigarh and Delhi. With the opening of APMC (Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee) markets in the state, it was thought that apple producers would get better prices. However, with the apple marketing processes mostly unregulated, the apple-producing farmers remain a harried lot. Big market players and traders play an important role in deciding the prices of apples, and farmers find themselves compelled to sell their produce at prices these traders decide. The government plays no role in determining the prices, and this year there has been a massive crash in the prices of apples. Himachal Pradesh has a nearly Rs 5,000 crore apple economy. It comes to an economy of almost Rs 28,000 crore annually if one includes the ancillary add-ons of 'apple production and trade', according to Professor Vijay Thakur, former VC of Nauni university. The success story of apple production in Himachal dates back to the early 1970s when YS Parmar, first chief minister of the state, promoted apple plantations with massive state support.  Opening horticulture universities, motivating people to plant apple saplings with the help of extension centres, subsidised pesticides and insecticides and above all intervening in the market were all crucial interventions at the government's behest. The government had even purchased cold storage outlets in Bombay (Mumbai) and Madras (Chennai) to ensure that farmers get a good price. However, post-1990s, with the neoliberal era setting in, the support of the state withdrew in a phased manner, and the cost of production of apples increased substantially. (Take, for example, in the current period, just the spray cost in an apple orchard bearing 1,000 trees is nearly Rs 1,70,000. A minimum of 10 sprays with each drum consuming 200 litres (17 drums consumed) with an average price of Rs 1,000 per drum, the cost shoots to such an exorbitant amount. The same drum cost Rs 300-400 a few years ago.) According to studies done by various farmers' groups and experts, the current cost of apple production is nearly Rs 34 per kilogram. However, the government has announced a support price of culled and tabled apples at Rs 9.50 per kilogram. Why big market players play a key role in deciding the prices is quite interesting to note. There are different categories of apples depending upon their size, quality, etc. The Adani Group has opened a chain of CA (controlled atmosphere) stores in the state but buys only high-quality apples. Though its total purchase is not more than 5 per cent of the total marketed apples, it plays an important role in deciding the prices. This is how it happens. Before Adani opens its store for purchase, the small traders start buying apples in various APMC markets in the month of June. Big players like Adani announce their purchase rate later, and the price offered per kilogram is far less than the open market sale. This year Adani announced Rs 18 less than the open market. This leads to a cascading effect, and the price in the open market crashes and falls lower than Adani's offer. This is how big players play a critical role in suppressing the prices. Those who argue for an open market and ridicule the present farmers' agitation on the pretext that open markets in the absence of MSP (minimum support price) will boost the farmers' incomes must learn lessons from the Himachal experience. The government's intervention, as pointed out earlier, is negligible. Though the state government has opened several APMCs in the state, appointing BJP leaders as its chairpersons, it hardly intervenes in the markets to ensure fair play in trading. The apple production in itself is an ecosystem that earlier was duly supported by the state. With the disruption in many layers from production to marketing, the challenge faced by the farmers is enormous, especially by the small and marginal farmers who constitute almost 90 per cent of the total apple producers.  Their capacity to organise and form cooperatives, if not in production, at least in marketing, is limited. Some experiments, such as leasing a CA store, were done in the past, but only the wealthy farmers did these, but they too were unable to counter the existing system. Anger among farmers is simmering. A few days ago, state horticulture minister Mahender Singh was picketed and not allowed to come out of the meeting hall in Theog till he promised to look into their grievances.  However, the BJP government is showing a lackadaisical attitude towards the apple prices fall. One of the reasons is that since the inception of the BJP, or its transformation from its earlier avatar, the Jan Sangh, it has opposed the formation of the state of Himachal Pradesh and is not as popular in the old Himachal - the region with bulk apple production. Secondly, the BJP is ideologically against subsidies. BJP's Shanta Kumar, chief minister of the state in the 1990s, withdrew the MSP on apples. In the subsequent agitation, three farmers were killed in police firing. But none of this can take away from the fact that this year there is a bumper harvest. More than four crore boxes, as against three crore last year, are expected.  In such a situation, farmers not getting a good price could be perilous for the current state government. Is it any wonder then that the BJP was not, for the time being, keen to have four by-elections (three Assembly and one Lok Sabha) that were due in Himachal. (The writer is a former deputy mayor of Shimla) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/open-market-behind-himachals-apple-prices-crash-1033723.html
24-09-2021||Opinion||How BJP's Punjab game plan prompted Congress Dalit strategy||The Congress claims to have walked the talk by picking Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab chief minister. Of all the 29 states in the Indian union, Channi is the only CM who belongs to the Scheduled Caste (SC) community. The grand old party engineered the midnight coup to unseat Captain Amrinder Singh as competitive identity politics reached its crescendo ahead of the state Assembly polls five months hence. Unbeknownst to many, both the CM and the leader of the opposition in the Punjab Assembly – Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)'s Harpal Singh Cheema - are now from the Dalit community. Channi's appointment has well and truly brought the heartland identity politics to the gates of India's western frontier. Logically speaking, this could have happened much earlier in a state like Punjab, which has a 32 per cent Scheduled Caste population. But then, social constructs follow a life-cycle of their own. Various extraneous factors, including the two decades of militancy in Punjab, may have overwhelmed counter-currents of socio-political realignments and power dynamics. The farm laws protests and the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) 's attempts to unshackle itself of the role of the junior partner to a dominant regional ally in many states has, inadvertently or otherwise, unleashed the latest round of shake-up in Punjab. To better understand this shifting paradigm, one must first look at the pantheon of political leadership in Punjab. Before its division on linguistic lines and the creation of Haryana in 1966, the state was led by three non-Sikh chief ministers. The body polity of the Indian Punjab, as it has existed since 1966, has been dominated by the upwardly mobile, economically sound Jatt Sikh community. In the last 55 years, the only exception has been Giani Zail Singh's five years in power in the mid-1970s. The former president of India belonged to the Ramgarhia Backward community. All the other chief ministers - the Akalis and Congress - have come from land-proprietary castes. Zail Singh was also the first to attempt social engineering to align the SC vote bank with the Congress. The SC population in Punjab can be broadly subdivided into three clusters: the Mazhabi Sikhs and Balmikis, which comprise 42 per cent of the total Dalit population, Ad-Dharmis, Ravidasis, Ramdasi Sikhs, which together constitute another 41 per cent, while the remaining 17 per cent population belongs to other smaller castes groups. In 1975, Zail Singh decided to subdivide 25 per cent quotas for SCs in government jobs by setting aside 12.5 per cent exclusively for Mazhabi Sikhs and Balmikis on a priority basis. The government order was aimed to wean this sub-section away from the Akalis. The Mazhabi Sikhs, who constitute the largest homogeneous group within the Dalits of Punjab, were relatively more aligned to the Akali politics vis a vis the other Scheduled Caste communities. Similarly, the Balmikis, who live in and around urban clusters, were politically influenced by the BJP's earlier avatar, the Jana Sangh. The other non-Jatt leaders to have risen the ranks in the Congress was another Dalit Sikh from Jalandhar, Buta Singh. The eight-time MP was the lone Sikh face in the Rajiv Gandhi government after Operation Blue Star but had to shift bast to Jalore in Rajasthan to remain politically relevant.  Buta Singh, however, could never come close to becoming the chief minister of Punjab. The second attempt to engineer a caste realignment to attain political power was initiated in 1996 by the Akalis when the faction led by Parkash Singh Badal decided to stitch a pre-poll alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) led by Kanshi Ram, who hailed from a family of Ramdasia Sikh from Ropar district. The BSP had polled almost 20 per cent of votes in the 1991 Lok Sabha polls in Punjab. A year later, it had won a by-poll in Ferozpur to send one Mohan Singh to Lok Sabha - the first candidate to win a parliament election on the BSP symbol. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-BSP alliance routed the Congress in the 1996 elections winning 11 of the 13-Lok Sabha seats of Punjab. The Badals, however, would soon change tack to befriend the BJP instead for the Assembly elections the following year. The Akali-BJP alliance won a landslide while the BSP was reduced to just one seat in the state legislature. Unlike in Uttar Pradesh, Kanshi Ram's experiments in Punjab failed as the SAD stitched an alternate winning social combination with the state's Hindu community by aligning with the BJP under Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The BSP's performance in successive elections has shown little or no signs of revival. If anything, things have taken a turn for the worse. The Dalits as a political entity remain divided in the absence of a cohesive narrative and strong leadership. The SAD-BJP alliance, on the other hand, worked well for almost two decades as the BJP accepted the role of the minor partner in the Punjab National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The first signs of discomfiture emerged when the BJP won a clear majority in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and sought to emerge out of the shadow of its regional partners - not just in Punjab but in other states as well. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the SAD boycotted an NDA meeting accusing the BJP and its ideological fount - the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its affiliate Rashtriya Sikh Sangat - of meddling in Sikh religious affairs. With the SAD finally ejecting out of the NDA in protest against the three central farm laws, the BJP started to draft its political strategy to fight and survive independently in Punjab. Borrowing heavily from its successful ventures in the other heartland states, it sought to build a social coalition of the Dalits, OBCs and urban Hindus to challenge entrenched players in the state politics. The party was the first to give a call for nominating a Dalit chief minister in the state if it won power in the 2022 Assembly elections. Former union minister Vijay Sampla, who was even denied a ticket to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, was appointed chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes in earnest. Earlier this month, the BJP nominated former IPS officer Iqbal Singh Lalpura as the chairman of the national commission for minorities. Lalpura is from the OBC Sikh community and was one of the three officers who arrested Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale in 1981. The party recently welcomed Indrajeet Singh, the grandson of former President Giani Zail Singh, to its fold. Zail Singh, the only OBC chief minister of the state, hailed from the Ramgarhia backward community, which has a substantial presence in pockets of the Doaba and Manjha belts. BJP has also sought to send a message to the Sikh Community by appointing Lt. Gen (Retd) Gurmeet Singh as the governor of Uttarakhand. By projecting a Dalit CM and bringing in known and influential OBC faces, the BJP actively worked on a new caste coalition between the SCs, OBCs and non-Sikhs in Punjab aimed at the mobilisation of all 75 per cent non-Jatt Sikhs. This strategy's subtext was also to build a political narrative against the protracted anti-farm law agitations based on caste lines. In doing so, the BJP was taking a leaf out of the AAP's 2017 playbook. Arvind Kejriwal's efforts to aggressively woo Dalits in 2017 had more than bore fruits. The Delhi CM had promised to make a Dalit a deputy CM to win elections and form government, and his party had released a separate Dalit manifesto. Nearly half of the 20 seats the AAP won in the polls were from the reserved seats, and the Akalis were relegated to a poor third. The Akalis were the first to see through the BJP's game plan of resurrection in Punjab. The Badals walked the extra mile to patch up and revive the 1996 winning combination between the SAD and BSP, and Sukhbir Badal promised to appoint a Dalit deputy chief minister. The Congress party had to act and act fast. It referred to the very basics of the Indian polity by reworking the caste calculus. While others promised, it decided to bite the bullet and make Charanjit Singh Channi the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-bjps-punjab-game-plan-prompted-congress-dalit-strategy-1033848.html
24-09-2021||Second Edit||Horns are of no value, the rhinos are||The burning in public of 2,479 rhino horns stockpiled in the Assam government's treasuries on World Rhino Day on Wednesday has sent out a much-needed message against the poaching of rhinos and the illegal trade in their horns. The Assam government did well to make a demonstration of the fact that the horns are worthless and have no medicinal or commercial value. The horns were confiscated or recovered from poachers and smugglers or collected after the natural death of rhinos over the years. About 95% of the stockpile has been destroyed. Some of the horns will be preserved for scientific studies and for production as evidence in courts where cases of poaching are heard. The horns were burned in an area of the Kaziranga National Park, which is the world’s largest habitat for one-horned rhinos. This is the first time the horns have been destroyed on such a large scale.  The burning of such a big pile of horns would help to bust the myth that the rhino horn is a high-value item. It has been claimed that the stockpile may have helped to keep the horn prices high in the illegal market. It would have been most illogical for the government to sell the horns when it rightly maintains that they have none of the properties attributed to them. The rhino horn is actually a mass of compacted hair made of a protein found in human hair too and has no special medicinal value. But it is highly valued in traditional medicine, especially in countries like China and Vietnam, as a cure for certain diseases and as an aphrodisiac. That is why it is much sought after and there is an illicit trade in it.   While such events may help to create public awareness about the need for conservation, more effective steps are needed to protect endangered wildlife. The poaching of rhinos has come down in Kaziranga Park but there is the need to further strengthen security. The park is home to more than 2,400 rhinos. There are rhinos in Manas and Orang National Parks and the Pobitora Sanctuary. Conservationists have demanded that trained manpower and facilities should be increased in all these parks. They have also called for expediting the construction of an elevated corridor through Kaziranga to enable rhinos and other animals to migrate during floods and to avoid being hit by vehicles on the highway. There are also complaints that Kaziranga Park is shrinking because of soil erosion and some parts of the habitat are facing the threat of degradation due to siltation. All these need to be addressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/horns-are-of-no-value-the-rhinos-are-1033946.html
24-09-2021||South||Kerala to have a first-of-its kind language museum||Kerala, boasting of a high literacy rate and unique literary and cultural tradition, will soon have a museum to showcase the legacy, which is considered to be the first-of-its kind language-literary and cultural museum in the world. The state government decided to launch the construction of "Akshara Museum" on November 1, the foundation day of the southern state, at Nattakam in Kottayam district. The unique museum is constructed under the aegis of the Sahitya Pravarthaka Co-operative Society, a publishing and sales co-operative of writers. The decision to begin the construction of the museum building was taken at a joint review meeting held by co-operative minister V N Vasavan and the minister in charge of museums, Ahamed Devarkovil here on Thursday. Exhibits displaying the evaluation of language and letters from speech to the modern text would be one of the major attractions at the museum, which is designed in global standards, an official statement said here. Besides the presentation of the evaluation of language through various eras, the proposed museum would provide the visitors a chance to experience everything from cave paintings to modern literary work at one go there. Exhibitions on divergent topics like the growth of the national co-operative movement, the linguistic diversity of the country, the chronology of various literary genres, rare literary works, post-modern Malayalam literature, the influence of Malayalam language in other places and the scientific methods of translation are also planned at the facility, it said. Steps have been taken to collect materials for the exhibition and to construct statues of various leaders in the literary and cultural sectors, the statement said adding that the museum would be completed in a phased manner.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-have-a-first-of-its-kind-language-museum-1033730.html
24-09-2021||South||Which God will accept offerings of priest who molests children, asks Kerala HC||We wonder which God would accept the obeisance and offerings of a priest who repeatedly molested a minor child in front of her siblings, the Kerala High Court has asked while sentencing an oracle to life imprisonment for raping a girl. A bench comprising Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman A A, while imposing the maximum sentence on the accused Madhu, a Manjeri resident, said when a man abandons his wife and children, roving vultures wait to prey on not only the abandoned woman but also the helpless children. The court's observation came on an appeal filed by the accused who was convicted for raping a minor girl. "When a man abandons his wife and children, roving vultures wait to prey on not only the abandoned woman but also the helpless children. In this case, we have a 'poojari'/ 'komaram' (priest/ oracle in a temple) taking the abandoned woman and the three children under his wing, only to repeatedly molest the elder girl child, that too in the presence of her siblings. We wonder which God would accept the obeisance and offerings of such a priest or make him a medium?" the court noted in its judgement. The high court was hearing the appeal against the POCSO court order. "However, the offence of rape having been proved, the accused is liable to be convicted under Section 376(1). Considering the special relationship the accused had with the victim and the status of a guardian, we are of the opinion that the maximum sentence of life imprisonment would have to be imposed on the appellant," the court said. According to the prosecution, a mother with signs of acute mental illness and her three children were found wandering and were rescued by the police on March 1, 2013. Upon interrogation, the elder child revealed that the person with whom her mother was staying with had been sexually molesting her for over a year. The court noted that the accused, a priest in a temple, usually came home drunk and used to assault the mother and the children and sexually molest the elder child in front of her siblings. "The mental state of the mother, a shame on society, is quite understandable from the stress of having been abandoned, with three children and no means of food or shelter; for which alone the children were subjected to physical, mental and sexual torture. No mother can remain sane in the said circumstances," the court said. The court held that medical evidence proved that the child was subjected to sexual assault. The high court also noted that the brother of the victim, who was the witness in the case corroborated the statements of the child. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/which-god-will-accept-offerings-of-priest-who-molests-children-asks-kerala-hc-1033755.html
24-09-2021||South||SC stays Kerala HC proceedings over Centre's 10% reservation to EWS||In a significant development, the Supreme Court Friday stayed the proceedings before the Kerala High Court on a plea challenging the Centre's decision to grant 10 per cent reservation in jobs and admissions to candidates of the economically weaker sections (EWS). A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli also issued notice on the plea filed by the Centre seeking transfer of the case from the high court to the apex court which had earlier referred to the similar case for adjudication to a five-judge Constitution bench. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the Centre and sought a stay on the proceedings before the high court besides a notice to Nujaim PK who had filed the PIL there. The plea said: "The present transfer petition is being filed...under Article '139A (1) of the Constitution, seeking the transfer of Civil Writ Petition No.-23872 of 2020 titled as Nujaim P.K. Vs. Union of India 85. Ors, pending before the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam, to this Court... "Writ Petition involves an identical question of law to one pending before this Court, whether the Constitution (One Hundred and Third Amendment) Act, 2019 violates the basic structure of the Constitution of India and is against the basic principle of the constitution". The transfer of the aforesaid writ petition would enable all these cases to be clubbed and heard together and avoid possibility of inconsistent orders being passed by different courts, it said. The transfer of petition is necessary because a similar plea and other connected petitions regarding the validity of the Act are pending before this court, it added. The top court had earlier referred to 5-judge Constitution a batch of pleas and transfer petitions challenging the Centre's decision to grant 10 per cent reservation in jobs and education to economically weaker sections and the Act. The court had refused to stay the Centre's decision. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha cleared the bill on January 8 and 9, 2019 respectively, and was signed by President Ram Nath Kovind. The quota will be over and above the existing 50 per cent reservation to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. Recently, the Madras High Court made a crucial observation that the Centre's notification on grant of 10 per cent quota to the EWS in all-India quota (AIQ) seats of medical colleges would require approval of the top court. The Centre's plea against this observation is scheduled for hearing during the day in the top court. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-stays-kerala-hc-proceedings-over-centres-10-reservation-to-ews-1033759.html
24-09-2021||South||Case against ex-MLA for derogatory remarks against Kerala Health Minister||Kerala police has registered a case against former MLA P C George and an online web portal owner for allegedly making derogatory remarks against state Health Minister Veena George. Police said a complaint in this regard was made at the station a few days ago and a case was registered two days ago. "A case has been registered against George and the owner of the portal under section 120 of Kerala Police Act and section 509 of the Indian Penal Code," police told PTI on Friday. A web portal had allegedly aired a telephonic interview of the former MLA in which he reportedly made derogatory and disparaging statements against the health minister. The police have registered the case against the portal owner for spreading such conversations through social media. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-against-ex-mla-for-derogatory-remarks-against-kerala-health-minister-1033778.html
24-09-2021||South||Karat accuses BJP of whipping up Islamophobia in Kerala over 'narcotic jihad' row||Senior CPI (M) leader Prakash Karat on Friday accused the BJP of creating a communal divide by whipping up Islamophobia in Kerala and and urged the Catholics, whose bishop has alleged love and narcotic jihad in the southern State, to be aware of the true character of the saffron outfits. Referring to the recent speech made by the bishop of Pala diocese of Syro-Malabar Catholic Church Joseph Kallarangat alleging that love jihad and narcotic jihad were being waged against youngsters belonging to non-Muslim communities, Karat said this sweeping allegation has caused alarm and misgivings in Kerala society. In an article headlined 'No to Communal Divide in Kerala' in the party mouthpiece Desabhimani, a daily, the CPI(M) politburo member said while across the political spectrum the alleged jihadist conspiracy was discounted, the BJP came forward to support the bishop's stand and called upon the Central government to bring a law against the activities of the alleged jihadists. "For the BJP, this seemed a good opportunity to drive a wedge between the Muslim and Christian communities and to whip up Islamophobia," he wrote. He said as far as the alleged love jihad is concerned in Kerala, some years ago there was a disturbing incident of 21 people leaving their homes and families and going to Afghanistan to join the ISIS-Khorasan, a terrorist outfit. Noting that among them were two Christian women who had converted to Islam and joined their husbands to make the trip to Afghanistan, one of them had actually married a Christian and both of them converted, Karat said, "The jihadist network was behind recruiting these people and indoctrinating them in the extremist ideology." He said the concern of the Catholic church about these two young women getting converted and being influenced by extremism was understandable. "It was also correct on their part to warn their congregation against falling prey to such extremist influences. However, these were isolated instances," Karat said. He said investigations both by the State police and the NIA showed no organised effort such as the alleged love jihad to lure non-Muslim women. Karat alleged that the BJP-RSS combine has been concentrating their fire on Muslims and tactically trying to rally the Christian clergy onto their side. "The Catholic Church, which is the biggest denomination among Christians in Kerala, should be aware of the true character of the BJP-RSS. The Hindutva forces are carrying on a relentless campaign against religious minorities – whether they be Muslims or Christians. "According to a report of 'Persecution Relief' from 2016 to 2019, there were 1,774 cases of hate crimes against Christians across the country. There was an increase of 59.6 per cent in such crimes since 2016," he said. The senior CPI(M) leader also accused the Sangh Parivar outfits of presenting a distorted version of the Malabar Rebellion of 1921. Karat claimed that the Malabar revolt was directed against the British rule and the landlord system, which oppressed the Muslim peasantry. "That was the main character of the rebellion, notwithstanding some attacks on Hindus in the last phase when the revolt began petering out after being brutally suppressed by the British armed forces," the CPI(M) leader said. He further alleged that the RSS, given its new-found sympathy for the Christians in Kerala, has sought to project the Malabar rebellion as not only anti-Hindu but also anti-Christian. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karat-accuses-bjp-of-whipping-up-islamophobia-in-kerala-over-narcotic-jihad-row-1033825.html
24-09-2021||South||Partial sacred ornament at Kerala temple now a mystery||A 'Rudrakhsa' gold chain from a famous temple in Kerala is now shrouded in mystery. The gold-covered 'Rudrakha' beads belong to the Ettumannor Mahadeva Temple in the Kottayam district. A devotee donated the chain to the ancient Siva temple in 2006. Discrepancies in the chain adorning the idol of the deity recently came to light A probe by the internal vigilance wing of the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple found that while the original chain had 81 gold covered 'Rudraksha' beads, only 72 beads were found now. The loss was estimated to be around Rs 1 lakh.  Meanwhile, a parallel police investigation now found that the old chain that weighed 23 grams had been replaced with a new one weighing 20 grams. Gold appraisers who examined the chain found that the existing chain was only around three years old, a police officer told DH.  The police will be quizzing all those who served as the temple's chief priest of the temple from 2006 to unfold the mystery. The said chain was under the custody of the chief priest and was regularly used for adorning the deity, said the police.  The police also suspect that entries were recently made in the temple register of a new chain. A police team led by Kottayan DySP J Santosh Kumar is investigating the case.  The Ettumannor Mahadeva Temple, situated around 10 kilometres from Kottayam, is famous for its mural paintings and 'Ezharaponnana' (seven-and-a-half elephants) - golden statues of eight elephants of which one is only half the size of the other seven.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/partial-sacred-ornament-at-kerala-temple-now-a-mystery-1033883.html
24-09-2021||South||Draft guidelines for reopening of schools in Kerala||The Kerala government on Friday issued draft guidelines for the reopening of schools in the state which includes allowing only two students to sit in a bench and scrapping of mid-day meals for children. General Education Minister V Sivankutty said the draft guidelines will be finalised within five days after holding discussions with health and other concerned departments. "The draft guidelines include allowing only two students on a bench and scrapping of mid-day meals. Instead, mid-day meals allowance will be given to the students. The body temperature of the students will be regularly measured. Gatherings will not be allowed," the minister told the media here. He also said that online classes would continue along with offline classes. Sivankutty said differently-abled students need not attend the schools in the initial phase and online awareness classes will be held for the parents of the children. The minister added that handwashing facilities, sanitisers and masks would be arranged in the schools and the classes sanitised every day. The government also has plans to issue directions not to allow eateries including bakeries near schools to sell items to the students. Meanwhile, state police chief Anil Kant issued directions to all Station House Officers (SHOs) to convene a meeting of the head of institution and school managements under their jurisdictions to discuss the safety and health matters of the students. The DGP asked the SHOs to ensure that the school buses are in good condition and ask the school management to complete the repairs by October 20. The direction also includes allowing only people with over ten years of experience to drive the school buses and to install speed governors. After being closed since March last year, the Kerala government last week decided to reopen the schools from November 1. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/draft-guidelines-for-reopening-of-schools-in-kerala-1033897.html
24-09-2021||South||TTD faces flak for selling Tirupati temple tickets using Jiomart web domain||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams is facing criticism for operating the Lord Venkateshwara Swamy temple's special darshan tickets' online booking portal through a Jio-mart web domain. The temple administration has on Friday morning released the Rs 300 Special Entry Darshan tickets quota of 8000 tickets per day for October. Devotees who logged on tirupatibalaiji.ap.gov.in to book their tickets were redirected to tirupatibalaji.jiomart.com/login?flow=sed, leaving many aspirants confused. Several persons took the matter to social media platforms, with some suspecting it to be a scam. However, TTD officials later clarified that they had engaged the services of Jio, an info-comm company of the Reliance group, to sort out the issues faced by the devotees during ticket bookings in the last two months. The TTD ticket booking website, operated with the help of IT major TCS, was facing technical hiccups as millions of devotees were simultaneously logging in to book the tickets being released in limited numbers because of the Covid-19 pandemic. To overcome the performance issues due to the inadequate capacity of the servers, the TTD had approached four tech firms possessing a powerful cloud management system - Amazon, Jio, Bookmyshow and Abhibus. “While two of them expressed their inability to aid, one firm wanted payment. Jio was selected for the task earlier this month, as it has offered its services free of cost,” a TTD official told DH. Jio deployed about 30 experts who operated 24X7 for the past three weeks to develop a new web portal in AWS environment, making it ready for quota release on 24 September. The app developed was thoroughly tested for security and performance. New payment gateways were introduced, officials said. Refuting the accusations of favoritism, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy said that the cloud support and other services worth about Rs 3 crore were provided by Jio for free. "We were able to overcome the technical issues and the tickets could be booked smoothly. However, devotees were redirected to Jiomart sub-domain from tirupatibalaiji.ap.gov.in website as the TTD sub-domain could not be created due to paucity of time, technical constraints. From next month's quota release onwards, Jiomart will not appear and the domain name will be tirupaitbalaji.ap.gov.in only,” Reddy said in a media statement. YSRCP rebel MP Raghu Rama Krishna Raju has nevertheless faulted the Jaganmohan Reddy government and the TTD for “the fiasco.” “TTD is barefacedly stating that it is selling Swamy darshan tickets through Jio shopping. Devotees are wondering if they would be directed to order Tirupati laddoos on Swiggy, Zomato like apps later on,” the Narasapuram Lok Sabha MP said. Reddy and other TTD officials appealed to the Venkateshwara devotees “to ignore the baseless rumours and malicious campaign by vested interests, and continue to book tickets on the TTD official website only.” The 2.4 lakh special darshan tickets allotted for October were booked in an hour on Friday morning, with the total hits on the website touching the one-crore mark. Technical issues marred the bookings in the opening hours. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-faces-flak-for-selling-tirupati-temple-tickets-using-jiomart-web-domain-1033925.html
24-09-2021||South||Pressure mounts on Kerala government to review Covid-19 deaths||With compensation being announced for dependents of those who died following Covid-19 infection, pressure is mounting on the Kerala government to review the number of Covid deaths. While 24,318 Covid deaths have been reported in Kerala so far, the state has been facing allegations of underreporting Covid deaths from initial days of the pandemic. A total of 529 deaths following coronavirus were recorded by the Kerala health department as non-Covid-19 deaths. It said that the cause of death was not Covid-19. The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala, which demanded a compensation of up to Rs 10 lakh to dependents of Covid victims, decided to initiate an auditing of the Covid-19 deaths. The Congress is even planning to engage a professional agency for the purpose. The state government earlier maintained that there were flaws in the Covid-19 death reporting system of the state and hence there was a backlog. A new system was introduced and afterwards the daily Covid deaths being reported increased considerably. The state government's review of Covid deaths is still pending. Health Minister Veena George recently said that a review of deaths would be conducted only after the Centre issues guidelines for compensation.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pressure-mounts-on-kerala-government-to-review-covid-19-deaths-1033936.html
24-09-2021||State||Mysuru Police donate part of prize money||The police team that cracked the robbery and jewellery heist case displayed their humanitarian side by handing over Rs 1 lakh cash to the family members of Chandru, who was killed when robbers opened fire in a bid to escape in Vidyaranyapuram on August 24. The Rs 1 lakh was a part of prize money awarded by the government and other organisations to the police team. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta handed over the cheque for Rs 1 lakh to Chandru’s father Rangaswamy and mother Rajamma. The Commissioner said, "The government had announced the reward for the team as the case was solved in a short span of time. The police wanted to extend help to the family of the deceased and decided to give away a part of the cash money they received to Chandru's family."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-police-donate-part-of-prize-money-1033605.html
24-09-2021||State||4 tourists rescued from drowning in Udupi||The lifeguards at Malpe beach in Udupi district rescued four tourists from drowning. The tourists are Anil Kumar (21), Abbas Ali (19) and Anil Kumar (21), all from Kalaburagi and Nithin (18) from Mandya. One of the lifeguards said that the waves are rough during monsoon. In spite of the directions of the lifeguards not to venture into the water, many tourists continue to venture into the water, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/4-tourists-rescued-from-drowning-in-udupi-1033606.html
24-09-2021||State||Covid-19 indirectly led to high maternal mortality in Karnataka||The Covid-19 pandemic indirectly worsened anaemia levels and the mortality rate of pregnant women in the state, data shows. According to information from Minister of Health K Sudhakar, not only have the deaths of pregnant women in labour increased from April 2020 but 11 districts showed that more pregnant women required blood transfusions than in 2019-20. This indicates heightened levels of anaemia. Five districts showed a three-year historic increase in the number of mothers requiring blood transfusions -- Bagalkot, Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Raichur. During 2020-21 fiscal, 10,251 pregnant women in these districts required blood transfusions, representing a 56% increase in transfusions compared to 6,750 women who required transfusions in 2018-2019. The remaining six districts (Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Ramnagara, Tumakuru and Udupi) showed a 71% increase in transfusions when compared to 2019-20 (3,302 women compared to 1,927 women in 2019-20). However, these districts had a higher rate of transfusion in 2018-2019. Experts pointed out that these by themselves may not represent the full picture as blood donations were themselves hobbled during the first and the second waves. The increased transfusions are indirectly linked to the pandemic, explained Dr Rajkumar N, deputy director (Maternal Health), Department of Health and Family Welfare, who said that the outbreak had interfered with the routine health checks and support required for maternity care. Pregnant mothers, especially in lower-income and rural backgrounds, were deprived of dietary aids, such as Iron Folic Acid (IFA) pills to combat anaemia and necessary information about the state of their pregnancy, according to Dr Savitha C, Head of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at Vani Vilas Hospital. According to official data, three districts (Davangere, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada) showed a marked decline in the consumption of these tablets in 2020-21, compared to two years before. The data also showed that 12 women died while in labour during the 2020 to 2021 fiscal year, due to anaemia, high blood pressure, heart problems, urinary tract infections and other non-Covid problems. This is higher than the 10 fatalities recorded in 2019-20 and eight fatalities recorded in 2018-19. Adding to these fatalities are a larger number of overall pregnant women deaths. At Vani Vilas hospital, a critical care non-Covid pregnancy hospital often taking in cases from other districts, between one and four pregnant mothers died every month in the years before Covid-19. That rate has now increased to between five and 10 a month. This again goes back to disruptions posed by the pandemic, Dr Savitha explained. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-indirectly-led-to-high-maternal-mortality-in-karnataka-1033665.html
24-09-2021||State||Karnataka reports 789 new Covid-19 cases, 23 deaths||Karnataka logged 789 new Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 29,71,833 and the toll to 37,706. The day also saw 1,050 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,20,792. Out of 789 new cases reported on Friday, 285 were from Bengaluru Urban. It even saw 273 discharges and eight deaths. The total number of active cases in the state are 13,306. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.58 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.91% per cent. Coming behind Bengaluru Urban, in the number of deaths was Belagavi (5), Dakshina Kannada (3), Mysuru (3), Udupi (2) followed by others. Among new cases, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 108 cases, Mysuru 71, Udupi 69, Kodagu 37, and Uttara Kannada 34, followed by others. Cumulatively, a total of 4,69,14,336 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,35,581 were on Friday alone. The state administered 3,26,534 Covid vaccine doses on Friday, taking the total vaccination doses administered so far to 5,42,86,526. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-789-new-covid-19-cases-23-deaths-1033870.html
24-09-2021||State||761 clear civil services exam; 26 from Karnataka: UPSC||Twenty-six students from Karnataka have successfully cleared the Civil Services Examination (CSE) conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the year 2020. The results were declared by the UPSC on Friday evening. Akshay Simha, a 26-year-old banker has topped the state by securing All India 77th rank. Despite studying science, Akshay took Kannada literature as the optional subject.  Akshay took coaching at the city-based Insights IAS academy in Chandra Layout and cleared the exam in his second attempt. “The interview was cordial. There was no hurry or no scope for fear,” Akshay recalled. Interestingly, Akshay decided to choose Foreign Service (IFS) over IAS. “I have been interested in Foreign diplomacy since the beginning.” Studied M Sc in 2018, Akshay recently bagged a job in one of the banks. “My uncle is a retired IAS officer and he is my inspiration,” he added. While it was common all these years to see at least five to six candidates from Karnataka featured in the top 100 ranks, this year only one candidate found a place among the first 100 successful candidates. Three candidates secured ranks in the top 300 position. M Nischay from Mysuru has secured 130 rank and interestingly he did not avail of any coaching from a professional institute. Soon after the engineering course in 2019, Nishchay started preparing for the exams on his own. 761 candidates clear exam A total of 761 candidates have cleared the coveted civil services examination 2020, with engineering graduates Shubham Kumar and Jagrati Awasthi bagging the first and second ranks respectively. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday declared the results of the examination, conducted annually to select IAS, IFS and IPS officers, among other civil servants. Kumar, a Bachelor of Technology (civil engineering) graduate from IIT-Bombay, has qualified the examination with anthropology as his optional subject. Jagrati qualified the examination with sociology as her optional subject. She completed B.Tech (electrical engineering) from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT), Bhopal. Ankita Jain has achieved the third rank in the prestigious test. A total of 761 candidates -- 545 men and 216 women -- have cleared the examination and recommended for various civil services by the Commission. Govt school alumnus Santosh from Birur in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagalur district has secured 751 rank. Santosh has studied in government schools and colleges all across. He obtained BA degree in distance mode from Bangalore University. Santosh’s parents sell betel leaves to lead their life. Santosh had joined the State Bank of Mysore as a clerk and later joined DRDO as senior technical assistant. ‘DH-PV helped my preparations’ Netra Meti from Almatti who is currently working as a project manager at the Mercedez Benz R&D in Bengaluru and secured 326 rank said that both the Deccan Herald and Prajavani helped her a lot while preparing for the exams and interview. “The editorials of DH and PV helped me in answering to questions on current affairs,” she said. Netra graduated from BMS College of Engineering. (With PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/761-clear-civil-services-exam-26-from-karnataka-upsc-1033875.html
24-09-2021||State||Karnataka ministers take contradictory stands on illegal layouts||In a striking contradiction, Urban Development Minister BA Basavaraj told the Karnataka Assembly on Friday that illegal layouts will not be given basic facilities whereas Municipalities Minister MTB Nagaraj said otherwise, irking legislators. To a question raised by MLA Amruth Desai on illegal layouts in Dharwad, Basavaraj said they will not be provided with electricity, water and other basic infrastructure.  To another question on illegal layouts by Raghavendra Hitnal (Koppal), Nagaraj said the urban local bodies would provide water supply, solid waste management, street lighting and other services keeping the interests of citizens in mind.  “What sort of answers are these? One department says no to basic facilities and another says yes. Are there two governments,” senior JD(S) MLA (Arkalgud) AT Ramaswamy asked.  “The main problem is with the revenue department and their village accountants. Illegal layouts come up and both gram panchayats and the revenue department don’t regulate them,” Soraba MLA Kumar Bangarappa said.  Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri also scoffed at this. “Don’t your officers have any responsibility,” he thundered at Nagaraj. “The fallout of illegal layouts is that a person, with all approvals, builds a ground floor. But, he isn’t able to build the first floor because that’s when your officials started asking questions. Imagine a citizen not being able to build his own house. There’s a lot of anger among people and it’ll explode one day,” Kageri said.  Nagaraj clarified that Form-3 is withheld for illegal layouts. “The Form-3 is given to projects approved by the planning authority and properties located on gramathana land. We are not issuing Form-3 or any other licences to illegal layouts,” he said. “Illegal layouts have reduced now, but I admit there are 10-15% of them.”  Both Nagaraj and Basavaraj said the Akrama-Sakrama scheme to regularize illegal properties was stuck in the Supreme Court. The scheme intends to regularize illegal realty projects developed before October 2013. This was stayed by the top court in July 2017.  "We need to get the stay vacated,” Nagaraj said, assuring to talk to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on this. “Revenues of the urban local bodies have dipped 35% as they aren’t issuing ‘A’ and ‘B’ khatas.” Kageri asked Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol to take note of the problem. “The RDPR, Urban Development, Town Planning and Energy departments should sit together and work something out,” Karjol said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-ministers-take-contradictory-stands-on-illegal-layouts-1033891.html
24-09-2021||State||State government to create land bank for Invest Karnataka summit||The state government will create a land bank that will be showcased at the flagship Invest Karnataka summit that will be held in November 2022, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said on Friday.  The global investors’ meet, which has seen multiple postponements due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is now scheduled to be held on November 2-4 next year.  “There’s still one year left. We will identify and acquire 50-200 acres of land for industrial use in taluks. In the districts, we will look for up to 1,000 acres. In Tier-1 cities, the acquisition will be need-based,” Nirani said in the Assembly during question hour.  He was responding to questions raised by former ministers Eshwar Khandra, Rajashekhar Patil and Priyank Kharge.  Justifying the need for a land bank, Nirani recalled the circumstances in which Karnataka lost out to Gujarat for the manufacturing of Tata Nano in 2010. “The then chief minister BS Yediyurappa held discussions with the company to set up shop in Dharwad. Everything was final, but we did not have 1,000 acres of land ready. They went to Gujarat. We lost an opportunity,” he said.  According to the minister, Karnataka’s total geographical area is 4.73 crore acres. “Of this, cultivable land is 3.07 lakh acres and forest land is 94,148 acres. For industries, we have 1.50 lakh acres, which is 0.48% of the total area,” he explained.  To a concern raised by Patil on effluents from chemical factories causing pollution in Humnabad, Nirani said the proposed drug park in Yadgir will address the problem. “To prevent chemical factories from coming up in taluks, we have identified 3,000 acres in Yadgir for a global-level drug park. The Centre is giving us a grant of Rs 1,000 crore for this. The drug park will prevent pollution caused by effluents discharged from chemical factories,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-government-to-create-land-bank-for-invest-karnataka-summit-1033905.html
24-09-2021||State||Nikhil, Revathi welcome baby boy||Janata Dal youth president and Sandalwood actor Nikhil Kumaraswamy and his wife Revathi welcomed a baby boy on Friday. "I am glad to share this special occasion with you. Love you my son," Nikhil said on Twitter, announcing the news. JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy, Nikhil's father, also shared an elated message. "Another happy occasion has come my way. We have a new member in the family. I am overjoyed to say that I am now a grandfather. I seek all your wishes for the new born," Kumaraswamy stated. Meanwhile, a photo of former Prime Minister H D Devegowda holding his great grandson went viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nikhil-revathi-welcome-baby-boy-1033913.html
24-09-2021||State||Water contamination: Karnataka HC directs action against Mangaluru Palike||The High Court on Friday directed the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to initiate action against the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) for its insensitive approach on the issue of contamination of drinking water in the city. A report by the KSPCB had revealed contamination of a tributary of Phalguni river in Mangaluru. The contamination was caused due to the overflowing of leachate from the legacy waste site at Pacchanadi in the city. "This court cannot be a silent spectator when residents of Mangaluru are forced to drink polluted water because of the legacy waste," the bench headed by Acting Chief Justice S C Chandra observed. The government advocate submitted to the court that legacy waste is around 30-40 years old and it will be cleared in a phased manner. The government also submitted a test report submitted by Mugrody Constructions, a private firm, with regard to the quality of water at the Malavoor water treatment plant. The bench, however, rejected the report by the private agency. "This court really fails to understand under which provision of law Mugrody Constructions has been assigned the job of analysing the water in the township of Mangaluru. The report is submitted since rejected in total," the bench said. The bench reprimanded the MCC and directed the KSPCB to initiate action against the civic body by launching prosecution against the erring officials. The bench directed both the KSPCB as well as MCC to submit monthly reports on water quality and status of shifting the legacy waste. The hearing has been adjourned to October 27. The KSPCB has been directed to test the water supplied to the residents at the entry and exit of the dam. The PIL is filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) on various issues after the August 2019 disaster when a heap of solid waste Pachchnadi slid engulfing at least four houses, a couple of temples and 18 acres of farmland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/water-contamination-karnataka-hc-directs-action-against-mangaluru-palike-1033915.html
24-09-2021||State||Privilege motion dropped against IAS officer||The Legislature Committee on Privileges has dropped its proceedings against IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri on a motion moved by JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh. The Committee, led by BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, has said in its report tabled in the Assembly on Friday that the motion was dropped after Rohini stated she had no intention of disrespecting any legislator and that she would abide by the DPAR regulations. Mahesh had moved a privilege motion against her on the grounds that she was absent to a meeting of the ‘Legislature Committee on Papers Laid on the Table’. Mahesh was in Mysuru on January 12 for the Committee’s meeting. However, the then Mysuru DC Rohini “disrespected the committee by not being present in the meeting,” Mahesh had charged. The Committee conducted an inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/privilege-motion-dropped-against-ias-officer-1033919.html
24-09-2021||State||26 candidates from Karnataka clear UPSC Civil Services Examination||As many as 26 students from Karnataka have successfully cleared the Civil Services Examination (CSE) conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the year 2020. The results were declared by the UPSC on Friday evening. Akshay Simha, a 26-year-old banker, has topped in the state by securing 77th rank in the overall list. Despite studying science, Akshay took Kannada literature as the optional subject in CSE. "Instead of stressing myself by reading a lot of books, I decided to stay focused and took all the test series offered by my coaching institute," said Akshay. Akshay took coaching at the Bengaluru-based Insights IAS academy in Chandra Layout and cleared the exam in his second attempt. "The interview was cordial. There was no hurry or no scope for fear,” Akshay recalled. Interestingly, Akshay has decided to choose Foreign Service (IFS) over IAS. "I have always been interested in foreign diplomacy." He completed M.Sc in 2018 and recently bagged a job in one of the banks. "My uncle is a retired IAS officer and he is my inspiration," he added. While it was common all these years to see at least five to six candidates from Karnataka feature in the top 100, this year only one candidate found a place among the first 100 successful candidates. As many as three candidates featured in the top 300. Yatish R, an engineer from RV College of Engineering (RVCE), is a native of Kanakapura and has secured the 115th rank. "During 2019, I got selected for the IPS, but my dream was to join the IAS. Hence, I took the exam again in 2020," he said. Yatish was also coached at the Insights IAS. M Nischay, yet another topper from Mysuru, has secured 130th rank. Interestingly, he did not avail any coaching from a professional institute. Soon after completing his engineering course in 2019, Nishchay started preparing for the exam on his own. "I do not think coaching is necessary to clear the UPSC examination. What we need are dedication and effort. I am ready to take up any of the services," he said. Similarly, another candidate KM Priyanka has secured 121st rank. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/26-candidates-from-karnataka-clear-upsc-civil-services-examination-1033953.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RGUHS nixes Rajarajeshwari medical college's Maddur proposal||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has rejected the application submitted by the management of the Rajarajeshwari Medical College and Hospital, Bengaluru, to set up a new medical college at Maddur in Mandya district. After a detailed discussion and opposition by a majority of the members at the Syndicate meeting on Thursday, the university decided not to grant permission to start the college. RGUHS sources said the application was rejected mainly on the grounds that the applicant did not meet the criteria set by the National Medical Council (NMC). Some of the members raised objections to the university authorities for receiving the application from the institute and conducting inspection. Speaking to DH, a syndicate member said, “Though the institute is located in Karnataka, they are not giving seats to Karnataka students, saying that they come under the deemed-to-be university category. When this is the case, what is the need to permit them to start another college?” “Even if we grant permission now, they will give seats for the first few years for state students as they did in the existing college, and later shift them under the deemed-to-be university category. This is the reason we strongly opposed giving permission,” said another member of the syndicate. Functioning hospital The applicant institution has not met one of the important criteria by NMC, which says it is required to have a functioning hospital for the last two years. “The land shown by the applicant was the place where a private school was functioning earlier and they just modified it to a hospital,” said an official from the university. Rajarajeshwari Medical College principal Dr Naveen S told DH, “We have not received information about the rejection of application. The place where we have proposed to set up the medical college had a hospital and all documents regarding that are available,” he said. On giving seats to students from Karnataka, he said, “More than 50% of students in the existing institution are from Karnataka. When there is a shortage of doctors across the country, the university should not reject applications for small reasons.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rguhs-nixes-rajarajeshwari-medical-colleges-maddur-proposal-1033599.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Prashant Kishor's induction into Congres welcome: Moily||The likely induction of election strategist Prashant Kishor into Congress will be a welcome move, former Union minister and senior Congress leader Veerappa Moily said on Thursday. "He is an election strategist with a 99% success rate. He has volunteered to cooperate with us," Moily said. This and other internal reforms in Congress would bode well for the party in the coming days, according to him. The KPCC will also organise a workshop 'Gandhi Nadige' (Gandhi March) in the Chikkaballapur Lok Sabha constituency that Moily represented. It will be held on September 26 at SBS Convention Hall in Devanahalli and on September 29 at Soladevanahalli, in honour of Gandhi and with an intention to revive the Congress party, Moily said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prashant-kishors-induction-into-congres-welcome-moily-1033608.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||10-year-old student challenges Kannada learning Act||A 10-year-old student from Bengaluru has filed a petition before the Karnataka High Court challenging the Kannada Language Learning Act, 2015, which requires the language to be taught as a compulsory subject in classes 1-10 in all schools either as a first language or a second language. Keertan Suresh, a Class 4 student at the Bishop Cotton Boys’ School, requested the court to declare the Act unconstitutional as it does not exempt institutions affiliated to CBSE/ICSE. He was represented by his mother N Sujatha, a child rights activist. The court has ordered notice to the state government and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination in New Delhi. The principal of the school, where the petitioner is studying, has informed the guardians that Kannada will be taught as a second language while other preferred languages will be continued as a third language for classes 1-4 from the academic year 2020-2021. According to the petitioner, the provisions in the Act are contrary to the Karnataka Education Act, 1983, which confers right upon boards to regulate curriculum, as well as the objective of the National Education Policy, 2020. The petition said that the only provision in the Constitution which contains the expression ‘mother tongue’ is Article 350A. According to the petitioner, Article 350A only casts a duty on every state to provide adequate facilities for instruction in ‘mother tongue’ at the primary stage of education to children belonging to linguistic minority groups. The petitioner claimed it does not empower the state to interfere with the right to freedom of speech and expression and the right to establish and administer schools under Article 19 of the Constitution. The petitioner said that people with transferable jobs always opt for CBSE or ICSE schools to educated their children. “It is submitted that such a stay might be a temporary stay and are always prone to transfers. A child who will be made to study Kannada as a second language will be put through great hardship and would be at a disadvantageous position if being transferred to another state in the subsequent year,” the petition said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-year-old-student-challenges-kannada-learning-act-1033661.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka assembly session meets unruly end||Disorder reigned in the Assembly as all Congress legislators, including Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, jumped into the well of the House seeking an extension of the legislature session to discuss the NEP, which they said was an RSS agenda.  The pandemonium led to chants of “RSS Zindabad”, “Chowkidar Chor Hai”,  “NEP Beda” and “Jai Shri Ram” echoing in the Assembly.  It started when Congress MLAs JN Ganesh and Dr HD Ranganath entered the well of the House seeking time for their issues to be discussed. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, however, was in a hurry to wind up business by 1 pm, after which he was to receive Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.  Soon, all Congress legislators stood in the well.  “As a party, we decided not to protest so that we can discuss people’s issues. But our members aren’t getting time or answers for their problems. We want the session to be extended by one more week,” Siddaramaiah said.  Specifically, Siddaramaiah said he needed time to discuss the NEP. “It is Nagpur education policy,” he said, referring to the headquarters of the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent. “It’s an RSS agenda.”  Kageri asked what was wrong with that. “Even if it is Nagpur-RSS agenda, what’s wrong if its actually good? The RSS agenda will be good,” he said, which enraged the Congress MLAs.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai rose to counter the Congress’ attack on the RSS. “Nation, nationalism and RSS are all the same. The NEP helps our kids become ready for the 21st century,” he said. “And yes, it is an RSS education policy. We accept it,” he said, adding that the NEP underwent discussions for three years. “The NEP is for Indians by Indians. Theirs (Congress) is the Videshi education policy.”  This led to a volley with both sides shouting at each other and a slogan contest ensued.   Amid the din, Kageri called on Health Minister K Sudhakar to begin his reply on the Covid-19 debate. With the noise soaring, Sudhakar chose to simply lay his reply without completing it.  Finally, Kageri adjourned the session sine die.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-session-meets-unruly-end-1033817.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nothing wrong if it's RSS agenda: Basavaraj Bommai defends NEP||Disorder reigned in the Assembly as all Congress legislators, including Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, jumped into the well of the House seeking an extension of the legislature session to discuss the NEP, which they said was an RSS agenda.  The pandemonium led to chants of “RSS Zindabad”, “Chowkidar Chor Hai”,  “NEP Beda” and “Jai Shri Ram” echoing in the Assembly.  It started when Congress MLAs J N Ganesh and Dr H D Ranganath entered the well of the House seeking time for their issues to be discussed. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, however, was in a hurry to wind up business by 1 pm to go receive Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.  Soon, all Congress legislators stood in the well.  “As a party, we decided not to protest so that we can discuss people’s issues. But our members aren’t getting time or answers for their problems. We want the session to be extended by one more week,” Siddaramaiah said.  Specifically, Siddaramaiah said he needed time to discuss the NEP. “It is Nagpur education policy,” he said, referring to RSS headquarters, the BJP’s ideological parent. “It’s an RSS agenda and the future of our children is at stake.” Kageri asked what was wrong with that. “Even if it is Nagpur-RSS agenda, what is wrong if it's actually good? The RSS agenda will be good,” he said, which enraged the Congress MLAs.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai rose to counter Congress’ attack on the RSS. “Nation, nationalism and RSS are all the same. NEP helps our children become ready for the 21st century,” he said. “And yes, it is an RSS education policy. We accept it,” he said, adding that NEP underwent discussions for three years. “NEP is for Indians by Indians. Theirs (Congress) is the Videshi education policy.”  This led to a volley with both sides shouting at each other. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, however, was in a hurry to wind up business by 1 pm to go receive Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.  Soon, all Congress legislators stood in the well.  “As a party, we decided not to protest so that we can discuss people’s issues. But our members aren’t getting time or answers for their problems. We want the session to be extended by one more week,” Siddaramaiah said.  Specifically, Siddaramaiah said he needed time to discuss the NEP. “It is Nagpur education policy,” he said, referring to RSS headquarters, the BJP’s ideological parent. “It’s an RSS agenda and the future of our children is at stake.” Kageri asked what was wrong with that. “Even if it is Nagpur-RSS agenda, what is wrong if its actually good? The RSS agenda will be good,” he said, which enraged the Congress MLAs.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai rose to counter Congress’ attack on the RSS. “Nation, nationalism and RSS are all the same. NEP helps our children become ready for the 21st century,” he said. “And yes, it is an RSS education policy. We accept it,” he said, adding that NEP underwent discussions for three years. “NEP is for Indians by Indians. Theirs (Congress) is the Videshi education policy.”  This led to a volley with both sides shouting at each other and a slogan contest ensued.   Karnataka has claimed to be the first state to implement the NEP.  Amid the din, Kageri called on Health Minister K Sudhakar to begin his reply on the Covid-19 debate. With the noise soaring, Sudhakar chose to simply lay his reply without completing it.  Finally, Kageri adjourned the session sine die. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nothing-wrong-if-its-rss-agenda-basavaraj-bommai-defends-nep-1033832.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ranks 9th in food safety among 20 large states||Karnataka is ranked ninth among 20 large states by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) in the recently released State Food Safety Index for 2020-21. Neighbouring states Kerala and Tamil Nadu are ranked second and third, respectively. The index measures the performance of states and Union territories on significant parameters of food safety, like inspections carried out for high-risk food businesses, mode of inspections used and the number of food samples lifted for testing. For example, though the state has 44,501 registered food business units active as of July 31, the number of food samples collected and analysed for adulteration, safety, and standards for 12 months in 2018-19 was just 3,945 as per the annual food testing report of enforcement samples. Only 456 were found to be adulterated. As of 2019, there were only 49 full-time Food Safety Officers (FSOs), and 114 part-time ones. There are five state-run food-testing labs but none are accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Dr Harshvardhan B, joint commissioner, Food Safety Commissionerate, told DH, "The state government has not released the budget for us. Now, we have placed various work orders. By December or January, we have been asked to get NABL accreditation for Mysuru, Bengaluru, and Belagavi labs." “A consultant has also been appointed in this regard. We did not have a building in Kalaburagi for a lab and have rented one there." The state has scored only 10 out of 20 in human resources and institutional data in the index. "We are awaiting the amendment of Cadre and Recruitment Rules, for which we had requested a modification. Until then, no permanent staff can be hired. The entire food safety department is staffed by in-charge officers from the health department," he added. Ramesh Agarwal, CEO, Food Safety Works, a training partner of FSSAI, said, "Kerala and Tamil Nadu have scored high on enforcement. In fact, Kerala scores higher than Gujarat ranked No.1 in compliance. There is no monitoring of expired licences. There is no inspection of meat industries which are high-risk food businesses. We don't know the status of the mobile food testing lab." Out of 30, Karnataka has scored 13 in compliance which is less than 50 per cent. Training and capacity building of laboratory staff and personnel have also been found wanting in the state. As far as hygiene rating of restaurants and checks on food offered at places of worship are concerned, it has been very slow, said Agarwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ranks-9th-in-food-safety-among-20-large-states-1033836.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress stages 'Tanga' protest against price rise||The Karnataka unit of the Congress on Friday staged a 'Tanga' protest against the rising fuel prices. Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah accompanied by the Congress state chief D K Shivakumar and party MLAs led the march riding on a horse-drawn vehicle from the Congress office to the Vidhana Soudha on the last day of the Karnataka Assembly. A large number of Congress workers too joined the protest raising slogans and holding placards, banners and posters. Speaking to reporters at the Vidhana Soudha, Shivakumar said the entire country is suffering due to the exorbitant rise in petrol and diesel prices, which is resulting in cascading effect on prices of other commodities. "People are unable to construct houses due to the rise in cement and steel prices. There was no help from the government even after the COVID induced hardships," he said. He said the Congress was only lending its voice to the sufferings of all sections of people. He further said the party would stage demonstrations in all the Panchayats and municipal wards throughout October starting from Gandhi Jayanti on October 2. Addressing reporters, Siddaramaiah said prices have sky-rocketed after Narendra Modi became Prime Minister of the country. According to him, the tax on diesel was only Rs 3.35 in 2014 when Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister, which has increased to Rs 31.84.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-stages-tanga-protest-against-price-rise-1033837.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Theatres, pubs in Karnataka to reopen fully in October; night curfew to be relaxed||The state government on Friday decided to permit 100 per cent seating in theatres and reopen pubs from October.  While theatres will be allowed to fill all their seats from October 1, pubs will be permitted to do so from October 3, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said after chairing a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation.  Bommai said the government had decided to allow theatres and pubs to function normally as the Covid-19 positivity rate in the state had more or less stabilised. At present, Karnataka has a positivity rate of 0.66 per cent.  However, there are a few districts that have a higher positivity rate than the state average. In districts with a positivity rate of more than 1 per cent theatres and pubs will function at 50 per cent. In districts where it is more than 2 per cent, they will be shut until the cases come down.  Pregnant women and children will not be allowed in theatres in the interest of the safety of their health, Bommai stated.  Also, theatregoers should have taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.  In another respite, the night curfew has been pushed to 10 pm from the existing 9 pm. The curfew will be in place from 10 pm to 5 am, according to Bommai.  Also, schools will function for five days - from Monday to Friday - and offline classes can be conducted for classes 6 to 12 with full attendance, Bommai said.  Further, the government will continue to be on high alert in border districts adjoining Kerala and Maharashtra.  Vaccination drive will be intensified in Yadgir, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Mysuru as these districts have fallen behind, Bommai said. Revenue minister R Ashoka and Health minister K Sudhakar will visit these districts and take part in awareness campaigns. These campaigns will be conducted in coordination with the local MLAs, ministers, NGOs and religious leaders, Bommai added.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/theatres-pubs-in-karnataka-to-reopen-fully-in-october-night-curfew-to-be-relaxed-1033858.html
24-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has best managed Covid-19 pandemic in India, says health minister Sudhakar; blames Cong for oxygen deaths||The Karnataka government has "best managed" the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, and opposition Congress which ruled for long, is to be blamed for any deaths due to lack of medical facilities like oxygen, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. The Minister said this while replying to the debate on Covid-19 second wave in the assembly, amid protest by Congress members from the well of the House, forcing him to cut short and table his answer for record. "The opposition has targeted and criticised the government on its Covid management, but they are not ready to listen to my reply. People of the state are watching. They are indulging in hit and run politics, they don't care for the people," Sudhakar said. During his reply amid chaos due to sloganeering by Congress MLAs against the implementation of National Education Policy and demanding extension of the monsoon session, he alleged that Congress has no commitment or responsibility to fight against Covid, and only wants to indulge in politics. The Congress is aware that the Covid has been effectively managed in the state, he claimed, adding that "the whole world has praised India's Covid control and management, also Karnataka has best managed the pandemic in the whole country. That's the reason the opposition party doesn't have the patience to listen to the answer," the minister said. Initiating the debate, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday had targeted the BJP government for its handling of the second wave, and said the government got into a relaxed mode after the first wave. Bringing up the Chamarajanagar tragedy, pointing out that 36 patients had died at a state-run hospital due to lack of oxygen supply, he sought an explanation on why no action was taken against the officials concerned for the deaths. Hitting out at the Congress for criticising the government's Covid management, the minister, during his reply, said "the sixty years of Congress rule was such that before the first wave, 725 ICU beds and ventilators were there, in one year we have got 3,887 of them. There were only 4,847 oxygenated beds, we have made about 28,400 such beds available." The oxygen storage facility in the state before Covid was only 320 tons, he said. "If there has been any deaths in the state (due to lack of oxygen), Congress is to be directly blamed for it, it is because of their misrule," the minister added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-best-managed-covid-19-pandemic-in-india-says-health-minister-sudhakar-blames-cong-for-oxygen-deaths-1033859.html
24-09-2021||West||Dombivli gang-rape: 2 more arrested from Navi Mumbai, 28 nabbed so far||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Thane police has arrested two more persons from Navi Mumbai in connection with the gang-rape of a 15-year-old girl, an official said on Friday. With this, the number of arrested persons has gone up to 26, while two minors have already been detained. The girl was reportedly gang-raped multiple times over a period of eight months in Thane district. The incidents took place at different locations, including Dombivli, Badlapur, Murbad and Rabale, between January 29 and September 22 this year. The victim has named 33 accused, police have said. "Police have arrested two more persons in this case. Both of them were nabbed from Navi Mumbai on Thursday night, with one of them being caught from Rabale node. So far, 26 persons have been arrested and two minors detained. Search is on for the remaining accused," the official said. The prime accused in the case has already been arrested, he said. Based on the girl's complaint, the Manpada police in Dombivli have registered a case against 33 persons under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376 (n) (repeated rape), 376 (d) (gang-rape), 376 (3) (rape on a woman under sixteen years of age) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dombivli-gang-rape-2-more-arrested-from-navi-mumbai-28-nabbed-so-far-1033710.html
24-09-2021||West||Maharashtra: Heavy rains lash five districts in Marathwada; water levels rise in dams||Heavy rains have lashed several parts of five districts in Marathada, increasing water levels in irrigation projects and dams in the region, an official said on Friday. At least 20 circles in five districts of Marathwada witnessed heavy rainfall on Thursday, with Patoda circle in Beed district recording the highest 145.25 mm rain, the official said. Eight circles in Beed, five each in Latur and Osmanabad and one each in Nanded and Parbhani received above 65 mm rains in a single day, he said. Naleshwar circle in Nanded received 98 mm rain, followed by Usuf circle in Beed with 96.75 mm showers, he said. As per official data, eight districts of the region have so far received 131.69 per cent rainfall. Nanded has received the highest rainfall of 1,031.5 mm so far against the average 814.4 mm, it was stated. Heavy rains have caused water levels in dams and irrigation projects to increase, an official said. Of the 13 major irrigation projects in Marathwada, six have reached 100 per cent storage capacity, he said. The inflow of water in Jayakwadi continued with 23,319 cusecs taking the storage to 77.46 per cent on Friday morning, while the water outflow continued at eight projects, he said. With 63,545 cusecs, Vishnupuri dam in Nanded has recorded in the highest outflow, the official added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-heavy-rains-lash-five-districts-in-marathwada-water-levels-rise-in-dams-1033774.html
24-09-2021||West||TMC leaders' visit to Goa triggers buzz of party's poll foray in BJP-ruled state||A few senior leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), including MP Derek O'Brien, have arrived in Goa, which has sparked speculation that the Mamata Banerjee-led party plans to make a foray into the BJP-ruled state's electoral politics by contesting next year's Assembly polls. O'Brien, accompanied by his party colleague Prasun Banerjee, landed at the Dabolim airport on Thursday afternoon, from where they travelled to Panaji. When reporters asked O'Brien about the purpose of their visit to the coastal state, he declined to comment. Sources in Goa's political circles claimed that the TMC was in touch with a few Congress leaders and an Independent MLA in Goa, and eyeing to join hands with them for the Assembly polls due in February next year. The name of Congress MLA and former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro is being discussed as one of the probables who might join the TMC. However, he has dismissed such reports. "No one has contacted me. If I take any step, I would do it only after consulting my workers," he told PTI. Talking to reporters on Thursday, former Congress MLA Agnelo Fernandes claimed that there has been a lot of resentment within the Congress, which might have triggered rumours about the party leaders switching sides to the TMC. Fernandes said that the Congress, despite emerging as the single largest party after winning 17 seats in the last state elections, was not allowed to form the government by the party's senior leaders. "Some leaders have been facing insult and humiliation in the party," he alleged. However, he refused to confirm whether there was a possibility of any Congress leader joining the TMC. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House, restricting the BJP to 13. But surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. In the West Bengal Assembly polls held earlier this year, the Trinamool Congress bagged 213 of the 292 seats and secured a third straight term in office. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-leaders-visit-to-goa-triggers-buzz-of-partys-poll-foray-in-bjp-ruled-state-1033791.html
24-09-2021||West||Schools across Maharashtra to reopen from October 4||Schools would reopen across Maharashtra from October 4, the state government said on Friday. “All the schools in rural areas will resume physical classes for standards 5th to 12th," said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. Physical classes for standards 8th to 12th would resume everywhere in urban areas, she added. Until now schools were conducting physical classes only in those areas which were reporting relatively fewer Covid-19 cases. Physical classes would not resume yet for standards 1st to 7th in urban areas and standards 1st to 4th in rural areas. “Though schools will reopen in the entire state, there is no compulsion for students to attend physical classes. Consent of parents will be necessary if they want to attend," the minister added. As per a survey conducted by the school education department, more than 70 per cent of parents favoured reopening of schools, Gaikwad said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/schools-across-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-october-4-1033841.html
24-09-2021||West||Bells in Maharashtra's temples and schools set to start ringing again from October, CM Uddhav announces||Schools and places of worship in Maharashtra are set to open from the first week of October as Covid-19 cases in the state fell below the 40,000-level mark. After a series of review meetings with the Covid-19 task forces, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took a final call on the two critical areas.  “The places of worship would open from October 7 coinciding with the Navratri festivities,” Thackeray said. All places of worship will reopen for devotees from the first day of Navaratri, i.e., 7th October 2021, while observing all COVID safety protocols. However, he made it clear that the Covid-appropriate-behaviour and protocol msut be followed.  According to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad, physical classes will resume from October 4 for students of classes 5-12 in rural areas, while for urban areas, physical classes will resume only for students of standards 8-12. The physical classes are resuming after an unprecedented break of 18 months when schools were shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a series of lockdowns.   Prof Gaikwad said that schools will be permitted to reopen only with strict adherence to all Covid-19 protocols and SOPs prepared by the education department in consultation with the Covid Pediatric Task Force. However, residential or boarding schools across the state will remain shut till further orders, she added. Besides, activities like sports and games — where social distancing is not possible — shall be banned for now. Only classroom-related teaching activities shall be permitted, she said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bells-in-maharashtras-temples-and-schools-set-to-start-ringing-again-from-october-cm-uddhav-announces-1033909.html
24-09-2021||West||Navratri: Gujarat allows 'garbas' in housing societies, streets but says no commercial events||The Gujarat government on Friday relaxed night curfew by one hour in eight cities and permitted organisation of 'garba' events in Navratri in housing societies and on streets during the nine-day-long festival next month with certain norms as coronavirus cases steadily decline in the state. However, commercial organisation of garba events will not be allowed this year. Garba is a popular folk dance of Gujarat and is performed with passion and fervour during the Navratri festival, which this year will start from October 7. The government also announced a slew of relaxations related to hotels, marriage functions and funerals. In an advisory issued keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, the crowd limit for gathering at any one place for Navratri celebrations has been capped at 400 people. The state government said it is imperative for participants of Navratri events to be fully vaccinated against coronavirus. Last year, the state government had banned organisation of all garba events due to the pandemic. In a meeting chaired by chief minister Bhupendra Patel with home department officials on Friday, it was decided to relax night curfew timings in eight cities - Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar. Earlier, the duration of curfew was from 11 pm to 6 am, but now it will be from 12 midnight to 6 am in these eight cities where night curfew has been imposed to curb coronavirus cases, a government release said. The new night curfew timing will be in force from September 25 to October 10, the release said. “Regarding the celebrations of Navratri, it has been decided that no commercial garbas, that are held mostly in party plots (open sites) and clubs, will be allowed. However, people can organise garbas in their housing societies and streets with a limit of 400 people at such gatherings. In the same way, Durga Puja (beginning on Oct 11), Vijayadashmi (Oct 15) and Sharad Purnima (Oct 19) festivals can also be organised with a limit of 400 people,” it said. “It is imperative that those participating in such functions should have taken both doses of the coronavirus vaccine,” the release said. The state government has also allowed participation of 400 people in marriages instead of the earlier limit of 150, it said. For funerals, the cap on attendees has been increased to 100 from earlier 40, the release said. The state government has also allowed hotels and restaurants to use 75 per cent of their sitting capacity instead of the earlier limit of 60 per cent, it said. An association of hotels has urged its members to only allow those who are vaccinated for dine-in facility. Restaurants can remain open till 10 pm, the release said. The government has increased the timing of public parks by an hour from 9 pm to 10 pm, it said. Gujarat has seen a steady decline in coronavirus cases. On Friday, the state recorded 17 new Covid-19 cases, but no fresh death. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navratri-gujarat-allows-garbas-in-housing-societies-streets-but-says-no-commercial-events-1033935.html
24-09-2021||West||Maharashtra: 19-year-old boy held for raping 6-year-old girl||A teen boy was held for allegedly raping a six-year-old girl in Thane district, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday and a case was registered after the girl confided in her parents, an official said. The 19-year-old accused, a plumber, was charged under IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he informed. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-19-year-old-boy-held-for-raping-6-year-old-girl-1033937.html
