25-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||11-year-old girl shaves off hair for wigs of cancer patients||Though hair is a prized possession of every girl, an 11-year-old girl went ahead and shaved off her head to donate hair for wigs that will be worn by cancer patients. A class six student of Kendriya Vidyalaya-2 at Ekkur, Dilna Rajesh, has donated her long locks to bring smile on the face of cancer patients. Dilna decided to donate her locks when she was nine year-old. So she grew her hair for two years without cutting it. She had decided to donate her hair on January 14, on her 11th birthday. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, she could not donate her hair. Her hair was shaved off at Yacchu's Hair Garage on Wednesday. Yacchu's Hair Garage collects hair for cancer patients and dispatches it to hair bank of Miracle Charitable Association in Trissur. Dilna had decided to donate her hair for cancer patients after noticing patients losing hair while undergoing treatment for cancer. “I will donate my hair once again after the hair grows back,” she declared. A native of Kankol in Kannur, she is presently residing at Ekkur and is the daughter of Rajesh Kumar and K M Jamuna Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-year-old-girl-shaves-off-hair-for-wigs-of-cancer-patients-1033960.html
25-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Disease, untimely rain leave onion farmers in tears||Outbreak of fruit/bulb rot disease and leaf blight disease coupled with excess rainfall in the last three months has left thousands of onion farmers in tears across central and north Karnataka districts. While the disease has wiped out the crop in Chitradurga, Davangere, Shivamogga, excess rain and flash floods have damaged the crop in the northern parts of the state. Ravaged by the disease for three harvests in a row, farmers are destroying the crop and staring at a severe economic crisis. Venting their ire against the horticulture department, the farmers alleged that officials are of no help even as more and more hectares are being infected with the disease. In Chitradurga alone, more than 5,000 hectares of onion crop has perished with a similar state of affairs in Davangere. This apart, crops on close to 10,000 hectares in Kalaburagi, Koppal, Yadgir and Vijayapura have also been affected due to heavy rain and floods. What has baffled the farmers is the infection at the time of harvest. “All farmers are witnessing the disease just prior to the harvest. In some cases, the bulbs begin to rot after they are packed in bags. We do not know if it is due to rain or the soil. Many have tried a variety of pesticides with little success,” bemoaned Nagaraj, a farmer in Chitradurga taluk. While it costs Rs 700 to Rs 1,000 to cultivate, harvest and transport a bag of onions, the farmers are earning only Rs 150 to Rs 200 a bag. “At times, we have even sold them for as low as Rs 50 to Rs 100,” revealed Mallikarjun, district president of Raitha Sangha. The rot -ridden bulbs are summarily rejected at the Yeshwantpur APMC market in Bengaluru. During the onion season from June to September, Chitradurga, Davangere, Haveri, Kalaburagi and adjoining districts are the major suppliers of onion to Bengaluru. However, due to the poor quality of the local crop, traders are preferring those from northern Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The crop in central Karnataka has wilted due to rot disease and leaf blight infection. Many are destroying the crop using tractors. “Hundreds of bags of onions are kept in open in sheds as we are unable to segregate the bulbs due to high cost of labour. The market price does not even compensate for the labour costs. It is better we dump them in compost pits,” lamented Lakshmikanth, a farmer from Lingavarahatti in Chitradurgadistrict. While DH reached out to horticulture officials at Lalbagh, including the director, there was no response to messages and calls. However, Horticulture Minister Munirathna told DH that he is not aware of the issue. “No farmer has informed me about the problem. If they bring it to my attention, I will definitely do whatever is necessary to help them as I am always with thefarmers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/disease-untimely-rain-leave-onion-farmers-in-tears-1034055.html
25-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||One each from Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar crack UPSC exam||Akshay Simha of Mandya, Pramod Aaradhya of Gundlupet in Chamarajanagar and Amrut of Hassan district cleared the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Civil Services Final-2020 exam, results of which were announced on Friday. While Simha secured 77th rank, Aaradhya bagged 601 rank and Amruth secured 752 rank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-each-from-mandya-hassan-and-chamarajanagar-crack-upsc-exam-1034070.html
25-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Happy to be part of evolution of Mysuru Dasara, says chief priest of Chamundeshwari Devi temple||He has met Presidents, Governors, Union Ministers, Chief Ministers and other VVIPs and blessed them on behalf of Chamundeshwari Devi. Still, Dasara ignites a child-like enthusiasm in him. Chief priest of Chamundeshwari Devi Temple atop the Chamundi Hill N Shashishekara Dixith is in the service of the deity since 1979 assisting his grandfather Narayana Dixith and father Nagendra Dixith. ‘Dasara’ takes him back to his childhood, memories of watching Jamboo Savari by Maharaja Jayachamaraja Wadiyar with prince Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar, exhibition at Jeevarayana Katte (JK) Grounds, circus, illumination of Mysuru Palace, etc. “We used to watch the Jamboo Savari near Guru Sweets in the corner of Devaraja Market on Sayyaji Rao Road,” he recalls. Important role Dixith, eighth generation priest of the temple, now chief priest under the State Religious Endowment department, plays an integral role in the celebration of Naada Habba Mysuru Dasara. He is the one who offers puja to the utsava murthy (procession deity) of Chamundeshwari Devi to mark the launch of the festivities atop the Chamundi Hill, abutting the temple. On Vijayadashmi too, he offers puja and sends the utsava murthy to Mysuru Palace to be part of the Jamboo Savari. Dixith, assisted by his son S Abhilash Dixith, other priests and temple staff, conducts the Navaratri puja in the temple by decorating the idol in the sanctum sanctorum as Sapthamathrukas. On each day, the decoration changes to represent the deity of the day. On the inaugural day, he carries the prasada from the temple to the private durbar of the scion of the erstwhile royal family. Tradition Recollecting the history of his family and the temple Dixith said, "The then Maharaja Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar remodelled and expanded the temple and invited priests from Kancheepuram. My ancestor Krishna Dixith started his services to the temple in the early 19th century. Now, I am the eighth generation priest from the family. Continuing the tradition, my son also has done an Agama course and is being trained under my guidance.” Son of Nagendra Dixith and Sarojamma, born in 1966, Shashishekara Dixith is married to Latha. He studied up to class 7 in Chamundi Betta Higher Primary School and joined T S Subbanna High School at Vidyaranyapuram and then D Bhanumaiah PU College. He studied Sanskrit and Agama at Maharaja’s Sanskrit Patashala. His brother N Sridhar Dixith is into social service. Fame of temple “The temple was deemed to be a personal place of worship for the then Maharaja Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and his family. It became popular and most of the people of Mysuru city and Mysuru state became its devotees. Its fame grew due to the impact of the television media since 2004 and it has been attracting devotees like Tirupati Tirumala Temple. It is famous across nations,” he said. “Initially, the puja was held inside the temple to mark the beginning of Navaratri. The puja moved outside the temple in 1983. Grand inauguration in the presence of ministers and chief minister started when J H Patel was chief minister. Over the years, there have been new additions and improvisations to make Dasara more popular. I am happy to be part of the process and witness to the developments,” Dixith said. Among the visitors to the temple, Dixith reveres the late seer of Siddaganaga Mutt Shivakumara Swami and the late seer of Pejawar Mutt Vishwesha Tirtha Swami. “I had the fortune of holding their hands and leading them up to the sanctum sanctorum,” he recalls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/happy-to-be-part-of-evolution-of-mysuru-dasara-says-chief-priest-of-chamundeshwari-devi-temple-1034167.html
25-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dalit made to spend Rs 11K on feast for entering temple in Karnataka||Close on the heels of a Dalit family being penalised Rs 25,000 over their two-year-old son entering a temple in Kustagi, a Dalit man was forced to arrange a feast spending Rs 11,000 for entering a Lakshmi Devi temple in a village at Karatagi about 11 days ago, a police officer said. "Yes, it is true that the man spent Rs 11,000 to arrange feast for entering the temple. Our officers are investigating the matter," superintendent of Police T Sreedhara told PTI on Saturday. According to him, the incident came to light only on Friday and since then the temple management led by the priest raised an alarm and forced the man to organise the feast. Sreedhara said a few months ago, a theft had taken place in the village and it was decided that no one should enter the temple except the priest. However, the Dalit man, whose identity has been withheld, entered as he had taken a vow to conduct some rituals. On September 14, he entered the temple ignoring the collective decision taken by the elders of the village. Other police sources said eight people have been detained in this connection. The incident was a stark reminder of the September 4 incident when a Dalit family belonging to the Chenna Dasar community was harassed and asked to pay Rs 25,000 as penalty after their two-year-old son entered the temple in Miyapur village under Kushatagi police station limits in Koppal. Five people were arrested in connection with the incident and several awareness meetings were held to educate masses against the evil of caste based discrimination.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dalit-made-to-spend-rs-11k-on-feast-for-entering-temple-in-karnataka-1034186.html
25-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress agreed to cooperate, backed out later: Speaker Kageri||Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri hit out at the Congress on Saturday for boycotting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s address to the joint session of the legislature, saying it was not a new precedent as claimed.  The Congress skipped Friday’s joint session on the grounds that there is no provision in the Constitution for a Lok Sabha Speaker to address a joint session of both Houses.  “Om Birla’s address was discussed in the business advisory committee (BAC) and inside the House as well. I even spoke to all leaders personally. They (Congress) said they will cooperate. But, on the previous day, they said they will not come,” Kageri told reporters.  Kageri displayed photographs to argue that Birla’s address was not new. “In June 2002, our Assembly hosted a conference of presiding officers where the then Lok Sabha Speaker Manohar Joshi delivered an address and S M Krishna was the chief minister with Venkatappa as the Assembly Speaker,” he said.  The decision to invite Birla was based on the outcome of an all-India presiding officers’ conference held in Kevadia, Gujarat, where it was resolved to strengthen state assemblies, Kageri said.  “In Lucknow, Birla addressed the Assembly and its members. I was there, too. The Lok Sabha Speaker has addressed the Rajasthan Assembly. Such sessions have happened in other states. Sumitra Mahajan addressed the Gujarat Assembly when she was the Lok Sabha Speaker,” he said. “So, it’s not a new tradition. And, this isn’t against the aspirations of the Constitution. If anything, it complements them. Those who are saying this was against the Constitution lack the required information,” he said.  Even Birla, when asked about the constitutional validity of his address, said there was no merit in the criticism. “Our presidents, vice-presidents and PMs have addressed assemblies and parliaments in other countries. Several examples are there in the country also. It’s up to the Speaker to decide where the programme is held,” Birla said, on the Congress’ argument that he should have addressed lawmakers at the Vidhana Soudha banquet hall and not in the Assembly hall.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-agreed-to-cooperate-backed-out-later-speaker-kageri-1034220.html
25-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Fearing electoral defeat, Congress boycotted Assembly: BSY||Fearing defeat in the forthcoming polls in Karnataka, Congress leaders boycotted Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's address in Assembly, said former chief minister B S Yediyurappa. Speaking to media persons, on Saturday evening, he said it is not fair on part of Congress to boycott Lok Sabha speaker's address and leaders of opposition party should have respected the speaker. "They are aware that Congress would not win the up-coming elections in the state. So, they boycotted the assembly out of frustration. Though the government was ready to answer to their queries, they were not eager to receive answers." Referring to the nation-wide bandh called by farmers organisations on September 27 to protest the three farm laws, the former chief minister asked people, merchants not to extend support to the bandh. Many traders have already suffered loss due to lockdown enforced to contain spread of Covid-19. So, bandh would cause loss again. Besides, it won't solve the issue. The Centre is ready to hold talks with agitating farmers to resolve the issue. On maiden best legislator award, he said he would thank people of the state in general and voters of Shikaripura assembly constituency in particular for electing him as their representative in assembly eight times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/fearing-electoral-defeat-congress-boycotted-assembly-bsy-1034251.html
25-09-2021||National||AP CM gives nod to fill 14,200 posts in govt hospitals||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has green signalled the recruitment for about 14,200 posts in the hospitals across the state. These medical staff will be recruited at various levels of government medical care, from Primary Health Care centres, medical colleges to teaching hospitals. The recruitment process will begin in October and will be completed by November 15, officials said. During a review meeting held on the prevailing Covid-19 situation and the progress of vaccination on Friday, CM Reddy instructed officials to ensure that staff crunch in government-run hospitals does not plague public health care. “While our government is spending huge amounts to construct new hospitals, lack of staff has become a major concern. This needs to be addressed,” Reddy said while asking the officials to ensure best quality medical services in the government hospitals. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to conduct a special vaccination drive in East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts and recruit additional staff for the purpose. Reddy decided to continue with the night curfew to curb the Covid-19 spread in the state and also to implement more restrictions in those districts with high positivity rate. There are 13,535 active cases in the state, as of Friday. While the recovery rate is at 98.60 per cent now, the positivity rate is 2.12 per cent. The positivity rate is less than three per cent in 10 districts, three to five per cent in two districts and more than five per cent in one district. Keeping the possibility of a Covid-19 third wave in view, 20,964 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D type oxygen cylinders were made available at various hospitals. Oxygen pipeline works are completed in 128 hospitals. Officials informed the CM that 2,61,56,928 people were administered the Covid-19 vaccine till now, of which 1,26,60,349 were given both the doses. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ap-cm-gives-nod-to-fill-14200-posts-in-govt-hospitals-1033967.html
25-09-2021||National||Government borrows 58% of target despite 74% more direct tax collections||In spite of the Centre collecting a whopping 74 per cent more direct taxes so far this fiscal on an annualised basis at Rs 5.70 lakh crore, it has also borrowed a massive 58 per cent of the budgeted amount during the same period by selling Rs 7.02 lakh crore worth of debt securities in the market. While at the weekly auction of government securities earlier in the day on Friday, it mopped up Rs 31,000 crore in long-term and short-term debt at an average price of 6.15 per cent, later in the day, the revenue department said the net personal income tax and corporate tax collection jumped a full 74 per cent to Rs 5.70 lakh crore so far this fiscal, driven mainly by advance tax and TDS payments. The mop-up of net direct tax (after deducting refunds from gross collection) between April 1 and September 22 was Rs 5,70,568 crore, a 74.4 per cent growth over Rs 3.27 lakh crore collected in the same period last fiscal, the Central Board of Direct Taxes said in a statement. Additionally, the net collection is a full 27 per cent more than the Rs 4.48 lakh crore it had collected in FY20 — or the pre-pandemic period. On top of that it has been collecting record amount of indirect taxes by way of GST (that has been topping a Rs 1 lakh crore in almost every month) and record duties from petroleum products at Rs 94,181 crore in the first quarter on the back of a record tax on fuel that yielded 88 per cent higher revenue than the previous financial year. According to Care Ratings, today's weekly auction saw government borrowing of Rs 31,000 crore by selling 5, 13, 14 and 30-year securities. With this the total market borrowings so far this fiscal are Rs 7.02 lakh crore, which is 8 per cent less than it had mopped up this time last fiscal when it was Rs 7.66 lakh crore, and Rs 12,652 crore less than the notified amount of the auctions so far. Stated differently, the debt raised so far in FY22 is 58 per cent of the total budgeted borrowing limit of Rs 12.05 lakh crore for the fiscal year and 52 per cent if the GST compensation to the states amounting to Rs 1.58 lakh crore is added to the borrowing limit for the year, the report said. The weighted average yield across tenures came down by 4 bps to 6.15 per cent over the previous week and 31 bps lower than the peak touched in early August when it was jumped to 6.46 per cent on August 6, the agency's chief economist Madan Sabnavis said. It can be noted that the government collects Rs 32.90 in excise duty in every litre of petrol which is selling at over Rs 100 a litre for months and Rs 31.80 on a litre of diesel since last April and had collected a whopping Rs 3.35 lakh crore in FY21 when the total excise mop up was only Rs 3.89 lakh crore, from Rs 1.78 lakh crore in FY20. In FY19, excise duty on petrol and diesel were Rs 2.13 lakh crore. The CBDT said gross direct tax collection so far this fiscal stands at over Rs 6.45 lakh crore, a full 47 per cent more than the Rs 4.39 lakh crore mopped up in the same period last year and 16.75 per cent more than the same period in FY20 when it was Rs 5.53 lakh crore. Of the total mop-up Rs 2.53 lakh crore is advance tax and tax deducted at source of Rs 3.19 lakh crore. Self-assessment tax worth Rs 41,739 crore, regular assessment tax of Rs 25,558 crore, dividend distribution tax of Rs 4,406 crore and tax under other minor heads of Rs 1,383 crore totaled the mop-up to 74 per cent more than last year levels. Advance tax collection so far this fiscal is Rs 2,53,353 crore up 56 per cent from Rs 1,62,037 crore a year ago. Advance tax collection comprises corporation tax of Rs 1.96 lakh crore and personal income tax of Rs 56,389 crore. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-borrows-58-of-target-despite-74-more-direct-tax-collections-1033971.html
25-09-2021||National||Modi gifts Biden documents to help him find out if he has relatives in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday presented to the United States President Joe Biden some documents, which might help the “Leader of the Free World” find out once and for all if he really had relatives in India. “You have talked today spoken in detail about the Biden surname in India and in fact you had mentioned that to me earlier too. Well, after you mentioned that to me, I looked for documents,” Modi told Biden as the two leaders met at the Oval Office in the White House on Friday. “Today, I have brought along a set of documents, maybe we'll be able to take this matter forward, and maybe those documents could be of use to you.” Biden smiled and asked Modi if he was “related” to anyone in India. “Yes,” Modi replied. Biden was born at Scranton in Pennsylvania in the US in 1942. But after he was elected as a Senator from Delaware in the 1970s, he had received a letter from Leslie Biden, who lived in Nagpur in Maharashtra, suggesting that they had common ancestors. Biden, who took over as the 46th US President on January 20 this year, had spoken repeatedly in the past about the letter he had received from Leslie Biden. He had referred to the letter during a visit to Mumbai in 2013 as the Vice President in President Barack Obama’s administration. He also referred to “five Bidens” in India during an event in the US capital in 2015. He also referred to the story of “Bidens in India” while playing host to the Prime Minister at the White House on Friday.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-gifts-biden-documents-to-help-him-find-out-if-he-has-relatives-in-india-1033977.html
25-09-2021||National||DoT seeks TRAI view on 5G spectrum auction||The Department of Telecom has set the ball rolling for the 5G spectrum auction as it sought TRAI recommendations on pricing, quantum and other modalities pertaining to radio waves in multiple bands. The DoT asked Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) views on reserve price, block size, band plan, and quantum of spectrum to be auctioned and all other modalities for spectrum across multiple bands. These include bands such as 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz, 2500 MHz bands as also 3,300-3,600 MHz bands (that were not put up for auctions in the last round), and millimetre-wave band (that is 24.25-28.5 GHz). Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw recently said the 5G Spectrum will be auctioned early next year. With the telecom industry facing financial stress due to increased debt, industry experts are sceptical of aggressive bidding by telecom firms during auction. While Reliance Jio and Airtel actively participate in the auction, Vodafone may not put an aggressive bid due to poor financial conditions. The Centre which announced a major relief package to the telecom industry recently expects new players to enter the sector as the government prepares for a 5G spectrum auction. Industry body Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) has urged the DOT earlier that the government should adopt a reasonable reserve price. The government garnered up Rs 77,814 crore in the last spectrum auction in March 2021.   In the October 2016 auction, it had collected even less, Rs 65,789 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dot-seeks-trai-view-on-5g-spectrum-auction-1033981.html
25-09-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on PIL alleging duty evasion on export of iron ore pellets||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL alleging export of iron ore in pellet form by some private firms while evading duty.  A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli asked the Union government to file its response within four weeks to the plea by NGO ‘Common Cause'. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the NGO, referred to the apex court judgements on mining and export of iron, saying that even a Parliamentary committee has said that export of iron ore should not be permitted at the cost of domestic companies. Though 30% export duty has been imposed to discourage the iron ore export, still ore was being exported in pellet form without paying the levy, he said. During the hearing, lawyer M L Sharma, who had filed the PIL on the same issue, interjected as a caveator, alleging that the NGO being represented by Bhushan has “stolen” content of his plea and the matter should not be entertained. “Your (Sharma) petition is already there. Notice has been issued on that. Does it stop Bhushan from filing another case... We are allowing his petition and it does not mean that we are disallowing your plea,” the bench said.  “Why we respect you in that you expose things for good causes. But others are also entitled to file PILs. He (Bhushan) is filing this petition which will support your cause also," the CJI told Sharma. In January this year, the top court had issued notice to the Centre and 61 iron exporting firms on Sharma's PIL seeking a direction to the CBI to register an FIR and probe the alleged duty evasion by them in exporting iron ore to China since 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-alleging-duty-evasion-on-export-of-iron-ore-pellets-1033984.html
25-09-2021||National||'Punjab CM Channi meets Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, discusses Cabinet expansion'||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday night and is learnt to have discussed the new Cabinet formation in the state, sources said. Channi was summoned to Delhi by the Congress high command to discuss the expansion of the Cabinet, just hours after he had returned from the national capital. Hectic deliberations are on between Channi and top party leaders to decide the names of ministers in the Punjab's Cabinet, the sources said. Some of the ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh government are like to be dropped, they said. It is the CM's third visit to Delhi in the past a few days. Channi had gone to Delhi on Thursday evening where he discussed the formation of his cabinet with Rahul Gandhi. He had also held discussions with All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Harish Rawat. After the meeting, Channi returned early Friday morning. Meanwhile, former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar is learnt to have met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. There is now speculation that Jakhar, who narrowly missed out on succeeding Amarinder Singh as CM, may be rehabilitated with some post. Jakhar was the frontrunner for the post of the Congress Legislature Party leader. However, party leaders, including Ambika Soni, suggested that a Sikh should occupy the top post in the state. The Congress picked Channi, who belongs to the Scheduled Castes community. The state Cabinet is likely to see some fresh faces, the sources said. The names of Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Surjit Dhiman, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are doing the rounds. Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, is at present the Punjab Congress general secretary and Gilzian is a working president of the party's state unit. There is a speculation that Amarinder Singh's staunch loyalists--Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who is the sports minister, and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who is the social justice empowerment minister--may be dropped from the cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-channi-meets-rahul-gandhi-in-delhi-discusses-cabinet-expansion-1033993.html
25-09-2021||National||India, US look to deepen ties, discuss free Indo-Pacific vision||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden on Friday discussed ways to uphold the shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific and deal with the challenges of climate change and Covid-19 in their first meeting after the change of guard in the White House. “I look forward to strengthening the deep ties between our two nations, working to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, and tackling everything from Covid-19 to climate change,” Biden tweeted, just before his meeting with the Prime Minister in Washington DC. Enhancing trade ties also figured in their talks. “There is much to be done in trade. Trade will be an important factor in India-US ties in the coming decade,” Modi said. Though the Modi government had a long-running negotiation with Donald Trump’s administration to work out a trade deal, the two sides had not been able to narrow down differences and clinch a deal. The Biden administration over the past few months did not show much interest in restarting negotiations on a trade deal, but indicated its willingness to work with the Modi government to address concerns of the two nations, particularly regarding access to each other’s markets. “Technology is becoming a driving force. We have to utilise our talents to leverage technology for greater global good,” the Prime Minister said, adding that this decade will be shaped by talent and people-to-people linkages. Biden said that he had long believed that US-India relationship could help solve a lot of global challenges.  Earlier, Vice President Kamala Harris subtly nudged India to protect democratic principles during her meeting with Modi, who called India and the US "natural partners" due to their similar values and geopolitical interests. The two sides also discussed the threats posed by terrorist groups based in Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-look-to-deepen-ties-discuss-free-indo-pacific-vision-1033994.html
25-09-2021||National||India will allow export of 8 million Indo-Pacific vaccine doses: PM Modi||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi told fellow leaders of the Quad partnership on Friday India will allow the export of 8 million Covid-19 vaccines by end of October in line with a deal reached by the grouping of Australia, India, Japan and the United States in March, India's foreign secretary said on Friday. A plan reached by the Quad earlier this year to supply a billion Covid-19 shots across Asia by the end of 2022 stalled after India, the world's largest vaccine producer, banned exports in April amid a massive Covid outbreak at home. Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters Modi had told his fellow Quad leaders at a summit in Washington on Friday that India would make available 8 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. "This would be made ready by the end of October," he said. "It will be compatible with our decision to export vaccines. The Quad will pay for the vaccine and India will bear a certain share of those. This will be an immediate delivery from the Quad in the Indo-Pacific." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-allow-export-of-8-million-indo-pacific-vaccine-doses-pm-modi-1033996.html
25-09-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Throw the termites out of Assam!'||Assam government's drive to carry out the eviction in a riverine village in Darrang district took an ugly turn on Thursday when two persons died in police firing and at least 10 others, including policemen, were injured in a face-off with protesters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-throw-the-termites-out-of-assam-1033999.html
25-09-2021||National||Quad to act as a 'force for global good' and ensure peace in Indo-Pacific: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with his counterparts from Australia and Japan on Friday attended the first in-person summit of Quad leaders hosted by US President Joe Biden and said that he firmly believed that the grouping of four democracies would act as a "force for global good" and ensure peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific as well as the entire world. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence, amidst China's growing military presence in the strategic region. At the invitation of President Biden, Prime Minister Modi and his counterparts Scott Morrison from Australia and Yoshihide Suga from Japan met at the White House for the first-ever in-person Quad summit. President Biden hosted the first virtual summit of the four leaders in March. Opening the summit, President Biden said the four democracies have come together to take on common challenges from Covid to climate. “This group has democratic partners who share world views and have common vision for the future,” he said. "We know how to get things done and are up to the challenge," he said. In a short and crisp opening address, Prime Minister Modi said that he was confident that "our participation in Quad will ensure peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific as well as the entire world." "I am confident that our cooperation will establish peace and prosperity in the world and Indo-Pacific. I firmly believe our Quad would act as a force for global good. We had come together for first time after the 2004 Tsunami for regional cooperation in Indo-Pacific. Today, as the world is fighting Covid-19, we as part of Quad have come together again for humanity. Our Quad vaccine initiative will greatly help the Indo-Pacific countries," he said. "On the basis of our shared democratic values, Quad has decided to move forward with a positive thinking and a positive approach. "Be it supply chain or global security, climate action or Covid response, or cooperation in technology, I would feel happy to discuss with my partners in Quad," prime minister Modi said. Prime Minister Morrison said that the Indo-Pacific region should be free from coercion and disputes should be solved in accordance with international law. "The Indo-Pacific has great challenges and challenges have to be overcome. In six months from the last meeting so much has been accomplished. We stand here together in the Info Pacific region," he said. "I hope we are able to hold a relevant summit," Japanese Prime Minister Suga said. During the summit, the four leaders are expected to discuss promoting a free and open Indo-Pacific, address the climate crisis and advance practical cooperation on areas like combatting Covid-19. Ahead of the Quad summit, China on Friday criticised the grouping, saying the formation of “exclusive closed cliques” runs against the trend of times, and it is “doomed to fail”. Asked for China’s reaction as the Quad summit is expected to address the challenges and rising risks Beijing poses in the Indo-Pacific region, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told the media that the quadrilateral grouping should not target any third country and its interests. “China always believes that any regional cooperation mechanism should not target a third party or harm its interests. Seeking exclusive closed cliques against a third country runs against the trend of the times and aspiration of countries in the region. It will find no support and is doomed to fail,” he said. White House officials have said that the Quad leaders would announce a new working group on space, a supply chain initiative and a 5G deployment and diversification effort apart from discussing issues like challenges in the Indo Pacific, climate change and Covid-19 pandemic during their historic meeting. Quad leaders are also planning to roll out vaccine deliverables and announce a series of measures in the field of healthcare and infrastructure sector, officials said. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the region. China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. Ahead of the Quad summit, Prime Minister Modi separately met his Australian and Japanese counterparts on Thursday and they reaffirmed the importance of maritime security towards the realisation of a "free and open" Indo-Pacific.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quad-to-act-as-a-force-for-global-good-and-ensure-peace-in-indo-pacific-pm-modi-1034003.html
25-09-2021||National||PM Modi leaves for New York to address 76th UNGA session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday left for New York where he is scheduled to address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, which had gone virtual last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi flew to New York from Washington after holding his first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden in the Oval Office of the White House and attended his first in-person Quad summit on Friday. The prime minister and his counterparts - Scott Morrison of Australia and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga - attended the meeting of Quad leaders hosted by US President Biden in the US capital. "After a series of meetings in Washington DC, PM @narendramodi emplanes for New York City. He will be addressing the UNGA session there," the Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet. Modi will address the General Debate of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Saturday. The theme for this year’s General Debate is ‘Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations’. As per the second provisional list of speakers for the General Assembly, about 109 heads of state and government will address the General Debate in person and nearly 60 will deliver speeches through pre-recorded video statements. Modi had last addressed the UN General Assembly session in 2019. Last year, world leaders had submitted pre-recorded video statements for the United Nations General Assembly session in September, as heads of state and government could not physically attend the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. It was the first time in the UN’s 75-year history that the high-level session had gone virtual. This year too, the option has been kept open for the world leaders to send in pre-recorded statements since the pandemic continues to rage across several nations around the world.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-leaves-for-new-york-to-address-76th-unga-session-1034010.html
25-09-2021||National||India, US committed to taking on toughest challenges together, says Biden after meeting Modi||India and the US are the world's largest democracies and the two countries are committed to taking on the toughest challenges together, President Joe Biden said after his first-ever in-person meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House. The meeting of the two leaders in the Oval Office of the White House on Friday lasted for more than 90 minutes, instead of the scheduled 60 minutes. “This morning, I hosted Prime Minister Modi at the White House as we launch a new chapter in the history of US-India ties. Our two nations are the largest democracies in the world, and we’re committed to taking on the toughest challenges we face — together,” Biden said in a tweet along with a picture of shaking hands with Modi. Prime Minister Modi said he had an "outstanding" meeting with US President Biden. “His leadership on critical global issues is commendable. We discussed how India and the USA will further scale-up cooperation in different spheres and work together to overcome key challenges like Covid-19 and climate change,” he said. Later while briefing the media, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that the two leaders acknowledge that the comprehensive global strategic partnerships between two countries are strongly anchored in a shared commitment to democratic values and common strategic interests. “It was a meeting which is characterized by warmth and cordiality. It was both productive and timely,” he said. Noting that the discussions were wide-ranging, he said that both leaders emphasised on combating the Covid-19 crisis and briefed each other on their experiences in dealing with the pandemic. Shringla said the prime minister expressed thanks for the solidarity shown by the US government and people in the United States when India had a second wave of the crisis, and the support India received for that time. “President Biden appreciated India's role as a country that extended assistance to countries across the world, including through pharmaceuticals and vaccines,” he said. Biden was also very impressed with the government’s approach and the steps taken by the Government of India to deal with the second wave and the level of recovery, Shringla said. “The swiftness of recovery was something that was commented on very favourably by President Biden,” he said. President Biden, during the discussion on vaccines, appreciated the decision of the Government of India to resume exporting the vaccines in October. He said that the US itself had announced significant increases in their own distribution of vaccines. This also came up during the Quad summit, he said. Essentially, there was the sense that Indian vaccines, which have quality, are affordable, which will also be scaled up significantly, would make a difference in terms of the availability of vaccines and dealing with vaccine inequity in the developing world, in particular, Shringla said. Later in a fact sheet, the White House said the United States and India are committed to values of freedom, pluralism, openness, and respect for human rights.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-committed-to-taking-on-toughest-challenges-together-says-biden-after-meeting-modi-1034020.html
25-09-2021||National||India reports 29,616 Covid-19 cases, 290 deaths||India logged 29,616 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of cases to 3,36,24,419, while the active cases rose by 1,280 to reach 3,01,442, according to Union Health Ministry data updated Saturday. Of the new cases, Kerala accounted for 17,983 cases and 127 deaths.  The death toll climbed to 4,46,658 with 290 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The active cases now constitute 0.90 per cent of the total infections, while the nationwide Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 1,280 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.86 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 1.99 per cent. The latter has been below 3 per cent for the last 92 days, it said. India's tally of case had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.  It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-29616-covid-19-cases-290-deaths-1034021.html
25-09-2021||National||PM Modi reaches New York to address 76th UNGA session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday arrived in New York where he is scheduled to address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, which was held virtually last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi flew to New York from Washington after holding his first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden in the Oval Office of the White House and attended his first in-person Quad summit on Friday. The prime minister and his counterparts - Scott Morrison of Australia and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga - attended the meeting of Quad leaders hosted by US President Biden in Washington. "Landed in New York City. Will be addressing the UNGA at 6:30 PM (IST) on the 25th," the prime minister said in a tweet. "Voicing the sentiments of the 1.3 billion people of India! PM @narendramodi arrives in New York to address the 76th UNGA tomorrow. India’s current membership of the @UN Security Council lends even greater significance!," the Ministry of External Affairs said in a tweet. Modi will address the world leaders at the UN General Debate on Saturday morning. He is the first world leader scheduled to address the world organisation. The prime minister was received at the airport by India’s ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu and India’s Permanent Representative to the UN ambassador T S Tirumurti. Modi will address the General Debate of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Saturday. The theme for this year’s General Debate is ‘Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations’. As per the second provisional list of speakers for the General Assembly, about 109 heads of state and government will address the General Debate in person and nearly 60 will deliver speeches through pre-recorded video statements. Modi had last addressed the UN General Assembly session in 2019. Last year, world leaders had submitted pre-recorded video statements for the United Nations General Assembly session in September, as heads of state and government could not physically attend the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. It was the first time in the UN’s 75-year history that the high-level session had gone virtual. This year too, the option has been kept open for the world leaders to send in pre-recorded statements since the pandemic continues to rage across several nations around the world. Modi will return to India after his address to the General Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reaches-new-york-to-address-76th-unga-session-1034026.html
25-09-2021||National||Pakistan is 'arsonist' disguising itself as 'fire-fighter': India's strong Right of Reply at UNGA||Pakistan, where terrorists enjoy free pass, is an "arsonist" disguising itself as a "fire-fighter", and the entire world has suffered because of its policies as the country nurtures terrorists in its backyard, India has said in a blistering retort after Prime Minister Imran Khan raked up the issue of Kashmir in his address to the UN General Assembly. "We exercise our Right of Reply to one more attempt by the leader of Pakistan to tarnish the image of this august Forum by bringing in matters internal to my country, and going so far as to spew falsehoods on the world stage,” First Secretary Sneha Dubey said in the UN General Assembly on Friday. "While such statements deserve our collective contempt and sympathy for the mindset of the person who utters falsehood repeatedly, I am taking the floor to set the record straight,” the young Indian diplomat said, slamming the Pakistani leader for raking up the Kashmir issue in his address to the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. "We keep hearing that Pakistan is a 'victim of terrorism'. This is the country that is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter. Pakistan nurtures terrorists in their backyard in the hope that they will only harm their neighbours. Our region, and in fact the entire world, has suffered because of their policies. On the other hand, they are trying to cover up sectarian violence in their country as acts of terror," Dubey said. Khan in his address had spoken about the August 5, 2019 decision of the Indian government on the abrogation of Article 370 as well as the death of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. In the Right of Reply, Dubey strongly reiterated that the entire Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh "were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India. This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.” Khan and other Pakistani leaders and diplomats have consistently raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and other internal matters of India in their addresses to the UN General Assembly and other forums of the world organisation. Pakistan’s attempts to internationalise the Kashmir issue have gained no traction from the international community and the Member States, who maintain that Kashmir is a bilateral matter between the two countries. Dubey said it is regrettable that this is not the first time the leader of Pakistan has "misused" platforms provided by the UN to "propagate false and malicious propaganda against my country, and seeking in vain to divert the world’s attention from the sad state of his country where terrorists enjoy free pass while the lives of ordinary people, especially those belonging to the minority communities, are turned upside down." With the international community marking this month the solemn occasion of the 20th anniversary of the “dastardly” 9/11 terror attacks, Dubey said the world has not forgotten that the "mastermind behind that dastardly event, Osama Bin Laden, got shelter in Pakistan. Even today, Pakistan leadership glorify him as a 'martyr'." "Regrettably, even today we heard the leader of Pakistan trying to justify acts of terror. Such defence of terrorism is unacceptable in the modern world." Categorically emphasising India’s position, Dubey said New Delhi desires normal relations "with all our neighbours, including Pakistan." However, it is for Islamabad to work sincerely towards creating a conducive atmosphere, including by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible actions to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross border terrorism against India in any manner. Asserting that the Member States are aware that Pakistan has an established history and policy of harbouring, aiding and actively supporting terrorists, Dubey said the country has been globally recognised as one openly supporting, training, financing and arming terrorists as a matter of State policy. "It holds the ignoble record of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN Security Council." "This is also the country that still holds the despicable record in our region of having executed a religious and cultural genocide against the people of what is now Bangladesh. As we mark the 50th anniversary this year of that horrid event in history, there is not even an acknowledgement, much less accountability,” the Indian diplomat said. Highlighting that minorities in Pakistan - the Sikhs, Hindus, Christians - live in constant fear and state-sponsored suppression of their rights, he said, "this is a regime where anti-Semitism is normalised by its leadership and even justified. "Dissenting voices are muzzled daily, and enforced disappearances and extra-judicial killings are well documented." Dubey said that, unlike Pakistan, India is a pluralistic democracy with a substantial population of minorities who have gone on to hold the highest offices in the country including as President, Prime Minister, Chief Justices and Chiefs of Army Staff. India is also a country with free media and an independent judiciary that keeps a watch and protects our Constitution. "Pluralism is a concept which is very difficult to understand for Pakistan which constitutionally prohibits its minorities from aspiring for high offices of the State. The least they could do is introspect before exposing themselves to ridicule on the world stage," the Indian diplomat said. In his nearly 25-minute long address to the UN General Debate on Friday, Khan said sustainable peace in South Asia is contingent upon the resolution of the Kashmir issue. He said Pakistan desires "peace" with India, as with all its neighbours. "But sustainable peace in South Asia is contingent upon resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir" issue, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, and the wishes of the Kashmiri people, he said. He also called on the UN General Assembly to "demand" that Geelani’s mortal remains be allowed to be buried in the "cemetery of martyrs" with the appropriate Islamic rites. On Afghanistan, Khan said, "for some reason, Pakistan has been blamed for the turn of events, by politicians in the United States and some politicians in Europe. "From this platform, I want them all to know, the country that suffered the most, apart from Afghanistan, was Pakistan, when we joined the US War on Terror after 9/11." "The only reason we suffered so much was because we became an ally of the US - of the Coalition - in the war in Afghanistan. There were attacks being conducted from the Afghan soil into Pakistan. At least there should have been a word of appreciation. But rather than appreciation, imagine how we feel when we are blamed for the turn of events in Afghanistan,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-is-arsonist-disguising-itself-as-fire-fighter-indias-strong-right-of-reply-at-unga-1034028.html
25-09-2021||National||Experts back Covid booster shots for frontline, healthcare workers: Report||Breakthrough infections and worries of falling antibodies levels against Covid-19 among those vaccinated have prompted some health experts to suggest a third dose of the coronavirus vaccine for frontline workers and those above 60 years of age as the debate around the booster dose continues. Healthcare workers and frontline workers in other professions were the first to be vaccinated in India when the immunisation drive began in January. Since they are the most at risk, many have supported a booster dose to replenish their antibody levels against the viral disease. Ambrish Mithal of Max Healthcare also reportedly tweeted that it has been seven months since the first jab. "It's evident now that those over 60 or with comorbidities and healthcare workers and frontline workers need a third shot of the vaccine after 6-8 months," the report quoted his tweet. Mishra acknowledged the ethical issue that vaccine doses should "suffice for the whole population and should be on schedule" for the booster dose to come into the picture. This adds to the larger controversy around the booster dose ever since US President Joe Biden suggested it for certain sections of the population. It is being seen as ‘unethical’ that some beneficiaries should receive a third dose of the vaccine when many third-world countries are yet to vaccinate their entire population with the first. Immunologist Satyajit Rath said that less than 15 per cent of Indian adults have been vaccinated with two doses, and this clearly means that all Indians “who are more vulnerable to infection” have not yet necessarily gotten two doses. “I, therefore, think that it is ethically premature to begin planning the third dose to a fortunate category of people at this stage,” Rath, from New Delhi's National Institute of Immunology (NII), told PTI. Immunologist Vineeta Bal agreed, saying India should not think of providing booster doses at this stage when about 40 per cent of the eligible population is yet to receive the first dose.   There are countries that have already started administering booster doses, including the US, France and Uruguay, which is prioritising this shot for frontline and healthcare workers, people aged above 60 and those aged between 18 and 64 with comorbidities. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-back-covid-booster-shots-for-frontline-healthcare-workers-report-1034033.html
25-09-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan Shringla calls Pakistan an instigator of problems in India's neighbourhood||Pakistan, which has been projecting itself as a facilitator, has been in many senses an instigator of some of the problems that India has been dealing with in its neighbourhood, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. Both during the India-US bilateral meeting by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden and the Quad summit comprising Australia, India, Japan and US, there was a clear sense of a more careful look, examination and monitoring of Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan, he said, as the Indian delegation concluded its two days of hectic engagements in the city. "Both in the bilateral discussions as well as in the forum discussions there was the clear sense that a more careful look, and a more careful examination and monitoring of Pakistan's role in Afghanistan. Pakistan's role on the issue of terrorism, had to be kept, and that certainly weather it is Quad or its other partners have to keep track of that factor,” Shringla told reporters at a news conference here on Friday. “An important factor which sometimes gets overlooked is when you see Pakistan, protecting itself as a facilitator, whereas, it has really been in many senses an instigator of some of the problems that we're dealing with in our neighbourhood and beyond,” he said in response to a question. Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with his counterparts - Scott Morrison of Australia and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga - on Friday attended the first in-person meeting of Quad leaders hosted by US President Biden. At the invitation of President Biden, Prime Minister Modi and his counterparts from Australia and Japan gathered in the American capital for the first-ever in-person Quad summit at the White House. Modi also held his first bilateral meeting with US President Biden in the Oval Office of the White House. Biden, who welcomed Prime Minister Modi in the Oval Office, said they are starting a new chapter in the US-India relationship. Shringla said during the bilateral discussions at the While House, there was a clear concern expressed on Pakistan's role in Afghanistan and the continuing support for an approach that did not seem to be conducive to the international community's expectations of what the war-torn country should be like. During the meeting, both India and the United States agreed that the issue of terrorism is very important. Both sides denounced any use of terrorist proxies and emphasised the importance of denying the logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups, which could be used to plan, or launch terror attacks, he said. The leaders also noted that the US and India will be organising a counter-terrorism joint working group meeting designation dialogue and there is also going to be a renewed US India Homeland Security dialogue in the areas of law enforcement, he said. Noting that there was quite a bit of discussion on Afghanistan, Shringla said that there was a lot of importance attached to the fact that the United Nations resolution 2593 was adopted and India's Presidency of the Security Council. This is an important resolution which reflected the international community’s general view on the situation in Afghanistan and the obligations of the ruling dispensation there to fulfill certain conditionalities that the international community faced are important, he said. “So, the two sides underscored the importance of combat and terrorism in Afghanistan. They called on the Taliban to adhere to these and all of its commitments under resolution 2593. That includes, obviously the issue of ensuring that the Afghan territory is not used to threaten attack against any country, shelter any terrorist groups or finance terrorist attacks and underscores the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan,” he said. The two delegations also called upon Afghanistan to respect human rights of women, children, minorities, provision of humanitarian assistance and access to humanitarian workers, Shringla said. They also called upon the two sides to secure an inclusive political negotiated settlement in Afghanistan, he said. “This is an important point. I think the fact that the current ruling dispensation did not appear to be an inclusive one, did not involve the ethnic minorities of Afghanistan to the extent that it should, that it did not did not include participation of women,” he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-shringla-calls-pakistan-an-instigator-of-problems-in-indias-neighbourhood-1034035.html
25-09-2021||National||PM Modi raises issue of H-1B visas with President Biden: Shringla||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first-ever in-person meeting with President Joe Biden raised a number of issues involving the Indian community in America, including access for Indian professionals in the US and speaking about the H-1B visas, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. Prime Minister Modi described as "outstanding" his first bilateral meeting in the Oval Office with US President Joe Biden who said the Indo-US relationship is destined to be "stronger, closer and tighter”. The prime minister and his counterparts - Scott Morrison of Australia and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga – also attended the meeting of Quad leaders hosted by US President Biden in the US capital on Friday. “He (Modi) spoke of the issue of getting access for Indian professionals to the United States. In that context he mentioned H-1B visa,” Shringla told reporters at a news conference on Friday. The most sought-after H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. “He also spoke of the fact that many Indian professionals who work here contribute to Social Security. The return of those contributions in the United States is something that affects the number of Indian workers,” Shringla said. A fact sheet issued by the White House later said that the United States was proud to have issued a record 62,000 visas to Indian students so far in 2021. The nearly 200,000 Indian students in the United States contribute $7.7 billion annually to the US economy. Celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Fulbright Programme worldwide, the programme has been bringing Americans and Indians closer together for 71 years since its launch in India. “In 2008, we welcomed India’s decision to jointly fund these fellowships with the United States, and renamed the program the Fulbright-Nehru Fellowship Program. Over 20,000 fellowships and grants have been awarded under this exchange programme, and the United States looks forward to building on these successes,” it said. “The Partnership 2020 programme continues to foster higher education cooperation to promote economic growth and technological advances. In collaboration with the University of Nebraska at Omaha, this programme funds 15 research partnerships between US and Indian universities in the fields of advanced engineering, artificial intelligence, public health, and energy, among others,” the White House said. According to the White House, the upcoming launch of the US-India Alliance for Women’s Economic Empowerment—a public-private partnership between the Department of State, USAID, the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum, and George Washington University—will help catalyse collaboration to advance women's economic resilience and empowerment in India. The US-funded Nexus startup and innovation hub showcases the best of American and Indian entrepreneurial innovation and technology commercialisation. Nexus serves as a central hub for entrepreneurs, innovators, faculty, industry players, and funding organisations interested in promoting Indian startups and the local entrepreneurial ecosystem,” it said. Since 2016, Nexus’s 138 graduates have raised over USD 19 million in outside funding and closed over 70 deals with many prominent Indian and US companies, it said. “The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration works closely with Indian counterparts in areas such as ocean and fisheries science, meteorology, and earth observation, which helps us better understand climate change and save lives through improved weather modeling and information sharing,” the White House said. The US Department of Agriculture looks forward to cooperating with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research on climate-change issues related to agriculture through strategic research on crops, livestock, and fisheries, it said. USAID looks forward to working with the Indian government on establishing the US-India Gandhi-King Development Foundation to promote initiatives and exchanges that honor both visionary leaders, it added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-raises-issue-of-h-1b-visas-with-president-biden-shringla-1034036.html
25-09-2021||National||US President Biden reaffirmed strength to defence ties with India: Shringla||US President Joe Biden in his first-ever meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi reaffirmed the strength to defence relationship and his unwavering commitment to India as a major defence partner, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. President Biden welcomed Prime Minister Modi to the White House on Friday. The meeting of the two leaders in the Oval Office lasted for more than 90 minutes, instead of the scheduled 60 minutes. "President Biden reaffirmed the strength to the defence relationship and unwavering commitment to India as a major defense partner. The leaders welcomed the deepening of advanced industrial cooperation in the defence sector,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters at a joint news conference on Friday. During the meeting in the Oval Office of the White House, he said, there was an emphasis on co-developing, co-production, and expanding the area of industrials cooperation in the defence sector. Having concluded four major defence enabling agreements since 2016, the United States and India have made significant progress as Major Defense Partners and America looks forward to further increasing information sharing, bilateral and multilateral exercises, maritime security cooperation, liaison officer exchanges, and logistical cooperation, the White House said in a fact sheet. In furtherance of the US-India Defense Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI), the United States and India agreed in July to a $22 million project to co-develop air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles. DTTI currently encompasses four working groups, and the next senior officials’ meeting later this year will further expand defence industrial collaboration, it said. The United States stands shoulder-to-shoulder with the Indian military, having offered state-of-the-art capabilities, such as the F/A-18, F-15EX, and F-21 fighter aircraft; MQ-9B unmanned aerial systems; the IADWS missile system; and additional P-8I maritime patrol aircraft, it said. India’s premier strategic airlift capabilities enable its military to provide critical humanitarian relief and evacuation operations to the Indian Ocean region and beyond. According to the fact sheet, the US Air Force and US firm Lockheed Martin (LM) recently concluded a $329 million contract to provide maintenance for India’s C-130J transport aircraft fleet. “This deal will help support jobs in both countries while enhancing India’s strategic airlift capabilities,” it said. The Indian Air Force operates the second-largest C-17 fleet in the world behind the United States, recently signing a $637 million extended maintenance contract with US firm Boeing that supports jobs in both countries, it said. In June, Lockheed Martin delivered India’s first two MH-60R multi-mission maritime helicopters. These platforms were assembled in Troy, Alabama, as well as Stratford, Connecticut, and integrated in Owego, New York, and allow India access to the multi-role helicopter global supply chain. “As the second-largest operator of P-8I Poseidon maritime patrol aircraft in the world, India is a valued maritime partner in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. US firm Boeing delivered the tenth P-8I aircraft to the Indian Navy in July 2021, and the 11th aircraft is expected to be delivered in October,” the White House said. In 2020, India and the United States renewed their commitment to supporting effective nuclear security globally, through India’s Global Center for Nuclear Energy Partnership and multilateral partners such as the International Atomic Energy Agency. “We will continue joint efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear materials,” it said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-president-biden-reaffirmed-strength-to-defence-ties-with-india-shringla-1034037.html
25-09-2021||National||Exciting, satisfying career in public service awaits you: PM Modi to successful UPSC candidates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated those who cleared the UPSC's civil services examination and said an exciting and satisfying career in public service awaits them as they will go on to have key administrative roles during an important period of India's journey. Congratulations to those who successfully cleared the UPSC Civil Services examination. An exciting and satisfying career in public service awaits. Those who have cleared the exam will go on to have key administrative roles during an important period of our nation’s journey. He also had a word of encouragement for those who fell short. He tweeted, "To those young friends who did not clear the UPSC examination, I would like to say- you are very talented individuals. There are more attempts awaiting. At the same time, India is full of diverse opportunities waiting to be explored. Best wishes in whatever you decide to do." A total of 761 candidates -- 545 men and 216 women -- have cleared the test, conducted annually to select the country's bureaucrats, diplomats and police officers, among other civil servants. Bihar's Shubham Kumar and Madhya Pradesh's Jagrati Awasthi have achieved the first and second ranks respectively in the coveted civil services examination, results of which were announced on Friday by the UPSC. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exciting-satisfying-career-in-public-service-awaits-you-pm-modi-to-successful-upsc-candidates-1034039.html
25-09-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Deendayal Upadhyay on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to BJP ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay on his 105th birth anniversary, saying he dedicated his life to nation-building.  In a tweet, Modi described Upadhyay as the proponent of "integral humanism", and said his ideas will always inspire the people of the country.  एकात्म मानव दर्शन के प्रणेता पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्याय जी को उनकी जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। उन्होंने राष्ट्र निर्माण में अपना जीवन समर्पित कर दिया। उनके विचार देशवासियों को सदैव प्रेरित करते रहेंगे। Born in Mathura, Upadhyay was an RSS pracharak who joined Syama Prasad Mookerjee in building the Jana Sangh, the progenitor to the BJP.  His ideas of "integral humanism" and "antyodaya" (empowerment of the most deprived) have been at the centre of the BJP's ideology.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-deendayal-upadhyay-on-his-birth-anniversary-1034042.html
25-09-2021||National||Depression over Bay of Bengal intensifies; cyclone warning for Odisha, Andhra Pradesh||A depression over the northeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal has intensified into a deep depression, with the IMD on Saturday noting that the weather system may further concentrate into a cyclonic storm and move towards Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. The deep depression lay centred 510 km east-southeast of Gopalpur and 590 km east of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh early on Saturday. "It is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm in the next 12 hours. It may move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts, between Vishakhapatnam and Gopalpur around Kalingapatnam by the evening of September 26," the IMD stated. Under its influence, the weatherman said that light to moderate showers at most places with heavy rainfall at isolated places is expected over Odisha and coastal Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. There is also a likelihood of light to moderate showers at most places on Sunday with heavy to very heavy rain in some areas and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over south Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh. Parts of north interior Odisha, Telangana and Chhattisgarh may also experience heavy rainfall on Sunday. Similarly, for September 27, the IMD forecast light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy showers at isolated places over Odisha and Telangana and heavy rainfall at isolated places over coastal West Bengal. It also predicted squally weather with wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph and gusting up to 70 kmph over northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal. The wind speed may gradually increase to 70-80 kmph and gust up to 90 kmph on Sunday, the weather office said. During the next three days, the sea condition will be rough to very rough and fishermen in Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have been told not to venture into east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal from September 25 to September 27. The IMD also predicted localised flooding of roads, waterlogging in low-lying areas due to torrential rain over coastal Andhra Pradesh on September 26 and Odisha and Chhattisgarh over the next two days. The Special Relief Commissioner (SRC), Odisha, has asked all district collectors to remain alert in view of the weather forecast.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/depression-over-bay-of-bengal-intensifies-cyclone-warning-for-odisha-andhra-pradesh-1034046.html
25-09-2021||National||BJP's Bengal unit was completely in dark about Babul Supriyo's exit plans||The BJP's West Bengal unit was completely unaware of former Union Minister Babul Supriyo's plan to exit the party and his sudden joining of the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) came as a shock, a party leader said. The leader said that they did not expect the sudden exit of Supriyo within the three months of being dropped as minister. "The way Supriyo announced to quit politics in his social media post and later on clarified that he would continue to serve his Lok Sabha constituency, there was a general belief that the former Union Minister will remain in the party. Party leadership had the feeling that he will actively participate in party activities but no one expected that he would leave the party. "Many senior leaders were in touch with Supriyo and he never hinted that he was going to leave the party," he said. Another party functionary said that no one thought that Supriyo would join the Trinamool after the BJP named him one of the star campaigners for the West Bengal bypolls. On July 7, Supriyo was dropped from the Narendra Modi government and soon announced his decision to quit politics. He had also said that he is resigning as MP. On August 2, however, Supriyo, after a meeting with BJP chief J.P. Nadda, had said that he will continue to serve as MP "I will remain an MP and fulfil my constitutional duties as MP but not participate in politics. I also gave up my official bungalow and central security provided to me. There is politics beyond the constitutional post and I withdraw myself from it. I will not join any other party," he had said after meeting Nadda. On September 10, the BJP announced Supriyo as one of the star campaigners for the by-polls, but on September 18, he switched parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-bengal-unit-was-completely-in-dark-about-babul-supriyos-exit-plans-1034048.html
25-09-2021||National||Vice President Naidu pays tributes to Deen Dayal Upadhyay||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday paid tributes to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay on his 105th birth anniversary, saying his philosophy of integral humanism and 'antodaya' continues to inspire many. Born on this day in 1916 in Mathura, Upadhyay was a founder member of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, the progenitor to the BJP. Naidu said Upadhyay was a great nationalist, an exceptional organiser, a visionary thinker and a dedicated social worker. "His philosophies of 'Antyodaya' and 'Integral Humanism' continue to inspire many," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-pays-tributes-to-deen-dayal-upadhyay-1034057.html
25-09-2021||National||Increase cooperation, not conflict, says Amit Shah; unveils roadmap for cooperative sector||Cooperation ministry has been created to work together with the states and not to increase conflict, Cooperation Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday, seeking to address apprehensions about the move viewed with suspicion by a section of political leaders. Spelling out the roadmap of the newly carved out ministry, Shah told representatives of a cross-section of cooperative societies that the government was planning changes to the laws governing multi-state cooperative societies, a new policy for the sector and increasing the footprint of primary agricultural credit societies (PACS) across the country. “At present there are 65,000 PACS, which works out to one credit society for every 10 villages. We have a target of having a PACS in every other village. In the next five years, the number of PACS will be increased to three lakh,” Shah said. Besides, the Centre would also bring a scheme for computerisation of PACS and link the district cooperative banks (DCB) and NABARD using a software that would make the services available in local languages. “The ministry of cooperation has been created to strengthen, bring transparency, modernise, computerise and create competitive cooperatives,” Shah said. He said the ministry will take up the challenge to make fruits of development accessible to every deprived individual in rural parts of the country. Shah acknowledged the muted concerns voiced about taxation issues by urban cooperative banks by a section of the speakers. “Even if you had not raised the issue, I would have addressed it. I am aware of your concerns. I assure you that there will be no injustice done to the sector,” the minister said. “We will have to think afresh, outline afresh, expand the scope of work, and bring transparency,” Shah said. More than 2,000 representatives of a cross-section of cooperative societies attended the day-long meeting at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium here. The organisers claimed that six crore persons had joined the proceedings online. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/increase-cooperation-not-conflict-says-amit-shah-unveils-roadmap-for-cooperative-sector-1034061.html
25-09-2021||National||What is PM Modi's net worth?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's latest declaration says that his net worth is Rs 3.07 crore. This is a rise of Rs 22 lakh from last year where his net worth was Rs 2.85 crore.  During Atal Bihari Vajpayee's term, it was decided that all Union Ministers have to voluntarily declare their assets and liabilities at the end of each financial year. This was done to increase transparency in public life. PM Modi's wealth reportedly increased primarily due to his fixed deposits in State Bank of India, Gandhinagar. The fixed deposits amount to Rs 1.86 crore as opposed to Rs. 1.6 crore last year.  In terms of assets, Modi does not own any vehicles. He has four gold rings valued at Rs 1.48 lakh and his bank balance stands at Rs 1.5 lakh, and cash in hand is Rs 36,000. Since becoming PM, he has not bought any property. He has only one residential property bought in 2002, of which he has one-fourth share.  The declarations are available in the public domain and can be accessed through the PM’s website. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-is-pm-modis-net-worth-1034066.html
25-09-2021||National||Lawyer should represent client's grievance, not self: Court||A lawyer has to plead the grievance of his party and not his own, a local court here has observed while rejecting a plea pertaining to alleged forcible anti-coronavirus vaccination of an accused. The applicant, through his lawyer, had filed the application in the court seeking action against the police and doctors for forcibly vaccinating him before he was taken to a jail here. When the plea came up for hearing last week, sessions court judge S J Gharat rejected it. The detailed court order was made available on Friday. In the order, the judge said, "I have made enquiry with the accused about his grievance of vaccination. The accused stated that he watched some video and therefore, he was not intending to take the vaccine." When the court asked the accused whether he brought his grievance to the notice of the concerned policeman or vaccination staff, the accused replied in the negative. Therefore, it appears that the accused did not object when the RT-PCR test and vaccination was done on him. Hence, the contention made in the application is "devoid of any merit", the court said. In fact, it appears that he is not aware about the contents of the present application, it added. The accused claimed that after his conviction till the time of the filing of this plea, his advocate neither met him in jail nor contacted him in any manner. The question, therefore, arises at whose instructions the application was drafted, the court said. Referring to the lawyer, who argued on behalf of the accused, the court observed that from the line of his argument it appeared that the advocate is against the vaccination. He (lawyer) submitted that he has filed a writ petition before the high court against the decision of vaccination making compulsory. Also that the vaccine is not giving protection from coronavirus, the court said. The court then noted that the advocate representing party has to plead the grievance of his party. "Therefore, there should be grievance of the party and not of advocate. The provisions are available for safeguarding the right of parties," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyer-should-represent-clients-grievance-not-self-court-1034075.html
25-09-2021||National||India faced a dual information challenge during Covid-19: I&B Minister Thakur||At a time the world is facing a pandemic, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur has said that countries are forced to fight an equally damaging 'infodemic', as he asserted that flow of authentic information is crucial to addressing misinformation. In an online address to the 'Summit for Information and Democracy' on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly hosted at the Consulate General of France, New York on Friday, he said misinformation and disinformation can be "harmful" to people's physical and mental health, increase stigmatisation, threaten precious health gains and lead to poor observance of public health measures, thus reducing their effectiveness in controlling the pandemic. "While the world is battling the pandemic, the task of combating the equally damaging 'infodemic' also presents a challenge to member States. It is important that the issue of 'infodemic' is addressed at the highest level. We are pleased to be a founding member and signatory of the International Partnership for Information and Democracy," he said. Citing the "onslaught of misinformation" faced by India during Covid-19, he said, the country faced a "dual information challenge" in the wake of the pandemic. "On one end of the spectrum, the urban population faced the challenge of the rapid spread of misleading and fake information through social media and other smartphone applications. On the other end, we had people in rural and remote areas, where last-mile communication varied from region to region with multiple regional languages," he said. He said the Indian government responded to these challenges through "swift and clear" communication, based on science and facts. Ensuring the regular and authentic flow of information has been an important policy component of the Indian response to counter misinformation, fake news and false narratives, he said adding daily press briefings on Covid-19 were held. The government's publicity arm Press Information Bureau (PIB) was actively involved in debunking fake narratives and news through its various platforms, he said. "We also used the power of humour to inform the Indian public on various issues...A transparent, timely and trust worthy flow of information furthers democracy and allows our citizens to take informed decisions. India firmly believes in this," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-faced-a-dual-information-challenge-during-covid-19-ib-minister-thakur-1034077.html
25-09-2021||National||There cannot be 'one-size-fits-all solution': India at UN high-level dialogue on energy||Emphasising that energy transition has to be just, inclusive and equitable, India has stressed that there cannot be a "one-size-fits-all solution" as it underlined the importance of the need to be fully sensitive to the energy-mix and national circumstances of different countries. In a video statement to the UN High Level Dialogue on Energy 2021 held on Friday on the sidelines of the 76th General Assembly session, Minister for Power and New and Renewable Energy R K Singh said India has set an ambitious target of 450 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy capacity by 2030 and is all set to launch a National Hydrogen Energy Mission to scale up in a major way the use of green hydrogen toward decarbonisation of the economy. Green hydrogen is created using renewable energy instead of fossil fuels. It has the potential to provide clean power for manufacturing, transportation, and the only byproduct is water. “Today, as we discuss energy transition, energy access and finance, I would like to reiterate the importance of being fully sensitive to the energy-mix and national circumstances of different countries. There cannot be a one-size-fits-all solution,” Singh said. The National Hydrogen Energy Mission would scale up annual green hydrogen production to 1 metric ton (MT) by 2030. The mission would make India a global hub for green hydrogen production and export, the minister said, adding that the country is also continuing to work on improving energy efficiency across various sectors and several renewable energy based citizen-centric measures like solarisation of agriculture and rooftop solar programme. India’s Energy Compacts submitted to the dialogue on energy reflect “our endeavours and commitment toward energy transition. Our partners in the public and private sectors have further committed to transformative goals through their own energy compacts". According to a statement released by the UN, India also committed to begin a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme to add 10 GW solar PV manufacturing capacity by 2025, create 15 million metric tonnes (MMT) production capacity of compressed biogas (CBG) by 2024, achieve 20 per cent ethanol blending in petrol by Ethanol Supply Year 2025-26. India has also promised to enhance energy efficiency in agriculture, buildings, industry, and transport sectors and promote energy-efficient appliances/equipment to reduce India's emissions intensity of GDP by 33-35 per cent over 2005 levels by 2030. Singh told the meeting that India has set for itself ambitious targets for the energy transition and has taken many bold steps towards achieving them. “We achieved universal access to electricity by electrifying more than 18,000 villages in under 1,000 days and more than 28 million households in just 18 months in what was the largest expansion of access in such a short time anywhere in the world,” he said. Singh said India's installed non-fossil fuel-based electricity generation capacity today stands at more than 153 GW, which comes to more than 39 per cent of the country's total installed power generation capacity. India has a further 63 GW under installation and 29 GW underbid and this comes to 245 GW overall. New multi-billion-dollar commitments to increase renewables and access to electricity and clean cooking technologies were announced at the critical UN energy summit aimed at boosting efforts to reduce the ranks of nearly 800 million people living in energy poverty without electricity access while setting the world on a trajectory towards net-zero-emissions by 2050. More than $400 billion in new finance and investment was committed by governments and the private sector during the UN High-level Dialogue on Energy, the first leader-level meeting on energy under the auspices of the UN General Assembly in 40 years, a statement by the UN said. Over 35 countries -- ranging from Small Island Developing States to major emerging and industrialised economies -- made significant new energy commitments in the form of Energy Compacts. Additionally, several new partnership initiatives were announced, aiming to provide and improve access to reliable electricity to over a billion people. The new commitments would result in large increases in the installed capacity of renewable energy and significant improvements in energy efficiency around the world -- leading to hundreds of new renewable energy facilities and the creation of millions of new green jobs. Singh said while the global pandemic tragically affected lives across the world, it also brought out the collective resilience, resolve and can-do spirit. India has administered more than 772 million doses to its citizens, making its vaccination programme one of the world’s largest and fastest. “We have also distributed more than 66 million vaccines to other countries” as of May this year. Underscoring that "we all agree that the energy transition has to be just, inclusive and equitable, leaving no one behind,” Singh said the entire international community needs to come together and work on the time tested principle of “common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities” -- with the developed countries supporting the transition in developing nations through technology transfer and affordable financing. The International Solar Alliance (ISA) with 98 signatories, co-founded by India and France, is a multilateral initiative targeted in this direction, he said. The energy summit took place as world leaders grappled with the critical urgency to keep the 1.5 degrees temperature target of the Paris Agreement within reach, and cut emissions by 45 per cent by 2030, while closing the energy access gap and providing more than one billion people who currently rely on harmful fuels with clean cooking solutions. The new commitments showcase the bold actions needed to meet the targets of Sustainable Development Goal 7 (SDG 7). Recent reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) have shown that countries are not moving fast enough on climate action to avert disastrous consequences and that even if countries met all their NDC commitments under the Paris Agreement, the collective impact would be only a fraction of what is needed to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-cannot-be-one-size-fits-all-solution-india-at-un-high-level-dialogue-on-energy-1034078.html
25-09-2021||National||Events in Afghanistan raise questions about use of terrorism to change state structure: Rajnath Singh||The developments in Afghanistan raised questions about role of power politics and the use of terrorism as a tool to change state structures and behaviour, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. In an address at the National Defence College, Singh also said that there has been growing realisation of India's concerns over Pakistan's support to radical and terror groups. In a veiled reference to Pakistan, he said the turmoil caused in the region has been brought about by "aggressive designs" and the active support to non-state players by irresponsible states. "Today, the world is witness to the destabilising effects of terror and the especially dangerous precedence of violent radical forces attempting to gain legitimacy by creating new normals," he said. The defence minister said that there is a widespread realisation amongst all responsible nations over the need to come together against the common challenges. "The recent events in Afghanistan have reinforced the reality of our times. The only certainty about evolving geopolitics is its uncertainty. Changes in state boundaries may not be as frequent today," he said. "However, the fast-transforming structure of states and the influence that external powers can have on it is clearly evident," he said "These events raise questions regarding the very role of power politics and the use of terrorism as a tool to change state structures and behaviour," Singh added. PTI MPB http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/events-in-afghanistan-raise-questions-about-use-of-terrorism-to-change-state-structure-rajnath-singh-1034080.html
25-09-2021||National||CJI offers prayers at Puri temple||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Saturday visited Shree Jagannath Temple here and offered prayers before taking a tour of the 12th century shrine. He is scheduled to inaugurate Odisha State Legal Services Authority's new building in Cuttack later in the day, official sources said. On his arrival at the Lion's Gate of the shrine, the CJI, who flew down to Puri on Friday on a two-day visit to the state, was received by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik's private secretary VK Pandian, chief administrator of Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA), Krishan Kumar, and district collector Samarth Verma. The CJI, who spent 45 minutes inside the temple complex, appreciated the SJTA for its ongoing beautification work at the shrine and its surroundings, one of the priests said. Chief Justice of Orissa High Court S Muralidhar, Archaeological Survey of India's superintendent (Odisha circle) Arun Kumar Mallik and other high officials were present at the temple during the visit. The CJI will be returning to Delhi in the evening.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-offers-prayers-at-puri-temple-1034081.html
25-09-2021||National||Women's rights activist Kamla Bhasin passes away||Eminent women's rights activist, poet and author Kamla Bhasin passed away on Saturday. She was 75. Activist Kavita Srivastava said on Twitter Bhasin breathed her last around 3 am. Bhasin has been a prominent voice in the women's movement in India and other South Asian countries. "Kamla Bhasin, our dear friend, passed away around 3am today 25th Sept. This is a big setback for the women's movement in India and the South Asian region. She celebrated life whatever the adversity. Kamla you will always live in our hearts. In Sisterhood, which is in deep grief," Kavita Srivastava tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/womens-rights-activist-kamla-bhasin-passes-away-1034082.html
25-09-2021||National||BJP opposed to social justice from very beginning: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said the BJP does not want that caste Census of backward classes should be carried out in the country, saying it was "opposed” to social justice from the very beginning. His remarks come after the Centre told the Supreme Court that caste Census of backward classes is “administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of census is a "conscious policy decision”. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, “The BJP government has proved that it does not want the census of the OBC by rejecting the long-standing demand for enumeration of the backward castes as it does not want to give them their rights in proportion to their population.” He alleged that the BJP is a “supporter” of money and power and has been “opposing social justice from the very beginning”. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-opposed-to-social-justice-from-very-beginning-akhilesh-1034085.html
25-09-2021||National||Co-WIN certificates to mention date of birth of fully vaccinated travelling abroad||People who are fully inoculated and want to travel abroad will have a Co-WIN certificate with their full date of birth, official sources said on Saturday amid ongoing discussions between India and the UK over Covid vaccination certificates. Currently, Co-WIN certificates mention the beneficiary's age based on the year of birth besides other details. The new feature is being introduced in compliance with the WHO norms and likely to be available from next week. "It has been decided that a new feature will be added to the Co-WIN under which those who are fully vaccinated and want to travel abroad will have full date of birth on their vaccination certificates," an official source said. The UK on Wednesday had amended its new travel guidelines to include the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine in its updated list of approved Covid-19 vaccines. Following India's strong criticism over the UK's refusal to recognise Covishield, London has included the vaccine in its updated international travel advisory. However, Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield would still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK notwithstanding the amendment, UK officials had clarified on Wednesday saying the inclusion of the vaccine would not make much of a difference. "We're clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we're already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students," British High Commissioner Alex Ellis had said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the Co-WIN app and the NHS app, about both apps. They're happening at a rapid pace, to ensure that both countries mutually recognise the vaccine certificates issued by each other," he had said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-certificates-to-mention-date-of-birth-of-fully-vaccinated-travelling-abroad-1034090.html
25-09-2021||National||Modi, Biden express 'deep pride' on close cooperation between India, US to fight Covid pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden have expressed "deep pride" and appreciation about their nations' close cooperation to fight the deadly Covid-19 pandemic, as they noted that all sections of the society were mobilised in unprecedented ways to share emergency relief supplies during each country’s times of need. The coronavirus pandemic, which was first reported in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019, has so far infected 42,853,604 people and claimed 687,084 lives in the US, while in India 33,624,419 people have been infected and 446,658 died due to the disease, according to Johns Hopkins university data. The US is the worst-hit in the world, followed by India. "President Biden and Prime Minister Modi expressed deep pride and appreciation about their nations’ close cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic over the past year, as governments, civil society, businesses, and diaspora communities mobilised in unprecedented ways to share emergency relief supplies during each country’s times of need," said a joint statement issued after the bilateral meeting between the two leaders on Friday. Having administered hundreds of millions of doses of vaccine to protect their own citizens at home and abroad, Biden and Modi reiterated their commitment to lead the global effort to end the coronavirus pandemic, it said. President Biden welcomed India’s announcement that it will resume exports of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines including to COVAX. On Monday, India said it will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the ''Vaccine Maitri'' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. "Both the leaders also hailed the finalisation of the overarching Memorandum of Understanding on Health and Biomedical Sciences to bolster cooperation on key areas affecting global health, including pandemic preparedness and biomedical research, to reduce the risk of future pandemics," the statement said. Prime Minister Modi welcomed Biden’s initiative to convene the Global Covid-19 Summit on Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better to Prepare for the Next, given the two countries shared commitment to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, it said. As per the Johns Hopkins university data, the deadly virus has so far infected 231,154,501 people and killed 4,737,927 globally.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-biden-express-deep-pride-on-close-cooperation-between-india-us-to-fight-covid-pandemic-1034093.html
25-09-2021||National||Biden reiterates US support for India’s permanent seat in UNSC, entry into NSG||US President Joe Biden has reiterated America’s support for india's permanent membership on a reformed United Nations Security Council and its entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group during his first in-person bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House. President Biden, in his talks with Prime Minister Modi, applauded India’s “strong leadership” during its UN Security Council Presidency in August 2021, according to the US-India Joint Leaders’ Statement issued after their meeting in the White House on Friday. “In this context, President Biden also reiterated US support for India’s permanent membership on a reformed UN Security Council and for other countries who are important champions of multilateral cooperation and aspire to permanent seats on the UN Security Council,” it said. President Biden’s support provides a big boost to New Delhi’s push for the reform of the powerful UN organ as India has been at the forefront of efforts at the United Nations to push for an urgent long-pending reform of the Security Council, emphasising that it rightly deserves a place at the UN high table as a permanent member. India in June asserted that the Inter-Governmental Negotiations (IGN) on UN Security Council reforms can no longer be used as a smokescreen, as the General Assembly decided to roll over the IGN work to the next UNGA session and agreed to include an amendment proposed by the G4 nations of Brazil, Germany, India and Japan. At present, the UNSC comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent member countries which are elected for a two-year term by the General Assembly of the United Nations. The five permanent members are Russia, the UK, China, France and the United States and these countries can veto any substantive resolution. There has been growing demand to increase the number of permanent members to reflect the contemporary global reality. During his meeting with Prime Minister Modi, President Biden also reaffirmed US support for India’s entry to the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), the joint statement said. The NSG is a 48-member grouping which regulates global nuclear commerce. Ever since India applied for the membership of the NSG in May 2016, China has been insisting that only those countries which have signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be allowed to enter the organisation. India and Pakistan are not signatories of the NPT. After India's application, Pakistan too has applied for the NSG membership in 2016. China maintains that there would be no discussion on India's entry into the NSG before reaching a specific plan on non-NPT members' participation in the elite grouping, as it declined to give a timeline to reach a consensus among member states on this issue. President Biden’s support to India’s permanent seat in the UNSC assumes significance as last month, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference that the US values "working with India at the United Nations, including in the context this month of the Security Council." Responding to a question on whether the Biden administration thinks that India should be a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Price said that the US supports building a consensus for a "modest" expansion of the Council for both permanent and non-permanent members, provided it does not diminish its effectiveness or its efficacy and does not alter or expand the veto. "We believe that a reformed Security Council that is representative, that is effective, and that is relevant is in the best interest of the United States and all of the UN member states," Price had said. In their talks on Friday, Prime Minister Modi and President Biden also welcomed the extension of the Statement of Guiding Principles on Triangular Cooperation for Global Development to leverage the combined capacities of India and the US to address global development challenges around the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific and Africa, the statement said. They renewed their close relationship and charted a new course to advance the partnership between the world’s largest democracies They also affirmed a clear vision that will guide the US-India relationship forward, the statement added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-reiterates-us-support-for-india-s-permanent-seat-in-unsc-entry-into-nsg-1034103.html
25-09-2021||National||India, US 'looking forward' to reconvening trade policy forum this year||India and the US are looking "forward" to reconvening the India-US Trade Policy Forum before the end of 2021 with an aim to enhance the bilateral relationship by addressing trade concerns, said an official joint statement. US President Joseph R Biden welcomed India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the White House on Friday for their first in-person Leaders' engagement, renewing their close relationship and charting a new course to advance the partnership between the world's largest democracies. "They looked forward to reconvening the India-US Trade Policy Forum before the end of 2021, to enhance the bilateral trade relationship by addressing trade concerns, identifying specific areas for increased engagement and developing an ambitious, shared vision for the future of the trade relationship," said US-India Joint Leaders' Statement issued after the meeting. It further said the two leaders also looked forward to convening the US-India CEO Forum and the Commercial Dialogue in early 2022, leveraging the talents of the private sector. "The leaders noted ongoing negotiations on an Investment Incentive Agreement that facilitates investment in development projects and committed to an early conclusion," it added. Modi and Biden further discussed how the US and India will work together to set sustainable and transparent rules of the road that will lift economies throughout the Indo-Pacific. They welcomed increased collaboration through the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and the upcoming Indo-Pacific Business Forum, the statement added. "The leaders noted that the movement of highly skilled professionals, students, investors and business travellers between their countries enhances their economic and technological partnership," the statement said. The leaders highlighted the importance of resilient and secure supply chains between the two countries, and welcomed the involvement of the private sector in both countries in building stronger linkages in critical sectors such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, semiconductors, and information technology. They also recognised the importance of critical and emerging technologies in delivering economic growth and achieving strategic priorities. They looked forward to reviving the High Technology Cooperation Group (HTCG) in early 2022, with the objective of accelerating high technology commerce in key areas, the joint statement said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-looking-forward-to-reconvening-trade-policy-forum-this-year-1034107.html
25-09-2021||National||India, US condemn cross-border terrorism; call for perpetrators of 26/11 attacks to be brought to justice||India and the US have said that they will take concerted action against all terrorist groups, including groups proscribed by the UN as they condemned cross-border terrorism and called for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks to be brought to justice. A Joint Statement issued after the first bilateral meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden at the White House on Friday said that the United States and India stand together in a shared fight against global terrorism. The two leaders reaffirmed that the United States and India "will take concerted action against all terrorist groups, including groups proscribed by the UNSCR 1267 Sanctions Committee." They "condemned cross-border terrorism, and called for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks to be brought to justice. They denounced any use of terrorist proxies and emphasised the importance of denying any logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups which could be used to launch or plan terror attacks," the joint statement said. Pakistan-based radical cleric Hafiz Saeed’s Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD) is the front organisation for the Lashkar-e-Taiba which is responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans. Saeed, a UN designated terrorist whom the US has placed a $10 million bounty on, was arrested on July 17 last year in the terror financing cases. The 70-year-old JuD chief is lodged at Lahore's high-security Kot Lakhpat jail. India has repeatedly called upon Pakistan to take credible, verifiable and irreversible action against terrorist networks and to bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai terrorist attacks to justice. The two sides noted that the upcoming US-India Counterterrorism Joint Working Group, Designations Dialogue, and renewed US-India Homeland Security Dialogue will further strengthen counterterrorism cooperation between the two countries, including in the areas of intelligence sharing and law enforcement cooperation, the joint statement said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-condemn-cross-border-terrorism-call-for-perpetrators-of-26/11-attacks-to-be-brought-to-justice-1034110.html
25-09-2021||National||Over 82.57 cr Covid-19 vaccines given to states, UTs so far, says Union Health Ministry||More than 82.57 crore Covid vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far and over 94 lakh doses are in the pipeline, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 4.15 crore balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and the union territories for inoculation, it said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said in a statement. "More than 82.57 crore (82,57,88,115) vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs so far through the government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. Further, more than 94 lakh doses (94,37,525) are in the pipeline," it said. The inoculation drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, it added. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and union territories by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost, the statement said. Under the universalisation of the Covid vaccination drive, the central government procures and supplies free of cost 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and union territories. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-8257-cr-covid-19-vaccines-given-to-states-uts-so-far-says-union-health-ministry-1034116.html
25-09-2021||National||When Akbaruddin pleaded with Swaraj not to pick Boris Johnson's phone!||Ahead of the successful election of judge Dalveer Bhandari to the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in 2017, the then UK foreign secretary Boris Johnson tried to contact then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj but UN envoy Syed Akbaruddin pleaded with her not to talk to the British leader. The former Indian diplomat makes this revelation in his book "India vs UK: The Story of an Unprecedented Diplomatic Win". The ICJ victory, upending all past precedents, is a good case study to understand the changing contours of India's recent approach to global fora, says Akbaruddin, who served as India's Permanent Representative to the UN from 2016 till his retirement from the Indian Foreign Service in 2020. Unwilling at first, India was prompted to enter the ring in the wake of the Kulbhushan Jadhav case, which proved the importance of having an Indian judge at the court. The contest that followed was like a 'David-and-Goliath fight' against the permanent members of the Security Council, who all put their might behind the UK for its candidate. But in the contest, the UN Security Council and the General Assembly voted overwhelmingly in support of India. Judge Bhandari received all 15 votes in the UNSC and 183 out of the 193 votes in the UN General Assembly. The UK had decided to withdraw its candidate after a closely fought electoral process. Akbaruddin, also a former spokesperson of the external affairs ministry, says major elections at the UN bring together all elements of a state's acumen in multilateral diplomacy as well as a state's ability to leverage the intensity of bilateral ties to its advantage on the global platform. They are also a useful way of understanding the ground realities that diplomats are required to navigate in fulfilling foreign policy objectives, he says. There were hectic parleys with global leaders and officials before the contest. After one of these meetings, Akbaruddin was rummaging through text messages when he saw one from then foreign secretary S Jaishankar that said Boris Johnson of the UK is trying to contact the external affairs minister in New Delhi. "I did not even see the rest of his messages; I take leave of the host and hurriedly call Dr Jaishankar. Before hearing me out, he assures me, 'Relax, we know your views.' Nevertheless, I urge, 'Please don't put him through.' In the midst of the battle, all I am thinking is that there may be some offer that the UK may make that would be difficult for the minister to decline," Akbaruddin writes. "So single-minded am I in denying an exit route to the UK that it never occurs to me that the UK may be seeking to contact the minister for anything else," he adds. According to the author, his "thoughts drift back to the warm initial meeting" between Johnson and Swaraj at a reception hosted during the General Assembly session in New York in September, 2017. "Foreign Secretary Johnson had reacted with enthusiasm as I introduced Minister Swaraj to him. Shaking his head several times, he had muttered, 'Sushma, oh Sushma', and then excitedly grabbed her hand, pivoting towards the next room to tell Prime Minister Theresa May with great relish that 'Sushma has come'," the book, published by HarperCollins India, says. The reception had clashed with the annual US reception by President Donald Trump, and Swaraj had indeed made the extra effort to attend the UK reception, it says. "These thoughts make my concerns mount about what may happen now if they talk. To assuage my anxiety, I decide to call the minister's residence. It is already late but, having worked with her for long in Delhi and in my present assignment, I know she will understand. 'Ma'am, please don't pick up the phone,' I plead," Akbaruddin writes. He then mentions that Swaraj laughed disarmingly and replied, "I have listened to you all the time." Interestingly, some minutes later, Akbaruddin got a call from Jaishankar who exclaimed, "We've done it. I just got a message that the UK is withdrawing its candidate." Shortly thereafter, British Ambassador to UN Matthew Rycroft confirmed that Judge Christopher Greenwood has withdrawn his candidature resulting in the victory of Judge Bhandari, the only candidate left in the contest. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-akbaruddin-pleaded-with-swaraj-not-to-pick-boris-johnsons-phone-1034122.html
25-09-2021||National||Partition was not just separation of territories but also division of minds: Ram Madhav||The Partition was not just a separation of territories but also a division of minds, RSS functionary Ram Madhav said Saturday, asserting there is a need to find ways to "build bridges" and discourage the elements that believe in separatism. He also said the whole idea of 'Akhand Bharat' should be seen as not about mitigating physical borders, but erasing the mental barriers that were created due to "this horrendous saga of Partition". In his address during an international webinar hosted by the JNU and themed on Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, he alleged Pakistan's founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah was a leader who was allowed to "grow into a monster" during the freedom struggle and was "hell-bent on partition of India". Jinnah, one of the most controversial figures of the subcontinent, served as a leader of the All-India Muslim League from early 20th century until Pakistan's creation on August 14, 1947, when British India was divided into two separate dominions, with India born as a free nation on August 15, 1947. Madhav, also a member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh national executive, described the partition as a "cataclysmic event" which, he said, resulted from "errors of judgment". "Partition of India unlike many other partitions seen in other countries in that period, was not just a simple redrawing of boundaries... and it also took place on a false premise that Hindus and Muslims were separate nations, even though they had been living together despite their different practices," he said. The RSS functionary said the Partition also holds important lessons and "we must learn from the mistakes" of the past, and attempt to "build bridges" with those who have separated, as a way forward. "The Partition of India was not just a partition of territories but also a partition of minds. And, the partition of minds also need to be seen with utmost seriousness and utmost care. We need to build a united Indian society. And, that can happen only if the leadership and elements which believe in separatism and communal separation are discouraged, and the sense of one nationhood need to encouraged," he said. The webinar, titled, 'India, Partition and its Aftermath: Remembering the Horrors of History', comes a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that August 14 will be observed as the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people, saying the pain of partition can never be forgotten. Madhav said there was a need to "build bridges" and "not be enemies" with people who have "become part of separate entities". "We need to pull down the walls of mental separation and create, one united Indian society, so that we ensure that India shall not have to bear another trauma of partition anytime in future. And, the next step will be build bridges," he added. "We need to find ways to build bridges that will be the real undoing of the Partition. Maybe, geographical, political and physical boundaries remain, but the mental boundaries, the boundaries of divided hearts can be erased. “That is how, we should actually look at the whole idea of 'Akhand Bharat', not about mitigating physical borders, but mitigating the mental barriers that were created due to this horrendous saga of partition," he said. Modi while making the announcement on August 14 had noted that millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence caused by the partition. May the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, the prime minister had said, keep “reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment”. Pakistan was carved out as a Muslim country after the division of India by the British colonial rule in 1947, and millions of people were displaced and many lakhs of them lost their lives as large scale rioting broke out.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/partition-was-not-just-separation-of-territories-but-also-division-of-minds-ram-madhav-1034125.html
25-09-2021||National||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar meets Rajasthan counterpart Kalraj Mishra, CM Ashok Gehlot||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar met his Rajasthan counterpart Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday. It was a courtesy visit. The West Bengal governor was accompanied by his wife Sudesh Dhankhar. The Rajasthan governor tweeted about the meeting and also posted a photo of it on his Twitter handle. Later, Jagdeep Dhankhar and his wife went to Chief Minister Gehlot's residence and inquired about his health. The Rajasthan chief minister underwent angioplasty last month. "Governor of West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar came to the residence with his wife and inquired about wellbeing," Gehlot tweeted along with a photo.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-meets-rajasthan-counterpart-kalraj-mishra-cm-ashok-gehlot-1034129.html
25-09-2021||National||India needs at least 600 medical colleges, 50 AIIMS-like institutions: Gadkari||The country needs at least 600 medical colleges, 50 AIIMS-like institutions and 200 super-specialty hospitals, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Saturday as he called for the need to replicate the infrastructure development sector's public-private partnership model in the health care and education sectors. The Road Transport and Highways Minister was speaking at the felicitation of Covid-19 warriors in Karad city of Maharashtra's Satara district. He said the cooperative sector should also come forward to set up medical facilities. "Once during a discussion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I told him about the scarcity of ventilators. He asked me how many ventilators were there in the country, to which I replied there must be around 2.5 lakh. But he told me that there were only 13,000 ventilators when the coronavirus pandemic broke out in the country," Gadkari said. There was lack of oxygen, beds, and other medical facilities at that time. But doctors, paramedical, nurses helped a lot in those times, he said, adding, "I appreciate their work." Apart from the government-run hospitals, the contribution of medical facilities set up by the cooperative and private sectors was commendable, the minister said. "The public-private investment model in the road and infrastructure development sector can be replicated in health care and education sectors. The country needs a minimum of 600 medical colleges, 50 AIIMS-like institutions and 200 super-specialty hospitals. The government is also thinking of providing help to those social organisations that work in medical and education sectors," Gadkari said. He also stressed the need to have at least one veterinary hospital in every tehsil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-at-least-600-medical-colleges-50-aiims-like-institutions-gadkari-1034130.html
25-09-2021||National||Is India likely to get its first intranasal Covid vaccine in near future?||Is India likely to get its first intranasal Covid vaccine in the near future? Bharat Biotech is exploring the possibility. How would it work? Biotech is working on 3 possibilities: 1. 2 intranasal shots of BBV154 2. A Covaxin jab followed by the nasal vaccine BBV154 3. A Covaxin jab after the nasal vaccine BBV154 The mixing of vaccines is being mulled in order to gauge which option would produce the longest immune response. “While the nasal vaccine can be administered as two shots, the company is testing whether combining it with Covaxin gives better results. Thus, this can be used as a mix-and-match with Covaxin to produce a more holistic immune response,” a source was quoted telling Business Standard. On just taking an intramuscular jab, Shahid Jameel, senior virologist and director at Ashoka University, said the nasal mucosa is protected by different kinds of antibodies called IgA antibodies. “This is not sufficiently generated when a vaccine is administered through the intramuscular route,” Jameel told Business Standard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-india-likely-to-get-its-first-intranasal-covid-vaccine-in-near-future-1034145.html
25-09-2021||National||India to have 1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses ready for Indo-Pacific by next month, PM Modi tells Quad||India will have one million doses of Janssen Covid-19 vaccines for Indo-Pacific nations by next month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the other leaders of the four-nation coalition during its first in-person summit in Washington D.C. The vaccine doses are produced in the country by the Biological E Limited under the Quad Vaccine Partnership.  India and the United States also finalized the overarching Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Health and Biomedical Sciences to bolster bilateral cooperation on key areas affecting global health, including pandemic preparedness and biomedical research, to reduce the risk of future pandemics, according to a joint statement issued after the Prime Minister had a meeting with the United States President Joe Biden just before the Quad summit on Friday (local time in Washington D.C.). Modi and Biden joined Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga for the Quad summit, which the US President hosted at the White House. They reviewed the progress made in implementing the Quad Vaccine Partnership that they had launched during a virtual summit on March 12 this year, when they had committed the US Development Finance Corporation’s support to the Biological E Limited of India to augment capacity to produce up to one billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, including the one developed by the Johnson and Johnson, by the end of 2022, primarily for supply to the Indo-Pacific region, where the four nations want to the counter the hegemonic aspirations of China. As his government announced its plan to restart sending out jabs produced in India, Modi told Biden, Suga and Morrison that one million vaccines produced by the Biological E Limited would be ready to be sent out to the Indo-Pacific nations next month. India would pay for half of the first consignment of the vaccines, while Australia, Japan and the US would provide fund for the rest. Japan will continue to help regional partners purchase vaccines through $3.3 billion of Covid-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support Loan. Australia will deliver $212 million in grant aid to purchase vaccines for Southeast Asia and the Pacific. In addition, Australia will allocate $219 million to support last-mile vaccine rollouts and lead in coordinating the Quad’s last-mile delivery efforts in the regions, according to a joint statement issued by the four-nation coalition. The leaders also decided that the four nations would conduct a joint pandemic-preparedness tabletop exercise in 2022. The Quad Vaccine Partnership was aimed at countering China’s bid to use supply of the Covid-19 jabs developed by its pharmaceutical companies to South Asian and the South East Asian nations in order to expand its geopolitical influence in the region. The Modi Government sent out over 1 crore doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 22 this year, in addition to the 3.57 crore doses exported commercially and 1.98 crore doses contributed to the COVAX, an initiative launched by the World Health Organization (WHO) for equitable distribution of the antidote against the SARS-CoV-2 infection. It, however, paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore during the brutal second Covid-19 wave in India and slowed down the inoculation programme in the country. China stepped up supply of its vaccines to the countries in the region in order to take advantage of the void created by the restrictions imposed on export and donation of the jabs from India. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-1-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-ready-for-indo-pacific-by-next-month-pm-modi-tells-quad-1034148.html
25-09-2021||National||Legislature needs to reform laws to suit needs of time, people: CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday said the legislature needs to revisit the laws, and reform them to suit the requirements of the time and people to avoid the judiciary stepping in as a lawmaker. "Our laws must match with our practical realities. The executive has to match these efforts by way of simplifying the corresponding rules. Most importantly, the Executive and the Legislature should function in unison in realising the Constitutional aspirations," he said.  It is only then, that the Judiciary would not be compelled to step in as a lawmaker and would only be left with the duty of applying and interpreting the laws, he added.  Speaking at the inauguration of a new building of the Odisha state legal services authority in Cuttack, CJI Ramana reiterated his call for "Indianisation of judicial system".  He pointed out that even after 74 years of independence, traditional and agrarian societies -- which have been following customary ways of life -- still feel hesitant to approach the courts.  "The practices, procedures, language and everything of our courts feels alien to them. Between the complex language of the acts and the process of justice delivery, the common man seems to lose control over the fate of his grievance. Often in this trajectory, the justice-seeker feels like an outsider to the system," he said. Maintaining that Indianisation of justice delivery system remained as a primary challenge for the judicial system, Justice Raman said a harsh reality is that, often our legal system failed to take into consideration the social realities and implications. He said people might be bringing their problems to the courts, but what remains at the end of a day is yet another "case". He said it is a general understanding of the people that it is the court's responsibility to make laws. "This notion has to be dispelled. This is where the role of other organs of the State, i.e. the legislature and the executive assumes great significance," Justice Ramana said. Elaborating on the second challenge, enabling the people to "decode the justice delivery system by raising awareness", Justice Raman said the legal services have become an integral part of the judicial administration and lack of proper infrastructure and funds result in reduction of the activities carried out by these institutions. "As a result, the number of beneficiaries who avail services of these institutions reduces. Ultimately the goal of access to justice for all gets hampered. If we want to retain the faith of our people, we need to strengthen not only the judicial infrastructure, but we also need to boost our outreach programme as well," he added. The CJI said a country-wide robust legal awareness mission would be launched in the upcoming week.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legislature-needs-to-reform-laws-to-suit-needs-of-time-people-cji-1034153.html
25-09-2021||National||Alia Bhatt's ad sparks debate on the relevance of wedding ritual 'Kanyadaan'||The bride, pretty, radiant and in red, sits in front of the sacred fire, her family, the groom and his parents around her, the love flowing like a balmy breeze. And in that arguably most precious moment, she looks into the camera and asks -- why must a woman be commodified through the custom of ‘kanyadaan’, literally ‘donating a daughter’. The ad for a lehenga brand featuring Bollywood star Alia Bhatt as the much indulged daughter and granddaughter has fired debate on social media platforms and elsewhere on the age-old tradition of 'giving away the daughter'. Many term it 'Hindu phobic' for casting aspersions on a ritual that is part of the warp and weft of society, others appreciate it for calling out the patriarchy that underscores the custom and there are those that feel it should have gone even further in its rejection. "There is a growing number of young women who are beginning to think about the issue, especially as increasing number joins the work force, has access to ideas (via social media etc) that are critical of 'women as property' concept. This ad reflects that," sociologist Sanjay Srivastava told PTI. In the 1.41 minute ad, Bhatt, the self assured woman of today who also does a selfie pout with her father while at the ‘mandap’, recalls her lifetime of ‘othering’ in a monologue -- her fond grandmother saying she would one day go to her own home, her father not reacting when people called her "paraya dhan" (alien property) and her mother calling her a 'chidiya' which would fly away one day. The Manyawar ad ends with the grooms’s parent also joining in in the ritual (though it is unclear whether they too are giving away their son) and Bhatt’s bride saying it should be 'kanyamaan' (respect for the girl child) and not 'kanyadaan', and asking, "Am I a thing to be given away?" Her angst finds wide echo.   Actor Dia Mirza, who decided to do away with the rituals of both "bidaai" and "kanyadaan" when she got married to businessman Vaibhav Rekhi, said they wanted the wedding to reflect their "beliefs and not outmoded ideas".   "Neither of us believes that women are commodities to be given away or 'donated'. Women have agency, selfhood and can make decisions about their lives on their own so my wedding reflected exactly that by not including a ritual like 'kanyadaan'," the actor told PTI. She even engaged a female priest for her wedding to emphasise gender equality. "It is time for young couples to define how they want to get married and if their ceremony is truly representative of their personalities and love for each other," said the actor, who is also the United Nation's National Goodwill Ambassador from India. The ritual of giving away the bride is, of course, not just about Hindu weddings. It is also a vital part of a Christian wedding service where the father walks down the aisle with his daughter and "hands her over" to the waiting groom. Brought up on tradition and a diet of popular culture, including movies, both Indian and western, many women have now begun to question the patriarchal traditions of wedding ceremonies across societies. Mumbai-based IT analyst Meghna Trivedi, who got married in February last year, said the ritual of "kanyadaan" does not make sense in today's day and age but had to undergo the ritual anyway. Trivedi, a Gujarati who married a Punjabi, said she asked the priest to find another way but he maintained 'kanyadaan' is a "must". "What you mean by ‘kanyadaan’ is that you're giving away your daughter to somebody else and that is something you have to do in your life and it's related to your duties as a parent that now your daughter belongs to another family," she told PTI. "But I'm still my parents' daughter after I got married... 'Kanyadaan' is like you're giving me away and you have nothing to do with me anymore... You're severing ties like I'm some object basically that you're giving away. My parents did understand it but the issue was 'this is how it is, has been and will be'." Actor Kangana Ranaut was among those who disagreed. Criticising the ad in an Instagram post, she said, "Humble request to all brands... don’t use religion, minority, majority politics to sell things... Stop manipulating naive consumer with shrewd divisive concepts and advertising... Please stop mocking Hindus and their rituals..." One of the Twitter users echoed similar sentiments. "Our traditions are not regressive, your mindsets surely are! Kanyadaan is a sacred tradition, where a father/parent parts with their most precious and cherished daughter, a bittersweet emotional moment filled with hopes, promises and dreams," the user wrote. Women’s rights activist Shabnam Hashmi said the attacks on the ad "reflects the highly patriarchal mindsets of our society". "It is a very progressive advertisement and raises important questions of women’s  dignity and equality," Hashmi told PTI. Sociologist Shrivastava added that people reacted negatively because there is an increasing intolerance against anything that is seen to question 'Indian traditions'. The reaction, he said, also reflects a "male anxiety" about the changes that are happening in addition to the current climate where it has become difficult to question anything Indian/Hindu. There were also those who felt the ad didn’t go far enough. “The idea should not be to perpetuate the custom but to break away from it,” said a young woman, who welcomed the ad and the questioning of traditions but would have preferred that it didn’t end with the parents of both sides taking part in it. A radical break would have been more effective in sending out the message, she said. However, a debate reflects a churn. And in that sense, any discussion is welcome, even if it has unlikely beginnings in an ad for a bridal lehenga. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alia-bhatts-ad-sparks-debate-on-the-relevance-of-wedding-ritual-kanyadaan-1034157.html
25-09-2021||National||Anurag Thakur launches transmitters of DD, AIR in Ladakh||Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Saturday launched high-power transmitters of Doordarshan and All India Radio at Hamboting La near Kargil in Ladakh. Located at the height of 4,054 metres above the mean sea level, these are the highest altitude TV and radio transmitters in the country. The range of the 10 kilowatt transmitters is over 50 km in radius. The existing transmitters at Leh are at the altitude of 3,501 metres (about 11,450 feet). Speaking on the occasion, the minister noted that the Hamboting La site is one of the most difficult locations considering the hostile weather conditions and geographical terrain.  Complimenting the team of engineers and workers for completing the project in such hostile weather conditions, the minister said that the Ladakhi contribution to DD Kashmir will be doubled from 30 minutes to one hour daily from October 1. Observing that these transmitters would cover a population of about 50,000 in the remote border area of Kargil, Thakur said that the number may look small compared to other parts of the country, but it demonstrates the commitment of the government to reach each and every citizen in the border areas. He said that the border coverage by strong signals of radio and television is an important aspect of broadcasting policies of the government. The minister said that it is not only required for providing correct information to the people in the sensitive border areas of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh but also to counter the propaganda from hostile neighbours. "The strengthening of terrestrial coverage in border areas also allows the viewers/listeners to be adequately informed about the country's policies, news and current affairs and simultaneously be entertained by variety of programmes,” he said. "This will also make educational content available for the students in this region through DD and AIR. Through its TV, radio and digital platforms, Prasar Bharati has been offering various educational contents for school and college students in collaboration with various state education departments and institutions,” Thakur said. In order to make TV and radio channels accessible to common people, Prasar Bharati is making available over 160 TV channels across different genres, including news, entertainment, education, and 48 radio channels free of cost to DD Free Dish households, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry said. The unique free-to-air model has made DD Free Dish the largest DTH platform with reach to more than four crore households, it said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-thakur-launches-transmitters-of-dd-air-in-ladakh-1034158.html
25-09-2021||National||Congress backs Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmer unions||The Congress on Saturday extended support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws and demanded that discussions be initiated with the protesters. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the Congress party and all its workers will support the "peaceful Bharat Bandh on September 27, called by farmer unions and farmers". "We demand that the due process of discussion with the farmers should be initiated because they are sitting on the borders of Delhi for last more than nine months. We demand that these three black laws, which were imposed without any consultation, should be taken back," he also said. The Congress leader also demanded that the MSP should be given as a legal right to every farmer "as they do not want only 'jumlas' (rhetoric)" and referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's promise to double the farmers' income by 2022. "If we compare 2012-13 income of a farmer family with his income in 2018-19, the income due to farming in the total income of a farmer has reduced from 48 percent to 38 percent," he claimed. Vallabh cited the Situation Assessment Survey of the Government of India, which states that a farmer on average is earning Rs 27 per day. He said that the agriculture sector suffered a permanent dent in the last seven years. He said that the Modi government "first tried to usurp farmers' land by bringing in the Land Acquisition Ordinance in 2014 and then in 2015, it filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court that if farmers' produce is purchased on MSP, as per the formula given by Swaminathan Commission, the markets are going to be distorted". He also said that in the name of agriculture insurance, the government gave a major portion of the agriculture budget to insurance companies, even as the cost of farming per hectare has gone up by Rs 25,000. "This is also the first government in the last 70 years that has imposed a tax on agriculture in the form of GST, which has also been imposed on tractors, pesticides, seeds and farm equipment, and the agriculture sector is being taxed indirectly," he claimed. The result is that the average debt of a farmer which was Rs 47,000 in 2012-13 has increased to Rs 74,121 in 2018-19, he alleged and said this is the reason the Congress is supporting the Bandh. Vallabh said the farmers are demanding the withdrawal of three "black laws which were imposed without following any democratic process or consultation". "They are only demanding that MSP should be given as a legal right to every farmer. "I am surprised that why Prime Minister Modi is opposing Chief Minister Modi? When UPA-2 was in power, Chief Minister Modi gave in writing that MSP should be given as a legal right, now he is opposing his own words and his entire party is opposing his words," he said. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by the Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have said that these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income. The Supreme Court had in January stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a panel to resolve the impasse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-backs-bharat-bandh-called-by-agitating-farmer-unions-1034161.html
25-09-2021||National||Anti-defection law: Final call at Speakers’ conference, says Om Birla||A presiding officers’ conference scheduled to be held in Shimla next month will arrive at a decision on the changes needed to the anti-defection law, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said Saturday.  The conference will also discuss steps to maintain discipline and decorum in all legislative houses, he said.  Addressing a news conference at Vidhana Soudha, Birla said a committee that was constituted to review the powers of the Speaker with respect to the anti-defection law had submitted its report. “The report will be placed in the Shimla conference. If it is adopted, we will ask the government to revisit the law and what needs to be changed,” he said.  Legislators can be disqualified under the anti-defection law (10th Schedule of the Constitution) for anti-party activities. In 2019, 17 MLAs of the Congress-JD(S) coalition were disqualified for defecting to the BJP.  “Some presiding officers have expressed that Speakers should not enjoy unlimited power when it comes to the anti-defection law and that they should work within a framework in which disqualification petitions are disposed of within a stipulated time,” Birla said.  The three-day Shimla conference will start on October 26. This will mark the centenary of the first one that was held also at Shimla.  Birla expressed concern over declining standards of parliamentary proceedings. “Protests in the well, disruption...these are matters of concern. From time to time the presiding officers, chief ministers, law ministers and floor leaders discuss measures to maintain decorum. We will discuss this also at the conference,” he said.  “It’s a collective responsibility of the ruling party, the Opposition and all members to ensure there’s debate and no disturbance. We need to create a conducive atmosphere where there’s quality debate on Bills and burning issues,” he said.  The conference will also formulate 75 programmes to strengthen democratic institutions on the occasion of India's 75th year of independence. "These 75 programmes will include panchayats and the Parliament," Birla said.  Common platform Birla said the Parliament library will be linked with all state assemblies so that lawmakers get a common platform to access debates and discussions. “Over the next six months, we’re trying to create a database of all debates and discussions in Hindi and English by name and subject. Members can access, say, budget debates that happened in one state,” Birla said, adding that this is one of the many capacity-building measures being taken for lawmakers.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-defection-law-final-call-at-speakers-conference-says-om-birla-1034162.html
25-09-2021||National||TMC to contest Goa Assembly polls, will declare CM candidate: Derek O'Brien||Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien on Saturday said his party would be contesting the next year's Goa Assembly polls. The party will announce its chief ministerial candidate soon, he added. “We are here as a serious contender against the ruling BJP," the MP told PTI. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has no "high-command culture" and will pick credible local leaders in the coastal state, he said. Since arriving in Goa on Friday, O'Brien has been meeting representatives of civil society as well as political leaders. The state was looking for a party which would keep the BJP at bay and if there was one leader who can best Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was Mamata Banerjee, he said. The entry of the TMC will not divide opposition's vote in the state, he said to a question.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-to-contest-goa-assembly-polls-will-declare-cm-candidate-derek-obrien-1034163.html
25-09-2021||National||Army officer cycling from Leh to Manali to set Guinness record||An Indian Army officer is cycling from Leh to Manali in an attempt to set a Guinness record for the "fastest solo cycling (men)", a defence spokesman said. Lt Col Sripada Sriram of the strategic Strikers Division started cycling for his mission after being flagged off by Brig R K Thakur from Leh at 4 am on Saturday, the spokesman said. He said the officer would attempt to cover the distance of 472 km with a total elevation gain of approximately 8,000 metres. The route involves crossing of five major passes in tough weather conditions, the spokesman said, adding the officer is expected to reach Manali in Himachal Pradesh by September 26 afternoon. "This event becomes more special as it is part of 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' celebrations and marks the occasion of 195th Gunners' Day,” the spokesman said. India is celebrating 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' to mark the 50th anniversary of its victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-officer-cycling-from-leh-to-manali-to-set-guinness-record-1034166.html
25-09-2021||National||PM Modi sends Pakistan veiled warning on terrorism||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tacitly warned Pakistan that its policy of using terrorism against India could turn out to be damaging for it also. “The nations, which are using terrorism as a political tool, must realise that the menace poses a grave threat to them as it does to others,” Modi said, addressing the United Nations General Assembly, which earlier saw a war of words between India and Pakistan. Amid reports about Islamabad’s role in bringing the Taliban and its affiliate Haqqani Network back to power in Kabul, the Prime Minister said that the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to spread terrorism or launch terrorist attacks against other countries. “We must be careful to ensure that the sensitive situation there should not be misused as a tool by any nation for its own interest,” Modi said in his 22-minute long speech at the UNGA. New Delhi earlier on the day deployed one of the youngest diplomats to respond to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s remarks against India. “We have had a great tradition of democracy that goes back to thousands of years,” the Prime Minister said. “It is a country that has dozens of languages, hundreds of dialects, different lifestyles and cuisines. This is the best example of a vibrant democracy,” said Modi, adding that it would soon be 20 years of him serving the people of the country as head of government – first as the longest serving Chief Minister of Gujarat and then as the Prime Minister for the last seven years. “The strength of our democracy is demonstrated by the fact that a little boy who at one time used to help his father at his tea stall at a railway station is today addressing the United Nations General Assembly for the fourth time as Prime Minister of India”. “Yes, democracy can deliver. Yes, democracy has delivered”, he said. After Khan earlier accused the Modi government in New Delhi of Islamophobia as well as of committing atrocities and violating human rights in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), India exercised its ‘Right to Reply’ to turn the table on Pakistan. Sneha Dubey, First Secretary at the Permanent Mission of India at the UN in New York, slammed Pakistan Prime Minister for spreading “falsehood” on the world stage. This is the country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter, she said, tacitly referring to Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan and dismissing its claim to be a victim of terrorism. India alleged that Pakistan nurtured terrorists in its backyard in the hope that they would only harm its neighbours. She said that South Asia and, in fact, the entire world had suffered because of the policies of Pakistan, which, on the other hand, were trying to cover up sectarian violence in the country as acts of terror. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-sends-pakistan-veiled-warning-on-terrorism-1034168.html
25-09-2021||National||Ayushman Bharat has transformed healthcare system in country: Mandaviya||The Ayushman Bharat scheme has transformed the healthcare system in the country as now even the poor have access to non-government treatment facilities earlier reserved for only those who could afford it, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. Mandaviya was speaking at an event organised to mark the 66th Foundation Day of AIIMS, New Delhi. Congratulating the institute, the minister said AIIMS, New Delhi is a "lighthouse" to all the 22 other AIIMS hospitals spread across India. He said students and teachers of AIIMS, New Delhi can help other institutes through their rich experience. Mandaviya urged doctors to develop a strong sense of patriotism to ensure the overall well-being of the nation. The minister said due to the relentless efforts of the Modi government, the healthcare system has developed in the country. "The budget outlay for health has increased 137 per cent since last year to 2.40 lakh crore. Ayushman Bharat has transformed healthcare in the country as poor patients can access non-government treatment facilities earlier reserved for only those who could afford it,” he said. Exhorting the medical community to serve everyone with dedication, Mandaviya said the government can only initiate action, passion can only come from service providers. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayushman-bharat-has-transformed-healthcare-system-in-country-mandaviya-1034175.html
25-09-2021||National||Congress questions Shah's silence over Delhi courtroom firing, Assam incident||The Congress on Saturday questioned the silence of Home Minister Amit Shah on the open shootout inside a courtroom in the national capital and also the Assam firing incident. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh also asked whether Shah does not have the time to resolve the issue in Assam. "The country's law and order situation is worsening, with firing taking place inside a courtroom in the national capital, killing people. There are 10-20 rounds of firing inside a courtroom and where is the home minister. Where is his statement," he asked. "Who is responsible for this," Vallabh said, wondering whether the home minister is only supposed to give speeches. "When the law and order situation is so precarious and the country's home minister is silent and gives no statement or takes action, then it is an indication of a 'majboor' (helpless) government and not a strong government. The people of India have never tolerated 'majboor' (helpless) people," he told reporters. Vallabh said the BJP leadership made several tall promises ahead of Assam elections and asked where are those promises now. He said never in the country's history has one police force fired upon the police force of another state and killed cops and the home minister is still silent, apparently referring to the Assam-Mizoram border row during which seven people were killed and 50 injured in an exchange of fire between the police forces of the two states in July. "The country's home minister does not have time to visit Assam and sort out the issue through talks. He does not have time to resolve this matter. Where is the country's home minister, has he also gone to America," Vallabh asked, alleging that he has come to know from the media that he is attending a conference on cooperatives. Commenting on the Assam situation, the Congress spokesperson questioned why the home minister was not giving any statement when leaders of opposition, the principal opposition party leaders are asking that the central government should interfere. "Have you seen any statement by the home minister on that? In the past also we had seen that a state police of one state is fighting against the state police of another state? What is going on? Everybody is silent; nobody is making any comment on that, what is the reason for these things," he asked. An eviction drive in Gorukhuti village in Assam's Darrang district on Thursday turned ugly when clashes broke out between police and alleged encroachers resulting in the death of two persons and injuries to 20. A shocking video showing a man hitting an apparently dead person with a bullet wound on his chest and jumping over his body also surfaced after the incident, drawing widespread condemnation. The man, who was a photographer engaged by the district administration, was arrested and a judicial probe has been ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-questions-shahs-silence-over-delhi-courtroom-firing-assam-incident-1034179.html
25-09-2021||National||SC withdraws order on extension of limitation period for filing cases||The Supreme Court has said the extension granted in connection with the limitation period to file cases in courts, in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, will end on October 2, 2021.  A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant said: “In computing the period of limitation for any suit, appeal, application or proceeding, the period from March 15, 2020, to October 2, 2021, shall stand excluded. Consequently, the balance period of limitation remaining as on March 15, 2021, if any, shall become available with effect from October 3, 2021”.  The bench added that in cases where the limitation would have expired during the period between March 15, 2020, to October 2, 2021, notwithstanding the actual balance period of limitation remaining, all persons shall have a limitation period of 90 days from October 3, 2021. It further added that in the event the actual balance period of limitation remaining, with effect from October 3, 2021, is greater than 90 days, that longer period shall apply.    In another direction, the bench said: “ The period from March 15, 2020, to October 2, 2021, shall also stand excluded in computing the periods prescribed under Sections 23 (4) and 29A of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, Section 12A of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 and provisos (b) and (c) of Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 and any other laws, which prescribe period(s) of limitation for instituting proceedings, outer limits (within which the court or tribunal can condone delay) and termination of proceedings”.   On March 23, 2020, acting suo motu, the top court had directed the suspension of limitation periods, in view of "extraordinary health crisis" in the form of Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, on March 8, 2021, the court had recalled this order, after taking note of the decline in Covid cases in the country.   Thereafter in view of the "devastating and debilitating effect" of the second wave, Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association approached the court, seeking suspension of limitation periods.   The court on April 27 ordered that the limitation period under any general or special laws in respect of all judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings in the country shall stand extended until further orders. On September 23, after hearing Attorney General K K Venugopal, senior advocate Vikas Singh and others, the bench noted, "There is consensus that there is no requirement for the continuance of the initial order passed by this court on 23.03.2020 and relaxation of the period of limitation need not be continued any further." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-withdraws-order-on-extension-of-limitation-period-for-filing-cases-1034182.html
25-09-2021||National||We must fulfil our duty to help Afghanistan’s people in need: PM Modi at UNGA||Prime Minister Con Saturday said that the world must fulfil its duty by providing help to the people in war-torn Afghanistan where women, children and minorities are in need. Addressing the high-level United Nations General Assembly session here, Modi said that the people of Afghanistan require help at this time. “The women and children of Afghanistan, the minorities of Afghanistan need help. And we must fulfil our duty by providing them with this help,” he said. He said it is absolutely essential to ensure that Afghanistan’s territory is not used to spread terrorism and for terrorist attacks. “We also need to be alert and ensure that no country tries to take advantage of the delicate situation there and use it as a tool for its own selfish interests,” Prime Minister Modi said without naming any country. The UNSC resolution 2593 on Afghanistan, adopted under India’s Presidency of the 15-nation Council in August, had demanded that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and noted the Taliban’s relevant commitments. The Taliban, which took control of Kabul on August 15, have put in place a hardline interim 33-member Cabinet that has no women and includes UN-designated terrorists. The Taliban last ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan last month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city of Kabul fell to the insurgents. The Taliban claimed victory over opposition forces in the last holdout province of Panjshir on September 6, completing their takeover of Afghanistan three weeks after capturing Kabul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-must-fulfil-our-duty-to-help-afghanistan-s-people-in-need-pm-modi-at-unga-1034183.html
25-09-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi takes swipe at PM Modi over remarks of US Vice President Kamala Harris||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking whether he understood the remarks of US Vice President Kamala Harris about protecting democracies and institutions. "Did he get it," he asked in an Instagram post, while sharing the remarks of Kamala Harris. "It is imperative that we defend democratic principles and institutions within our respective countries and around the world and that we maintain what we must do to strengthen democracies at home and it is incumbent on our nations to, of course, to protect democracies in the best interests of the people of our countries," Harris said in her remarks while jointly addressing the media in the United States. Prime Minister Modi is on a visit to the US. He held discussions with Harris on Friday and met President Joe Biden. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-takes-swipe-at-pm-modi-over-remarks-of-us-vice-president-kamala-harris-1034190.html
25-09-2021||National||UN must improve its effectiveness and enhance reliability to remain relevant: PM Modi||If the UN wants to remain relevant, it will need to improve its effectiveness and enhance its reliability, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, underlining the need to strengthen the world body to safeguard global order, laws and values. Addressing the 76th UN General Assembly here, the prime minister quoted great Indian diplomat Chanakya's words "when the right action is not taken at the right time, then it is time itself that causes the action to fail" to push his view. "If the United Nations wants to remain relevant. It will need to improve its effectiveness and enhance its reliability," he said. Modi said that today, all kinds of questions have been raised about the UN. "We have seen such questions being raised, related to the climate crisis and during the Covid-19 pandemic," he said. The World Health Organisation, the UN's health agency, has faced criticism since the Covid-19 outbreak first surfaced in China in December 2019. WHO faced criticism for mishandling the crisis. Former US president Donald Trump slammed the WHO as a "puppet" of China and accused it of covering up the start of the outbreak and allowing the virus to spread around the entire world. "The proxy war going on in many parts of the world, terrorism and the recent crisis in Afghanistan have further highlighted the seriousness of these questions," the Prime Minister said. "With regard to the origin of Covid-19 and the ease of doing business rankings, institutions of global governance have damaged the credibility they had built after decades of hard work," he said. The World Bank recently said it is discontinuing its flagship Doing Business publication, citing “data irregularities” in recent editions of the global business climate index. The decision was taken after a probe of data irregularities allegedly due to pressure by some top bank officials to boost China’s ranking in 2017 came to light. "It is essential that we constantly strengthen the UN, in order to safeguard global order, global laws and global values," Modi said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-must-improve-its-effectiveness-and-enhance-reliability-to-remain-relevant-pm-modi-1034192.html
25-09-2021||National||Narendra Modi urges world's vaccine makers to 'make in India'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine against Covid-19, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years. "India, which lives on Sewa Paramo Dharma (service is the main duty), is engaged in vaccination development and manufacturing despite limited resources. I want to inform UNGA that India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years," Modi said, addressing the 76th United Nations General Assembly session here. Last month, the Drugs Controller General of India gave Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to Zydus Cadila's indigenously developed needle-free Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, which is to be administered to beneficiaries in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. "Another mRNA vaccine is in its late stages of development. Scientists in India are also engaged in the development of a nasal vaccine for Corona. Realising its responsibility towards humanity, India has once again started giving vaccines to the needy of the world. I also invite vaccine manufacturers from all over the world today to- Come, Make Vaccine in India," the prime minister said. ZyCoV-D when injected, produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from coronavirus as well as viral clearance. The "plug-and-play" technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring. The vaccine has a 66-per cent efficacy and it is to be stored in a temperature range of two to eight degrees Celsius. The vaccine is needle-free, to be administered intradermally in three doses at days 0, 28 and 56. It is administered using PharmaJet, an applicator that ensures painless intradermal vaccine delivery. According to Johns Hopkins university data, the deadly virus has so far infected 231,154,501 people and killed 4,737,927 globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-urges-worlds-vaccine-makers-to-make-in-india-1034199.html
25-09-2021||National||World must protect oceans from race for expansion and exclusion: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the world must protect the oceans from the race for "expansion and exclusion" as he urged the international community to speak in one voice to strengthen a rules-based world order, in an apparent reference to China which is flexing military muscles in the strategic Indo-Pacific region. Addressing the 76th UN General Assembly session here, Prime Minister Modi described the oceans as "our shared heritage" and said "we must keep in mind that we must only use ocean resources and not abuse them further.” "Our oceans are also the lifeline of international trade. We must protect them from the race for expansion and exclusion. The international community must speak in one voice to strengthen a rules-based world order,” he added. Speaking in Hindi, Modi said that the broad consensus reached in the UN Security Council during India's presidency in August showed to the world the way forward for maritime security. The Presidential Statement on maritime security, adopted unanimously under India’s presidency after the UN Security Council open debate chaired by Prime Minister Modi, reaffirmed in categorical terms that the 1982 UN Convention of the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) sets out the legal framework for maritime activities, sending a strong message to China. In 2016, an international tribunal ruled against China's claims to rights in the disputed South China Sea. Beijing dismissed the ruling that favoured the Philippines and said it would not be bound by it. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the resource-rich region. China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. China also has territorial disputes with Japan in the East China Sea. A day earlier, the Quad countries – comprising India, Japan, Australia and the US - pledged to ensure a "free and open" Indo-Pacific, which is also "inclusive and resilient", as they noted that the strategically vital region is a bedrock of their shared security and prosperity. "We stand for the rule of law, freedom of navigation and overflight, peaceful resolution of disputes, democratic values, and territorial integrity of states. We commit to work together and with a range of partners,” the Quad leaders said in a joint statement after their first in-person meeting hosted by US President Joe Biden and attended by Prime Minister Modi, his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison and Japanese premier Yoshihide Suga at the White House.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-must-protect-oceans-from-race-for-expansion-and-exclusion-pm-modi-1034201.html
25-09-2021||National||Brother of Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades arrested by NCB||In a major operation, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested Bollywood actor-model Arjun Rampal’s partner Gabriella Demetriades's brother Agisilaos Demetriades in a drugs case from Goa.  Rampal, however, has denied that he has anything to do with his partner’s brother.  The operation was carried out by the Mumbai and Goa units of the NCB. This is the third case in which Agisolaos, a South African national, has been arrested by the NCB. “Small quantities of Hashish/Charas have been seized from him,” NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede said. The federal anti-narcotics agency WF-1, Span Suites & Villas, Chopdem at Pernem in North Goa. He has been sent to judicial custody by a Goa court.  It may be mentioned, last year, Demetriades was arrested in two more cases of NCB, Mumbai i.e. Crime No. 16/2020 and Crime No. 24/2020 for the offences under the NDPS Act, 1985. Meanwhile, Rampal, who is shooting in London, issued a statement asking not to link him or his partner with Demetriades.  “I am as shocked and taken aback as you are with this latest development. It’s unfortunate that my name is being unnecessarily dragged in every publication though I have no association whatsoever. As far as my family and I are concerned, my direct family and I are law-abiding citizens. And while the incident involves a person who is a relative of my partner (Gabriella), I have no other connection or relationship other than that with this person,” he said.  The statement further reads: “I request the media to not make headlines using my name as we are not related and this is causing hurt and confusion for my own family and the people I have a professional relationship with. I have faith in our legal system and whoever is on the wrong side of the law, should be treated as the judiciary deems fit. My trust is in the system in these matters." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brother-of-arjun-rampal-s-girlfriend-gabriella-demetriades-arrested-by-ncb-1034219.html
25-09-2021||National||Deep depression intensifies into Cyclone Gulab, IMD issues 'orange' alert for Andhra Pradesh, Odisha||The deep depression over the Bay of Bengal intensified into Cyclone 'Gulab' on Saturday and an 'orange' alert has been issued for north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha coasts, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The cyclonic storm is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur around Sunday evening, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "The deep depression over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal moved nearly westwards with a speed of 7 kmph in last six hours, and intensified into Cyclonic Storm ‘Gulab’," the IMD said. A cyclone warning has been issued for north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha coasts. An 'orange' alert has also been issued for Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts. The 'orange' alert is issued as a warning of extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and rail closures, and interruption of power supply.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deep-depression-intensifies-into-cyclone-gulab-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-andhra-pradesh-odisha-1034225.html
25-09-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses 85 crore||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 85 crores with over 62 lakh vaccine doses being administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. So far, 85,54,78,279 vaccine doses have been administered in the country. On Saturday, 62,42,122 doses were given till 7 pm, it said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. "In a landmark achievement, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 85 crore landmark milestone (85,54,78,279) today. More than 62 lakh (62,42,122) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today," it said. According to the data shared by the ministry, 63,04,33,142 first doses have been administered and 22,50,45,137 second doses have been given. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination started from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-crosses-85-crore-1034227.html
25-09-2021||National||PM Modi to bring back 157 antiquities handed over by US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will bring home 157 artefacts and antiquities, which were handed over to India by the US during his visit, with both he and President Joe Biden expressing commitment to strengthening efforts to combat theft, illicit trade and trafficking of cultural objects. While nearly half of the artefacts (71) are cultural, the other half consists of figurines related to Hinduism (60), Buddhism (16) and Jainism (9), an official statement said on Saturday. Modi conveyed his deep appreciation for the repatriation of antiquities to India by the United States. The list of 157 artefacts includes a diverse set of items ranging from the one-and-a-half metre bas relief panel of Revanta in sandstone of the 10th CE to the 8.5 cm tall, exquisite bronze Nataraja from the 12th CE. This continues the efforts by the Modi government to bring back India's antiquities and artefacts from across the world, it said. Government sources said that only 13 antiquities were retrieved by India from different countries between 1976 and 2013. However, between 2014, when Modi came to power, and 2021, over 200 antiquities have either returned or are in the process of being returned, they added. Between 2004 and 2014, only one ancient antiquity returned to India, the sources said. The Modi government has brought back more ancient Indian treasures than the four decades before it, they claimed Referring to the items handed over to India by the US during Modi's ongoing trip, the official statement said they largely belong to the period of 11th CE to 14th CE as well as historic antiquities such as the copper anthropomorphic object of 2000 BC or the terracotta vase from the 2nd CE. Some 45 antiquities belong to Before Common Era, it said. Their make spreads across metal, stone and terracotta, the statement said. The bronze collection primarily contains ornate figurines of the well-known postures of Lakshmi Narayana, Buddha, Vishnu, Siva Parvathi and the 24 Jain Tirthankaras and the less common Kankalamurti, Brahmi and Nandikesa besides other unnamed deities and divine figures. The statement noted that the motifs include religious sculptures from Hinduism-- three-headed Brahma, chariot driving Surya, Vishnu and his consorts, Siva as Dakshinamurti and dancing Ganesha among others, Buddhism-- standing Buddha, Boddhisattva Majushri, Tara, and Jainism-- Jain Tirthankara, Padmasana Tirthankara, Jaina Choubisi, as well as secular motifs, including amorphous couple in Samabhanga and chowri-bearer female playing drum among others. There are 56 terracotta pieces and an 18th CE sword with sheath with inscription mentioning Guru Hargovind Singh in Persian, it added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-bring-back-157-antiquities-handed-over-by-us-1034242.html
25-09-2021||National||Sonia should have made Sharad Pawar PM in 2004 instead of Manmohan if she was unwilling: Athawale||Describing the foreign origin issue of Sonia Gandhi as meaningless, Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Saturday said if Indian-origin Kamala Harris can become vice president of the US then the Congress chief could also have become Prime Minister of India after the 2004 elections. He also said if Sonia Gandhi was not willing to accept the PM's post at that time then she should have made veteran leader and NCP chief Sharad Pawar the PM instead of Manmohan Singh. "When the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) got a majority in the 2004 elections, I had proposed that Sonia Gandhi should become Prime Minister. I was of the view that her foreign origin issue had no meaning,” Athawale told reporters here. “If Kamala Harris can become Vice President of the US then why couldn't Sonia Gandhi, a citizen of India, wife of Rajiv Gandhi (former PM) and elected Lok Sabha MP, couldn't become the Prime Minister?" he asked. Describing Pawar as a public leader and a deserving candidate for the PM's post, the RPI (A) chief said, “He (Pawar) should have been made PM in place of Manmohan Singh but Sonia Gandhi did not do so”. Athawale also said had Pawar become the country's PM in 2004, the Congress' position would have been strengthened and that party could have been saved from its present precarious condition. Pawar was expelled from Congress for raising the issue of Sonia Gandhi's foreign origin in 1999. He later formed the NCP. Manmohan Singh had served as prime minister from 2004 to 2014. He was succeeded by Narendra Modi after the BJP came to power with a resounding majority. Athawale also appealed to Amarinder Singh, who stepped down recently as Punjab chief minister owing to a power tussle in the state party unit, to join the BJP or the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in view of "humiliation" meted out to him by Congress. "If Singh joins the BJP, the party's position will be strengthened in the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-should-have-made-sharad-pawar-pm-in-2004-instead-of-manmohan-if-she-was-unwilling-athawale-1034243.html
25-09-2021||National||CSIR turns 80: plans pseudo-satellites while promising timely pay to the researchers||On its 80th birthday, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research casts its gaze towards the sky as its plans to make pseudo-satellites or very high altitude UAVs that can do a variety of things at a fraction of cost than conventional satellites. Bengaluru-based National Aerospace Laboratories, one of the 37 constituent laboratories of CSIR, will manufacture the prototypes of such a high altitude UAV that has never been realised. "Once made, such UAVs, flying at an altitude of 20,000 mt, will carry all sorts of sensors for imaging. They are not as costly as a satellite, but can do many tasks that a satellite does,” Shekhar C Mande, CSIR director general, told DH. Such high altitude platforms have been advocated for nearly a decade, but never made due to lack of clarity and many unknowns in cost and performance analyses. There are also unresolved technical and procedural challenges in the areas of certifications, reliability, and flight in controlled airspace. With a basic design in hand, NAL that played a key role in making several indigenous aircraft, has undertaken a technology demonstration project comprising detailed design and engineering development of the high altitude platforms, leading to the manufacturing of two prototypes. The high altitude platform is one of the futuristic projects of the 80-year-old CSIR that gave India products as diverse as the country’s first tractor (Swaraj) and indelible ink used during elections to a home-grown CRISPR-based Covid-19 detection kit (FELUDA), which was also developed by two of the world’s best laboratories – Massachusetts Institute of Technology and University of California, Berkeley. The CSIR was formed on September 26, 1942 through a Department of Commerce Resolution of the British government succeeding the Board of Scientific and Industrial Research created in 1940. While its initial budget was Rs 10 lakh, the council received a grant of Rs one crore two years later to establish its first five laboratories – National Metallurgical Laboratory at Jamshedpur, National Physical Laboratory in Delhi, National Chemical Laboratory in Pune, Central Glass and Ceramics Research Institute in Kolkata and Central Fuel Research Institute at Dhanbad. One fifth of that grant came from the Tata group. By the end of 1954, twelve national laboratories were established and a dozen more were at the planning stage. From less than 200 employees in the 1940s, the CSIR has grown into an organisation with nearly 15,000 employees and a budget of over Rs 5,000 crore. As the council starts working on other futuristic projects on green hydrogen, carbon capture and coal gasification, a conscious effort is being made to resolve a long-pending problem – timely distribution of the fellowships for the junior and senior research fellows in the laboratories. Not receiving the fellowship money in time is an issue repeatedly flagged by young scientists to the CSIR top brass. “We handle nearly 8,000 fellowships per month, of which 70-80 per cent get the payment in time. It is the problem of the remaining 20-30 per cent people that we are trying to resolve,” Mande said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csir-turns-80-plans-pseudo-satellites-while-promising-timely-pay-to-the-researchers-1034247.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||Where is the lakhs of crores of rupees donated to PM-CARES? Mamata asks||Slamming the Centre over its assertion that PM-CARES was not a government fund, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday stated that complete transparency should be maintained in the transactions made with the money collected by the trust. The PM-CARES FUND bears our national emblem, but the central government has insisted that it is not a government fund, “leaving us all confused”, the CM said, tongue in cheek. "The Chief Minister Relief Fund is regularly audited. PM CARES FUND was formed for Covif-19, but yesterday they (Centre) told the court that it is not a government fund. Government employees have donated money there, funds through CSR have been donated there, lakhs of crores of rupees have been donated. So where is that money?" she fumed. The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that the PM CARES Fund is not a government fund as donations to it do not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, and no third party information can be parted with irrespective of its status under the Constitution and the Right to Information (RTI) Act. An affidavit filed by an Under-Secretary at the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), who is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis, has said that the trust functions with transparency and its funds are audited by an auditor — a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Banerjee, during her campaign in bypoll-bound Bhabanipur constituency, also hit out at the BJP-led Union government over the Pegagus snooping scandal, claiming that the country’s opposition leaders were being spied on. "It has been proven that the Union government snoops on opposition leaders; our phones are tapped. The Centre bought this software from Israel to snoop on us. No one can speak out against them. If you speak out, efforts will be made to intimidate you by using (central) agencies," she claimed. The TMC boss further criticised the state unit of the saffron party for “carrying out a demonstration” near her residence on Thursday with the body of a BJP worker. "Yesterday, BJP leaders staged a protest outside my residence over the death of a BJP worker. That BJP worker died a natural death, and they are claiming that he died during violence. We won't tolerate such hooliganism. If they think they can protest outside my residence with a dead body, we, too, can do the same outside their homes with the carcass of a dog. "We can teach them a lesson in the language they understand," she said. The CM maintained that her fight against the "demonic BJP" would continue till it is ousted from power, and after winning the Bhabanipur by-poll, the party would take its battle to other states. Banerjee, who is contesting the September 30 by-poll from the Bhabanipur seat to retain her chief minister's chair, claimed that destiny had this plan in store for her.   "People want me to be a representative from this seat and continue as the state’s chief minister," said the feisty TMC leader, who lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram during the April-May Assembly polls. Banerjee has to get elected to legislature by November 5, in conformity with the constitutional provisions, to continue as the chief minister. Shortly after the poll results were announced in May, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to facilitate her return to the assembly from there. A resident of Bhabanipur, Banerjee had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force in the volatile state, to dare her former protege and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on his home turf. Though she powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, the TMC boss failed to register victory in Nandigram. The CM has claimed that a conspiracy was hatched to hurt her and defeat her in Nandigram. She had suffered an injury on a leg during electioneering in the constituency. "If I speak about the conspiracy that was hatched to injure me and kill me, all of you will be shocked. I had to move around in a wheelchair for 1.5 months. But that did not stop me from hitting the campaign trail," she said. The TMC supremo is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and Left Front's Srijib Biswas in Bhabanipur. The Congress did not field any candidate for the bypoll. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/where-is-the-lakhs-of-crores-of-rupees-donated-to-pm-cares-mamata-asks-1033964.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani to join Congress on September 28||Moving towards strengthening the organisation in two states and sharpen its social outreach, Congress will be inducting former JNU Student Union president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar and young Dalit leader and Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani on Tuesday (September 28), a move that is expected to strengthen the party in Bihar and poll-bound Gujarat. September 28 is the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, whose legacy is claimed by all three-the Congress, the BJP and the Left. Rahul Gandhi will be present on the occasion of the induction of two leaders. Kanhaiya's joining is a big catch for the party as it aims to revive its fortune in Bihar. Congress has been hurtling from one leader to another to infuse life into the state's party organisation. Kanhaiya, an ardent critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP, is known for his oratory skills. Kanhaiya, who came into the political limelight after being booked in a sedition case when he was JNUSU president, contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls on CPI ticket against Union Minister Giriraj Singh of BJP from Begusarai. He lost by a margin of over four lakh votes but he got 2.68 lakh votes in his maiden Parliamentary election. He got more votes than RJD's Tanveer Hassan even as RJD had an alliance with Congress and some other Opposition parties. Mevani, who announced in Ahmedabad on Saturday that he will be joining the Congress, won his first Assembly election from the Vadgam Assembly constituency in Banaskantha district of Gujarat in 2017 with the backing of Congress. Mevani's induction is expected to give the party a sharper edge in Dalit politics. Recently, the party gave Punjab its first Dalit Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Sources in Gujarat Congress said that state working president Hardik Patel has been mediating for bringing Mevani, 40, and Kanhaiya Kumar into the party fold. When contacted, Patel told DH, "Both are the kind of young leaders that the country needs. Rahulji (Gandhi) and all Congress leaders welcome them to the party. These youths will strengthen the party which carries the legacy of Sardar Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru." Sources close to Mevani said that "the date of his joining may be changed to October 2." They said that for the past one month, talks were on with senior party leaders in Delhi on bringing the two young leaders into the party fold. Chief spokesperson of Gujarat Congress Manish Doshi said Mevani's entry "will strengthen the party's fight against the corrupt policies of the BJP". " Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, has of late given indications that it is not impossible for Congress to win there. The party reduced BJP's tally to just 99 seats in the 182-member state Assembly in 2017 polls. The Opposition in 2016 highlighted in a big way the assault on seven members of a Dalit family in Una town in the name of cow protection. The incident catapulted Mevani as the face of Dalit agitation in the state. Patel will also attend the event in Delhi where Mevani will be inducted. It was the trio of Hardik Patel, Jignesh Mevani and OBC leader Alpesh Thakor that tilted the balance in favour of Congress in 2017. Thakor, who had won as MLA from Congress, joined the BJP in 2019.  In Bihar's case, an AICC secretary with JNU background has played an important role in clinching the deal with Kanhaiya. While there is speculation that Kanhaya could be made working President in Bihar, the particular AICC secretary said, "He wants freedom to work", but declined to go into the specifics.' Kanhaiya has maintained silence on the issue. In recent times, Congress has brought in several young and talented leaders into its fold to shore its talent pool in different states, like Nana Patole in Maharashtra, Revanth Reddy in Telangana and elevating Navjot Sidhu in Punjab. The quiet generational change in the party is too conspicuous to ignore. Congress sources say that the induction of poll strategist Prashant Kishor is also a matter of time. Speculation about it has been rife since Kishor met the Gandhis in July this year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanhaiya-kumar-and-jignesh-mevani-to-join-congress-on-september-28-1034076.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||Congress veteran V M Sudheeran resigns from KPCC political affairs committee||Amidst discussions on the reshuffling of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, veteran leader and former KPCC chief, V M Sudheeran resigned from the political affairs committee of the party's state unit, party sources said here on Saturday. The displeasure over the reshuffle procedures and the working style of the present leadership under new KPCC Chief K Sudhakaran were said to be the reasons behind his sudden decision, they said. Sudheeran handed over the resignation letter to the state leadership on Friday, sources added. Though contacted, the leader was unavailable for comment. Known for his non-corrupt and idealist image, Sudheeran's firm stand on various issues had led to differences between him and many of his party colleagues in the past. Reacting to the reports of Sudheeran's resignation, senior Congress leader and MLA, P T Thomas said the KPCC Chief would intervene into the issue and clear any misunderstanding of the veteran. He also said Sudhakaran had visited Sudheeran at his home recently and held a detailed discussion. "Sudheeran is one of the most respected leaders of the Congress party in Kerala," he said. Thomas, also the working president of the KPCC, said major discussion or consultation with regard to the reshuffle of the state unit leadership was yet to be started. Recently, KPCC former general secretary K P Anil Kumar and its secretary P S Prashanth had resigned from the primary membership of the grand old party over the selection of new DCC presidents. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-veteran-v-m-sudheeran-resigns-from-kpcc-political-affairs-committee-1034091.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||Political merchants of votes deceived minorities in 75 years after Independence: Naqvi||In a veiled swipe at Congress, Union minister and BJP leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Saturday cautioned minorities against the "political merchants" of their votes who he said are wearing the veil of secularism. Addressing the state executive meeting and the training camp of BJP's Minority Morcha for Maharashtra here, Naqvi said during the last 75 years post Independence, "the political merchants of minority votes played 75 tricks on their political chessboard to deceit minorities". "Creating the atmosphere of fear, raising a bogey of intolerance, spinning a web of religion, and spreading rumours is their expired formula to politically exploit minority communities," the Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha said. Naqvi said minorities must remain cautious about such "political merchants who are wearing the veil of secularism while roaming around with a cart of conspiracies to hijack minority votes". In his speech, the senior BJP leader slammed "pseudo-secularists" for their double standards. "The height of hypocrisy of pseudo secularists is that the Shiv Sena gets a communal stamp when it remains with the BJP and gets a certificate of secularism when it goes with the Congress. This pseudo-secular syndicate is running a certificate centre which makes someone secular and someone communal within minutes," he said. The Shiv Sena, which heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi, shares power with the NCP and the Congress in Maharashtra. Naqvi said the people, especially minority communities, have seen that these “merchants of minority votes” are engaged in a "political exploitation" of minorities. He said secularism and inclusive development is the "Constitutional commitment” for the BJP. He said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the BJP-led state governments have worked with the commitment to “development with dignity” and “empowerment without appeasement”, which has ensured equal development of minorities along with other sections. Naqvi said over 5,50,000 artisans, craftsmen and people associated with them have been provided employment and employment opportunities through the “Hunar Haat” initiative alone in the last seven years. "In the last seven years, more than 5 crore minority students have been given various scholarships. More than 50 per cent of beneficiaries are girl children. The school dropout rate of Muslim girls which was earlier 70 per cent, has come down to 32 per cent. Our commitment is to bring it down to zero per cent in the coming days," the Union minister said. Naqvi said the basic infrastructure such as schools, colleges, smart classrooms, ITIs, hostels, residential schools, 'Sadbhav Mandap', skill development centres, common service centres, market sheds, drinking water health facilities, sports facilities etc. worth thousands of crores have been constructed in the backward and deprived areas of India under the “Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karykram”. "Besides this, minorities have also been benefitted on a large scale through other welfare schemes of the Modi government. Two crore people have been provided houses across the country by the Centre and 31 per cent of the beneficiaries are minorities. 12 crore farmers have been given 'Kisan Samman Nidhi' and 33 per cent beneficiaries are from minority communities," he said. Naqvi also said that 37 per cent of 8 crore “Ujjwala Yojana” beneficiaries are women from minority communities. He said 31 crore people have been benefitted through the “Mudra Yojana” and 36 per cent of them are minorities. "A total of 13 crore toilets have been constructed under the 'Swacch Bharat Mission' across the country and 22 per cent of the beneficiaries are minorities. Besides, 22 to 37 per cent beneficiaries of other schemes such as 'Jan Dhan Yojana', 'Ayushman Bharat', 'Har Ghar Jal Yojana' electrification of villages are beneficiaries (from minority communities)," he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-merchants-of-votes-deceived-minorities-in-75-years-after-independence-naqvi-1034127.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||Tejashwi writes to non-BJP leaders on caste census||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday reached out to non-BJP leaders across the country seeking their support on the issue of caste census for backward classes, which has received a cold shoulder from the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Two days after the Union government told the Supreme Court that it had taken a “conscious policy decision” not to undertake enumeration of OBCs and EBCs which it deemed “administratively cumbersome”, Yadav, leader of the opposition in the Bihar assembly, shot off letters to politicians as diverse as Nitish Kumar, Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Mamata Banerjee, and Arvind Kejriwal. In the strongly-worded letter addressed to a total of 33 recipients, Yadav said “it bears repeating for a brazenly callous government that the caste system, which Dr B R Ambedkar referred to as a system of graded inequality, has been a great source of disadvantage for a significantly large section of the population”. The Centre has agreed for a headcount of only the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, much to the chagrin of the numerically powerful OBCs who have dominated politics in the Hindi belt, particularly Bihar, since the 1990s. Yadav, whose father Lalu Prasad and his arch-rival Chief Minister Nitish Kumar owe their rise in politics to the Mandal movement for OBC empowerment, said in his letter “we need to join our hands and push the government of the day” on the issue of caste census. “I am open to suggestions and inputs from you so that we immediately prepare our plan of action in this regard without any further delay”, said Yadav, who was a part of an all-party delegation headed by Nitish Kumar had recently met the Prime Minister to press the demand. All non-BJP Chief Ministers, including Uddhav Thackeray, M K Stalin, Naveen Patnaik, K Chandrasekhar Rao, and Jaganmohan Reddy, besides heads of political parties not aligned with the NDA like Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati, Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti, Parkash Singh Badal, and Sitaram Yechury have been marked a copy of the letter. The NDA's alliance partners in Bihar, including Kumar, Hindustani Awam Morcha chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and Vikassheel Insaan Party president Mukesh Sahni also figure in the list. So does LJP's Chirag Paswan though, interestingly, his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras who heads a rival faction of the party and is a Union minister is not among the recipients. Similarly, Akhtarul Iman, state president of the AIMIM, has been sent the letter but not the party chief Asaduddin Owaisi who claims to be equidistant from the BJP and mainstream “secular” parties like the Congress and its allies, including RJD. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejashwi-writes-to-non-bjp-leaders-on-caste-census-1034128.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||When 'poison of hatred' is being spread, then what is 'Amrit Mahotsav': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said freedom does not mean anything when it is not for everyone and asked what 'Amrit Mahotsav' meant when the "poison of hatred" is being spread in the country. His remarks come in the wake of clashes between police and alleged encroachers during an eviction drive in Assam's Darrang district on Thursday that left two persons dead and 20 injured. A shocking video showing a man slinging a camera and hitting an apparently dead person with a bullet wound on his chest also surfaced after the incident. The man was later arrested and a judicial probe has been ordered into the incident. "When the poison of hatred is being spread in the country then what is 'Amrit Mahotsav'? What does freedom mean if it is not for everyone," Gandhi asked in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag 'Assam'. Congress leaders have met Assam Governor Jagadish Mukhi urging him to stop the eviction drive at Sipajhar in Darrang till a proper rehabilitation package is announced. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday asserted that discussions were held for over four months before an eviction drive was launched to clear the land at Gorukhuti village in Darrang district where police firing claimed two lives during the exercise. A 12-hour bandh called by various organisations to protest against the incident affected normal life in Darrang district on Friday.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/when-poison-of-hatred-is-being-spread-then-what-is-amrit-mahotsav-rahul-gandhi-1034174.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||Senior leaders parting ways pester Congress ahead of UP polls||Despite Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's earnest effort to gear up the Congress for next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the problem of senior leaders choosing to part ways continues to vex the party. The latest to bid adieu is Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, the great-grandson of late Congress stalwart Kamalapati Tripathi. This came a few months after ex-Union minister Jitin Prasada, the son of former Congress leader Jitendra Prasad, crossed over to the BJP. While some in the Congress blamed opponents of poaching its leaders, especially those belonging to the Brahmin caste, others termed the quitting "unfortunate" which these leaders will "regret in near future". However, expelled Congressman and former MLC Siraj Mehdi claimed that this trend shows dissatisfaction within the party leadership and it is not confined to Uttar Pradesh. Congress leaders from Ballia -- Shailendra Singh and Rajesh Singh -- have recently quit the party alleging that old and loyal party people were being neglected. These exits come at a time when the Congress is working hard to avoid the humiliation of the 2017 Assembly polls when it could win just seven seats in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly. The grand old party has already announced that it will fight the 2021 elections without aligning with any big political party. Some in the Congress are of the view that a "poaching game" is going on and the party leadership must remain alert. "Both Jitin Prasad and Lalitesh Tripathi are big names despite the Congress being out of power for 30 years in the state now. Their parting ways with the party as the election approaches has a meaning," a leader of the Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit said. Tripathi, the vice-president of Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit on Thursday said he has resigned from all posts and primary membership of the party. He said it was an emotional decision for him to move away from the commitment of more than 100 years that his family had shown. "But in the present circumstances "when the families that had given their blood and sweat for the party and the workers who braved beatings for the party movement were not being respected, his conscience does not allow him to continue in any position," Tripathi had said. Jitin Prasada, while joining the BJP a few months ago, had said that he parted ways with the Congress not because of any individual or for any post, but due to the party's shrinking vote base and the "rising disconnect" between it and the people of Uttar Pradesh. "Lalitesh Tripathi's exit is unfortunate. He is a fourth-generation leader of his family which had been very close to the Nehru-Gandhi family and got proper respect and responsibility," member of the media advisory team Dwijendra Tripathi told PTI. Another leader pointed out that leaders who got everything in the party are now "running away seeking better prospects in other parties" as the elections are close. They will regret this decision when they will not get as much respect as they got here, he claimed in reference to Jitin Prasada. On the other hand, Mehdi claimed that senior leaders were quitting the party due to the humiliation they faced. Congress' former women wing chief Sushmita Dev and ex-Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh felt humiliated in the party in recent times, he claimed Mehdi was among the 11 senior leaders who were expelled from the Congress in 2019 for six years for allegedly tarnishing the party's image and opposing its leadership's decisions at public forums. "The problem is that despite seeking time from the leadership for an audience, party people are not able to connect with them," Mehdi claimed, adding that people like him, who have stayed with the party for long, want it to overcome all hurdles and regain strength. He said that he will soon write Amrinder Singh and other Congress leaders inviting them to tour Uttar Pradesh and help in restoring the pride of the party. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/senior-leaders-parting-ways-pester-congress-ahead-of-up-polls-1034176.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||PM Modi spoke like statesman, made country proud: BJP chief J P Nadda||Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address at the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday, the BJP said he spoke like a statesman and his speech has made the country proud. BJP president J P Nadda said in a statement that Modi had hoisted India's ideological flag in the world and claimed that the attention that the international community pays to him shows that India has established itself as a major power under his leadership. Modi has only one goal, which is to make India "vishwa guru" again, he said. Nadda said that the prime minister voiced India's views on a variety of issues strongly and drew the world's attention towards global issues. His address at the UNGA shows the path of inclusive development to the whole world, the BJP chief said. Noting that Modi spoke on issues ranging from Covid-19 and vaccination to terrorism and maritime boundaries, Nadda lauded him for working to bring the international community together. Modi has shown the world with his action as to how India has traversed the distance between "democracy can deliver" and "democracy has delivered", he said. He also noted that Modi also mentioned BJP ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay, whose birth anniversary fell on Saturday, and his principles at the global stage. The prime minister also gave a stern message to the countries using terrorism as a political tool, Nadda said, adding that Modi again underscored India's commitment to helping the people of Afghanistan. Modi said on Saturday that countries with "regressive thinking" that are using terrorism as a "political tool" must understand that it is an "equally big threat" for them also, in a veiled attack on Pakistan which is accused by its neighbours of providing safe havens to terrorists. Addressing the 76th UN General Assembly session here, Prime Minister Modi also called for ensuring that no country "tries to take advantage of the delicate situation in Afghanistan and use it for its own selfish interests." Mourning the loss of lives lost due to the global coronavirus pandemic, he also reiterated India's commitment to start giving vaccines to needy persons in other countries, even as he gave a clarion call to manufacturers to "Come, Make Vaccine in India".  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-spoke-like-statesman-made-country-proud-bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-1034193.html
25-09-2021||National Politics||PM Modi subtly criticises role of WHO over Covid-19 origin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday subtly criticised the World Health Organization and the World Bank for hurting their credibility over tracing the origin of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the Ease-of-Doing-Business rankings. He urged the vaccine producers around the world to make the Covid-19 jabs in India. “With regard to the origin of Covid-19 and the ease of doing business rankings, institutions of global governance have damaged the credibility they had built after decades of hard work,” the Prime Minister said, while addressing the United Nations General Assembly at the headquarters of the international organization in New York. Though the erstwhile US President Donald Trump repeatedly criticised the WHO for working as a “puppet” of Beijing and covering up the beginning of the pandemic at Wuhan in central China in 2019, New Delhi never criticised the global health agency on the issue. This is the first time India has spoken up against the WHO at the highest level, albeit without directly referring to the organisation, which is based in Geneva. The World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings also recently came under a shadow after a probe into data irregularities found that it buckled under pressure to boost the ranking of China. The Prime Minister on Saturday said that if the United Nations would have to improve its effectiveness and enhance its reliability in order to remain relevant. He also noted that the UN had come under questions these days. “We have seen such questions being raised, related to the climate crisis and during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. “Despite limited resources, India, which believes in the philosophy of "Seva Param Dharam" (service is the highest religion), is completely invested in the development and manufacture of the vaccines,” said Modi. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-subtly-criticises-role-of-who-over-covid-19-origin-1034252.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||SAD president Sukhbir Badal asks Channi not to let 'super CM' Sidhu treat him like 'rubber stamp'||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday referred to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's "role" in government decisions and asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi not to let the "super CM" treat him like a "rubber stamp". Badal asked the new chief minister to conduct himself befitting the dignity of the office he holds. While interacting with reporters here, the SAD chief was asked about the "role" of Sidhu in the state government's decisions. He said Channi should not allow, "an extra-constitutional super CM treat him like a dummy and a rubber stamp". Badal also claimed the Congress party was insulting the Scheduled Caste population of Punjab "by sending a message that Channi is there only as a fifth choice and by allowing him to be dominated not only by his own deputy CMs but even people outside the government". In a lighter vein, Badal said Channi should be grateful to the SAD whose decision to have a deputy chief minister from the SC community if the party is voted to power in the next state polls. This forced the Congress party on the defensive and Channi benefited from it, the SAD chief claimed. Touching upon another issue, Badal said he had heard some "ridiculous statements" about security and cars. Channi at an event in Kapurthala on Thursday had said that he has asked the state police to reduce his security cover as having so many men to protect him is a "sheer wastage of resources". "Let me just remind the chief minister that his party president Navjot Sidhu begged for and got the same car from Amarinder Singh and got even Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to intervene to secure this. He is not in government but is still using the same car," he alleged. Asked to comment on some reports that the state government may target them, Badal said they can "quench their thirst for vendetta immediately".  "We are ready. They should not waste their own and the state's time on this. They are targeting us because they know that their days are numbered and the Akali-BSP alliance will sweep the next polls. They are just scared and are whistling in the dark," the SAD chief claimed. Referring to the recent reshuffle in the top bureaucracy of the state after Channi took oath as chief minister, Badal alleged that the government was calling officers and offering them powerful posts in the police as a reward for their readiness to "arrest" Akali leaders. "Many of these officers have been calling us to tell us of the unprecedented pressure being put on them for this. I have told them not to let this worry them and do what the government tells them. But we will be watching who steps out of constitutional line," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-president-sukhbir-badal-asks-channi-not-to-let-super-cm-sidhu-treat-him-like-rubber-stamp-1033955.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||4.5-magnitude earthquake hits Arunachal Pradesh||An earthquake of 4.5 magnitude on the Richter scale hit 237 km of Pangin in Arunachal Pradesh at 10:11 am today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/45-magnitude-earthquake-hits-arunachal-pradesh-1034041.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||New Punjab Cabinet: 7 fresh faces likely to join Channi's team||Seven new faces are likely to be inducted in the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab cabinet while five ministers who were part of the Amarinder Singh-led government are expected to be dropped, sources said Saturday. With the list of ministers for the new cabinet finalised, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi Saturday met Governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhavan here around 12:30 pm. After meeting the governor, Channi told reporters the oath-taking ceremony for the new ministers will take place at 4:30 pm on Sunday. His meeting with the governor came barely hours after he returned from Delhi having held a final round of discussion with the party high command on the cabinet formation. Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Kuljit Nagra, and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be included in the cabinet, according to the sources. The party is also learned to have decided to retain Vijay Inder Singla, Manpreet Singh Badal, Brahm Mohindra, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Arunu Chaudhary, Razia Sultana, and Bharat Bhushan Ashu from the Amarinder Singh government. However, five legislators -- Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, and Sunder Sham Arora -- who were ministers in the Amarinder Singh-led cabinet are likely to be dropped, the sources said. A consensus on the names for the Channi-led cabinet was reached during his meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other senior party members in the national capital. Channi was summoned to Delhi by the Congress high command on Friday to discuss the cabinet formation. The visit came within hours of him returning from the national capital. A total of 18 MLAs can be included in the cabinet, including Chief Minister Channi and two of his deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-punjab-cabinet-7-fresh-faces-likely-to-join-channis-team-1034054.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Rohini court shootout: Security tightened in jails where Gogi, Tillu gang members lodged||Security has been beefed up in jails where Gogi and Tillu gang members are lodged, officials said Saturday, a day after a bloody shootout in the Rohini courtroom left three gangsters dead. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the crowded Rohini courtroom Friday in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation. A senior jail official said Saturday, "Security has been raised and officials are keeping a tight vigil on jails where Gogi and Tillu gang members have been lodged." Police suspect that Tillu gang was behind the courtroom incident. The Gogi and Tillu gangs are reportedly at war for years. Video footage of the courtroom firing incident, which exposed security lapses in the system, showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers belonged a rival gang. Police had said the incident happened around 1.15 pm when Gogi was taken to the courtroom for a hearing. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-shootout-security-tightened-in-jails-where-gogi-tillu-gang-members-lodged-1034056.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh has begun process to set up diamond park in Panna: Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh government has initiated the process of setting up a diamond cutting and polishing park in the state's Panna district, which has a vast reserve of gems, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said. "Panna is located in Madhya Pradesh but work of cutting polishing of diamonds is carried out in other places. So, we have started the process of setting up a diamond park here," Chouhan said while addressing a programme at a Polytechnic College Ground here on Friday. Panna district, located over 380 km from Bhopal, has reserves estimated to be containing diamonds totalling 12 lakh carats, according to officials. Meanwhile, 105 diamonds weighing 144.32 carats, excavated from Panna mines, fetched Rs 1.87 crore during the three-day auction that concluded on Thursday, diamond officer Ravi Patel said. The proceeds from the auction of raw diamonds would be given to the miners who found them after deducting government royalty and taxes at 11.5 per cent, which is Rs 21.51 lakh in this auction, he said. He said a 14-carat diamond, the biggest diamond available for auction, went unsold and will be put in the next auction after three months. "This 14-carat diamond could not reach the auction price… At times it happens due to clarity of colour. It is a big size gem but the quality is degraded due to black spots. We want it to fetch good rates,” he said. A carat is a unit of weight used to measure the size of a gemstone such as a diamond. The per-carat rate of a gemstone depends on its quality. A 12.08-carat diamond fetched the highest price of Rs 42.40 lakh at the auction. It was sold at the rate of Rs 3.51 lakh per carat, the officer had said earlier. However, an 8.22-carat diamond mined earlier this month attracted the highest price per carat in the auction attended by traders from various parts of India. "This 8.22-carat diamond was sold at Rs 4.51 lakh per carat fetching Rs 37.07 lakh," he said. A group of four labourers had found this 8.22-carat diamond from leased land in the Hirapur Tapariyan area of the Panna district and deposited it in the Panna's Diamond Office on September 13. Patel said a 6.47-carat diamond was sold at Rs 15.36 lakh at the rate of Rs 2.37 lakh per carat. Similarly, a 5.05-carat diamond was sold at Rs 11.66 lakh. During this three-day auction, a total of 155 gemstones weighing 206.68 carats were put up for sale. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-has-begun-process-to-set-up-diamond-park-in-panna-chouhan-1034069.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Gogi vs Tillu: How childhood friendship turned into rivalry||In a shocking incident that turned into a shootout, gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi, 30, was shot dead by members of his rival Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuria’s gang. A bullet ended the dramatic story of a childhood friendship soured by student politics, which culminated in a bloody end. Gogi, the athlete-turned-gangster Things took a turn for the worse when Tillu and Gogi dabbled in student politics on the campus of Swami Shraddhanand College in Alipur in 2007. According to the police, both ended up backing opposing candidates for the vice president's post of the college student body. “Tajpuria and Gogi did not contest the elections directly but they were providing muscle power to the candidates. It is unclear why the two decided to support two different candidates when they were such close friends. That is when they got involved with local criminals. In fact, the first case registered against Gogi is also that of a fight between him and other students outside the college in Alipur in 2008. He was booked for attempted murder then,” an officer is quoted as saying by the publication. In the initial five years, Gogi was a small-time thug. He came into Delhi Police’s wanted list due to the death of a gangster Neetu Dabodia in 2013. He had at least 19 cases of murder, robbery, extortion, and arms act against him. Police believe the number to be much higher. Gogi apparently ran a high-level crime syndicate. The Gogi-Tillu rivalry In 2015, both Gogi and Tillu Tajpuria became major gangsters. Gogi, along with another Delhi University student Kuldeep Fajja, committed several murders and contract killings. “The two men had vowed to finish the Tillu gang,” the officer quoted above, said. Gogi was arrested in March 2020 in Gurugram with Fajja. Gogi was reportedly lodged in the jail’s high-risk cell over the last 18 months but police continued to receive reports of traders receiving extortion calls from him. Prison officers had reportedly found three cell phones in his possession. In June 2018, Tillu and Gogi gangs engaged in firing, as a result of which four people were killed. “Less than a month before he was arrested last year, Gogi and his gang members stopped a man, whom they suspected of supporting his rivals, and fired 48 rounds in the middle of the market. Of the 48 bullets, the man was hit with 26 bullets killing him on the spot,” a third police officer is quoted as saying in the report. Before Gogi was going to be produced in court in 2016, a police report stated: “there is strong apprehension that Gogi will eliminate members of a rival gang and can attack Sunil Tillu at the time of his production before the court from jail”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gogi-vs-tillu-how-childhood-friendship-turned-into-rivalry-1034072.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Woman constable gang-raped in Madhya Pradesh's Neemuch; 5 booked, 2 held||A 30-year-old woman police constable was allegedly gang-raped by three men, who shot a video of the act and threatened her in Madhya Pradesh's Neemuch district, an official said on Saturday. While the incident took place earlier this month, the constable lodged a complaint on September 13, following which a probe was conducted and a case was registered this week against five persons, including the mother of the main accused, the official said. The police have arrested the main accused and his mother in connection with the crime, said Anuradha Girwal, in-charge of the women police station. “The accused had befriended the victim on Facebook and had been interacting with her on WhatsApp since April. He invited the victim to his younger brother's birthday party, where she was raped by three men,” Girwal said. The complainant has alleged that she was raped by the main accused, his brother, and another man at the party, the official said, adding that the accused also allegedly shot a video of the act. The victim has also claimed that the main accused's mother threatened her and a relative of the accused also threatened to kill her and tried to extort money from her, she said. The victim, who was earlier posted in Neemuch, is currently working in Indore district, the official said, adding that further probe is underway. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-constable-gang-raped-in-madhya-pradeshs-neemuch-5-booked-2-held-1034083.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Action against 'deadwood' government employees on cards in Jammu||Jammu Divisional Commissioner Raghav Langer has directed the deputy commissioners to immediately submit a list of “deadwood” employees of the revenue department to facilitate their removal as per the provisions of the civil service regulations. Jammu and Kashmir administration has started compiling data of “deadwood” employees to be retired at the age of 48 years or those who have completed 22 years in service. For the process, screening committees have to be constituted at the district level for the identification of employees as per the prescribed parameters like judging the performance of an employee. The committee would recommend the names of such deadwood employees to higher authorities for their termination from service. Chairing a meeting with deputy commissioners of all the 10 districts of the Jammu region through virtual mode on Friday, Langer asked them to convene meetings of the review committees, assess the performance of employees in the light of Article 226(2) of the Civil Service Regulations and send the recommendations so that the process for their termination can be started. Article 226(2) deals with compulsory retirement of the officials on completion of 22 years of qualifying service, or on attaining 48 years of age. The deputy commissioners informed that they are in process of identifying such employees and the committee meetings will be convened shortly, an official spokesman said. Meanwhile, in another meeting, the divisional commissioner directed the deputy commissioners to submit a revised list of martyrs and prominent citizens for renaming of schools, roads, and chowks (roundabouts) on their names. Pertinently, schools, colleges, and roads in Jammu and Kashmir will be renamed after prominent citizens, Indian army soldiers, CRPF men, and police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty, while serving the nation, according to officials. The deputy commissioners apprised the meeting that the lists have been prepared in their respective districts in consultation with senior superintendents of police, block development councils, and district development councils, the spokesman said. Langer asked the deputy commissioners to send the updated lists after consultation with the Panchayati Raj Institutions with order of priority, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/action-against-deadwood-government-employees-on-cards-in-jammu-1034084.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Over 2.82 crore households getting electricity under Saubhagya scheme: Centre||The power ministry on Saturday said that as many as 2.82 crore families got electricity connections under the flagship Saubhagya scheme. Till March 31 this year, as many as 2.82 crore households have been electrified since the launch of Saubhagya, a power ministry statement said on the completion of four years of the scheme. "As of March 2019, 2.63 crore willing un-electrified households in rural and urban areas of the country were provided electricity connections in a record time of 18 months," it said. Subsequently, seven states Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh reported that around 18.85 lakh un-electrified households, identified before March 31, 2019, which were unwilling earlier, but later expressed their willingness to get electricity connections, were also covered under the scheme. Saubhagya is one of the largest household electrification drives in the world. This scheme was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 25, 2017. The objective of the scheme was to achieve 'Universal Household Electrification' in the country, through last-mile connectivity and providing access to electricity to all un-electrified households in rural areas and poor households in urban areas. While launching the scheme, the Prime Minister pledged to provide access to electricity and work towards equity, efficiency, and sustainability in the "new age India". The total financial implications of the project were Rs 16,320 crore while the Gross Budgetary Support (GBS) was Rs 12,320 crore. The outlay for the rural households was Rs 14,025 crore while the GBS was Rs 10,587.50 crore. For the urban households, the outlay stood at Rs 2,295 crore while GBS was Rs 1,732.50 crore. The Government of India largely provided funds for the scheme to all states/UTs. The journey started with 'Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY)' which envisaged the creation of basic electricity infrastructure in villages. The focus of the scheme was on strengthening and augmentation the existing infrastructure and metering of existing feeders/distribution transformers to improve the quality and reliability of power supply in rural areas. Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana - Saubhagya envisioned providing energy access to all by last mile connectivity and electricity connections to all remaining un-electrified households in rural as well as urban areas to achieve universal household electrification in the country. The electricity connection to households included the release of electricity connections by drawing a service cable from the nearest pole to the household premise, installation of an energy meter, wiring for a single light point with LED bulb, and a mobile charging point. While the set objectives of the scheme have been achieved, team SAUBHAGYA has continued its work of providing a 24x7 quality power supply to all. All states have been requested to launch special campaigns in their respective states to identify any left out un-electrified households and subsequently provide electricity connections to them. A dedicated toll-free helpline has also been launched for that purpose, it added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-282-crore-households-getting-electricity-under-saubhagya-scheme-centre-1034089.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Centre to focus on digitisation of 98,000 agriculture cooperatives for digital lending||The government will focus on digitisation and modernisation of about 98,000 primary agriculture cooperatives (PACs) to ensure digital lending, said Devendra Kumar Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Cooperation, on Saturday. He was speaking at the first 'Sehkarita Sammelan' or National Cooperative Conference here. In the Union Budget 2021, the government had announced setting up of the Ministry of Cooperation. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has been given the additional charge of the ministry. Kumar said the government will also take steps to popularise the cooperative movement and quality products manufactured by cooperatives in the international market. The priority will be on "ease of doing business" in cooperatives, the secretary said and added the cooperative manpower will be trained to bring professionalism. He applauded the contribution of cooperative bodies like IFFCO, KRIBHCO, Amul in strengthening the cooperative movement and achieving milestones. The conference at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium is being organised by cooperative bodies like IFFCO, National Cooperative Federation of India, Amul, Sahakar Bharti, NAFED, and KRIBHCO. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-to-focus-on-digitisation-of-98000-agriculture-cooperatives-for-digital-lending-1034094.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Rapid population causing demographic changes, warns Uttarakhand government||The Uttarakhand government has said the rapid rise in population is causing demographic changes in certain areas of the state, resulting in migration of several communities from those places besides posing a threat to communal peace. Expressing concern over the development in an official release on Friday, the government directed the state DGP, all DMs and SSPs to take precautionary steps to resolve the problem. It asked the officials to constitute committees in all districts that will offer suggestions to the administration for addressing the issue. Besides, peace committees should also be set up and their meetings held from time to time to review the situation, the release said. Such areas in all districts should be identified and action should be taken against anti-social elements residing there, it said. A list of people with criminal records coming from outside the state and living in these areas should also be prepared after verifying their original place of residence, the release said. The district magistrates (DMs) have been asked to keep an eye on illegal land deals in such areas and see that people do not sell their lands out of fear or pressure. Strict action should be taken against people of foreign origin who have obtained forged ID cards or voter ID cards. Records of such people should be prepared and action taken against them as per the legal provisions, the release said. The list of directions follows a letter written by BJP leader Ajendra Ajay to Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami recently in which he had alleged that people of a particular community were not only building their places of worship but also buying land in bulk in certain areas of the state causing an exodus of the original inhabitants. The home department had been asked to look into the matter after the BJP leader wrote to the chief minister. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rapid-population-causing-demographic-changes-warns-uttarakhand-government-1034096.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Two elephant calves succumb to Herpes virus infection at rescue centre in Chhattisgarh||Two elephant calves have died due to Herpes virus infection in the last two days at a rescue centre for these animals in Chhattisgarh's Surajpur district, a forest official said on Saturday. While a calf named Lakshman died on Thursday, another named Reva succumbed to the infection on Friday at the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre in Tamor Pingla wildlife sanctuary, said Prabhakar Khalko, Deputy Director Elephant Project (Surguja). Both these calves, aged one year and nine months, were the offspring of Kumki elephants that have been brought from Karnataka to tackle the human-elephant conflict, she said. Kumki elephants are trained in capturing and taming wild elephants, she said. "On Wednesday, Lakshman showed symptoms of the virus infection, following which the medical treatment was started. But despite the efforts by veterinarians, the jumbo could not be saved and it died on Thursday," Khalko said. The next day, another calf that had been kept separately after showing similar symptoms, died, she added. Their post-mortem confirmed that they were suffering from Herpes virus (EEHV) infection. However, their viscera samples have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh for further examination, the official said. The Herpes virus generally affects the elephants aged below 10 years having low immunity. Usually, these animals die within 24-48 hours of exhibiting the symptoms of this virus, she said, adding that its vaccine is not available in the country. After the deaths, the remaining elephants at the rescue centre have been shifted to other places within the premises where disinfectants have been sprayed, Khalko said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-elephant-calves-succumb-to-herpes-virus-infection-at-rescue-centre-in-chhattisgarh-1034097.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Dalit girl abducted, raped in Uttar Pradesh's Fatehpur||A 16-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly abducted and raped in the Jehanabad area here, police said on Saturday. The family of the girl filed a complaint with the police alleging that when she was sleeping in a shed outside her house on Thursday night, a 22-year-old man came and took her to his house and raped her, they said. The father of the girl, along with some villagers, rescued the girl on Friday morning from the man's premises and informed police of the incident, Jehanabad Police Station SHO Keshavdas Verma said. Police booked the accused under charges of rape and threatening to kill, and also under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act, Verma said. The victim was sent to a hospital for medical examination, he said. The accused is absconding and efforts are on to arrest him, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-girl-abducted-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-fatehpur-1034101.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Rohini Court shootout: Plea in Delhi HC to take steps to ensure safety, security of Delhi district courts||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court urging it to direct authorities to take requisite measures for the safety and security of district courts here, a day after a shootout inside the Rohini courtroom left three gangsters dead and a law intern injured. The petition filed by a woman advocate said she has been practicing in various Delhi courts for years, but it has become unsafe for her and thousands of fellow lawyers to visit there as they have become “easy terrain” for gangsters to settles scores. “It is also painful that a young legal professional has also got severely injured in the scary incident. This shootout inside the court again puts a big question mark on the safety and security of judges, lawyers and litigants inside the district courts in Delhi,” petitioner advocate Deepa Joseph said. The plea sought direction to the Delhi Police and the Bar Council of Delhi to consider instructing all police personnel at court entrances to ensure that they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the court premises. It also sought to direct the Delhi Police to raise security and frisking level of lawyers at par with the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court, and to take disciplinary action against the officers who fail to implement the direction with utmost diligence and seriousness. The plea, moved through lawyers Robin Raju and Blessan Mathews, said the BCD be asked to issue an advisory to all the District Bar Associations in the city to recommend members of their bar to cooperate with police personnel at the main entrance of courts. On Friday, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana expressed deep concern over the Rohini shootout and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. Meanwhile, a group of lawyers have also sent a letter to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel to initiate a public interest litigation and take cognisance of the issue regarding serious lapse in security arrangement in district courts here. The letter, written by advocates Rishi Kapoor, Ankur Gogia and Shivam Sharma, has been emailed to the Registrar General of the high court. “We fear the unpreparedness by the security arrangement in all district courts of Delhi and therefore, we are appealing to your Lordship to take appropriate action,” the letter said. The lawyer’s petition said the Friday’s shootout is not the first-of-its -kind in Delhi and in the recent past, there have been incidents of shooting in the Dwarka court, a firing near the Saket court in May 2019 and an undertrial was killed after being shot inside the Rohini court complex in 2017. Another incident similar in line to the Rohini court also took place in Karkardooma court in 2015 in which a Delhi Police head constable was killed when four armed assailants open fired inside a courtroom. “The incident that has happened on Friday, at Rohini court, was truly well planned. The assailants posed as lawyers and were present inside the court room before the dreaded gangster was produced before the court. “The ease with which the assailants entered into the court premises in the attire shows that they were well aware that it is easy to get access into the court by being in a lawyers’ attire,” the plea said. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on Friday in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, officials said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Witnesses said a law intern has also sustained bullet injury in her leg and some also claimed that the gang members pumped 10 bullets into Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals. Sources said Gogi received about seven bullet injuries, even as there was no official confirmation from police on this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-shootout-plea-in-delhi-hc-to-take-steps-to-ensure-safety-security-of-delhi-district-courts-1034109.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Death toll due to dengue in UP’s Firozabad rises to 63||The death toll in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district due to viral fever and dengue rose to 63 as one more person died, officials said on Saturday. A 12-year-old girl died during treatment for dengue in Medical College on Friday night, a government release issued here said. Principal of the college Dr Sangeeta Aneja said 154 more patients were admitted to the facility in the past 24 hours As of now, 255 patients are admitted in various wards of the medical college hospital she said, adding 153 more patients were discharged on Saturday morning after successful treatment. Meanwhile, Deepak, the brother of the 12-year-old girl, accused the staff of the hospital of “negligence” during the treatment of his sister, which led to her death. The family of the deceased also held a protest against the staff and alleged that they were beaten up by them. Station House Officer (Uttar) Anand Kumar said there was a scuffle between the family members and the staff and the matter is under investigation.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-toll-due-to-dengue-in-up-s-firozabad-rises-to-63-1034115.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Increasing public spending on health need of the hour: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu stressed on the need for increasing public spending on the health infrastructure of the country on Saturday and said adequate medical facilities should be provided in rural areas to attract more doctors. Naidu made the remarks while addressing the convocation ceremony of the University College of Medical Sciences. "The goal of universal and assured healthcare for all is difficult, but with determined efforts, we can achieve it and the first step to achieve the goal of 'Health for All' is to increase public spending on health," he said. Emphasising on the need to attract more doctors to rural areas, Naidu said state-of-the-art hospitals should be set up and good incentives and housing facilities should be provided to the medical community. The vice president saluted frontline workers for their contribution to the fight against the Coronavirus pandemic. "The formidable fight India has put up against the pandemic is a testimony to the resilience of our people in general and the selfless service rendered by all the doctors, healthcare personnel, and other frontline workers in particular," he said. Naidu said health is the way forward for the optimum use of human resources in healthcare with increasing internet and smartphone penetration in rural areas. "Indian nurses and paramedics have earned a great reputation globally with their skills, dedication and caring nature. The need of the hour is to leverage this innate skill among our youth to train more allied healthcare workers and assign a larger role for them in our public health," he said. During the event, 100 students were given MBBS degrees and 79 students were awarded MD/MS degrees. The UCMS is a maintained institute of the University of Delhi and was established in 1971. The college is celebrating the 50th year of its establishment as the Golden Jubilee Year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increasing-public-spending-on-health-need-of-the-hour-venkaiah-naidu-1034118.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||2 arrested in Ballia for 'abusive' video against PM, UP chief minister||Two people were arrested on Saturday for allegedly posting a video on social media containing abusive language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, police said. The video was posted on Twitter, Facebook, and WhatsApp and showed two people using abusive words against the BJP leaders, the police said. They said a case in this connection was registered Friday against Prakash Verma and Ramesh Yadav of Sher (Badki Seria) village on the complaint of Mantu Ram, the in-charge of Bansdih Road police station. Verma and Yadav had allegedly posted the video on these sites on September 23, they said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-arrested-in-ballia-for-abusive-video-against-pm-up-chief-minister-1034121.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Court grants anticipatory bail to LJP MP Prince Raj in rape case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted anticipatory bail to Lok Janshakti Party MP Prince Raj who had sought protection from arrest in a rape case. Special judge Vikas Dhull granted the relief to the politician on a bond of Rs 1 lakh and one surety of like amount. Raj, nephew of the late Ram Vilas Paswan and cousin of Chirag Paswan, is a Member of Parliament from Samastipur in Bihar. In the application, Raj's advocate Nitesh Rana had claimed that the victim and her male friend were ellegedly 'extorting money and blackmailing his client' since 2020. The Delhi Police had filed an FIR on September 9 against Prince Raj on the directions of a court here. The woman, who says that she was an LJP worker, has accused Raj of raping her while she was unconscious.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-ljp-mp-prince-raj-in-rape-case-1034126.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Azad threatens to begin dharna if promises made to Hathras victim's family not fulfilled||Azad Samaj Party national president Chandrashekhar Azad has threatened to begin an indefinite protest if the Uttar Pradesh government fails to fulfil its promises to the family of a 19-year-old woman from Hathras who was gang-raped and assaulted last year leading to her death. Azad, who had visited the family of the woman in Hathras earlier this week, said, "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's promises made a year back of providing financial support to the family, including job and housing, have become a cruel joke for the family." Azad met Aligarh Divisional Commissioner Gaurav Dayal who, he said, "assured that the promised assistance to the family would be given within one week." "We will begin an indefinite dharna at the Aligarh divisional commissioner's office after 10 days if these assurances are not fulfilled and justice is not given to the family," he told reporters here on Friday. The woman died at a hospital in Delhi in September last year, days after being assaulted and raped by four men. Azad claimed that Aligarh "has become such a difficult place for Dalits that they would be forced to migrate from here." Asked whether his party will form any alliance for the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, he said, "So far no decision has been taken, but we will not spare any effort to ensure the defeat of the BJP."  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/azad-threatens-to-begin-dharna-if-promises-made-to-hathras-victims-family-not-fulfilled-1034131.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||IPS officer Sahota given additional charge of Punjab DGP||Senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota has been given the additional charge of the Punjab DGP, according to an official order issued on Saturday. The development comes after DGP Dinkar Gupta, a 1987-batch IPS officer, proceeded on leave. Sahota, a 1988-batch IPS officer, is presently holding the charge of the Special DGP (Armed Police, Jalandhar). According to the order, Sahota has been "given the additional charge of the DGP, Punjab, in addition to his own duties during the leave period of Dinkar Gupta". It will come into force with immediate effect, as per the order. The change in the head of state police force came two days after the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government appointed Anirudh Tewari as the Chief Secretary after shunting Vini Mahajan. Dinkar Gupta is the husband of Mahajan. After the change of guard, it was certain that the top bureaucrats of the state would be replaced. Charanjit Singh Channi early this week had taken the charge of Chief Minister of Punjab following an unceremonious exit of Amarinder Singh. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ips-officer-sahota-given-additional-charge-of-punjab-dgp-1034136.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Major reshuffle in Delhi Police, 11 IPS officers transferred||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday ordered a major reshuffle in the ranks of senior Delhi police officers. According to the order by Baijal, 11 Indian Police Service officers have been transferred to new posts. Mukesh Chander, a 1988-batch IPS officer who was posted as Special CP/Ops and Lic has been transferred as Special CP/Technology and Project implementation division. He will also be holding additional charge of community policing and media cell division. Special CP at HQ and General Administration, Sundari Nanda, has been transferred as Special CP/Human resource division. The HR division includes personnel management, training and welfare. Special CP women safety, Nuzhat Hassan will now work as Spl CP Vigilance and public transport safety division. Deepender Pathak, Special CP of Intelligence will now hold the post of Special CP Law and order division zone-1 which includes eastern, northern, and central ranges. Satish Golcha, Special CP of the southern zone, has been posted as Special CP Law and order division zone-2 which includes New Delhi, southern and western ranges. David Lalrinsanga, Special CP/P&L, and welfare was transferred as Special CP in Provisioning and Finances division. Western Zone Special CP, Sanjay Singh has been made Special CP at the Licensing and legal division while Central Zone Special CP Rajesh Khurana has been posted as Special CP intelligence division. Virender Singh has been posted as the Special Commissioner of the traffic management division. Special CP Armed Police, Robin Hibu, has been sent as Special CP Armed Police Division and Managing Director of the Delhi Police Housing Corporation. ID Shukla, Special CP security is the new Special CP Protective Security Division. The LG has sent his order to the Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana for necessary action. Earlier on August 29, 11 Indian Police Service officers of Delhi Police were transferred and given new responsibilities in the National Capital. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-reshuffle-in-delhi-police-11-ips-officers-transferred-1034151.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||IAF fighter aircraft roar in Srinagar skies ahead of first-of-its-kind air show||On the eve of the first-of-its-kind air show along the banks of scenic Dal lake on September 26, Srinagar skies roared with the fighter aircraft and their aerobatics exercise on Saturday. The event shall see fighter jets, helicopters and parachutes hovering over the scenic sky of Dal Lake to enchant the audiences and will be organised by the Indian Air Force (IAF) Station Srinagar and Jammu and Kashmir government to attract youth towards the aviation sector and also to boost Valley tourism. The display will include an air display by Surya Kiran Aerobatics Team, Paramotor and powered hand-glider display, Flypast by Mig-21 Bison and Aerobatics by Su-30 Aircraft. The event will be flagged off by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC) overlooking Dal lake. According to Kashmir’s Divisional Commissioner, P K Pole, in order to provide a platform to the youth, the Tribal Affairs department during the airshow will shortlist 30 to 40 youngsters from different Tribal communities. “The shortlisted youth will be provided free pilot training,” and added the way focus at the famous Bengaluru Air Show is to showcase aviation technology, Srinagar Air Show is concentrating to highlight career opportunities in this sector. Officials said more than 3,000 college and school students are expected to participate in the show to witness the impressive manoeuvres of the IAF. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-fighter-aircraft-roar-in-srinagar-skies-ahead-of-first-of-its-kind-air-show-1034152.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Situation in J&K gets ‘more repressive’ with each passing day: Mirwaiz||Breaking it’s over two-year silence, the moderate faction of Hurriyat Conference on Saturday expressed grave concern over the situation in Jammu and Kashmir which was getting “more and more repressive with each passing day.” In an emailed statement a spokesperson of the separatist conglomerate quoting its chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said that day in and out “extreme laws are introduced to further curb people's freedom and intimidate them into silence through fear of retribution.” “Sudden dismissals of government employees without any investigation or being given a chance to be heard is part of this policy as six more government employees have been sacked by the ruling dispensation,” he said. In the last few months, Jammu and Kashmir government headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has terminated two dozen government employees, including two sons of Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudin, without holding any enquiry for their alleged involvement in anti-national activities. Referring to newspaper reports that “lists have been prepared to dismiss hundreds of Kashmiri employees in this most foul manner to exacerbate the atmosphere of intimidation and fear in the valley”, the Mirwaiz said, “Under these bizarrely inhuman rules, employees can be even be dismissed from service if they or their family members are found to be ‘sympathetic’ to people accused under the (UAPA) and Public Safety Act (PSA).” While strongly denouncing this “dictatorial approach” to deal with people's aspirations, the moderate Hurriyat said “these laws are meant to silence people into submission, crush their freedom of expression and speech and quell any kind of dissent.” The Hurriyat also lashed out at the government for targeting media persons and media houses through raids and confiscation of their equipment. “Continued raids by government agencies on organisations and homes of people and slapping of PSA and other harsh laws on them, picking up of youth, their arbitrary arrests constant surveillance of people continues unabated across J&K as a state policy, as the number of Kashmiris in jails and detention centre's further swells,” they alleged. The separatist conglomerate said that the ruling dispensation should stop pursuing the “policy of intimidation and retribution against the people of J&K by withdrawing these harsh laws and restore people's freedoms and liberties.” Before August 5, 2019, most of the separatist organizations, including moderate and hardliner factions of the Hurriyat, would issue statements almost daily in which they used to bash the government of India and its policies in Kashmir. The statements would get prominent space in local newspapers. However, post abrogation of Article 370, local media has almost not carried any news related to the separatists. The separatists too have found it difficult to issue statements or strike calls as most of their men are either in jails or evading arrests. However, from the last few months the moderate Hurriyat faction has started to issue some statements and the tone and tenor of today’s statement matches to their older days. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/situation-in-jk-gets-more-repressive-with-each-passing-day-mirwaiz-1034156.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Owaisi left Bhadohi in a huff after commotion by party workers||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, who has been visiting various places in Uttar Pradesh to get a foothold in the poll-bound state, on Saturday left Bhadohi following a commotion by his party workers in which he got pushed around. Imran Ahmed, an office-bearer of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s UP unit said, "As we moved ahead along with Owaisi, somebody pushed us. This angered Owaisi. He went inside the car and left." He added that if anybody within the party did this due to factionalism, he would be shown the door because the name of the party consists of the word 'Ittehad' which means unity. Nafees Ahmed, another office-bearer, said this is very sad for the party and some party men are responsible for it. He added that the party office bearers did not take any help from the police and district administration. “If the help from police had been sought, such an incident would not have happened,” he added. Nafees also said some party workers became over-enthusiastic, and they could not be controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/owaisi-left-bhadohi-in-a-huff-after-commotion-by-party-workers-1034224.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Bihar judge who had ordered criminal to 'wash clothes' for bail restrained from judicial work||The Patna High Court has, vide an administrative order, restrained from judicial work a lower court judge in Bihar who has been in the headlines for giving piquant orders. According to High Court sources, in an order passed on Friday, the court directed Avinash Kumar, Additional District and Sessions Judge posted in Jhanjharpur sub-division of Madhubani district, not to undertake judicial work until further orders. The administrative move comes barely a few days after the judge had granted bail to a molestation accused on condition that he wash and iron clothes of all women in his village by way of repentance. The judicial officer is said to have passed similarly heterodox orders in other matters in the past. In this month itself, two people accused of hoarding food-grain were granted bail by his court on condition that they distribute pulses, free of cost, among poor families. A mason facing trial for possession of unlicensed arms was asked to render his services, free of cost, at the temple in his village. Two persons, involved in dairy business and named in an assault case, were ordered to distribute half litre milk among malnourished children. Another person who had picked up a fight with residents of his colony was asked to clean the drains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-judge-who-had-ordered-criminal-to-wash-clothes-for-bail-restrained-from-judicial-work-1034244.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||UP CM inagurates 'Gareeb Kalyan Mela' in Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated a 'Gareeb Kalyan Mela' at Bharohia block in Gorakhpur on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Deendayal Upadhyay. Speaking on this occasion, Adityanath said, "The Gareeb Kalyan Mela is being held in all 826 blocks of the state." "Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Ayushman Bharat Yojana so that any poor person can get proper medical care. Those who were been left out of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana have been covered under the Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana and they can avail medical treatment up to Rs 5 lakh from any government or empanelled hospital," he said. In a statement issued here by the UP government, Adityanath said under the Mukhyamantri Kanya Sumangala Yojana, as many as 29,460 girls in Gorakhpur have benefitted. Adityanath also said 'melas' like this should be organised so that beneficiaries of different schemes can be identified and given benefits. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-inagurates-gareeb-kalyan-mela-in-gorakhpur-1034245.html
25-09-2021||North and Central||Rohini court shootout: Security increased in jails lodging Gogi, Tillu gang members||Security was beefed up in Delhi jails where Gogi and Tillu gang members are lodged, a day after a bloody shootout at the Rohini court left three persons, including gangster Jitender Gogi, dead, even as lawyers on Saturday abstained from work, demanding stringent measures to thwart such incidents. Gogi was shot dead by two men, who were dressed as lawyers, inside a crowded courtroom on Friday, with police in retaliatory fire killing the assailants, who are suspected to be from the slain gangster's rival Tillu gang. Police said that the metal detectors at the Rohini court were working at the time of the incident. A medical board will be constituted for the postmortem of the three criminals killed in the shootout on Friday, a senior police officer said. "The two attackers were dressed as lawyers. Once we get the CCTV footage, things will be clear how they managed to sneak into the premises," the officer said. A day after the Delhi Police's Crime Branch took over the case officially, its team visited the courtroom to re-examine the scene of crime and collect evidence, according to the officer. Witnesses, lawyers and court staff, who were present inside the courtroom during the shootout, will also be approached to know how the incident transpired on Friday afternoon, the officer said. "Footage from CCTV cameras in and around the court premises and mobile footage of the incident are being scrutinised for further examination to establish and ascertain as to how the two assailants with weapons had entered the court," the officer said. Police suspect that the assailants had conducted a recce of the court premises and knew about Gogi's hearing on Friday. It is also suspected that the two men were staying just a few kilometres away from the Rohini court. However, all these are to be probed, said the officer. An application has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre and states to take immediate steps for security in subordinate courts. The application said that gangsters and hardcore criminals may be produced from jails through video-conferencing before the trial court instead of producing them physically. According to an FIR registered in connection with the Rohini court shootout, Sub-Inspector Vir Singh, who was part of the security team engaged in the exchange of fire, in his statement said several innocent people could have lost their lives if there was no immediate retaliation against the two armed assailants. Singh said that since the duo was armed with weapons and they were firing indiscriminately, it was not possible for the police team to nab them "physically", especially when the judge, court staff and advocates were inside the courtroom, and anyone could have died. Video footage of the incident, which exposed security lapses in the system, showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday transferred 40 senior Delhi Police officers, including 11 special commissioners and 28 DCPs and additional DCPs, a move that comes a day after the shootout incident. A senior jail official said, "Security has been raised and officials are keeping a tight vigil on jails where Gogi and Tillu gang members have been lodged." Police suspect that the Tillu gang was behind the courtroom incident. A senior police official said adequate personnel have also been deployed inside and outside the court to ensure no untoward incident takes place in the future. He said concerns have also been raised about functioning of metal detectors in the court premises and the matter has been taken up with the court administration. "When it comes to checking and frisking, it has been observed that lawyers do not want to be frisked and that was a major problem faced. It is not limited to Rohini court alone as this has been observed in other lower courts as well. But we are in touch with the Bar Association of Rohini court and they are also cooperating," the police official said. Sanjeev Nasiar, the spokesperson of Coordination Committee of all District Courts Bar Associations in Delhi, said that lawyers abstained from work in all district courts in the national capital. The strike was called by the committee seeking modification of security norms inside all the seven district courts premises here. The courts, however, passed orders and judgments that were already scheduled for Saturday, he said. Advocate Manjeet Mathur, the secretary of Rohini District Courts Bar Association, said that the strike was peaceful and no information regarding any unpleasant incident was received from any of the seven courts premises. On Friday, Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Gagandeep Singh was engaged in court proceedings and besides them, court staff and around five-six advocates were inside the room when suddenly, two men, who were dressed as lawyers and were seated, stood up and whipped out their pistols. The assailants started firing indiscriminately at Gogi and by the time police team could have "reacted", Gogi had already sustained several bullet injuries, the FIR said. Keeping in mind the safety and security of everyone, Singh and his commandos -- Constables Shakti and Chirag -- immediately opened fire at the two armed men from their respective weapons. Simultaneously, personnel from the Special Cell and the Rohini Special Staff also opened fire, it stated. The joint commissioner of police (northern range) has been asked to inquire into the incident and submit a report while the case is being handled by the Crime Branch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-shootout-security-increased-in-jails-lodging-gogi-tillu-gang-members-1034248.html
25-09-2021||Opinion||Under GST or not, petrol, diesel prices won’t fall. Stop dreaming||Over the last few weeks, WhatsApp forwards going around were suggesting that petrol and diesel were likely to be brought under GST, and once that happens, fuel prices would fall. Petroleum products like petrol, diesel, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel, are constitutionally included under the GST, but the date on which GST shall be levied on such goods depends on the decision of the GST Council. The GST Council discussed this issue in their latest meeting, primarily on account of the Kerala High Court asking the Council to decide on bringing petrol and diesel under GST. The Council decided against this. The reason is obvious. Between April 2015 and March 2021, the central government earned Rs 13.7 lakh crore from the excise duty it charges on petrol and diesel. These earnings have only gone up in recent years because the excise duty on petrol has gone up from Rs 9.48 per litre in October 2014 to Rs 32.90 per litre currently, a jump of close to 250%. The excise duty on diesel has gone up from Rs 3.56 per litre in October 2014 to Rs 31.80 per litre currently, a jump of close to 800%. In just three months this year -- April to June -- the excise duty collected on petrol and diesel stood at Rs 94,181 crore. Given this, the excise duty that the government collects on petrol and diesel sales will cross Rs 4 lakh crore this financial year. Remember, sales of petrol and diesel would have been lower than normal during April-June, when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak. The gross tax revenue that the government hopes to earn this year is Rs 22.17 lakh crore. Hence, at Rs 4 lakh crore, the government hopes to earn 18% of its total tax revenues from the excise duty on petrol and diesel. To cut a long story short, the central government is highly dependent on fuel taxes. Other than the central excise duty on petrol and diesel, the state governments also charge a sales tax/VAT. This rate varies from state to state. In 2020-21, the state governments earned a total of Rs 2.03 lakh crore from taxes on petroleum products, mostly on petrol and diesel. In 2020-21, the revenues of the state governments from their own taxes stood at Rs 14.93 lakh crore. That means, some 13.6% of the total taxes they collected (without taking their share in taxes collected by the Centre into account) came from taxing petroleum products. The share was at 15% and 16.7% in 2019-20 and 2018-19, respectively. What this tells us very clearly is that both central and state governments are addicted to fuel taxes. In this scenario, what is the possibility of petrol and diesel being brought under GST? To understand this, we need to understand how petrol and diesel are taxed. Let’s take the example of petrol. As per Indian Oil Corporation, on September 16, a litre of petrol cost Rs 101.19 in Delhi. The price charged to dealers was Rs 41.1 per litre. The dealer commission was Rs 3.84 per litre. This works out to Rs 44.94 per litre. The remaining Rs 56.25 per litre was the total amount of tax on petrol. Of this, Rs 32.9 per litre was the excise duty charged by the central government, and the rest was the sales tax/VAT charged by the Delhi state government. So, the total tax on petrol stands at about 125% of its dealer price plus commission. This will vary from state to state, given that the rate of sales tax/VAT is different from one state to another. Nevertheless, it is safe to say that in most cases, the rate will be higher than 100%, except possibly in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, where the VAT is 6%. In most states, the sales tax/VAT is more than 25%. In Karnataka, the sales tax on petrol is 35%. In the case of diesel, the math might be slightly different, but the proportion of taxes remains as high, or more, in comparison to the dealer price-plus-commission. Also, in 2020-21, more than two-thirds of the central excise duty earned from petroleum products came from diesel. It was at 56.6% in 2019-20. Hence, even if petrol and diesel are brought under GST, they will have to be taxed at a very high rate. Currently, the highest rate of GST is 28%. Of course, there are surcharges and cess that can be charged by the government over and above this. Also, the impact of moving petrol and diesel into the GST regime needs to be ‘revenue neutral’. That means that both the central government and the state governments need to continue to collect more or less the same amount of taxes that they are currently earning under the non-GST regime. That is possible only if the GST rate on petrol and diesel is higher than 100%. Hence, the logic offered on WhatsApp forwards and in private conversations of petrol and diesel prices falling if they are brought under GST doesn’t really hold. The only way this is possible is if the governments, both central and in the states, start earning more taxes through some other route. Until that happens, the taxes on petrol and diesel will continue to remain high, and thus petrol and diesel prices will continue to remain high. Of course, if international oil prices fall and our oil marketing companies decide to pass on the fall to the consumer, then prices may go down. But that’s true under GST or otherwise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/under-gst-or-not-petrol-diesel-prices-won-t-fall-stop-dreaming-1034253.html
25-09-2021||Opinion||India’s foreign policy jazz split||On two consecutive Fridays this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with both the ‘hound’ and the ‘hare’ of international politics. Last Friday, Modi held a virtual summit with the eight-member Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) led by China and Russia. This past Friday, he joined leaders of the Quad in Washington – the coalition consisting of India, Japan, Australia and the United States. The two groups are obviously rivals. Whatever India might say, the very purpose of the Quad is to contain and shackle China. And the SCO is China and Russia’s answer to US hegemony. The two groups also stand for very different things: Unlike the Quad, many SCO countries are partners of the Taliban, including China, Pakistan and Iran (which is an observer at the SCO). Additionally, the Quad talks about promoting values of democracy, international law and freedom of navigation in the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. Russia and China are allergic to democracy, and for all practical purposes, promote a ‘might is right’ approach to international politics. So, what exactly is India doing, having lunch with one group and dinner with the other? Being part of competing and contradictory multilateral coalitions is not necessarily a bad thing by itself. The problem arises when you sit with each of them without a coherent policy objective – or, at the very least, a clear idea of why you’re even there in the first place. If India thinks that its values and interests are better aligned with China and Russia, for instance, it can use its membership in the Quad to promote those values – and negotiate in favour of those interests – among its rivals there (or vice versa). But whether India has any such clarity is highly questionable. For the most part, as I argued in my last book, India appears to be ‘flying blind’. It has been calling for action against Pakistan on terrorism while conducting counter-terrorism military exercises at the SCO (of which Pakistan is a member). It has been publicly worried about the “threat from China” while being shy about any military alliances that might help correct its immense power differential with China. The greatest risk of being part of rival groups without a clearly articulated policy is that India is liable to lose trust and influence on both sides. Influence is gained by a rising power when it credibly represents – and fulfils – the core interests of various nations, communities, or people. In the absence of such credibility, a rising power will fail to build strategic influence in other countries or secure their cooperation on issues of national interest. With that in mind, think about what happens if a country takes part in military exercises with both sides involved in a dispute: Neither side can trust that country any longer. At best, that country is no more influential than a bystander in a street fight; at worst, it is seen by both sides as an unreliable partner – a risk of sabotage. With the Asia-Pacific region heating up with every passing year, India needs to prepare for itself a longer-term strategy, which secures India’s interests during a possible military conflict between the world’s major powers. Time will tell if New Delhi already has some secret grand plan for world peace, of which its ‘non-alignment’ (or ‘multi-alignment’, per the new lexicon) strategy is a crucial piece. But if you put your feet in two different boats – each trying to move in the opposite direction at the same time – you’re likely to get thrown overboard by both boats at some point. Prepare a life vest, just in case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-foreign-policy-jazz-split-1034254.html
25-09-2021||South||3 Tamil Nadu fishermen 'attacked, robbed' mid sea by Lankan fishers||Three fishermen from this district were seriously injured after they were allegedly attacked by a group of Sri Lankan fishers off the Kodiakarai coast early on Saturday. The fishermen from Arucottuthurai near Vedaranyam came under attack when they were fishing a few knots southeast off Kodiakarai coast today, the Coastal Security Group (CSG) police said. The Lankan fishers came in three boats and 'attacked' the Tamil fishermen with iron rods, snatched their catch, fishing nets, mobile phones, GPS equipment, before fleeing the scene, they said. The injured fishermen returned to the shore this morning and were admitted to the Nagapattinam government hospital. Nagapattinam District Collector Arun Thamburaj visited the hospital and enquired about the treatment being provided to the fishermen. Fisheries Department officials and CSG police are investigating the matter. Meanwhile, members of the fishermen association in Arucottuthurai launched a flash strike condemning the attack. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-tamil-nadu-fishermen-attacked-robbed-mid-sea-by-lankan-fishers-1034064.html
25-09-2021||South||In just 4 months in office, we delivered 202 among 505 assurances, says TN CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday said his government has kept up its poll assurances, delivering 202 among the 505 promises made in the run up to the Assembly polls to the State besides other announcements made in the legislative Assembly. Taking pride in the unique achievement, which he claimed no other governments in the Indian subcontinent has delivered, the Chief Minister assured to meet the people once every three months, with a list of achievements, to inform them about his government’s progress. “Of the 505 promises, 202 assurances were delivered by my government within 4 months. Of all the governments in the Indian subcontinent, such a pace of implementation can only be attributed to the DMK government,” he said in a video message posted on his Twitter. This achievement, he said should not be viewed as a momentary acceleration. “This is how we perform and will continue to do so, every single day. Will meet you once every 3 months to let you know of the progress we made with the list of achievements,” Stalin said. The CM said he would meet the people not as someone who takes them for granted thinking he will have to face them only after 5 years. “It is you and my conscience that drives me. You order. I am waiting to deliver,” he said. Stalin said he has taken charge of Chief Ministership because of people’s votes. “Each and every vote that was cast, serve as a strong base for me to be in Fort St. George. Each one of you cast your votes with the belief that we will always keep up our promises. We will always deliver the best of services to our people,” he said. He also expressed pride that his government was safeguarding the trust that the people have “invested in us.” “You have voted us. And we have kept most of our promises. Hence, I am talking to you, brimming with pride... presenting the DMK’s election manifesto, I said as Thalaivar Kalaignar (his father and late Chief Minister M Karunanidhi) always says, ‘we say what we do, and do as we say’,” Stalin said. In just 4 months after assuming office the DMK government delivered upon most of the promises. Listing some of the achievements, he said on May 7, within a few hours of assuming office he signed 5 important files including Coronavirus relief of Rs 4,000 for all 2.09 crore rice ration cardholders, reduction of Aavin milk prices by Rs 3 per litre, free bus rides for women in government city and town buses, and formation of a new department: ‘Chief Minister in your constituency’ to act upon public grievances. “The first 4 of 5 promises were part of our election manifesto. Following this, to safeguard the interests of farmers and to improve agricultural production for the first time, a separate budget was presented for agriculture. Loans amounting to Rs 2,756 crore lent to women self help groups through Cooperative Credit Societies were waived, jewel loans lent through Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies were waived,” he said. Reduction of petrol prices by Rs 3 per litre, reviving and implementing Anna Marumalarchi Thittam (Anna Renaissance Scheme) in rural areas on an estimated budget of Rs 1,200 crore, reviving and implementing the Namakku Naame Thittam with the support of local communities on an outlay of Rs 100 crores, cash awards for Olympic medal winners were among the promises fulfilled. Apart from passing resolutions against Centre's new farm laws and CAA in the Assembly and exemption from NEET, the government announced ex-gratia of Rs 25 lakh for the families of doctors who lost their lives during Covid-19 treatment efforts, ex-gratia of Rs 25 lakh for families of police officials and personnel who lost their lives during the Covid-19 frontline efforts, enhancing quota for women in government employment to 40 per cent, among others. “Most of our promises have been kept… 51 promises from the Governor’s address, 2 promises from my reply, 43 promises from the budget, 23 promises from the agriculture budget, 64 promises from the announcements by ministers, and 16 promises from other announcements have also been delivered,” he noted. Initiatives which were not part of the DMK’s manifesto like 7.5 percent reservation for students from government schools on preferential basis in all professional courses, total fee waiver for beneficiaries of this reservation, free travel scheme in government buses extended to transgenders and differently abled, Rs 5 lakh fixed deposit for the children orphaned due to Covid-19 pandemic, to name a few were also delivered. “All the above were not announced by us but delivered. We not only did what we said but also did what we have not said,” Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-just-4-months-in-office-we-delivered-202-among-505-assurances-says-tn-cm-1034102.html
25-09-2021||South||As leaders quit, unrest in Kerala Congress continues||Unrest in the Congress in Kerala continues as senior leader V M Sudheeran quit the political affairs committee of the party. Four prominent leaders of the party quit over the last few weeks expressing displeasure over the selection of new district presidents of the party. Three of them have even joined the CPM. The resignation of Sudheeran, who is a former president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, from the political affairs committee was also learnt to be due to displeasure with the new state leaders of the party, Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran and leader of opposition V D Satheesan, as the selection of office bearers of KPCC was progressing. While Sudheeran declined to comment on the reason for quitting, sources close to him said that he was unhappy over not involving senior leaders in the ongoing selection of office bearers. Kerala PCC president said that he was unaware of the reason for Sudheeran to quit the Political Affairs Committee as he was yet to go through the contents of the resignation letter. He also said that selection of office bearers of the PCC and the district committees were in final stages. AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar, who is in Kerala as part of the selection of new office bearers, said that he would meet Sudheeran if required after holding talks with the party leaders on the matter. Meanwhile, the state leadership of the party is caught up in a tight spot as senior leaders were pushing for their loyalists to the KPCC office bearer posts. Senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala were quite upset over the selection of district committee presidents and had expressed their resentment in the open. Later the state leadership held talks with them and settled the row. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-leaders-quit-unrest-in-kerala-congress-continues-1034200.html
25-09-2021||South||Kerala to allow in-house dining in hotels and bars||Kerala government on Saturday further eased the Covid restrictions by allowing in-house dining at hotels and clubs. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that there was considerable decline in the Covid's severity in Kerala. While the number of infected persons under treatment came down by eight per cent during this week compared to the previous week, number of breakthrough infection was also coming down. Moreover, 91.5 per cent of people in the state above the age of 18 have received the first dose of Covid vaccine. The majority of persons who died due to Covid were those who did not take the vaccine, he said. In-house dining will be allowed in hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs subject to the conditions that only 50 per cent of the seating capacity would be allowed at a time, air conditions would not be allowed and both customers and employees should have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Persons who took both doses would be allowed in indoor stadiums and swimming pools. The state government also prescribed norms for the reopening of colleges and schools. While higher education institutions would be opening from October 1, schools would be opened by November 1. Apart from ensuring sanitisation and social distancing, schools should also ensure service of doctors and health workers, he said. Meanwhile, 16,671 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Saturday. The total number of Covid active cases was 1.65 lakh on Saturday. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-allow-in-house-dining-in-hotels-and-bars-1034202.html
25-09-2021||State||Express guard's son cracks UPSC exam||The UPSC examination's success saga of this boy is no less than a Bollywood story. His father is serving as Express Guard in South Western Railways in Hubballi. He cracked the examination in his fifth attempt with a firm belief in principle ''Try, try, try again" and secured 235th rank. "Constant efforts, confidence and perseverance are key to my success in UPSC Examinations," Srinivas MP, son of South Western Railways Express Guard and a native of Davangere said. To achieve his dream and serve as an officer in India, he quit his job as a software engineer in the US and returned to India in 2016 after a year. Though he failed in his four attempts, he did not lose hope. Speaking to DH, he said he used to write mock tests conducted by Insights IAS Academy in Bengaluru for two years to get acquainted with the format of the examinations. He had chosen Mathematics as an optional subject in his initial two attempts. Later, he switched to Kannada literature with the sole intention of cracking the examination. "I took the guidance from Narahalli Subramanya and his tips and interaction proved highly beneficial for me." On tips for budding IAS aspirants, he said regular studies, a thorough reading of old question papers and knowledge of current affairs and reading newspapers are vital to get a good ranking in the UPSC examinations.  He said his father Prasanna MP hails from Malebennur of Harihar taluk and his mother Sandhya MP from Harihar of Davangere district. After his father obtained a job as a guard in Railways, they moved to Hubballi and currently he is residing with his parents there.  He also made it clear that he is ready to serve as an officer in any department, adding that he is glad that he fulfilled his parents' dream.  He did BE in Instrumentation at R V College of Engineering in Bengaluru in 2014. Later, he went to the US and did PG in Computational Finance and Risk Management (CFRM) at The University of Washington. After working for a year in Russel Investments Company in America, he returned to India. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/express-guards-son-cracks-upsc-exam-1033992.html
25-09-2021||State||Withdraw Bharat Bandh call if you want farmers' welfare: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday asked those who have given the call for Bharat Bandh on September 27 in protest against farm laws, to withdraw the call if they are concerned about farmers' welfare. "There is no opposition for reforms in the farm sector, except in Punjab. Even farmers in Punjab, who were not getting even the MSP amount directly to their accounts earlier, have now started understanding the benefits of reforms. Those staging protests in Delhi include traders, and all of them are not farmers," he said. "Congress manifesto included the closure of the APMC, and we have not closed down APMCs. Congress governments could not bring reforms due to the influence of lobbies. Even M S Swaminathan has stated that his recommendations are being implemented by the Modi government," Joshi noted. 'Don't obstruct' Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, "Business and other activities have started to return to normalcy after one-and-a-half years, and obstructing them in the name of bandh is not correct". Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/withdraw-bharat-bandh-call-if-you-want-farmers-welfare-pralhad-joshi-1034134.html
25-09-2021||State||In a first, citizens can recommend names for 2021 Rajyotsava award||In a novel initiative, the state government has invited citizens to recommend achievers for the 2021 Rajyotsava award. Citizens can nominate people from various walks of life and the applications will be scrutinized by a committee, Kannada & Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar said Saturday. With this, the state government has taken a leaf out of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for people to nominate achievers for the Padma awards. Also, the government is trying to rebrand the Rajyotsava awards that have come to be accused of nepotism.  The Rajyotsava award, instituted in 1966, is Karnataka’s second-highest civilian honour after the Karnataka Ratna. Recipients of the award receive a cash prize, a gold medal and a citation. According to Kumar, the government will recognise 66 achievers this year. Anyone wanting to recommend names can go to the Seva Sindhu portal - sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in - and access the application specially created for the recommendations. Each person can recommend three names and furnish details of the achievers - name, the sector of achievement, contact details among other personal details. This will help the government recognise achievers who may have done significant contributions to their field, but have not yet been recognised, the minister said. An expert committee will scrutinise the applications and consider all the names that are found eligible. Except for sports, the recommended names have to be of achievers who are 60 years and above. The public can access the Seva Sindhu portal even through mobile phones. The last date for nominations is October 15, Kumar said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-a-first-citizens-can-recommend-names-for-2021-rajyotsava-award-1034196.html
25-09-2021||State||10 additional Karnataka HC judges take oath as permanent judges||Ten additional judges of the Karnataka High Court took oath as permanent judges on Saturday.  Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot administered the oath to Justices M I Arun, E S Indiresh, R V Hosmani, Vishwajith S Shetty, Shivashankar Amarannavar, M G Uma, V Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, P N Desai and P Krishna Bhat.  Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, judges of the high court, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, office-bearers of Karnataka State Bar Council as well as Advocates Association of Bengaluru attended the ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/10-additional-karnataka-hc-judges-take-oath-as-permanent-judges-1034211.html
25-09-2021||State||Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada still lead in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||Karnataka logged 787 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of infection cases to 29,72,620 and the toll to 37,717. The day also saw 775 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state, so far, to 29,21,567. Out of 787 new cases reported on Saturday, 276 were from Bengaluru Urban. It even saw 279 discharges and four deaths. The total number of active cases in the state are 13,307. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.55 per cent and the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.39% per cent. Coming behind Bengaluru Urban, in the number of deaths was Belagavi (2), followed by five others, reporting one death each. Among new cases, Dakshina Kannada (DK) accounted for 127 cases, Mysuru 65, Udupi 68, Kodagu 25, and Uttara Kannada 27, followed by others. Cumulatively, a total of 4,70,55,168 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,40,832 were on Saturday alone. The state administered 2,66,611 Covid vaccine doses on Saturday, taking the total vaccination doses administered so far to 5,45,74,905. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-urban-dakshina-kannada-still-lead-in-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-1034228.html
25-09-2021||State||Insights institute candidates shine in UPSC exams||Thirty candidates from Karnataka who cracked the civil services examination this year, including 77th rank-holder K J Akshya Simha, were trained at Insights IAS training institute in Bengaluru.  G B Vinay Kumar, founder and director of the institute said that he started the institute in 2014 by adopting an innovative training for civil services exam. "Due to our successful model, our candidates secured eight ranks in the first year. Later in 2016, we focussed on training 40 to 50 candidates in core batches and started intense training. As a result, the All India first rank was secured by our institute candidate." "A strong mental attitude will be a force multiplier for the candidates. Hence we have 'Mentors' at the institute. Their objective is to motivate and boost the morale of the candidates," he said. Vinay opined that alongside securing marks, performance in personality tests was also equally important.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/insights-institute-candidates-shine-in-upsc-exams-1034250.html
25-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||10 additional judges sworn in as judges of Karnataka High Court||Ten additional judges, who were elevated as permanent judges of the Karnataka High Court, took the oath of office here on Saturday. Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Saturday administered oath to 10 judges of the Karnataka High Court. The new appointees are Justice Maralur Indrakumar Arun, Justice Engalaguppe Seetharamaiah Indiresh, Justice Ravi Venkappa Hosmani, Justice Savanur Vishwajith Shetty, Justice Shivashankar Amarannavar, Justice Makkimane Ganeshaiah Uma, Justice Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, Justice Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai, and Justice Panjigadde Krishna Bhat. A notification on their elevation from additional judges to judges was issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India on September 23. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and the Chief Secretary of Karnataka P Ravi Kumar were among the dignitaries who attended the event.  Check the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-additional-judges-sworn-in-as-judges-of-karnataka-high-court-1034104.html
25-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Six months after second jab, 99% still have adequate immune response: Study||A whopping 99 per cent of 250 health workers jabbed with the Covishield vaccine in February at the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research (SJICR) showed adequate immune response in September. The good immune response six months after the jab means the booster can wait, especially since only 10 out of the 250 health workers showed a decline in antibody levels. SJICR’s department of microbiology conducted the blood tests for IgG neutralising antibody levels by Elisa method on the 250 health workers who had received both doses of the Covishield vaccine by February. There were an equal number of men and women among the health workers.   SJICR Director Dr C N Manjunath said around 80 per cent of the study group showed good antibody response when tested in April, two months after the jab. When the tests were repeated on the same group in September, a much higher proportion — 99 per cent of the study group showed a positive antibody response. As per the testing kits used, antibody levels of more than 30 per cent is considered as positive immune response. Around 20 per cent of the workers who initially did not have a positive immune response in April have shown a significant improvement in antibody levels during September. “They are called delayed responders. Out of these 250, around 19 health workers who were Covid-infected showed highest antibody responses. Only 10 health workers showed the decline in antibody levels from April to September, but still remained in the positive immune response limits of 4 per cent,” said Dr Manjunath. “The study highlights the fact that two doses of Covid vaccines at four weeks interval is highly effective and the immune response is sustaining at six months, which will have an impact on the booster dose vaccine policy. "At six months, most vaccinated people do not require the booster dose. We will restudy this group at the end of one year,” he added. These results will boost the morale of the health workers and general population and might also encourage more people to go for vaccination. ‘Community-immunity’ “It is scientifically sound to reduce the second dose interval to four to six weeks from the existing 12 weeks. "Since the third Covid-19 wave is anticipated during October-November 2021, this ‘community-immunity’ is going to have significant protection, provided there are no further mutations with continued Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Dr Manjunath credited the study to Assistant Professors Dr Naveena J, Head of the Department of Microbiology, along with Dr M P Nandini and Dr K Kavitha. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-months-after-second-jab-99-still-have-adequate-immune-response-study-1034139.html
25-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Plans afoot to make Sunday working day for health staff: CM Bommai||The Karnataka government is mulling over making Sunday a working day for the health staff and allow them to take weekly off on one of the week days, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday. Many visit hospitals for treatment on Sundays. They find it difficult to avail of treatment since most of the doctors and paramedic staff take break from work on Sundays. Hence, the government is considering a proposal to make Sunday a working day for the health staff and instead allow them take off on a week day, Bommai told reporters. On the row over land allotment to the proposed Chanakya University, the CM said, "It is not fair on Congress' part to oppose land allotment to Chanakya University. We know the extent of land allotted to the educational institutes by the Congress when they were in power, he charged. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/plans-afoot-to-make-sunday-working-day-for-health-staff-cm-bommai-1034209.html
25-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSLSA report on PHCs reveals crumbling infrastructure||A Primary Health Centre (Urban PHC) at Siddapura in Bengaluru has just one toilet/washroom common for male and female. Another PHC at Shankarapura village in Mandya district is operating from two classrooms of a school. These are some of the findings of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) on the functioning of PHCs in the state. The KSLSA had conducted random visits to 100 PHCs and one Community Health Centre (CHC) throughout the state on the directions of the high court in relation to a PIL about lack of health facilities at PHCs in rural areas. The report has been submitted before the court. The report said PHCs at police headquarters in Dharwad, Doora village in Mysuru, Bellavi in Tumakuru and Hiremagaluru in Chikkamagaluru are in dilapidated condition and require immediate attention. One of the important observations in the report is about the absence of duty doctors in most of the PHCs at prime hours. The report also stated that out of 100 PHCs visited, 67 PHCs do not have residential accommodation for the doctors and para-medical staff. The report said that even the staff pattern is not uniform in all the PHCs. As per the IPHS guidelines, Type-A PHC is supposed to have at least 13 staff and Type-B to have at least 14 staff. The report said that most of the PHCs are not following Indian Public Health Standards (IPHS) guidelines. Even the services such as availability of OPD and 24 X 7 emergency services, availability of labour room, infrastructure for AYUSH, residential accommodation for doctors and para-medical staff are also not uniformly available. The members have found that there is no uniformity in providing treatment to Covid-19 affected persons. The report states, out of 100 PHCs only 60 have attended Covid-19 patients. “Considering the gravity of Covid-19 cases that existed during the first and second wave in the state, if all PHCs were equipped to handle Covid-19 cases, it would have certainly reduced the burden on Covid Care Centres and other hospitals,” the report said. The report recommended that services of MBBS students as interns in PHCs, especially in rural areas, may be encouraged. The report suggested that the state government or Health and Family Welfare Department should conduct a detailed survey of all PHCs in the state for quality assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kslsa-report-on-phcs-reveals-crumbling-infrastructure-1034214.html
25-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Software issues keep Karnataka legislature from going paperless||The Karnataka legislature recently concluded its monsoon session, which was packed with debates, Bills, questions raised by legislators and written replies by the government. This also meant that thousands of sheets of paper were given to members of both the Houses, costing time and money to the government. For a decade now, the government has been attempting, without success, to go paperless in the Assembly and Council by implementing the e-Vidhan. Not only is this expected to save paper and money for the government, it will also help in having a digital record of all debates, questions and answers in both Houses. The government is now keen on reviving the project, with Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri pushing for it.  At a recent press conference, Kageri had blamed the government’s apathy for the inordinate delay. “There was a temporary pause in the process as the legislature session was in progress. The National Informatics Centre (NIC) and the legislature will soon sit together to discuss on taking the initiative forward,” Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar told DH. To implement e-Vidhan, the government has to adopt the National eVidhan Application (NeVA), a software developed by the Centre. Himachal Pradesh first adopted it in 2014. Karnataka, too, tried. In 2018, the then Assembly Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar initiated the process. “It was a decision taken at a Speakers’ conference,” Kumar recalls. However, the Centre took more than a year to respond to the state’s proposal. The government also undertook a feasibility assessment as there were concerns of the Vidhana Soudha’s heritage structure being damaged. The assessment was fruitful as officials found that high-speed wireless connectivity could be implemented in both Houses with no structural modifications. What then is delaying the implementation? The government has found the NeVA software to be inadequate. “This software was meant for unicameral legislature. We have found that it does not suit our requirement as we have to adopt it for both the Legislative Assembly and the Council,” a senior official says. Interestingly, the Lok Sabha itself is not using this software as there are many gaps in it, the official added. The alternative is for Karnataka to design its own software, which will cost Rs 250 crore in contrast to NeVA that will be just Rs 69 crore. Also, with NeVA, the state had the added benefit of cost sharing with the Centre at a 60:40 ratio. Nonetheless, a proposal has been sent from the legislature secretariat to the finance department for a new software. Sources say the legislature secretariat has also asked for a separate internet network for the Assembly and Council. This would help them easily troubleshoot any network issues from the premises when a session is in progress. The finance department is yet to respond to this proposal. Legislators are also eager to go digital. Kudachi MLA P Rajeev points out that a majority of the printed responses given to lawmakers end up in the junkyard. “Many responses are constituency-specific and not relevant to everyone. Inevitably, all of this just goes to the junk.” Also, legislators have to depend on their staff to go and look up background information online during a debate in the House. With e-Vidhan, a member can look it up themselves while sitting in the House, Kumar explains. While awaiting the e-Vidhan, the legislature secretariat is doing its best to reduce paper. Several reports and unstarred questions are now available online, with only a few printed copies. The secretariat is also digitising all the proceedings, to keep it ready to be ported to e-Vidhan as soon as it is implemented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/software-issues-keep-karnataka-legislature-from-going-paperless-1034217.html
25-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers firm on bandh; Karnataka govt promises normalcy||Farmers’ outfits in Karnataka are chalking out plans to make Monday’s Bharat bandh a success, amid growing dissent against the bandh call. The state government has put in place elaborate security measures to ensure that there is no disturbance to daily activities. The ‘Rasta Roko’ on major national and state highways during the bandh will be held from dawn to dusk, the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha said on Saturday. “We will observe bandh from 6 am to 6 pm against the anti-farmer stand of the Centre. Besides blocking the highways, we will also stop trains,” Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president of KRRS, said. The bandh call has left several organisations divided in the state. While a few organisations have expressed their support for the bandh, many others have decided to continue with their activities, while extending moral support to the farmers. “Considering the losses incurred due to the pandemic and lockdown, we have decided not to close the schools. All schools will function, with staffers wearing green badges,” D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, KAMS, said. Dr Vishal R, commissioner, department of public instruction, said, “We will take a decision keeping in mind the law and order situation.” The autorickshaw and taxi drivers’ associations have clarified that it is impossible to stop plying the vehicles, considering the losses incurred during the lockdown. But organisations of theatre and cinema artistes, writers and thinkers have expressed their support for the bandh. “It is not just farmers. The Centre’s policies are aimed at exploiting the working class, while strengthening the capitalists and entrepreneurs,” the association said in a statement. Buses to ply The state-run KSRTC has sought protection from the police department for its operations. BMTC said buses will be operational and has written to the police commissioner, seeking security.  CM decries bandh call Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that business and other activities had started returning to normalcy after one-and-a-half years, and obstructing them in the name of bandh now was not correct, reports DHNS from Hubballi. He said people have started recovering from the impact of the pandemic now, as Covid-19 cases have come down drastically. Holding a bandh at this juncture would have an adverse impact on day-to-day life, he told reporters on his way to Belagavi. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-firm-on-bandh-karnataka-govt-promises-normalcy-1034223.html
25-09-2021||West||Goa priest advises Mamata against roping in 'old dirty' Congressmen||Even as two TMC MPs have arrived in Goa to poach politicians aspiring for a ticket for the upcoming state Assembly polls, a well known Catholic priest Fr Eremito Rebello has now sent a video message to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urging her to steer clear of "old dirty guys" from the Congress, who he cautioned would bring doom to the West Bengal-based political party. "This is a cry coming out from the depths of the heart of a genuine Goan who bleeds for Goa. We are hearing those old dirty guys from Congress and other parties are planning to join the TMC party. Madam Mamta and Mr O'Brien and all didis, girls and boys, please listen to what I am saying," Rebello said in a video uploaded on a social media platform. Mamata has already dispatched a team, led by two party MPs, O'Brien and Prasun Banerjee, who landed in Goa on Thursday and are in the process of meeting a series of political leaders and eminent civil society personalities, even as the party prepares to contest the 2022 state Assembly polls in Goa. Among those who have been sent feelers by the TMC, include former chief minister and former Congress Working Committee member Luizinho Faleiro, two-term MLA Agnelo Fernandes among others. Sources close to Faleiro said that the former CM has been upset with the manner in which the party has treated him in the recent past, especially over the issue of inducting new faces in the Goa Congress over the last few months. According to Fr Rebello, the TMC has potential to become a formidable alternative to the BJP-led coalition government in Goa. "Your party can be a formidable alternative to the present ruling dispensation. But please do not dirty yourself by accepting in your party those rogue dirty politicians who have ruined the future of Goa. Right now what we are hearing is that many of such rogues are in touch with you. Just as they have destroyed the future of Congress party and the future of Goa and Goans, so will they destroy TMC which has got such fame all over," Rebello said. "I have high regard for you and I firmly believe that you can be a formidable alternative to the ruling dispensation. You have very good capable leaders who can unite all the secular forces and come to power. I beg of you please keep away from the rogues," Rebello further said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-priest-advises-mamata-against-roping-in-old-dirty-congressmen-1033972.html
25-09-2021||West||I-T Department claims Rs 518-crore tax evasion after raids on Gujarat diamond group||The CBDT Saturday said the Income Tax Department has detected tax evasion worth crores of rupees in raids on a leading diamond manufacturer and exporter of Gujarat. The searches were launched on September 22 at 23 premises of the group, which is also in the tiles manufacturing business, at Surat, Navsari, Morbi, and Wankaner (Morbi) in Gujarat and Mumbai in Maharashtra. The raids are still underway, it said. "The primary analysis of data reveals that the assessee has made unaccounted purchase and sale of small polished diamonds of about Rs 518 crore over the period." "The data reveals that the assessee has sold more than Rs 95 crore of diamond scrap in cash generated from its manufacturing activities, which remains unaccounted for and represents its income," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) claimed in a statement. The assessee, over these years, has accounted for the sale of about Rs 2,742 crore of small diamonds in its books, against which, a substantial part of purchases were made in cash, but the purchase bills were taken from accommodation entry providers, it alleged. The statement said "unaccounted" cash and jewellery worth Rs 1.95 crore has been seized during the raids and "unaccounted" diamond stock of 8900 carat worth Rs 10.98 crore has been detected.  "A large number of lockers belonging to the group have been identified, which have been placed under restraint and will be operated in due course," it said. The policy-making body for the tax department said that the group was making its "major purchases" of rough diamonds through imports and making export sales of finished bigger diamonds through its company registered in Hong Kong, which is effectively controlled and managed from India only.  "The data reveals that the assessee has made purchases of Rs 189 crore and sale of Rs 1,040 crore in the last two years through this entity." ​"...financial transactions of real estate deals were found which led to the detection of unaccounted income of Rs 80 crore," it claimed. The sale transactions of shares pertaining to the business of tiles were examined which led to the detection of Rs 81 crore of unaccounted income, the CBDT said. It said the raid teams have seized paper as well as digital data, kept at secret locations under the custody of its trusted employees, that includes proof of unaccounted purchases and sales, accommodation entries (obtaining illegal business entries in accounts) for purchases against which cash is received, the movement of such cash and stock through angadia firms, keeping the unaccounted cash with angadias, investment of such unaccounted income for purchase of property and stock, etc for the last five years. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-t-department-claims-rs-518-crore-tax-evasion-after-raids-on-gujarat-diamond-group-1034052.html
25-09-2021||West||ED issues fresh summons to Maharashtra minister Anil Parab in Anil Deshmukh money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued fresh summons to Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab for questioning next week in the money laundering case registered against former state minister Anil Deshmukh and others, officials said on Saturday. This is the second summons issued to Parab, 56, who also holds the parliamentary affairs portfolio in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The three-term party legislator in the Maharashtra legislative council was first summoned by the agency to depose on August 31, which he had declined citing official engagements and had sought more time. The officials said the minister has now been asked by the ED to depose before the investigating officer of the case at the agency's office in south Mumbai on September 28. They said Parab is to be questioned in the money laundering case being investigated against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh after certain "disclosures" have been made by other accused and those involved in the case. The summons pertain to the criminal investigation being carried out by the ED in the alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. The ED case against Deshmukh, who was earlier the home minister in the MVA government, and others came after the CBI booked him in the corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribe made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had skipped ED summons at least five times till now and has moved court against the agency, had said Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner. The ED may question Parab about the statements it has twice recorded of jailed police officer and another accused in this case, Sachin Waze. The suspended cop Waze, arrested by the NIA in a case where an explosives-laden SUV was recovered from near the Mumbai house of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, had earlier alleged in a letter he sought to submit before a court that in January 2021, Parab asked him to look into an inquiry against "fraudulent" contractors listed in the Mumbai civic body and "collect" at least Rs 2 crore from about 50 such contractors. Parab had then rejected Waze's claims and had said he was ready to face any probe into the allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-maharashtra-minister-anil-parab-in-anil-deshmukh-money-laundering-case-1034074.html
25-09-2021||West||Car designer Dilip Chhabria's son held in cheating case filed by comedian Kapil Sharma||Mumbai police on Saturday arrested Bonito Chhabria, son of car designer Dilip Chhabria, in connection with a case of cheating registered against him on the basis of comedian Kapil Sharma's complaint, an official said. Bonito was called for questioning in the case by the crime branch officials. After being questioned, he was placed under arrest, he said. Sharma had lodged the complaint with the Mumbai police last year, alleging that he was cheated of Rs 5.3 crore by Dilip Chhabria and others, the official said. In the complaint, Sharma had told the police that he had paid more than Rs 5 crore to Chhabria between March and May 2017 to design a vanity bus for him. But as there was no progress made till 2019, Sharma had approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). However, Chabbria last year sent a bill of Rs 1.20 crore to Sharma as parking charges for the vanity bus. After that Sharma approached the police and lodged his complaint. "During the investigation of the case, the role of Bonito Chhabria came to light. Therefore, he was called for questioning and later placed under arrest by the crime branch," he said. Last year, the Mumbai crime branch had arrested Dilip Chhabria in connection with multi crore car financing scam. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/car-designer-dilip-chhabrias-son-held-in-cheating-case-filed-by-comedian-kapil-sharma-1034095.html
25-09-2021||West||Cinema halls, theatres and auditoriums to reopen from October 22 in Maharashtra||Cinema halls, theatres, and auditoriums in Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra are set to reopen from October 22 with strict Covid-19 protocols.  This comes a day after the government announced a decision to reopen schools and places of worship from around the first week of October.  For several weeks now, owners of cinema halls - both single-screen and multiplexes, theatres and auditoriums have been requesting permission to reopen with the Covid-19 second wave easing.  After a meeting with various stakeholders presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the call was taken to reopen them. “Cinema halls, theatres and auditoriums in Maharashtra will open after October 22,” Thackeray said. However, he made it clear that Covid-19 safety protocols would have to be followed and a fresh set of SOPs would be declared soon. The chief minister held extensive discussions with the Covid Task Force members, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut. From the Hindi and Marathi film industry who were present in the meeting were Rohit Shetty, Kunal Kapoor, Makrand Deshpande, Subodh Bhave, Aadesh Bandekar. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cinema-halls-theatres-and-auditoriums-to-reopen-from-october-22-in-maharashtra-1034112.html
