26-09-2021||First Edit||Fire safety rules only on paper||Authorities have not learnt from the Carlton Towers fire tragedy in Bengaluru which claimed nine lives and left 70 injured eleven years ago and have miserably failed to take any preventive steps, leading to recurrence of similar incidents, though thankfully, not of the same magnitude. Recently, an 82-year-old woman and her 59-year-old daughter were burnt alive when their apartment in Devarachikkanahalli caught fire. This was followed by another incident where at least two people were killed in a blast at the godown of a transport company in the New Tharagupet area, where crackers were stored unsafely. Last year, a major fire had broken out at a chemical factory in Bapujinagar gutting a few neighbouring houses, though fortunately, there were no causalities. While a question arises on how the authorities permit storage of hazardous material in crowded areas, a common factor among most such incidents are the narrow roads that delay the arrival of fire tenders. Though the floor area ratio of the building is fixed based on the width of the road, this is observed more in breach with high-rises permitted even on narrow thoroughfares.  After the Devarachikkanahalli incident, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has declared the fixing of grills on balconies illegal. Apparently, the two women could not be saved as fire service personnel had difficulty in gaining access to the flat as the balcony was fixed with grills. While the order is impractical and not implementable, BBMP has swept the real issue under the carpet. The civic body is a den of corruption and the government should order an independent probe into how a majority of buildings openly flout by-laws and yet manage to obtain occupancy certificates. An archaic law that makes fire audit mandatory only for high-rises, allows builders of smaller residential apartments to get away with murder. The situation is even worse in the case of commercial buildings which have a heavy footfall, with both the BBMP and fire services turning a blind eye to pubs and bars that operate illegally from terraces.  Thus, there is an urgent need to conduct a safety audit of all commercial complexes and residential apartment blocks, however big or small, and take corrective measures. But first, the government should act against corrupt officers who are hand-in-glove with builders as the failure to initiate any punitive action over the years has only emboldened them, further contributing to the decay of the city and putting its citizens at grave risk. Bengaluru is literally sitting on a time bomb and unless the government acts fast, a catastrophe cannot be avoided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/fire-safety-rules-only-on-paper-1034537.html
26-09-2021||In Perspective||Denting the 'steel frame' of India||Why is our “steel frame” so much at the receiving end lately? Recent reports in the media suggest Prime Minister Narendra Modi questioned the need for civil service officers to run everything from fertiliser plants to airlines, commenting on how the IAS could do better, emphasising the necessity of the private sector to ensure the country’s progress. On another occasion, it was the concern with the pace of asset monetisation and disinvestment because government officials were unable to take courageous decisions fearing allegations and the courts. Yet again, it was the slow pace of infrastructure projects which was another reason for frustration with the civil service. Not just public statements and speeches, there have been several other acts on the ground. For the first time, non-IAS serving officers will be heading to the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration for their mid-career training programmes under the PM’s ‘Mission Karmayogi’ plan so that the mix of all services will address issues of elitism associated with the IAS besides fostering intra-departmental coordination. Before this, in 2018, an ambitious step to fill in decision-making level, joint secretary rank posts in the civil service through lateral entry was launched by the Modi government. The need was felt to usher in fresh talent into the bureaucracy, resulting in the appointment of eight new joint secretaries. Currently, the government plans to induct 30 more private sector specialists at the joint secretary and director levels, quite apart from the existing practice of filling in posts traditionally earmarked for IAS with officers of other services, a process that continues. On their part, the IAS cadres are not distinguishing themselves either. The West Bengal chief secretary missed his meetings during the prime minister’s visit to Kolkata, leaving the Centre to initiate major penalty proceedings against the official alleging misconduct and misbehaviour. In Telangana, the district collector, an IAS officer, touched the feet of the chief minister, who was there to inaugurate a newly-constructed Collectorate building, later giving implausible justifications. Karnataka, too, was subject to the spectacle of a public spat in Mysuru between the district deputy commissioner and the city corporation commissioner, both IAS officers. So what exactly is happening to our civil service officers, or India’s “steel frame”, and why have IAS officers become the way they are? Perhaps, it is the outdated performance measurement structure that incentivises the status quo. An IAS officer would never get rewarded for making a big positive change but would certainly be penalised if things go wrong. There is also the perception that the system is skewed against honest, upright officers, who are subject to frequent transfers and motivated allegations. So why not go through the tenure until the next posting and promotion without ruffling any feathers? After getting past the severe competitive exam, why not be comfortable and enjoy the power, the pelf and prestige that goes with the job? Do IAS officers, especially the older set, face a disconnect with technology even as the globalised economy becomes more challenging by the day? Nevertheless, why do so many power centres periodically attack the IAS community? Why this tendency to nitpick, to run down the whole service, to demotivate them and tarnish their image? Up to 1979, an IAS candidate at the civil service examination stage made two additional postgraduate level submissions, a sign of a higher status for the IAS. Although removed later, this perceived position remains, possibly explaining what leads to inter-service rivalry and the resultant criticism of the IAS when demands for various positions are not met. Why not respect meritocracy and give credit where it is due? After all, at the civil services examination, the IAS is the first choice of toppers who have demonstrated superior acumen and analytical skills that will not change mid-career. In New Delhi’s North and South Blocks, where civil service members of different services operate, IAS cadre officers always stand out. Drawing a parallel with another meritocratic legacy, that of IIT engineers or IIM postgraduates, nobody grudges IITians heading some of the best companies in the world. Reforms are fine but constantly questioning the cadre’s relevance or running the service down will only weaken the structure. A beleaguered steel frame needs reinforcement when the country’s priority is to provide momentum to the economy after the Covid situation when consumption, increased spending, asset monetisation, PSU disinvestment, engaging with the private sector for wealth creation are necessities. Carrying out the business of governance requires a competent civil service, getting the job done necessitates coordination, an all-around perspective, leadership and vision which fits the IAS officer’s experience with different jobs garnered over several years. While the IAS community forms the backbone of the governance structure in India, their contribution requires teamwork at every rung, especially the frontlines. For their part, the IAS must realise that times have changed and that they need to adapt, to professionalise, to not only administer but also enable progress. While privileged to lead their attitude should be to serve. (The writer is former Executive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/denting-the-steel-frame-of-india-1034532.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fear grips Bhadravathi taluk after leopard kills 2 dogs||Fear has gripped Komaranahalli in Bhadravathi taluk after a leopard reportedly killed two dogs in the village. The scenes including movement of the big cat and attack on dogs were recorded on a surveillance camera. After being alerted by villagers, a team of forest department officials rushed to the village and inspected pugmarks. Later, they revealed that they belong to a leopard. Deepu, resident of the village said the sighting of leopards in and around the village is quite common as it comes from a hill near the village called Ajjigudda. But this time, it has killed two dogs. Forest department officials must capture the leopard by placing a cage in the village at the earliest, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fear-grips-bhadravathi-taluk-after-leopard-kills-2-dogs-1034271.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard who strayed into Kavalgeri trapped||A five-year-old male leopard, who strayed into the sugarcane field at Kavalgeri, seven kms from Dharwad city six days ago, was finally trapped in the wee hours of Sunday. The wild cat who had given villagers and forest officials sleepless nights confronted officials on Friday but escaped into banana plantations. The forest officials intensified combing operations on Saturday and set up six cages with bait to trap the leopard. DFO Yashpal Ksheersagar, who led the operation, told DH that the leopard had strayed into sugarcane fields in Kavalgeri on Tuesday and was sighted by one Manjunath Uppar. During the search operation, officials found the pug marks and excreta, confirming the leopard's presence in the village. Over 60 forest guards were deployed in the operation and tranquilizer experts from Kali Tiger Reserve were roped in. However in the wee hours of Sunday, the five-year-old leopard was trapped in the bone. The animal will be released into the Dandeli forest late night. Ksheersagar also said that the excreta of the leopard collected in Nrupatunga Betta in Hubballi and at Kavalgeri in Dharwad was sent to the Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology lab in Hyderabad to ascertain whether it was the same wild cat. The reports are likely to reach forest department on Tuesday. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-who-strayed-into-kavalgeri-trapped-1034440.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tourism picks up in Dakshina Kannada as Covid curbs ease||Dakshina Kannada, which has always attracted tourists with its pristine beaches, clean temples, churches, scenic trekking trails and unique cultural heritage, suffered a setback due to the Covid-19 curbs. But as positivity rate comes under control, revival seems to be in the offing.  For a week, an increase in footfalls at beaches and pilgrim centres is being seen as a positive sign by the tourism industry. Tourism department Deputy Director Manikhya says the industry is picking up after the weekend curfew was withdrawn. “With a decline in Covid-19 positivity rate, people are convinced to come out of their houses and visit tourist destinations,” he said.  Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said many developmental works to boost tourism were stalled due to the first and the second waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. The district administration has set priority to providing basic amenities at beaches.  The weekends, after the lifting of the curfew, had witnessed Tannirbavi, Panambur, Someshwara beaches teeming with tourists. Traffic was disrupted and parking lots were crammed with vehicles at the Tannirbavi beach during weekends. The crowds also have attracted vendors who sell eatables on the beaches. “I was engaged in selling peanuts and churmuri on beaches for many years. But the pandemic reduced the number of visitors and robbed my source of livelihood,” said a vendor at Someshwara beach. “Beach houses are all booked and we are unable to accommodate those seeking them at the eleventh hour,” former chief executive officer of Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project Yathish Baikampady said. “With the new norm of working from home and online classes for children, people have been visiting beach houses to relax, as their work and online classes remain unaffected,” Baikampady said. With the lifting of restrictions in temples, the number of devotees visiting Kukke Subrahmanya Temple too had increased in the past few days, Temple Executive Officer Ningaiah said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourism-picks-up-in-dakshina-kannada-as-covid-curbs-ease-1034445.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Viral fever cases in kids go up in Kalyana Karnataka region; doctors say it’s just seasonal||Amid the threat of a third wave of Covid-19, viral fever and suspected dengue cases which are on the rise among children is a cause for concern in the districts of Kalyana Karnataka. It is not only affecting children, but also the middle-aged and the elderly people for the past one month.    Local health officials said such cases have increased by 20% this time when compared to last year. The parents need not panic as flu-like symptoms and suspected dengue cases are not life-threatening. They said no child, suffering from flu-like symptoms, had tested positive for Covid-19. A damp environment and rains in the region are to be blamed for the outbreak of such fever, they said. A government doctor working with Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) said that the number of children suffering from fever and seasonal fever has increased over the past 15-20 days. Some children are testing positive for dengue also. Luckily, all are responding to treatment and only 10% of children require hospitalisation.  The number of children visiting OPD for treatment has spiked from around 150 to about 250 a day. The number of patients in peripheral hospitals with complaints of fever and common cold too has spurred, he said. Bidar district health officer V G Reddy said about 60 children were admitted to BRIMS hospital in August and September with complaints of fever and flu-like symptoms which are common during the rainy season. Over 100 children have been admitted to private hospitals in the district. The number of children suffering from influenza has increased this year. Malnourished children are more likely to get infected with the virus during the rainy season. Raichur incharge DHO K Nagaraj said viral fever has spread across the state. “We are tracing suspected dengue among children as well as elders. Such patients have been admitted to private and government hospitals.”  Of the 970 samples collected so far, 50 dengue cases have been detected and this includes children. Cases have increased in August, he added.  Yadgir DHO Indumati Kamashetty said, “we have seen 25% more patients this time than last year. Whatever we are seeing is normal viral fever. These cases are self-limiting. The district reported nine dengue cases each in August and September.” Koppal DHO Lingaraju said there is a downward trend of viral infection cases in the district. As there is talk of a Covid-19 third wave hitting children, parents panic when their children catch common cold and fever. Covid-19 positive cases have not been reported among children in the district for the past two months, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/viral-fever-cases-in-kids-go-up-in-kalyana-karnataka-region-doctors-say-it-s-just-seasonal-1034548.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest land grab: Only lower rung officials made scapegoats, says activist||Environment and RTI activist Manjunath Y Baddi has charged that forest department has made a deputy range forest officer and two forest guards scapegoat in the 1,665 acres of forest land encroachments in Bhagawati Range of Haliyal division (Uttara Kannada district), while letting off senior officers in the case. The RTI activist in November 2020 had filed a complaint with Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Vigilance) Seema Garg and Principal Chief Conservator of Forest Sanjay Mohan stating that farmers and individuals since 2014 have encroached upon reserve forest in the backwaters of Tattihalla Dam (Tattihalla, Machapura and Bogura villages) of Bhagawati Range, resulting huge loss for forest department and destruction of habitat. Based on the complaint, the forest department instructed Yellapur Assistant Conservator of Forests to conduct an enquiry. The report submitted by the ACF confirmed encroachment of forest land, including 1,300 acres of forest land that was leased to the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) for the construction of Tattihalla Dam across a tributary of the Kali river in 1979. However, what baffled the activist is that only lower-level officials - DyRFO Prakash Kambar, forest guards Haidarali Tambuli and Bhatish K Roudagi Kupwalli have been suspended pending enquiry on charges of dereliction of duty and failing to protect forest property from encroachment and damage to trees. Canara Circle Chief Conservator of Forest D Yatishkumar has suspended them under Section 10 of The Karnataka Civil Services Act of 1958. “Does Yatishkumar intend to say that only these three lower-level officials allowed encroachment of thick forest areas without the notice of higher officials,” asked Manjunath. He added that efforts were being made to protect all the senior officials (from RFOs to ACF of Haliyal division) from 2014 till 2020, who failed to prevent the encroachment. Speaking to DH, Yatishkumar said action has been initiated against the three based on the squad report submitted by ACF. When asked about why senior officials have been let off, he said action cannot be taken against all just because someone has complained about them. “I have written to PCCF for conducting further enquiry into the case,” he said. The encroachment of the forest land is said to have resulted in destruction of thousands of trees, including medicinal, endemic and those aged over hundreds of years, to make way for the farmers to cultivate paddy, sugarcane, maize, jowar, cotton and other crops in what was once an elephant and tiger corridor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-land-grab-only-lower-rung-officials-made-scapegoats-says-activist-1034557.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant dies at Sakrebailu camp||Gange, a female elephant used for khedda operations, died at the Sakrebailu camp in the district on Sunday. The jumbo was unwell for the past few days.  "The elephant was not well for the past two years. The condition worsened fifteen days ago. She was not consuming food properly," said Dr Vinay, who was treating the pachyderm. Gange attracted elephants during khedda operations. She was also caught in a similar operation at Kakanakote in 1971 and had given birth to six calves, said Deputy Forest Officer I M Nagaraj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-dies-at-sakrebailu-camp-1034579.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa still CM for me, says Narayana Gowda||The Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports, K C Narayana Gowda said that B S Yediyurappa was still the chief minister for him.  “We as ministers were frightened when Yediyurappa tendered resignation as chief minister. But, he made his supporter Basavaraj Bommai as chief minister and allayed our fears. We will march ahead under the guidance of Yediyurappa,” the minister said. He was speaking after inaugurating various projects in Shiralakoppa on Sunday. “When I was in another party, I met Yediyurappa at 5.30 in the morning. He had promised me to develop KR Pet constituency and to make me minister if I joined hands with him. Accordingly, he has released Rs 1,400 grant to the Assembly segment,” Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-still-cm-for-me-says-narayana-gowda-1034545.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah's comments on JD(S) irk HDK||Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy indulged in a verbal duel after the Congress leader ruled out the possibility of the JD(S) assuming power independently in the Karnataka. Kumaraswamy lashed out at Siddaramaiah's remark, saying that the latter had no moral right to comment on JD(S). Speaking at an event held on Sunday, Siddaramaiah said that JD(S) had no chances of coming to power in the state. "They will go with anyone with their 30 seats. They cannot come to power independently," he said. MLA Krishna Byre Gowda said that Congress had extended all support to JD(S) during the tenure of the coalition government. "But due to their own flaws, they lost power," he said. Kumaraswamy reacted strongly to the remarks by the Congress leader, saying that Siddaramaiah was always a 'dependent' in politics. "His comment that JD(S) will go with anyone reflects that his political consciousness is bankrupt. Who came to (JD(S) supremo) Deve Gowda's door in 2018? Who made me CM and then betrayed me? The entire state knows the answer to these questions," Kumaraswamy said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiahs-comments-on-jds-irk-hdk-1034552.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress, JD(S) extend support for bandh||The Karnataka Congress has extended support to the bandh call given by farmers’ organisations on Monday. In a release, KPCC president D K Shivakumar said that the Congress party would extend support to the bandh call, as the anti-farmer policies of the Central and state government had put farmers in dire straits. Protesting the draconian legislation of the Centre, farmers are protesting on the streets of Delhi for a year now. “While the BJP government has repeatedly tried to curtail the protests, it did not show the basic courtesy of listening to the demands of farmers,” he said. JD(S) has also extended support to the bandh.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-jds-extend-support-for-bandh-1034553.html
26-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Maharashtra govt won't last long, claims C T Ravi||BJP general secretary C T Ravi said on Sunday that the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra would not last long as the DNAs of the three ruling parties were different. He claimed that the sentiments of people in the state were against the MVA government. The Shiv Sena had parted ways with the BJP after the 2019 Assembly polls and formed the government with the NCP and the Congress. Before that, the Sena shared power with BJP for five years (2014-19) with Devendra Fadnavis as the chief minister. Ravi, who is BJP's in-charge for Maharashtra, was speaking to reporters at Kalyan in Thane district on the sidelines of his party's organisational meeting. "Following the statements of the Shiv Sena leaders, there is a discussion that the BJP and the Sena would come together once again and that the days of the MVA government are numbered," he said. He was apparently referring to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's recent speech, in which he addressed leaders including Union Minister Raosaheb Danve of BJP as former and possible "future colleagues". Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/maharashtra-govt-wont-last-long-claims-c-t-ravi-1034580.html
26-09-2021||Main Article||Power of blended learning||Industry-academia collaboration has been foretold in various policy statements of the Government of India. The Ministry of Education, while preparing the last National Policy on Education in 1986, noted that the collaboration between industry and technical institutions remained weak despite urging for closer cooperation. Subsequently, the policy, adopted by Parliament in 1986, emphasised the need for an alliance and envisioned active collaborations between technical and management institutions, and industry to foster the research ecosystem in the country and enhance the growth of the economy, industry, and society at large. However, despite attempts to have heightened industry-academia-research collaborations, India saw marginal success in the past. One of the key reasons was that important scientific research output was not reaching society effectively due to bottlenecks in the commercialisation of technologies. An obvious rationale for this disconnect seemed to be the difference in underlying drivers of research and innovation across industry and universities, as also the absence of economic compulsion. While industry focus was always on market-relevant research for commercialisation, academia was more focused on research to enhance knowledge, publications, and teaching. Gradually, India has started to see a shift in this approach as there was renewed interest and value seen in industry partnerships to advance research, and there was value seen in this win-win situation wherein the academia got an opportunity to work on relevant technologies, while industry started to gain employable talent with specialised knowledge and hands-on training. Today, academia wishes to see results from their research put into practice, and there is a trend amongst the current cohort of students to explore entrepreneurial careers, often with a focus on social enterprise. The industry is effectively translating academic research into technologies, thus resulting in a win-win situation for both sectors. As a result, there is a renewed energy to promote industry-academia partnerships for the transfer of technology more than ever before. This renewed interest also got an impetus from conducive policy environments in some states, with restored hope through the National Education Policy, NEP 2020. NEP, an opportunity  Higher educational institutes (HEIs) in India have recognised the significance of entrepreneurship programmes and are now looking at focusing on research and innovation across the range of subjects they provide. HEIs will offer vocational education either on their own or in partnership with the industry. They are setting up startup incubation centres, technology development centres, centres in frontier areas of research, which in turn is providing greater industry-academic linkages. The NEP 2020 also designs the establishment of a National Research Foundation (NRF) with an overarching goal to enable a culture of research to permeate through our universities. The NRF will act as a liaison between researchers and relevant branches of government as well as an industry so as to allow breakthroughs to be optimally brought into policy and implementation, and will recognise outstanding research and progress that is of greater economic value to the nation. The fundamentals of the new National Education Policy is encouraging a blended learning experience with the industry and research institutes, which will further blur the line between industry and academic research and promote industry-academia interactions. Having more research and incubation cells will also resonate with the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s flagship initiative ‘Startup India’ & his vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat, which can be realised only if higher education institutions emerge as a fertile ground for innovation and entrepreneurship. Keeping the vision alive, the Department of Technical Education (DTE), Government of Karnataka, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) to ensure students from polytechnics across the state are both employable and entrepreneurial. Establishing the DTE-BCIC Case Centre will help DTE students learn from real-world case studies and provide opportunities for students to plan their career path leading to employment, entrepreneurship, research and higher education. We have also signed MoUs with 23 companies spread across various sectors such as electric vehicles, data centres, aerospace, and defence to attract investments worth over Rs 28,000 crore to generate nearly 15,000 direct jobs. Also, the new IT policy 2020-25 promises infrastructure development, ecosystem engagement and talent development (skilling). Currently, Karnataka contributes ~40% of the Engineering Research and Development (Engineering R&D) revenues in India. This is being supported by a robust Engineering R&D across government, industry, startups, and academia. The ultimate aim is to develop self-sustaining localised Engineering R&D manufacturing/production capabilities within Karnataka. Earlier this year, the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) set up a regional academic centre for space at the National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK) at Surathkal in Dakshina Kannada district. The centre will conduct joint research and development in space technology applications to meet the needs of our space programmes. Bridging the gap While it is a promising time for industry-institute partnerships to stimulate innovation through a cohesive learning system, the Indian industry-academia collaboration still faces stiff competition on a global scale. To meet the challenges, we need to make unrelenting efforts on resource generation and faculty exposure for technical education institutes. This also means we must make provision for continuing education in universities and institutions for practising engineers to update their technology competence. Lastly, creating clusters of industries and academic institutions at the same location would go a long way in helping academia collaborate with their respective industries. India has embarked on a journey towards creating an enabling environment by putting in place an ecosystem that breeds innovation. (The writer is Minister for Higher Education, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/power-of-blended-learning-1034539.html
26-09-2021||National||We are stronger and better when we are together, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the shared experience of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic has taught the people that they are "stronger and better" when they are together. Addressing ‘Global Citizen Live’ festival, Modi also warned that the threat of climate change is looming large before the world. "For almost two years now, humanity is battling a once in a lifetime global pandemic. Our shared experience of fighting the pandemic has taught us - we are stronger and better when we are together," he said in a video message. He said the world saw glimpses of this collective spirit when the Covid-19 warriors, doctors, nurses, medical staff gave their best to defeat the pandemic. "We saw this spirit in our scientists and innovators who created new vaccines in record time,” he said, adding that generations will remember the manner in which human resilience prevailed over everything else. Warning that the threat of climate change is looming large before the world, Prime Minister Modi told the global audience that the simplest and most successful ways to mitigate climate change is to lead lifestyles that are in harmony with nature. "The threat of climate change is looming large before us. The world will have to accept that any change in the global environment first begins with the self,” Modi said. "The great Mahatma Gandhi is widely known for his thoughts on peace and non-violence but do you know that he is also among the greatest environmentalists of the world,” Modi said. He added that Gandhi led a zero-carbon footprints lifestyle. "In whatever he did, he put the welfare of our planet above everything else," Modi said emphasising that Gandhi highlighted the doctrine of trusteeship "where we all are trustees of the planet with a duty of caring for it." Modi told the global festival that today India is the only G-20 nation that is on track with its Paris commitments. "India is also proud to have brought the world together under the banner of the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure," he said, underscoring that "we believe in the development of India for the development of the humankind." He also said that poverty cannot be fought by making the poor more dependent on government, emphasising that poverty can be fought when the poor start seeing government as trusted partners who will give them the enabling infrastructure to forever break the vicious circle of poverty. Modi said that even as the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, other challenges remain and among them, the most persistent of the challenge is poverty. “Poverty cannot be fought by making the poor more dependent on government. Poverty can be fought when the poor start seeing governments as trusted partners, trusted partners who will give them the enabling infrastructure to forever break the vicious circle of poverty. "When power is used to empower the poor, they get the strength to fight poverty,” he said. Global Citizen Live is part of a day of unity across seven continents, to be broadcast over 24 hours around the world. Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, will join Global Citizen Live on the Great Lawn of Central Park in New York City to continue their work with world leaders in pursuit of global vaccine equity, announced international advocacy organization Global Citizen. Also appearing as part of the global broadcast event are United Nations Deputy Secretary General Amina Mohammed, World Health Organization Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Executive Director of the World Food Programme David Beasley and others. Modi also told the global audience that India’s efforts include banking the unbanked, providing social security coverage to millions, giving free and quality health care to 500 million Indians. He said about 30 million houses have been built for the homeless in India’s cities and villages. “A house is not only about shelter, a roof over the head. It gives people dignity.” He said another mass movement taking place in India is to provide drinking water connection to every household, for several months last year and now free food grains have been provided to 800 million of India’s citizens. “These and several other efforts will give strength to the fight against poverty.” Addressing the “young and energetic gathering”, Modi said the Global Citizen movement uses music and creativity to bring the world together. “Music, like sports, has an inherent ability to unite,” he said adding that music has a calming impact on people’s lives and it calms the mind and entire body. “India is home to many musical traditions. In every state, in every region there are many different styles of music. I invite you all to come to India, and discover our musical vibrancy and diversity,” Modi said. Modi concluded his address by quoting the Rig Veda and said “let our minds be in agreement… let us have a shared purpose.” “Let us pray for such unity and let us have shared intentions and aspirations that unify us all. “Friends what can be a greater manifesto for a global citizen than this. May we keep working together for a kind, just and inclusive planet."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-stronger-and-better-when-we-are-together-says-pm-modi-1034260.html
26-09-2021||National||PM Modi leaves for home after concluding ‘landmark visit’ to US||Narendra Modi on Saturday left for India after concluding his visit to the US during which the prime minister said he had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements and expressed confidence that India-US relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. During his three-day visit, Prime Minister Modi addressed the 76th session of the United Nations Security Council, attended the first in-person Quad summit and held bilateral and multilateral engagements, including with US President Biden, US Vice President Harris and his counterparts from Australia Scott Morrison and from Japan Yoshihide Suga. In a tweet just before his departure for home, Modi said that he had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements over the last few days in the US. “Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets,” he said on Twitter. Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets. The prime minister also met top American CEOs of five companies and invited them to step up their investments in the country. Official Spokesperson of Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi termed Prime Minister Modi’s US visit as “landmark”. “A landmark visit concludes! Memorable bilateral and multilateral engagements,” he said in a tweet which also contained a photo of Modi folding hands and greeting people on the stairs of Air India One. Modi will bring home 157 artefacts and antiquities, which were handed over to India by the US during his visit, with both he and President Biden expressing commitment to strengthening efforts to combat theft, illicit trade and trafficking of cultural objects. While nearly half of the artefacts (71) are cultural, the other half consists of figurines related to Hinduism (60), Buddhism (16) and Jainism (9), an official statement said on Saturday. The list of 157 artefacts includes a diverse set of items ranging from the one-and-a-half metre bas relief panel of Revanta in sandstone of the 10th CE to the 8.5 cm tall, exquisite bronze Nataraja from the 12th CE. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-leaves-for-home-after-concluding-landmark-visit-to-us-1034268.html
26-09-2021||National||5-year-old girl raped in UP's Kaushambi||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped here in Sarai Akil police station area, officials said on Saturday adding that a case has been registered against unknown persons in this regard. Currently, the girl is undergoing treatment at the district hospital. Superintendent of Police Radheyshyam Vishvakarma said, "A woman on Wednesday afternoon went to a ration shop, while her five-year-old and two-year-old daughters were at home. When she returned, her elder daughter was missing. When she called up her family members in the neighbouring village, she came to know that some unknown person left her there, while she was bleeding." Subsequently, the girl was taken to a community health centre, from where she was sent to the district hospital, where she is undergoing treatment. The SP also said, "The girl's mother lodged a complaint on Friday, based on which a case has been registered against unknown persons." The girl's medical examination was conducted on Saturday and the report is awaited, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-year-old-girl-raped-in-ups-kaushambi-1034295.html
26-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Farmers, jobless youth lost in PM's paperwork!||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, attend the maiden in-person Quad summit and address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly in New York.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-jobless-youth-lost-in-pms-paperwork-1034305.html
26-09-2021||National||BJP claims Prashant Kishor included as Bhabanipur voter, wonders if he is an outsider||In a jibe at the ruling TMC, the BJP on Saturday said Prashant Kishor, who was the poll adviser of the Mamata Banerjee-led party in the recent West Bengal elections, can be called a "bohiragato" being enrolled as a voter in the Bhabanipur constituency where by-election will be held on September 30. Banerjee is contesting the by-poll from the Bhabanipur seat to retain her chief minister's chair, and is up against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal. Long before the by-election was announced, a person with the name Prashant Kishor was included in the list of the electorate in Bhabanipur during the addition process in January-April, according to the Election Commission website. Claiming that PK (poll strategist Prashant Kishor) is in the list, who is the founder of I-PAC, BJP media cell in-charge Saptarshi Choudhury tweeted in Bengali, "At last Prashant Kishor becomes the voter of Bhabanipur. So, we are not sure if the daughter of Bengal is now in favour of a bahiragato (outsider) voter." The tweet, tagging the official accounts of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the TMC and TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh, referred to the “bahiragato” tag attached by Trinamool to BJP leaders coming from outside West Bengal to campaign for the recent assembly polls. TMC leaders like Firhad Hakim has similarly labelled BJP leaders from outside West Bengal campaigning in Bhabanipur by-election. Kishor, credited with the spectacular victory of the TMC against a high voltage assembly poll campaign by BJP, had announced he will be taking a break from strategising work. He was not seen publicly in TMC’s campaign for Bhabanipur since the announcement in poll dates, but sources said he had held meetings with TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee recently in Delhi. Kishor’s I-PAC team members had also visited Tripura, which the TMC is eyeing in the 2023 polls, but were allegedly confined in a hotel by the BJP government in the state for three days under Disaster Management Act.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-claims-prashant-kishor-included-as-bhabanipur-voter-wonders-if-he-is-an-outsider-1034308.html
26-09-2021||National||PM Modi to address 81st edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the 81st edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' on September 26, after concluding his visit to the US during which he expressed confidence that India-US relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. During his three-day visit, Prime Minister Modi addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, attended the first in-person Quad summit and held bilateral and multilateral engagements, including with US President Biden, US Vice President Harris and his counterparts from Australia Scott Morrison and from Japan Yoshihide Suga. The prime minister also met top American CEOs of five companies and invited them to step up their investments in the country. In the last address of the monthly radio programme, he had noted that the start-up culture has become very vibrant in India with youngsters in even smaller cities embracing it, and asserted that it is a sign of India's bright future. He had also said that the space sector reforms in the country have caught people's imagination and expressed confidence that a large number of satellites in the coming days will be those on which youngsters from universities, labs and other sectors would have worked upon. Check out latest videos from DH:  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-81st-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-today-1034319.html
26-09-2021||National||Canada lifts ban on flights from India: Check details||Canada on Sunday announced that it will allow direct and indirect flights from India, after a month-long ban on travel from the country due to the Covid-19 situation. Those who contracted coronavirus before can present a test report from any certified laboratory in India. Passengers won't be allowed to board if they fail to meet any of the requirements. Those ravelling on indirect flights will be required to furnish a negative test report from the third country. Canada has warned that many countries may still not be allowing Indians due to the Covid threat and some may not have testing facilities at airports. If a person contracts the virus during travel, they may be quarantined in line with local healthcare rules or be returned to point of departure, the new travel guidelines said. Check out DH's latest videos  (||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/canada-lifts-ban-on-flights-from-india-check-details-1034329.html
26-09-2021||National||India reports 28,326 new Covid-19 cases, 260 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 28,326 new coronavirus infections,, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,36,52,745, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,918 with 260 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have increased to 3,03,476, comprising 0.90 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,034 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.90 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 27 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.98 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 93 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,02,351, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive have exceeded 85.60 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20, and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 260 new fatalities include 120 deaths from Kerala and 58 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,46,918 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,834 from Maharashtra, 37,717 from Karnataka, 35,476 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,438 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,727 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-28326-new-covid-19-cases-260-deaths-1034335.html
26-09-2021||National||Young IFS Sneha Dubey wins Twitter twice, second time with silence||The first time 2011-batch Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer Sneha Dubey won the internet was due to the calmness with which she delivered on Friday India's right to rebuttal on the falsehoods attempted by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan. Dubey's family roots, her education in Goa and Pune's Fergusson College culminating in a masters from New Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University, and even her dream of joining the foreign service since she was 12, were shared fast and furious over multiple news reports and social posts. Some padded this up invoking another young daughter of Indian diplomacy, Enam Gambhir, who delivered the lines, "Pakistan, the Ivy League of terrorism". Gambhir had put in just 12 years of service at that time and there she was, rebutting the head of government. A more recent comparison was last year. Here, Vidisha Maitra, a 2009 batch deputy-secretary rank diplomat, yorked Khan's veiled threat of nuclear devastation as an example of 'brinkmanship' and not 'statesmanship'. But on Saturday, in Dubey's case, it wasn't just her stinging quote, "Pakistan is an 'arsonist' disguising itself as a 'fire-fighter'." More glory came thanks to an extra enthusiastic anchorperson, live feedbacking her, gatecrashing into an anteroom where Dubey was calmly reviewing some papers. The anchor did the standard number of thrusting the gun mike demanding a quip. But what did Dubey do? She smiled charmingly and didn't utter a word. Not even "no comments". When the anchorperson, who incidentally has a PM interview among her achievements, persisted, Dubey struck a courteous bow and pointed her right arm akin to adman Bobby Kooka's Air-India Maharajah we've grown up seeing. Result? Both ladies trended. But only Dubey won Twitter. Without saying a word. 😂😂🤣🤣 'Papa Ki Pari', Anjana Om Modi thrown out of the room by Sneha Dubey, First Secretary at UNGA 😂😂||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/young-ifs-sneha-dubey-wins-twitter-twice-second-time-with-silence-1034341.html
26-09-2021||National||Cyclone Gulab to make landfall on Sunday night: All you need to know||A cyclone is set to hit the north Andhra-south Odisha coast on Sunday evening with expected wind speeds gusting up to 95 kmph, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) warned. “The Cyclonic Storm ‘Gulab’ over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal moved nearly westwards lay centered at 0530 hrs IST of 26th Sep, over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal about 270 km east-southeast of Gopalpur & 330 km east of Kalingapatnam,” the IMD’s latest bulletin said. IMD issued a red alert warning for extremely heavy rain in parts of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, and an orange alert for Chattisgarh and Telangana on Sunday. Meanwhile, a red alert warning has been issued for Chattisgarh on Monday. The department has also warned of cyclone-related flooding and destruction, including damage to hutments and other structures while adding that power/communication lines and standing crops could take a hit. Thirteen teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Odisha and five in Andhra Pradesh, Satya Narayan Pradhan, Director General of the relief force told ANI. Several trains from south Odisha-north Andhra have been cancelled due to cyclone Gulab.“In view of cyclone “Gulab” supposed to be hit between South Odisha & North Andhra Pradesh, it has been decided to cancel, divert, reschedule,regulate & short terminate below mentioned trains as per following” said an East Coast Railway notification.  Gulab is the second cyclonic storm to form over the Bay of Bengal and make landfall over the Andhra-Odisha coast this year. A very severe cyclonic storm named Yaas made its landfall near Balasore in Odisha on May 26. Similarly, in 2018, Cyclone Titli, which had hit Odisha, left many people dead in the subsequent heavy flooding and landslides. (With agency inputs) Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-gulab-to-make-landfall-on-sunday-night-all-you-need-to-know-1034347.html
26-09-2021||National||Shortage of staff, production crunch: Why Covaxin couldn’t lead India’s vaccination efforts||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was expected to lead India’s immunisation drive when it kicked off in January but production issues and staff shortage maimed the indigenous vaccine and enabled Covishield to assume the key role. In India, 75.29 crore doses of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield have been given (over 85 per cent), whereas only 9.84 crore doses of Covaxin have been administered so far, according to Co-WIN data. Bharat Biotech had manufactured 90 lakh doses per month, which was increased to 2 crore doses by May. The vaccine maker missed several production targets and multiple incidents of Covaxin shortage were reported across India during the second wave. Here’s a look at factors that impacted Covaxin in India. Challenge of producing inactivated vaccines An inactivated vaccine is made of dead or inactivated viruses and bacteria. A company working with Bharat Biotech has been trying to import equipment required for a key step of vaccine production. It is a long process and has been holding Covaxin back. Experts also suggest that the manufacturing process of inactivated vaccines (Covaxin) is much longer than an adenovirus vector-based vaccine (Covishield). Shortage of staff Since the vaccine industry is a small one, staff is a problem faced by all major players, especially for jobs that require interaction with a live virus or working in Biosafety Level 3 and Biosafety Level 4 facilities, officials were quoted as saying by News18. “It’s a huge challenge as they might not find suitable candidates and it takes a lot of time to attract and train new people to take responsibilities. You may never know when the rival company may poach your talent as you finish their training. All companies, right now, are looking out for trained staffers with best possible salary offers,” he added. Production splits Bharat Biotech has facilities in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Karnataka, Pune and Ankleshwar to manufacture Covaxin and it also has deals with three public sector companies for the same. Experts quoted in the report believe that production has been distributed to too many units which are far away from the headquarters in Hyderabad. Glitches in scale-up process Inadequate supply of Covaxin has limited the Centre’s ability to inoculate the target population of 94.47 crore with two doses of the Covid vaccines by December 2021. "There were glitches in the scale-up process and the company was over-confident with their claims,” a top government official had told DH on the condition of anonymity. With DHNS inputs Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shortage-of-staff-production-crunch-why-covaxin-couldn-t-lead-india-s-vaccination-efforts-1034356.html
26-09-2021||National||Narendra Modi clocks 20 meetings in his 65-hour stay in the US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's three-day trip to the United States was packed with meetings as he attended 20 of them during the around 65 hours he spent in the country, government sources said on Sunday.  He also had four long meetings in flights with officials on the way to and back from the US, they added.  Sharing details, sources said Modi had two meetings in flight on Wednesday on the way to the US and three in the hotel upon his arrival. On September 23, he had five meetings with as many CEOs followed by talks with US Vice President Kamala Harris and bilateral interactions with his Japanese and Australian counterparts Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison respectively. He also chaired three internal meetings.  He had a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden the next day and then attended the Quad meet. Sources said Modi also held four internal meetings on September 24. As Modi left the US for India on September 25, he held two meetings in the flight back, sources said.  The prime minister is known to keep a busy schedule on his overseas trips, packing his stay with important meetings.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-clocks-20-meetings-in-his-65-hour-stay-in-the-us-1034365.html
26-09-2021||National||The 'Peda' project: Deoghar eyes GI tag for its famous sweet||After Mathura, Jharkhand's Deoghar is eyeiing a GI or Geographical indication tag for its pedas, a sweet offered to Gods and loved by many.  What is a GI tag anyway? GI tags have become the centre of many feuds, ranging from the 'true place of origin of the basmati rice' to kolhapuri chappals. These tags are like badges of recognition  bestowed upon original indegenous products to avoid duplication. It is a patent of sorts that also seeks to give recognition and boost earnings of the unique product's makers. GI tags can be traced back to the early 2000s in India when Darjeeling tea was among products gifted the tag. How does it work? A body or manufacturer can apply for the coveted tag to bring attention to a unique product endemic to a geographical area. The requirements include the product having geographical value and unique origins/process of manufacturing. Upon issuance of the tag by the Registrar of GIs, the manufactures can use it on their products. However, the tag is not reserved for just the applicants as others can also use the tag on products once they obtain a permit to do so from the Controller of Patents.  Deoghar's peda project Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri on Friday asked makers of the sweet in the district to get themelves registered with the industries department by September-end, according to The Telegraph. Once that is complete, Bhajantri will be able to submit an apllication for a GI tag to concerned authorities. Falling under the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999, the GI tag is given by the Geographical Indications Registry that is headquartered in Chennai. “Deoghar and Ghumara in Deoghar district are the two places that are considered as the hub of peda makers. There are about 200 traders who have been in the  business for generations. We are trying to motivate maximum traders before moving a formal application to the GI certification agency,” district coordinator Niraj Kumar told The Telegraph. After the registration process is completed, a local body would be formed, and only memebers of that body will be able to use the tag once it gets approval, Kumar said. The whole procedure takes beteen 2 to 3 months after the apllication is submitted. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-peda-project-deoghar-eyes-gi-tag-for-its-famous-sweet-1034367.html
26-09-2021||National||Ensure that no one is left out of vaccination's circle of safety: PM||Ahead of the festival season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to keep following Covid protocol and ensure that no one is left out of vaccination's "circle of safety". In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address, Modi said the festival season is approaching and when the whole country will celebrate 'Maryada Purshottam' Shri Ram's victory over evil, people should remember the fight against Covid also. "Team India is creating several records daily on this front. Several records have been created in the vaccination drive which are being discussed globally," Modi said. "We not only have to get the vaccine administered when it's our turn, but we also have to ensure that no one is left out of this circle of safety," he said. Even after getting vaccinated, the necessary protocol has to be followed, Modi said, adding that he hopes once again Team India will keep the flag flying high in this fight against the Covid pandemic. In his remarks, PM Modi, on the occasion of the World Rivers Day, called for collective efforts to keep our rivers pollution-free.   He also called for making record business of Khadi products on Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary on October 2. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-that-no-one-is-left-out-of-vaccinations-circle-of-safety-pm-1034368.html
26-09-2021||National||Don’t shift goalposts, confuse border management on LAC: Indian envoy to China||India has told China not to “shift goalposts” and “confuse” managing the border affairs and restoring peace at the frontiers with the larger issue of the resolution of the boundary question, which is dealt with by different designated mechanisms. After the standoff erupted in eastern Ladakh in May last year, India has consistently maintained that peace and tranquillity in the border areas are essential for the overall development of relations between the two countries. Besides being neighbours, India and China are also large and emerging economies and “it is not unusual to have differences and problems", Indian envoy to China Vikram Misri said while addressing the 4th High-level Track II Dialogue on China-India Relations held on September 23. “The key question is how to deal with them and ensure that outcomes are informed by reasonableness, maturity and respect for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity along our frontiers," Misri said. The meeting held virtually was co-hosted by the School of International Studies of Sichuan University (SCU), China Centre for South Asian Studies and Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (MP-IDSA) in which several former envoys and scholars took part. Besides Misri, China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong also participated in the meeting. Referring to “multi-faceted dialogue” held by the two countries since last year including several rounds of talks between the top military officials on both sides and the meetings between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi to resolve the military standoff in Eastern Ladakh, Misri said: “These contacts have resulted in significant progress on the ground”. “Following disengagement in the Galwan Valley in July last year, the two sides have been able to disengage from the North and South Banks of the Pangong Lake in February 2021, and most recently from Gogra in August 2021," he said. “The conversation between the two sides continues regarding the remaining locations and we hope that disengagement at the remaining friction areas will enable us to reach a point where we can pick up the threads of bilateral cooperation," he said. “The experience of this multi-faceted dialogue over the last year and a half leads me to believe that we are well-equipped when it comes to resolving pressing issues in the bilateral relationship," he said. “Our leaders have in the past concurred that we must work out issues peacefully, prevent differences from turning into disputes and, most importantly, preserve peace and tranquillity in our border areas," he said. “The recent experience also suggests that at the ground level, when managing a difficult bilateral situation, finding a resolution hinges on mature minds, open channels, and consistency between words and actions. But while these are positive elements we can draw on, we must steer clear of certain obstacles which could block progress," he said. “The first is to avoid shifting goalposts. For long, the Indian and Chinese sides have adhered to a well-understood distinction between resolving the boundary question and managing border affairs," he said. “The 1988 understanding between our leaders was precisely for keeping the resolution of the boundary question on a track separate yet parallel to the bilateral relationship, with the maintenance of peace and tranquillity as the prerequisite," he said. The Special Representatives mechanism, the Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles of 2005 and the three-phase framework were all designed to work on the boundary question, "which we agreed was a complex and sensitive issue requiring time to work through," Misri said. “This is the root cause of the tense situation along the borders. We advocate that we should address the boundary issue through peaceful negotiations and we don’t think that the border issue should be linked up to our bilateral ties," he said. But at the same for managing border affairs on a daily basis, the two countries had evolved a mechanism, “consisting of instruments such as the WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs) and a succession of agreements, protocols and CBMs, in order to govern behaviour on the ground and ensure peace and tranquillity”. “A serious violation of peace and tranquillity in the border areas naturally requires us to apply our minds on the basis of established agreements, protocols and mechanisms to resolve it. As we do so, any attempt to confuse border affairs with the Boundary Question is a disservice to the work of those involved in finding solutions," he said. This is why the Indian side has been consistently saying that the current issue is about restoring peace and tranquillity to the border areas and is not about the resolution of the larger Boundary Question, on which India's stance has not changed, despite what happened last year, he said. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC). China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet, which is firmly rejected by India. Misri also said China should not take a one-sided view of mutual concerns and sensitivities. “The second obstacle is to take a one-sided view of concerns and sensitivities, where one’s own preoccupations trump any of those flagged by the other side," he said. “As EAM (External Affairs Minister) Dr S Jaishankar has stated, India-China relations must proceed on the basis of the three mutuals – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests”, he said. “In an international community where we interact as equals, and as important major neighbours of each other, it cannot be that only one side’s concerns are of relevance while the other side’s case goes unheard," he said. Safeguarding territorial integrity and national security holds equal value for both sides. Affixing blame exclusively on the other side is not a helpful approach, he said. "And to press one’s own concerns and disregard the other side’s concerns and sensitivities without any explanation or recourse goes beyond disrespect. It actually creates even more obstacles to finding solutions," he added. “The third obstacle is viewing bilateral relations through the prism of relations with other countries. We are two ancient civilisations and two modern Asian nations who have evolved their own independent foreign policies and cherish their own strategic autonomy," he said. “For India’s part, I would say that a policy approach that came into its own over six decades ago, continues to be relevant today. India formulates its national and foreign policies on the basis of national interest first and foremost," Misri said. “We believe in multilateralism but we are also convinced that it needs to be reformed in order to better deliver its fruits to all stakeholders”, he said. Both countries engaged in key global dialogues while simultaneously pursuing their objectives in several smaller forums whose members have shared interests, he said. “Many of these forums include China – the SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organisation), BRICS (Brazil Russia, India, China, South Africa) and RIC (Russia, India, China) are some examples of this and these dialogues have continued even during the difficult phase that our bilateral relationship is passing through," Misri said. “India-China relations, therefore, must be judged and managed on their own merits. They are substantial enough and sufficiently complex that they require their own approach and appropriate handling, without imaginary third factors complicating them further and distracting us from working on our priorities," he said. The two nations must focus on the actual issues that face them, and employ a "sensitive and constructive problem-solving approach" while bearing in mind each other’s essential autonomy of decision-making, he said. “Addressing and processing differences properly means confronting them head-on and not sweeping them under the carpet. This approach will enable us to do what is necessary to bring relations to a healthier track," he said. “I remain convinced that we can resolve our current difficulties without the outcome necessarily appearing to be a win or loss for either side. A win-win solution for both India and China is very much possible and we remain committed to pursuing it," he said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/don-t-shift-goalposts-confuse-border-management-on-lac-indian-envoy-to-china-1034370.html
26-09-2021||National||Many districts lack banking presence despite high level of economic activities: FM||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said many districts in the country lack banking presence despite high level of economic activity taking place in those areas. Addressing banking industry lobby grouping Indian Banks' Association (IBA), Sitharaman asked lenders to augment efforts of deepening presence. Giving the lenders the option to decide which place requires banking presence through a brick-and-mortar model and where a step-down presence would help, Sitharaman made it clear that she is not against digitalisation and efforts. She said the banks' books are much cleaner now and this will help the government as the recapitalisation requirements go down. The finance minister also said the upcoming National Asset Reconstruction Company should not be called a "bad bank" as it is called in the US. Banks need to be nimble and understand every unit's need to achieve the $400 billion exports target, she said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-districts-lack-banking-presence-despite-high-level-of-economic-activities-fm-1034409.html
26-09-2021||National||India needs 4-5 more banks that are as big as SBI: FM Sitharaman||Underlining the importance of large banks, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman on Sunday said that India needs four to five more lenders like the State Bank of India (SBI). “India needs 4 to 5 more banks like SBI to meet changing requirements of the Indian economy,” Sitharaman said during the keynote address at the 74th Annual General Meeting of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) in Mumbai. “The way in which the economy is shifting to a different plane altogether, the way in which industry is adapting, so many new challenges keep arising. To address these challenges, we need not just more, but bigger banks,” she said.  During her address in India's financial capital, she stressed extensively on digitisation and underlined the importance of seamless and interconnected digital systems in creating a sustainable future for the Indian banking industry. “If we look at post-Covid-19 scenario, India's banking contour will have to be very unique to India, where there has been an extremely successful adoption of digitisation. While banks in many countries could not reach out to their clients during the pandemic, the level of digitisation of Indian banks helped us to transfer money to small, medium and big account holders through DBT and digital mechanisms,” she said. The benefits of digitisation notwithstanding, the Finance Minister observed that there are wide disparities as well in access to financial services. She said there are parts of our country where brick-and-mortar banks are necessary.  Sitharaman asked the IBA to improve access to banking in every district through a rationalised approach and optimal utilisation of digital technologies. To achieve this, she advised IBA to carry out digitised location-wise mapping of all bank branches for every district in the country.  “Almost two-thirds of nearly 7.5 lakh panchayats have optical fibre connection, IBA should consider this and conduct an exercise and decide where banks should have a physical presence and where we are able to serve customers even without a physical branch. IBA should take the initiative and complement the government's efforts for financial inclusion and enhancing access to financial services, especially in unserved and under-served areas.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-4-5-more-banks-that-are-as-big-as-sbi-fm-sitharaman-1034410.html
26-09-2021||National||PM Modi greets Manmohan Singh on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted his predecessor Manmohan Singh on his birthday on Sunday, wishing him a long and healthy life. Singh, who headed the UPA coalition government between 2004 and 2014, turned 89 on Sunday. He is credited with playing a key role in ushering in economic reforms as the finance minister in the P V Narasimha Rao government during 1991-96. "Birthday greetings to our former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray for his long life and wonderful health," Modi tweeted.  Birthday greetings to our former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray for his long life and wonderful health. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-manmohan-singh-on-his-birthday-1034413.html
26-09-2021||National||Adityanath 'changed' caste of King Mihir Bhoj for votes: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused the BJP of "changing" the caste of ninth-century ruler Mihir Bhoj and tampering with historical facts to secure the votes of a certain community. This comes days after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled a 15-foot statue of the ruler in Gautam Buddh Nagar's Dadri, stoking a controversy that saw sections of Gurjar and Rajput communities stake claim over the king's legacy. "It is taught in history that King Mihir Bhoj was a Gurjar-Pratihar. But the BJP people have changed his caste," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. "This is condemnable. The BJP is deliberately trying to tamper with historical facts and divide society to secure the votes of a particular side," he said. The SP chief added that his party stood for respect and honour for all sections of the society. After unveiling the statue on September 22, Adityanath had said, "No foreign ruler was able to intrude India during the rule of King Mihir Bhoj. They were so frightened of him that nobody dared to attack India even 150 years after his rule until Mehmud Ghaznavi invaded and plundered the country." "A community that forgets its past and traditions is unable to protect its geography also, and something like this has happened with us as well," he said then. Soon after, a controversy erupted between sections of Gurjar and Rajput communities in Dadri over the king's legacy. Later, a video surfaced purportedly showing a local community leader tampering with the foundation stone plaque of the statue and changing the prefix in the king’s name. Noting the rift between the two communities, Adityanath advised them against confining great icons within the boundaries of caste, saying their sacrifices were for the whole of India to cherish. "Maa Panna Dai had taken Maharana to a safe place by sacrificing the life of her son. Not just the Gurjar community, but entire India should feel proud of her great sacrifice," he tweeted. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adityanath-changed-caste-of-king-mihir-bhoj-for-votes-akhilesh-yadav-1034419.html
26-09-2021||National||7.9% of 6.10 lakh cancers reported between 2012-19 were seen in children: Report||Of the 6.10 lakh cancers reported and analysed between 2012 to 2019 under the National Cancer Registry Programme (NCRP), 52.4 per cent were reported in males and 47.6 per cent in women. Childhood cancers (0-14 years) comprised 7.9 per cent of all cancers, according to the report, "Clinicopathological Profile of Cancers in India: A Report of Hospital Based Cancer Registries, 2021". Cancers in sites associated with tobacco use comprised 48.7 per cent of cancers among males and 16.5 per cent among females, it said. A total of 13,32,207 cancer cases were registered from 96 hospitals under the NCRP during 2012-19. Of these, 6,10,084 cases were included for analysis, based on the completeness and quality of data.   The report was prepared by the Indian Council of Medical Research - National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research, Bengaluru. According to the report, cancers of the head and neck region accounted for nearly one third (31.2 per cent) of the cancers among males. Gynaecologic cancers, including breast cancer (51 per cent), accounted for over half of all cancers in females.  The relative proportion of site-specific cancers was higher in males than females except for thyroid cancer (2.5 per cent in females versus 1 per cent in males) and gall bladder cancer (3.7 per cent in females versus 2.2 per cent in males). The highest proportion of cancer from all sites were reported in the age group 45 to 64 years, except for prostate cancer, which was higher in those over 65. Over 90 per cent of the cancers in different organ sites got diagnosed by microscopic examination, the report said.  Among all the cancers, the highest proportion of distant metastasis at presentation was seen in patients with lung cancer (49.2 per cent males and 55.5 per cent females), followed by gall bladder cancer (40.9 per cent males and 45.7 per cent females) and prostate cancer (42.9 per cent).  Over one-third of patients with cancers of the tongue, larynx, thyroid, corpus uteri, kidney (including children), bladder and retinoblastoma had localized disease at the time of presentation.  Chemotherapy was the most typical treatment modality for many cancers regardless of the clinical extent of disease at presentation, including cancers of the liver, gall bladder, stomach, lung and childhood cancers, the report stated. Regardless of the organ site and clinical extent, most cancer patients, were initiated on cancer-directed treatment within 8 to 30 days of diagnosis.  Over half of the patients with cancer of the brain and nervous system and about one-third of the patients of lung, prostate, bladder and thyroid cancer with localised disease, diagnosed at the reporting institution were initiated on cancer directed treatment on the same day, the report stated. The report is based on seven-year data of cancer cases from 96 Hospital Based Cancer Registries HBCRs' under the NCRP. The data pertains to all diagnosed and treated patients of confirmed malignancies reported to these centres across the country.  Cancer surveillance is an essential part of cancer prevention and control efforts. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) started the National Cancer Registry Programme (NCRP) in 1981, through a network of Population and Hospital Based Cancer Registries (PBCRs and HBCRs). Cancer registries systematically collect, store, analyze, interpret and generate meaningful data on cancer, which helps develop plans and implement effective evidence-based strategies.   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/79-of-610-lakh-cancers-reported-between-2012-19-were-seen-in-children-report-1034421.html
26-09-2021||National||Focus on Naxalism for one year for permanent solution: Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday called for decisive action against Naxals, asking chief ministers of affected states to give it top priority for one year to find a permanent solution to the problem. Shah met chief ministers and representatives of 10 Naxal-affected states in the first physical meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here during the Covid-19 pandemic and asked them to choke funds to the left wing extremists and take action against their frontal organisations. The meeting was attended by six Chief Ministers Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Shivraj Singh Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh), Naveen Patnaik (Odisha), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) and K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana). Chief Ministers of West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala had sent their representatives. Citing the peace overtures in the north-eastern states, Shah said the government was ready to “heartily welcome” Naxals who were willing to give up violence and join the mainstream. Thackeray voiced concern over the spread of Naxal activities in urban areas of the states and added that Centre’s initiatives such as demonetisation have not reined-in such elements. The home minister pitched was joint strategy to turn off the tap of funds to Maoists and called for regular review at the chief minister’s level to ensure resolution of problems of coordination at the lower level. He urged all the Chief Ministers to give priority to the problem of LWE for the next one year, so that a permanent solution can be found in this problem. “It requires building pressure, increasing speed and better coordination,” Shah said. Shah said the fight against left wing extremism (LWE) was now in a crucial stage and the government was optimistic of reducing the menace to an insignificant level at the earliest. He said LWE has claimed more than 16,000 civilian lives in the last 40 years and there has been a consistent decline both in the violence and its geographical spread in the last decade. Incidents of LWE violence have come down by 70% from an all-time high of 2,258 in 2009 to 665 in 2020. The resultant deaths have also come down by 82% from a high of 1,005 in 2010 to 183 in 2020. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-naxalism-for-one-year-for-permanent-solution-shah-1034422.html
26-09-2021||National||Made for mission life of 6 months, India's Mars probe completes 7 years in orbit||India's Mars Orbiter spacecraft has completed seven years in its orbit, well beyond its designed mission life of six months. "Indeed, a satisfying feeling," K Radhakrishnan who as the then Chairman of Indian Space Research Oranisation (ISRO) led the Mars Orbiter Mission (Mangalyaan) team told PTI on the milestone. MOM is the maiden interplanetary mission of ISRO. Launched on November 5, 2013, the probe was successfully inserted into Martian orbit on September 24, 2014 in its first attempt. MOM is primarily a technology demonstration venture and all the mission objectives were successfully met, according to officials of Bengaluru-headquartered India's national space agency. The main lessons learnt were in the field of design and realisation of systems and subsystems, launch for interplanetary mission, insertion into other planet's orbit, operation of the spacecraft and scientific instruments around Mars orbit, they said. The lessons learnt have raised the confidence of ISRO scientists for taking up future interplanetary missions. ISRO has been continuously monitoring the spacecraft and its five scientific instruments, and officials said scientific analysis of the data being received from MOM spacecraft is in progress. On the health of the spacecraft, M Annadurai, who was the Programme Director of MOM, said the spacecraft's "moving elements are facing some issues and some of the redundancies we have to switch over." "The spacecraft's health is reasonably good considering that we are in the seventh year," Annadurai told PTI. He expects the spacecraft to have a mission life of probably another one year. On the reasons for the long mission life, Annadurai said ISRO had done corrections after learning lessons from the Chandrayaan-1 venture, in terms of reconfiguring the spacecraft and optimisation of fuel management, among others. Noting that Earth remote-sensing satellites typically have a mission life of seven to nine years, he said it was a very satisfying moment that India could establish that around Mars also, a spacecraft can be in operation for such a long period. On some criticism in some quarters that scientific output of the MOM was "low", Annadurai said it was more of a technology-demonstration mission. He pointed out that the spacecraft was launched by PSLV as GSLV was not in operational condition then. ISRO could apportion only about 15 kg for scientific instruments, and the time available for scientists to develop them was only 18-19 months. "I don't think we could have done better than what we have done," Annadurai said. ISRO officials said the spacecraft has already covered three Martian years (one Martian year is about two earth years). "We have seen how changes happen on the Mars from one season to another, one Martian year to another Martian year," they said. Annadurai said: "We have good inputs on seasonal affects on Mars atmosphere...surface. The mission has provided meaningful data also". Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/made-for-mission-life-of-6-months-indias-mars-probe-completes-7-years-in-orbit-1034424.html
26-09-2021||National||Media reports quoting Mandaviya on mass transfers of AIIMS Delhi docs are incorrect: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday termed as "fallacious" reports in a section of media alleging that Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said there will be a mass transfer of AIIMS Delhi doctors. According to the media reports, the minister made the statement while speaking on the 66th Foundation Day of AIIMS on Saturday. "The reports further state that the government will soon implement a transfer policy to introduce uniform medical standards in all AIIMS across the country. This policy will lead to mass transfer of doctors of AIIMS Delhi to the new AIIMS, while new doctors will be appointed for AIIMS Delhi," the ministry said in a statement. "It is clarified that the headlines of various newspapers quoting the Union Health Minister from yesterday's AIIMS New Delhi 66th foundation day event are incorrect and misleading. The Union Minister did not make such statements yesterday. These reports are fallacious, ill-informed and have clearly misrepresented the facts," it said. Mandaviya had expressed hope that students passing out of AIIMS would enrich the new AIIMS being built across the country. The present faculty with their rich experience can also act as a guiding light to these institutes, the ministry said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-reports-quoting-mandaviya-on-mass-transfers-of-aiims-delhi-docs-are-incorrect-health-ministry-1034425.html
26-09-2021||National||HM Amit Shah reviews security situation, development projects in Naxal-hit areas with CMs||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Sunday reviewed the security situation and the implementation of development projects in Naxal-affected areas with six chief ministers and top officials of four states. The chief ministers who attended the meeting were: Naveen Patnaik (Odisha), K Chandrashekar Rao (Telangana), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Shivraj Singh Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra) and Hemant Soren (Jharkhand), official sources said. The chief ministers of West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala were also invited for the meeting. However, these four states were represented by either a state minister or top officials. The home minister reviewed with the chief ministers and officials the security situation and ongoing operations against Maoists and development projects being carried out in Naxal-hit areas, the sources said. Shah took stock of the requirements of the states, the strength of forces deployed to tackle the extremists, development works like the construction of roads, bridges, school, and health centres being carried out in Naxal-hit areas. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said the Maoist problem has been reduced to only three districts in his state and the meeting discussed what is required to be done to reduce it further. Union ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw, Giriraj Singh, Arjun Munda and Nityanada Rai also attended the meeting. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, Director of Intelligence Bureau Arvinda Kumar, senior civil and police officers of Central and state governments also attended it. According to the Union Home Ministry data, Maoist violence has reduced considerably in the country and the menace is prevalent now in just about 45 districts. However, a total 90 districts in the country are considered Maoist-affected and are covered under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) Scheme of the ministry. The Naxal problem, also called Left Wing Extremism (LWE), were reported in 61 districts in 2019 and in only about 45 districts in 2020. About 380 security personnel, 1,000 civilians and 900 Naxals were killed in different violence in LWE affected areas since 2015 till 2020. A total of about 4,200 Naxals have also surrendered during the same period, the data said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hm-amit-shah-reviews-security-situation-development-projects-in-naxal-hit-areas-with-cms-1034432.html
26-09-2021||National||India a global player under Modi's leadership: Nadda||Lavishing praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi upon his arrival in India from the US, BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday hailed him as a "global leader" who has made India a "global player". With Modi and a number of BJP leaders on a dais set up to welcome him, Nadda said the world now looks at India in a new light and that the prime minister has made contributions towards the world's development. Citing Modi's meetings with US President Joe Biden and VP Kamala Harris, besides his participation in the Quad meet and his address at the UNGA, the BJP president said the prime minister put across strongly and frankly global issues and also India's views over threats like terrorism and expansionism. He has brought India and Indians laurels, and made them proud, Nadda said. Noting the frank talks between Modi and Biden, Nadda said the prime minister has had old ties and friendship with the US president. The US administration has been making all-out efforts to take India-US relationship to new heights, and India continues to advance with its contribution to global progress, he said. He also lauded Modi for the return of 157 antiquities to India from the US. Modi expressed thanks to the people who were there to welcome him.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-a-global-player-under-modis-leadership-nadda-1034435.html
26-09-2021||National||PM Modi maintains busy schedule to keep fatigue at bay: Officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ability to maintain a high level of energy while keeping a busy schedule on his trips abroad has drawn curious enquiries from admirers and sceptics alike. Official sources say that one of his tricks is to pack his hours with back-to-back engagements so that it doesn't let the mind think much about any fatigue. As Modi returned from his three-day visit to the US on Sunday, sources said travelling around at a hectic pace while keeping tiredness at bay is not a new attribute of him. "When he used to visit the US in the 1990s, an airline at that time used to give a monthly travel pass at heavily discounted rates. To make the most of it, Modi would always travel in the night as this ensured that he could visit most places while not having to spend a penny on hotels. His night would be invariably spent at the airport and in the plane," a source said. As soon as he steps on the flight, the prime minister tunes his body and sleep cycle to the time zone of the destination, sources added, noting that if this means even if it is night in India when he takes off, he may not sleep if it would be day in the country of destination. He does the same thing when returning to India and tunes his body and sleep cycle according to the Indian time, ensuring that he is fresh and ready to go when he lands during the day time. Modi also ensures drinking a lot of water as doctors suggest that the air in the plane sucks out moisture in the body, they added. His three-day trip to the United States was packed with meetings as he attended 20 of them during the around 65 hours he spent in the country. He also had four long meetings in flights with officials on the way to and back from the US.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-maintains-busy-schedule-to-keep-fatigue-at-bay-officials-1034436.html
26-09-2021||National||New AIIMS will correct regional imbalance: Nitin Gadkari||The new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences built in the country are destined to correct the longstanding regional imbalance in the health sector, according to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who also said doubling the number of AIIMS will better serve people's aspirations. The minister of road transport and highways was speaking at a digital event to mark the 3rd Foundation Day of AIIMS, Nagpur. The programme was also attended by Bharati Pravin Pawar, the Minister of State for Health among others, a health ministry statement said. "Keeping in view the requirements of the Vidarbha region, with the establishment of an institute of repute like AIIMS, Nagpur, at Nagpur, the patients of all the bordering states of Central India will have access to affordable and modern medical facilities. "However, we have to ensure that the benefits of these facilities reach not only to the cities but also to the people of the remote villages of our region," Gadkari was quoted as saying in the statement. Highlighting that the recently built AIIMS institutions are destined to correct the longstanding regional imbalance, the minister said that doubling the number of present AIIMS will better serve the aspirations of the country, the statement said. Pawar said, "We all know that even after so many decades of independence, only 6 AIIMS were built in the country. Thereafter, in the year 2014, the government developed a policy to develop AIIMS in every state under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji." she was quoted as saying in the statement. Pawar advised medical students and the community that like medical treatment, empathy and emotional care of patients are equally important Training and encouraging staff to ensure patient care with empathy will significantly impact the overall patient experience, she said. She expressed hope that AIIMS Nagpur will play an important role in effective implementation of various health initiatives of the government. The inaugural issue of the institute's magazine "Abhigyanam" was also released on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-aiims-will-correct-regional-imbalance-nitin-gadkari-1034437.html
26-09-2021||National||1.71 cr unorganised workers registered with e-Shram portal in first month, Odisha tops list||Of the total registrations, 45.64 per cent are women in the first-ever national database that is being prepared to enable the government to extend benefits of social sector schemes to the workers in the unorganised sector. Among the states, Odisha has the highest registration of 37.11 lakh followed by Bihar (34.86 lakh), West Bengal (22.87 lakh), Uttar Pradesh (22.31 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (10.12 lakh). These five states together account for 74.17 per cent of the registration. Among the southern states, Karnataka has the highest number of registrations at 4.59 lakh followed by Andhra Pradesh (3.91 lakh) and Tamil Nadu (1.49 lakh). Telangana has 51,435 registrations while Kerala has the least among these states at 43,626. An occupation-wise registration showed that agriculture-related workers topped the list with 91.21 lakh followed by construction workers 27.17 lakh, domestic and household workers 11.51 lakh, apparel workers at 9.96 lakh and automobile and transportation workers at 5.43 lakh. Official data showed that five singers/musicians/band players, 2,817 musical instrument makers, 8,672 shop sales assistants and 24,413 security guards and supervisors were among those registered. Also on the list were 2,238 debt collectors and 633 pawnbrokers and money lenders as well as 60,387 barbers, 45,490 beauticians and 6,522 masseurs. Religious professionals numbering 11,392 have also registered themselves in the e-Shram portal. An analysis of the data showed that there has been a consistent increase in the weekly registrations — from 13.55 lakh in the first week to 69.53 lakh in the fourth week. The registration has picked up pace in the third week when 68.97 lakh unorganised workers registered in the portal as against 19.52 lakh in the second week. Age-wise, 47.1 per cent or 80.81 lakh are in the age group of 25-40 years while 22.09 per cent or 37.9 lakh are in the 40-50 year bracket. Among 16-25 years, there are 17.86 per cent or 30.64 lakh registrations and 12.96 per cent or 22.23 lakh are above 50 years of age. "Registration is necessary so that we know how many workers are there in each trade. More than 400 trades have already been represented on the portal. We want everyone to register so that every worker including those who perform very small work is able to avail the benefits of government schemes. Moreover, those who register on the portal now are eligible to get insurance up to Rs 2 lakh," Union Labour and Employment Minister Bhupendra Yadav said. The portal is seeded with Aadhaar and will have details of name, occupation, address, educational qualification, skill types and family details among others of the registered workers. This will thus enable optimum realisation of their employability and enable them to avail benefits of government schemes, the Ministry of Labour and Employment has said. Any worker who is working in the unorganised sector and aged between 16-59, is eligible to register on the portal. Migrant workers, gig workers, platform workers, agricultural workers, MGNREGA workers, fishermen, milkmen, ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers, street vendors, domestic workers, rickshaw pullers and other workers engaged in similar other occupations in the unorganised sector are all eligible, it added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/171-cr-unorganised-workers-registered-with-e-shram-portal-in-first-month-odisha-tops-list-1034442.html
26-09-2021||National||Sania Mirza wins first title of 2021 season in Ostrava||Star Indian tennis player Sania Mirza won her first title of the season as she and her Chinese partner Shuai Zhang beat the pair of Kaitlyn Christian and Erin Routliffe in the women's doubles final of the Ostrava Open here on Sunday. The second-seeded Indo-Chinese duo defeated the third-seeded pair of American Christian and New Zealander Routliffe 6-3 6-2 in the summit clash in one hour and four minutes. The 34-year-old Sania and Zhang had defeated the Japanese pair 6-2 7-5 in the semifinals of the WTA 500 event. It was Sania's second final of the season, following a runner-up finish at the WTA 250 Cleveland event in the USA last month with Chirstina Mchale. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sania-mirza-wins-first-title-of-2021-season-in-ostrava-1034464.html
26-09-2021||National||PM Modi gets rousing welcome on return from US||BJP workers gave Prime Minister Narendra Modi a rousing welcome near the airport here on his arrival from a “highly successful” visit to the US. Modi had a jam-packed three-day visit to the US that included meetings with US President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and address to the United Nations General Assembly. The Prime Minister had 20 meetings, mostly back-to-back, during this 65 hours in the US, besides four long meetings with officials on the flight to and from the US. Officials said the secret of his ability to maintain high energy levels was the back-to-back engagements that does not give the mind to think about fatigue. At the Palam Technical area, BJP had set up a stage just outside the Air Force Station where flag-waving party workers greeted the prime minister, who walked some distance to reciprocate the gesture. BJP President J P Nadda, national general secretaries Arun Singh and Tarun Chugh, former union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Lok Sabha member Ramesh Bidhuri, Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta among others received Modi at the airport. The prime minister has put across India’s views on global issues strongly and frankly during his interactions with Biden and Harris, the Quad summit and the UN General Assembly. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-gets-rousing-welcome-on-return-from-us-1034468.html
26-09-2021||National||Shout with anger and demand 50% representation in judiciary: CJI Ramana tells women lawyers||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday favoured 50 per cent representation of women in judiciary, saying it is their right and not a matter of charity. In his address at a felicitation function organised by women lawyers, for newly appointed judges here, he said, "With your anger, you shout, you demand. Enough of suppression of thousands of years. It is high time we have 50 per cent representation of women in judiciary."  Rephrasing words of Karl Marx, he said, “Women of the world, unite! You have nothing to lose but your chains”. He maintained that urgent corrections were required to give due representation to women also in the lawyers' bodies since inclusion of women judges and lawyers will substantially improve the quality of justice delivery. The CJI also strongly advocated for reservation of a significant percentage of seats in law schools and universities for women, as a first step, for increasing gender diversity in legal education. "Women constitute only about 30 per cent of the lower judiciary. In High Courts, women judges constitute 11.5 per cent. Here in the Supreme Court, we currently have 4 women judges out of the sitting 33. That makes it just 12 per cent," he said. "Of the 1.7 million advocates, only 15 per cent are women. Only 2 per cent of the elected representatives in the State Bar Councils are women. No woman member in the Bar Council of India," he further pointed out. Stressing the need to create a more welcoming environment, Justice Ramana said, "I am also forcing the Executive for applying necessary correctives." Highlighting various difficulties faced by women, he said gender stereotypes make them bear the brunt of family burdens while clients’ preference for male advocates, uncomfortable environment within courtrooms, lack of infrastructure, crowded court halls, lack of washrooms for women etc, deter women from entering the profession. The CJI pointed out he has proposed National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation, which would create an inclusive design of court complexes as a survey conducted by him revealed that out of 6,000 trial courts studied, nearly 22 per cent have no toilet for women.  He further said the committee for designating senior advocates would be reconstituted in the near future following the demise of jurist Soli J Sorabjee. He also hoped the top court would open fully after Dasara. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shout-with-anger-and-demand-50-representation-in-judiciary-cji-ramana-tells-women-lawyers-1034469.html
26-09-2021||National||PM Modi to launch mission enabling digital health IDs, programmes for all||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission on Monday via video conference, his office said. The pilot project of National Digital Health Mission had been announced by the prime minister from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 2020. Currently, the Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission (PM-DHM) is being implemented in pilot phase in six Union Territories. In a historic initiative, Prime Minister Modi will launch the PM-DHM on September 27, 2021 at 11 AM via video conferencing, which will be followed by his address on the occasion, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. The nationwide rollout of PM-DHM coincides with National Health Authority (NHA) celebrating the third anniversary of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY), the statement said. Union Health Minister Mansukh Madaviya will be present on the occasion. Based on the foundations laid down in the form of Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile (JAM) trinity and other digital initiatives of the government, PM-DHM will create a seamless online platform through the provision of a wide-range of data, information and infrastructure services, duly leveraging open, interoperable, standards-based digital systems while ensuring the security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal information, the PMO said. The mission will enable access and exchange of longitudinal health records of citizens with their consent, it said. The key components of PM-DHM include a health ID for every citizen that will also work as their health account, to which personal health records can be linked and viewed with the help of a mobile application, a Healthcare Professionals Registry (HPR) and Healthcare Facilities Registries (HFR) that will act as a repository of all healthcare providers across both modern and traditional systems of medicine. This will ensure ease of doing business for doctors and hospitals and healthcare service providers, the statement said. PM-DHM Sandbox, created as a part of the mission, will act as a framework for technology and product testing that will help organizations, including private players, intending to be a part of National Digital Health Ecosystem become a Health Information Provider or Health Information User or efficiently link with building blocks of PM-DHM. This mission will create interoperability within the digital health ecosystem, similar to the role played by the Unified Payments Interface in revolutionizing payments, the PMO said. Citizens will only be a click-away from accessing healthcare facilities, it said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-mission-enabling-digital-health-ids-programmes-for-all-1034471.html
26-09-2021||National||Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh arrives in Oman on three-day visit||Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh arrived in Oman on Sunday for a three-day visit aimed at further expansion of bilateral military ties with the influential Gulf nation. The Navy Chief will hold talks with the top military brass of the Gulf nation, including his Omani counterpart Rear Admiral Saif bin Nasser bin Mohsen Al-Rahbi, during his visit from September 27–29, officials said. "The visit aims to consolidate bilateral defence relations with Oman, as also to explore new avenues for defence cooperation," Indian Navy Spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said. Apart from talks with Al-Rahbi, Singh is also scheduled to meet Chief of Staff Omani armed forces Vice Admiral Abdullah Khamis Abdullah Al Raisi, Commander of Royal Army of Oman Maj Gen Matar Bin Salim Bin Rashid Al Balushi, Commander of Royal Air Force Air Vice Marshal Khamis Bin Hammad Bin Sultan Al Ghafri. He would also be visiting key defence installations like Muaskar Al Murtafa (MAM) camp, Maritime Security Centre (MSC), Said Bin Sultan Naval Base, Al Musanna Air Base and National Defence College, Oman.   The Indian Navy cooperates with the Royal Navy of Oman on many fronts that include operational interactions and training. Both navies have been participating in the biennial maritime exercise Naseem Al Bahr since 1993. This exercise was last conducted in 2020 off Goa and the next edition is scheduled in 2022. "This official visit of the Chief of Naval Staff to Oman highlights the growing cooperation between Indian Navy and Royal Navy of Oman," Commander Madhwal said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-chief-admiral-karambir-singh-arrives-in-oman-on-three-day-visit-1034472.html
26-09-2021||National||Modi pitches for financial transparency to root out corruption||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for financial transparency to root out corruption and help deliver benefits of development to the poor as the country celebrates its 75th year of Independence. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address, Modi said as building toilets enhanced the dignity of the poor, the resolve for economic cleanliness would ease their lives. The prime minister recalled the opening of Jan Dhan accounts for the poor which helped in crediting their rightful money directly into their bank accounts, a move that reduced corruption significantly. “It is true that technology can help a lot in economic cleanliness,” Modi said adding that digital payments of more than Rs 2 lakh crore were happening through the UPI interface. Ahead of the festive season, the Prime Minister also reminded listeners that the fight against Covid-19 was not over yet and urged them to exercise caution. He said that the country had set records in the vaccination drive against Covid-19 which have become the topic of discussion the world over. “Every Indian has an important role in this fight. We have to get the vaccine administered when our turn comes, but we also have to take care that no one is left out of this circle of safety,” the prime minister said. He asked listeners to take those who have not been vaccinated to the vaccination centres and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour even after getting the jab. Modi also spoke about conservation of rivers and shared the story of rejuvenation of Naganadhi in Tamil Nadu. The prime minister also cited the example of Sabarmati river which was linked with Narmada as part of rejuvenation efforts. “If you go to Ahmedabad today, the waters of river Sabarmati fill one’s heart with such joy,” Modi said, while praising the women of Tamil Nadu for their intiative to rejuvenate Naganadhi river. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-pitches-for-financial-transparency-to-root-out-corruption-1034488.html
26-09-2021||National||Focus on farmers' problems: M Venkaiah Naidu to CSIR scientists||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday asked the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to reinvent itself, turn futuristic and come out with new innovations, techniques and solutions to address the problems faced by farmers. Participating in the 80th Foundation Day celebrations of the CSIR here, he urged CSIR laboratories and institutes to address challenges that require long-term scientific and technological solutions. Naidu asked the CSIR to bestow greater attention on agricultural research and come out with new innovations, techniques and solutions to address the problems faced by farmers. He cited climate change, drug resistance, pollution, epidemic and pandemic outbreaks among the challenges that need the focus of the scientific community. "Agriculture is the basic culture of the country. I am son of a farmer. Bachpan mein kuch din kheti bhi kiya rajniti mein aane se pehle. Aisa lag raha hai, woh hi behtar tha. Karen kya, yahan aaya, isme phans gaya (As a child I was involved in cultivation for some time before entering politics. It seems that (agriculture) was better. What to do, I got stuck here)," the vice president said on a lighter note. Observing that the Covid-19 pandemic is just one unforeseen crisis and that there are many challenges, he said institutions like the CSIR need to gear up to address any sudden and unexpected problem. "Each laboratory of the CSIR must come out with a clear roadmap on the new research projects that seek to address various challenges and contribute to the larger good of humanity," Naidu stressed. Noting that India has made a significant contribution to the world of science in space, atomic energy, ocean science and defence research, he said as the nation celebrates 75 years of Independence, this is an appropriate time to see how it can accelerate ongoing development. He said the ultimate aim of science should be to improve people's lives and make them comfortable. Observing that investment by industries in research and development in India was insignificant, Naidu urged corporates and industries to form close linkages with leading scientific institutions, identify important R&D projects and invest in them. "This will not only boost funding but also improve both quality and innovation," he said. Pointing out that the coronavirus has overwhelmed the world despite scientific and technological advancements, he said the virus swept through the globe with alarming virulence, infecting millions and claiming thousands of lives. Lauding the scientific and medical fraternity for leading the nation's battle in the fight against the pandemic with grit and determination, he said the CSIR scientists and researchers worked tirelessly to develop solutions -- be it diagnostics, vaccines, medicines, makeshift hospitals and medical assistive devices. Observing that India is implementing the largest vaccination drive in the world, the vice president said the fact that 85 crore doses of vaccine have been administered is a remarkable achievement. He said this was largely facilitated by India's indigenous vaccine, Covaxin and other vaccines like Covishield that was manufactured in India. "I must compliment the vaccine manufacturers for rising to the occasion and ramping up the production to meet the huge demand for vaccines in the country," he said. Naidu said CSIR scientists are the pride of the nation, thanks to the initiatives taken by forefathers of CSIR and early leadership of the country right from Jawaharlal Nehru to other ministers as also the great scientists who focussed on starting all the laboratories. The vice president, who gave away Young Scientists Awards, complimented the winners in various categories, including the CSIR Innovation Award for School Children. Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of Science and Technology Jitendra Singh said that he would like CSIR and all the science departments to brainstorm and come up with a blue print of the science and technology innovations needed in the next 10 years if India has to be globally competitive. "We should not restrict our ambition to be the best in India but be the best in the world," a statement issued by the Vice President Secretariat quoted the minister as saying. He underlined that India is blessed with the demographic dividend of youth and they can take up any challenge with the right training and motivation. Singh said he is delighted to see the power of innovation among the winners of CSIR Innovation Award for School Children and added that they will be the future entrepreneurs, industry leaders, scientists and professors. Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India K Vijay Raghavan, Director-General of CSIR Shekhar C Mande, senior scientists, researchers and awardees were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-farmers-problems-m-venkaiah-naidu-to-csir-scientists-1034493.html
26-09-2021||National||Army officer sets new Guinness record for 'fastest solo cycling' from Leh to Manali||An Indian Army Officer has set a new Guinness world record for 'Fastest Solo Cycling – (Men)' by covering a distance of 472 km from Leh to Manali in 34 hours and 54 minutes, a defence spokesman said on Sunday. Lt Col Sripada Sriram of the strategic Strikers Division started cycling from Leh in Ladakh at 4 am on Saturday, he said “Lt Col Sriram has set a new Guinness world record for the 'Fastest Solo Cycling – (Men)' from Leh to Manali (in Himachal Pradesh) on September 26. The total distance covered was 472 kilometers with a total elevation gain of approximately 8,000 metres,” the spokesman said. He said the officer successfully completed the route in 34 hours and 54 minutes, crossing five major passes in tough weather conditions. The event was part of the 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' celebrations and marks the 195th Gunners' Day, the spokesman said. India is celebrating 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' to mark the 50th anniversary of its victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-officer-sets-new-guinness-record-for-fastest-solo-cycling-from-leh-to-manali-1034499.html
26-09-2021||National||RSS-linked weekly terms Amazon as 'East India Company 2.0'||E-commerce major Amazon has been termed as "East India Company 2.0" by the RSS-linked weekly, Panchjanya, which has also alleged that the firm has paid crores of rupees in bribes for favourable government policies. In its latest edition, which will hit the stands on October 3, Panchjanya has carried a cover story that is highly critical of Amazon. "Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the article titled "East India Company 2.0" reads. Claiming that Amazon wants to establish its monopoly in the Indian market, it says, "For doing so, it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens." Hitting out at Amazon's video platform, Prime Video, the article says it has been releasing movies and television series that are against the Indian culture. It also alleges that Amazon has established many proxy entities and "there are reports that it has distributed crores in bribes for policies in its favour". Amazon is locked in a legal tussle over the takeover of Future Group and is facing a probe by the Competition Commission of India (CCI). There have been reports that the US e-commerce giant is investigating alleged bribes paid by its legal representatives in India and it spent a staggering Rs 8,546 crore or USD 1.2 billion in legal expenses for maintaining a presence in the country during 2018-20. The main opposition party, Congress, has demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the alleged bribery case involving Amazon. Earlier, RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagaran Manch had also demanded action against e-commerce players like Amazon for circumventing laws detrimental to the interests of traders and indulging in unethical business practices. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-linked-weekly-terms-amazon-as-east-india-company-20-1034504.html
26-09-2021||National||Judicial appointment of women at senior levels can shift gender stereotypes: Justice Nagarathna||Supreme Court Judge B V Nagarathna on Sunday said advancing women participation in judiciary promotes role of gender equality in broader ways and female judicial appointments, particularly at senior levels, can shift gender stereotypes, thereby changing attitude and perceptions of appropriate roles of men and women. Justice Nagarathna, who is set to become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027, said, "Women visibility as judicial officers can pave the way for greater representation of women in other decision-making positions such as legislative and executive branches of the government." She was speaking at a function organised by the Lady Advocates of the Supreme Court for felicitation of nine newly appointed judges of the top court, which includes three women judges. Justice Nagarathna said, “I say, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has shown the way as to why in other branches women cannot break the glass ceiling whether in the legislature or in the executive branches.” “I may not speak in detail but I can only say that advancing women participation in the judiciary promotes the role of gender equality in broader ways. Female judicial appointments particularly at senior levels can shift gender stereotypes, thereby changing attitude and perceptions of appropriate roles of men and women,” she said. Terming the appointment of nine judges at one go as a “monumental achievement” for the top court, she said, “Higher number and greater visibility of women judges can increase the willingness of women to seek justice and enforce their rights.” Justice Nagarathna said that the instant appointment should not be the only event and it should continue as “we the women members will scout for talent from all over India so that they get elevated not only at relevant high courts but also to the Supreme Court”. Advising young women advocates, she said that her advice to them is that they should involve themselves in all branches of law and continuously strive to do better. “I think, the time has come to break the glass ceiling and for women to strive ahead. I have come to believe that each one of us has a personal calling which is unique as our fingerprint and the best way to succeed is to discover what it is our passion and to find the way to offer it to others in the form of service”, she said. Justice Nagarathana said that there are three phenomenon which women lawyers should look at “when we are concerned about women in the bar and on the bench that is the very entry of women into the legal fraternity, secondly, the retention of women in the bar, which is a very important thing and critical aspect, and thirdly, the advancement of women later on to the higher echelons”. Another top court judge Justice Bela M Trivedi, who was appointed along with Justice Nagarathna, said that recently at a function in Gujarat she had said that judges do not have a gender when they are on the dais. But “I do have soft corner for women more particularly working women”, Justice Trivedi said. “I do have a soft corner not because I consider them as weaker gender but because I respect their commitment. I respect their inner strength. You know I used to say if you want to be free from your outer domination, you need to discover your inner strength”, she said. Justice Trivedi in Sanskrit told young women lawyers that nobody would enlighten their path and they would have to themselves light their path. “Be a light of yourself,” she said. Justice Hima Kohli, who was also sworn in as judge of the top court along with justices Nagarathna and Trivedi, said that they would try to live up to the expectations and follow the rule of law to do justice and give it that sensitivity which sometimes women tend to give to situations looking at from their perspective. “I am not talking from a gender point of view but as a unisex point of view. So that a kind of focus that a woman can have and a view on a matter which does not sometimes occur to a male and I am not saying my male colleagues are not sensitive. It is amazing to see that many of our colleagues which I have sat with, will give a different perspective to women-oriented issues which may not occur to me,” Justice Kohli said. “I will be the first one to admit it but it’s very heartening to see that men are equally sensitive,” she said. On August 31, the top court had held the swearing-in ceremony of nine Supreme Court judges, including three women, in one go which has been unprecedented and would go into the annals of 71-year-long history of the apex court. With the swearing-in of three women judges, Justices Nagarathna, Trivedi, and Kohli which happened for the first time in the apex court’s history, the top court now has as many as four women judges on its bench simultaneously, another first to its credit. Besides the three women judges, CJI N V Ramana had also administered oath to Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Vikram Nath, Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Justices C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh, and P S Narasimha, who was a senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judicial-appointment-of-women-at-senior-levels-can-shift-gender-stereotypes-justice-nagarathna-1034506.html
26-09-2021||National||No turf war in judiciary, legislature and executive, all working for nation: Law Minister Rijiju||A lively relationship between the judiciary, the legislature and the executive is vital in a democracy, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said here on Sunday even as he dismissed the perception of any turf war among these three organs. Speaking at the Gandhinagar-based National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) after inaugurating the new School of Law, Forensic Justice and Policy Studies, Rijiju said "it is for the government to implement whatever judges say and think and this should not be done out of fear for the contempt of court alone". "The judiciary, the executive and the legislature are separate organs, but we all work for the country. People on the outside think we are engaged in a turf war, fighting for a domain, but that is not the case. We all are working for the interest of the nation," Rijiju said. "In the Supreme Court, high courts and even in the lower judiciary, we get to listen to commentaries of judges during (court) hearings, and even anguish and satisfaction aired by them through the media. It is for us to implement whatever judges say or think," the minister said. Rijiju said it was for the executive to "judiciously implement" a good judgment of the court of law. "In a democracy, it is very important for us to have a lively relation between us (the judiciary, executive and legislature)...It is vital for us to have a lively relationship," he said. Supreme Court judge Justice MR Shah, Gujarat High Court's Acting Chief Justice R M Chhaya and several judges and retired judges of the high court and the Supreme Court were present on the occasion along with Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, state Law Minister Rajendra Trivedi and MoS for Home Harsh Sanghavi. Rijiju further said the "impression" that laws are not being implemented for a long time has been removed to a great extent under the Narendra Modi government. "We feel good to hear good things from judges. But judges will praise us only when we do good work," the Union law and justice minister said and assured judges the government will work "with full transparency and accountability." He said the "ease of getting justice" should also be talked about like the ease of doing business and the ease of living. "Justice delivery system should not suffer merely for want of a simple input which can be handled by the application of science," he said. Rijiju said the NFSU's School of Law, Forensic Justice and Policy Studies will play a critical role in a situation like this to help catch up with technologies for the fast delivery of justice. Rijiju also suggested the NFSU enter into an understanding with the National Dope Testing Laboratory (NDTL) so that the latter does not meet the "fate of suspension of its accreditation" by the World Anti-Doping Agency. "...Otherwise it becomes a huge controversy when young boys and girls are unnecessarily tested (positive) and their lives are spoiled". "There are no proper guidelines, and sometimes the testing process itself is questionable. So, we have to be very, very careful when it comes to science, and as I said, we have no shortage of manpower in India. We are a leading nation, we just have to manage it professionally," he said. Supreme Court judge Justice MR Shah said, "the legal education carries the weight on its shoulders to creating responsible citizens in the country (who) are major catalysts for delivering democratic ethos through social justice and the political and economic welfare". "The poor and weaker sections should be able to seek justice keeping the morals and discipline intact. Legal education has a significant role to play," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-turf-war-in-judiciary-legislature-and-executive-all-working-for-nation-law-minister-rijiju-1034516.html
26-09-2021||National||Cyclone Gulab makes landfall in Andhra Pradesh||Gusty winds accompanied by rains are pounding Srikakulam as Cyclone Gulab made its landfall in this northern most district in coastal Andhra Pradesh. Indian Meteorological Department officials said that the cyclonic storm crossed the north AP and south Odisha coasts, about 20 KM north of Kalingapatnam in AP, by 8:30 PM on Sunday. Earlier, officials said that the landfall process began at about 6:30 pm and estimated that it could take around four hours for the cyclonic system in north west Bay of Bengal to cross the sea shoreline. At 8:30 PM, the system was lying over the north coastal AP, about 30 kms west of Kalingapatnam and 160 Kms South South West of Gopalpur in Odisha. IMD officials said the wind intensity at the storm site is 75-85 kmph, gusting to 95 kmph and have forecast heavy to very heavy rains in some places. The cyclone is likely to move west north west towards Odisha-Chhattisgarh and weaken into a deep depression by Monday daybreak. Srikakulam officials said that the impact of the cyclone has been largely confined to Kalingapatnam and adjoining areas. “Except some tree falls, no damage to life or property has been reported yet,” a district official told DH. However, two fishermen have lost their lives due to the cyclone as they drowned in the rough sea, while returning in a boat from Bhubaneswar. Four others in the same team managed to reach the shore at Akkupalli, the official said. State animal husbandry and fisheries minister Seediri Appalaraju has appealed to the public in Vajrapukotturu, Santhabommali etc mandals to be cautious. About 200 people were moved to safer locations as a precaution. Two NDRF and four SDRF teams are deployed in the district for rescue and relief operations. The East Coast Railway had earlier announced the cancellation, diversion or short termination of several trains in anticipation of network disruption. Due to the cyclone, which is now dissipating, rains are predicted in Telangana, Odisha, South Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha regions on Monday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-gulab-makes-landfall-in-andhra-pradesh-1034523.html
26-09-2021||National||SKM appeals for peace during Bharat Bandh on Sept 27; many parties extend support||Many non-NDA parties have extended support to the nationwide 10-hour strike on Monday called by farmers protesting against the three agri laws under the aegis of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). The outfit on Sunday appealed for complete peace during the Bandh and urged all Indians to join the strike. “It was on September 27, 2020 that President Shri Ram Nath Kovind assented to and brought into force the three anti-farmer black laws last year. Tomorrow, there will be a total Bharat Bandh observed around the country from 6 AM to 4 PM, " the SKM, which is an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, said in a statement. Farmer unions along with their supporters, including trade unions, have made detailed plans to ensure that life remains suspended tomorrow across the country, except for emergency services, it said. “It is a day to express support to the annadatas (farmers) of the country, the ones who keep all Indians alive,” it said. The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party, Telugu Desam Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Left parties and Swaraj India have backed the Bandh call. Congress general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal said the Congress and its workers will extend full support to the peaceful 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions. "We believe in the right of our farmers and we will stand by them in their fight against the black farm laws," he said in a tweet. "All PCC presidents, chiefs of frontal organisations are requested to go out in front with our Annadatas in their peaceful Bharat Bandh across the country," Venugopal said. In a tweet in Hindi, BSP chief Mayawati said, "The farmers of the country do not endorse the three farm laws brought in a hurry by the Centre, and are sad about it". She said her party supports their call for a peaceful bandh and asked the Centre to hold proper consultations with farmers and bring a new law with their agreement. In Kerala, both the ruling LDF and the Congress-led UDF have supported the nationwide farmers' strike, even as the BJP denounced the hartal as "anti-people". INTUC state president R Chandrasekharan told PTI that since the hartal has the support of both LDF and UDF, the state is expected to come to a standstill on Monday. He said except for RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), all other trade unions are supporting the strike. He said there would be no blocking of vehicles or forced shutting down of shops. The YSR Congress government in Andhra Pradesh has also announced support to the Bharat Bandh. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. They are also seeking a legal guarantee for MSP. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by farmers on January 26 when protesters had stormed the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts. "Punjab's new Chief Minister extended his support, and in Jharkhand, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Congress and RJD have been jointly planning for the success of the Bharat Bandh. In Tamil Nadu, the ruling DMK supports the bandh,” the statement by the SKM said. In the national capital, the SKM said, central trade unions will organise a protest rally at Jantar Mantar at 11 AM. "Several bar associations and local units of All India Lawyers' Union have extended their support,” the farmers' body said. The Delhi Police said it has taken adequate security measures like intensified patrolling and deployment of extra personnel at pickets in border areas of the national capital. Every vehicle entering the national capital is being thoroughly checked, according to the police. A senior police officer said no protestor will be allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city's borders "In view of Bharat Bandh, adequate security arrangements have been made as a precautionary measure. Pickets at the border areas have been strengthened and all vital installations, including India Gate and Vijay Chowk will have adequate deployment," Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said. The SKM said that the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on September 28 will be marked by the farmers' movement and urged the youth and students to join in large numbers at the morchas to mark the day. The SKM claimed that more than 605 farmers have lost their lives in the agitation so far. It called for the closure of all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as public events. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted, it said. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. The government has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/skm-appeals-for-peace-during-bharat-bandh-on-sept-27-many-parties-extend-support-1034524.html
26-09-2021||National||Will restore 'darbar move' if Apni Party comes to power in J&K: Altaf Bukhari||Describing the stopping of 'darbar move' as an “unfortunate decision”, Apni Party President Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Sunday said his party would restore the age-old practice if it comes to power in Jammu and Kashmir. The administration led by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha discontinued the 'darbar move', a 149-year-old practice of rotating the seat of governance between the twin capital cities of Srinagar and Jammu on six-monthly basis, to save Rs 200 crore each year. The decision to do away with the practice was taken after the administration completed the transition to e-office, which allowed the Civil Secretariat -- the seat of J&K government -- and other 'move' offices to function normally in both Jammu and Srinagar. “It would be our first decision on forming the government to restore the practice of darbar move,” Bukhari said on the sidelines of a party function here. In an apparent reference to the traders' strike in Jammu on September 22 that among other things demanded continuation of the darbar move, the Apni Party leader said, “Stopping of darbar move practice is one of the biggest issues being faced by Jammu." “It was an unfortunate decision and I want to assure the people of Jammu that we stand with them and their demand for resumption of darbar move practice,” he said, adding the practice has an emotional connection with the people of Jammu as well as Kashmir regions that has been continuing for centuries. “I am not able to understand why the darbar move practice was stopped. The practice was an emotional connection between the people of two regions... It was our tradition but unfortunately the administration does not know the importance of the darbar move,” he said and criticised the administration for their “one-sided decisions which has affected Jammu”. Meanwhile, he congratulated the J&K youth who have cracked the prestigious civil services exams conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). “We are proud of our young generation for their remarkable achievement. With their selection, they have shown that they can compete at any level. This is our youth power. They are not less intelligent than others,” he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-restore-darbar-move-if-apni-party-comes-to-power-in-jk-altaf-bukhari-1034530.html
26-09-2021||National||Yoga trainer killed by husband over suspicion of extra-marital affair||A 40-year-old yoga trainer allegedly killed by her husband who suspected that she was having an affair with another person, police said on Sunday. The police have arrested the woman's husband Paramjeet Singh (45). The incident took place on Tuesday, they said. The woman -- Ravneet Kaur -- a resident of Model Town-3 here was taken to the Pentamed Hospital where she was declared brought dead, the police said. Kaur was a yoga trainer and used to visit a gym twice a day. Singh suspected that she was having an affair and strangulated her to death, a senior police officer said. The post-mortem report came on Saturday which stated that she was manually strangulated and there was no external injury mark, the police said. Her husband was arrested on the same day, police said. They were married for the last 20 years. Their elder daughter studies in Pune. Singh's younger daughter and his parents were present in the house when the incident happened but were in different rooms, police said. Singh runs a car accessories shop at Kashmiri Gate, the police added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-trainer-killed-by-husband-over-suspicion-of-extra-marital-affair-1034547.html
26-09-2021||National||India has suffered for over 70 years due to colonial era laws: SC judge Narasimha||Supreme Court judge P S Narasimha on Sunday said India has suffered over 70 years due to colonial era laws and their interpretation and that de-colonialisation of laws is a constitutional mission for the judges. Justice Narasimha, who is set to become Chief Justice of India in 2027, said that it would be a greater honour for him to take over the mantle from Justice B V Nagarathna, who is set to become the first women Chief Justice of India. Speaking at a function organised by Lady Advocates of the Supreme Court for felicitation of nine newly appointed judges of the top court, including three women judges, Justice Narasimha said he recently read a news report that CJI N V Ramana has said somewhere that Indian judicial system is affected by colonialism. "That is where it struck me that de-colonialisation is actually a constitutional mission for us and I could immediately connect myself to the vision that the CJI has mentioned. A large number of laws, a large number of interpretations that we have suffered over 70 years require a re-look and this will, I am sure, go into a new perspective for us,” he said. Justice Narasimha said that Chief Justice Ramana has taken up so many issues after he took over the charge on April 24 and the way he implemented them is extraordinary and the effect of it is seen by everybody. "Appointment of nine judges, high court judges and I was looking at Monday's cause list for the top court, it's amazing because there are 17 courts, which will be functioning. Unbelievable! I was thinking how I was on that side (lawyer) when I used to run from court to court, that is something I really miss,” he said. In a lighter vein, Justice Narasimha who was a senior advocate before being sworn in as Supreme Court judge on August 31 told the audience comprising women lawyers practising in the top court that he has been caught over by the habit of being lawyer. "Every day, I go back to sleep as a judge and wake up as a lawyer and I start thinking which court I will have to go first in the morning and I suddenly think where I am," he said amid laughter from the audience. He said that he believed that women were a path ahead of a man, he had no doubt of the fact in his mind due to their ability to balance things and ability to keep calmness. “The four women judges on the bench is an extraordinary thing. Fifty per cent reservation in the judiciary is not a ceiling at all and we will not stop at 50 per cent. It's merit and there is no deficiency so far as merit is concerned. So therefore I don’t see a ceiling of 50 per cent at any point of time,” he said. With the swearing-in of Justices B V Nagarathna, Bela M Trivedi, and Hima Kohli on August 31, the top court now has as many as four women judges. Besides the three women judges, CJI NV Ramana had also administered oath to Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Vikram Nath, Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Justices C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh, and P S Narasimha, who was a senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-suffered-for-over-70-years-due-to-colonial-era-laws-sc-judge-narasimha-1034549.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Unease over AIMIM's move to contest Uttar Pradesh polls on issue of giving leadership to Muslims||The decision of Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) to contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls on the main issue of giving leadership to Muslims has created unease among parties that consider them as their core vote bank.   Different castes, including Jatavs, Yadavs, Rajbhars and Nishads, which constitute a relatively small part of Uttar Pradesh's population, have more or less their own leadership, but Muslims, which constitute more than 19 per cent of the population, do not see any such leadership.  There are 82 assembly seats in the state where Muslim voters are in a position to make or botch political fortunes, but they have nothing in the name of political participation. Whether it is the Samajwadi Party, which gets the most votes of Muslims, or the BSP, which talks about Dalit-Muslim unity for social justice, no one has given leadership to Muslims. Owaisi is making this the basis of his election campaign in the state. AIMIM national spokesperson Syed Asim Waqar told PTI on Sunday that the main goal of his party is to create a political thought and leadership among Muslims for the progress of their community and a better future. "Even the so-called secular parties, which were getting the votes of Muslims, never allowed a Muslim leadership to emerge," he said.   He said that now when Owaisi is talking about giving leadership to Muslims, there has been "an uproar among the parties which consider this community as their political slave". Opinion of experts differ on the question on whether Muslims, after the rise of Hindutva politics, have become aware enough to create their own acceptable leadership.  Political analyst Parvez Ahmed believes this time the 'Owaisi factor' will definitely have an impact on the assembly elections.  "The reason for this is that after the rise of hardline Hindutva politics in the country, a large section of Muslims has started to understand the importance of their separate leadership. SP, BSP and parties which claim to be Muslim friendly have kept silence on the issues of Muslims," he said.  The idea is now gaining strength in the Muslim community that if it does not have any leadership of its own, then the alleged atrocities against them will only increase, he added.   He said this time Owaisi is not on the target of BJP but those parties which till now have been trying to get Muslim votes by creating fear of the BJP among voters.  "These parties are doing such propaganda that Owaisi is trying to benefit the BJP by cutting Muslim votes in the state," he said. Ahmed said that a section of Muslims are pondering over what harm the BJP has done to them.  "The Muzaffarnagar riots, which left a mark of fear on the minds of Muslims, took place not during the BJP regime but during the SP rule. During the regime of Yogi Adityanath, there was no such riot in which Muslims were specifically targeted. The share of Muslims in government jobs in the state is less than two percent, while the Congress and other non-BJP governments have ruled the state for the longest time," he said. According to Census-2011 data, the share of Muslims in the population of the state is 19.26 percent. Muslims can play a decisive role in the 82 assembly constituencies out of the 403 in the state. Muslims constitute 50.57 percent of the population in Rampur. Apart from this they are 47.12 per cent in Moradabad, 43.04 per cent in Bijnor, 41.95 per cent in Saharanpur, 41.30 per cent in Muzaffarnagar, 40.78 per cent in Amroha and above 30 per cent in Balrampur, Azamgarh, Bareilly, Meerut, Bahraich, Gonda and Shravasti.  Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai believes that the issue of giving leadership to Muslims has come to the fore in more or less every assembly election in the state, but it never took off and Muslims often vote for the SP or BSP. "Different sections of Muslims and their own aspirations have also been an obstacle in the way of giving them a universal leadership. This time in the assembly elections, there is not much awareness among Muslim voters about preparing their leadership," he said.   He said that Owaisi is trying on the model of the last assembly elections in Bihar and Maharashtra.  "He got success in Bihar because he had got some good candidates who had their own mass base. But in Uttar Pradesh, Owaisi does not seem to get much success as most of the Muslims in Uttar Pradesh have been voting outright for the same party which is capable of defeating the BJP," he said. However, Kidwai believes that in recent times, a kind of political extremism is coming in the country, which is currently not possible to stop.  "In such a situation, there is definitely a desire for a leadership among the Muslims, but the point of departure has not yet come that they should recognise any one party as a universal leadership," he said. The AIMIM has decided to contest 100 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. Owaisi's party is part of the Bhagadari Morcha formed by Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) President Om Prakash Rajbhar.  Through this, he is hoping that the new formula of backward classes and Muslim voters will prove to be effective. It remains to be seen how this exercise turns out.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unease-over-aimims-move-to-contest-uttar-pradesh-polls-on-issue-of-giving-leadership-to-muslims-1034377.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Pilot meets Rahul: Lobbying, WhatsApp calls pick up pace in Rajasthan and Delhi||Speculating about major changes in Rajasthan politics after Punjab, lobbying and WhatsApp calls have picked up pace in the state and Delhi after former deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi twice in Delhi in the last one week. This time, he met Priyanka Gandhi along with Rahul raised eyebrows in the Gehlot camp. While a few Rajasthan ministers and MLAs have reportedly visited Delhi for lobbying, there are others seen busy making WhatsApp calls to discuss newer permutations and combinations coming up in the state. Before leaving for Delhi, Pilot met Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi which led to speculation that Pilot was making his camp stronger, and hence major changes will be reported here. Meanwhile, there is speculation that Pilot may be given the Pradesh Congress Committee presidency or a major portfolio in the government as CM Ashok Gehlot presently handles a number of portfolios. There are also reports that Congress veteran leader from Madhya Pradesh Digvijaya Singh might visit Rajasthan on October 1 to talk to MLAs here and draft a strategy for upcoming changes in the political map. "These changes, the high command feels, are required not only for the upcoming assembly polls in 2023 but also for the Lok Sabha polls in 2024," they added. "In December 2018, the Congress won 99 seats out of 200 and Ashok Gehlot was made the CM even though he was not the CM face during the poll campaign. After five months of these elections, Lok Sabha polls were held, where Congress scored a duck out of 25 seats." Now, the next elections are scheduled in 2023 and the party is contemplating a new CM face so that the 2019 Lok Sabha results are not repeated in the 2024 parliamentary elections, said Congress sources. In fact, veteran strategist Prashant Kishor has chalked out a comprehensive strategy and submitted it to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Gandhi, they said, had shared it with leaders like Ambika Soni and others. In his report, Kishor has recommended major changes in Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. These are the states where the Congress is on a strong wicket and hence the party should not take them lightly, he recommended. Eventually, in the next few days, there will be major changes in the desert state which has been lying low in terms of political action. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pilot-meets-rahul-lobbying-whatsapp-calls-pick-up-pace-in-rajasthan-and-delhi-1034395.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Some Congress leaders write to Sidhu against inclusion of 'tainted' Rana Gurjit Singh in Punjab cabinet||Hours before the first cabinet expansion of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government, a section of Congress leaders from the state on Sunday wrote to party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu demanding that “tainted” former minister Rana Gurjit Singh should not be included. The leaders also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up “by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader”. The copy of the letter was also sent to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Seven new faces are likely to be inducted in the Punjab cabinet while five ministers, who were part of the Amarinder Singh-led government, are expected to be dropped, sources said. Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Kuljit Nagra and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be included in the cabinet, according to the sources. However, the list of names is yet to be officially declared. After Channi, Sidhu and other leaders held deliberations over days with the party's senior leadership to finalise the names for the first cabinet expansion, it appears to have hit another hurdle with seven Congress leaders including a former PPCC chief writing to Sidhu demanding Rana Gurjit not be included. Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. At that time, he had held Irrigation and Power portfolios. In the letter to Sidhu, these leaders demanded to drop Rana Gurjit Singh from the proposed cabinet berth, alleging that “he is a known corrupt and tainted politician of Doaba”.      The letter was written by Mohinder Singh Kaypee, former PPCC president, MLA Sultanpur Navtej Singh Cheema, MLA Phagwara Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Jalandhar North legislator Bawa Henry, Chabbewal legislator Raj Kumar, MLA Sham Churasi, Pawan Adiya and Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Khaira had defected from the Aam Aadmi Party and joined Congress recently. “We the undersigned MLAs and leaders of Doaba wish to convey huge resentment amongst the public and the Congress cadre on the proposed inclusion of tainted Rana Gurjit Singh. “Needless to mention, he was dropped from the cabinet in January 2018 due to the infamous mining scandal...,” they alleged in the letter while detailing various allegations which were made against Rana Gurjit at that time. “We wonder why Rana Gurjit Singh is being included in Cabinet as he was dropped in January 2018 because of these charges..," they wrote. They also pointed out that despite the Doaba region having approximately 38 percent Dalit population, no representation in the proposed cabinet expansion has been given to a leader from the community. Among MLAs from Doaba region proposed to be inducted in the cabinet include Pargat Singh and Rana Gurjit Singh.        “It is amusing that all three ministers proposed to be included in the cabinet from Doaba region are Jat Sikhs and one OBC…, whereas there is an approximately 38 percent Dalit population in this region,” they wrote. “Therefore, we all request you to immediately drop Raja Gurjit Singh from the proposed Cabinet expansion and instead include a clean Dalit face in view of the upcoming elections,” they said in the letter. Khaira later told reporters that “(By including Rana) we are deliberately giving handle to the opposition to point fingers. By bringing him in cabinet, what impression will it give". In another development, Amloh legislator Randeep Singh Nabha is also learnt to be upset over being ignored for the ministerial post in the new cabinet.  Six-time MLA Rakesh Pandey too expressed unhappiness over the proposed names in the expansion alleging seniors were ignored. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/some-congress-leaders-write-to-sidhu-against-inclusion-of-tainted-rana-gurjit-singh-in-punjab-cabinet-1034406.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Is there any need to open cinema, drama halls when BJP 'entertaining' people? asks Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday took a swipe at the BJP, claiming it was providing "entertainment" to people, and questioned the need for opening cinema halls and drama auditoriums during the Covid-19 pandemic. Notably, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said cinema halls and drama theatres in the state will be permitted to operate from October 22 on the condition that they follow all the protocols required to prevent the spread of coronavirus. In his weekly column 'Rokhthok' in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut, who is the executive editor of the Marathi daily, said the opposition party (BJP) in Maharashtra has "crossed all limits". "Every day, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya levels new allegations against different state ministers and visits their constituencies. I feel the state government shouldn't stop his tours. His allegations are like soap bubbles. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil has a different style," he quipped. "Even though the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions continue, political entertainment programmes are on in the country. In all, there is fun everywhere...there is mystery and comedy in the entertainment that is being provided by the opposition party. Is there a need to open cinema halls and drama auditoriums?" he wondered. Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, claimed that the state BJP unit has made a "mockery" of central probe agencies. He said Maharashtra had a rich tradition of illustrious opposition leaders like Madhu Dandavate, Madhu Limaye, George Fernandes and Hiren Mukherjee, who launched fierce agitations against the then governments and exposed corruption. Indira Gandhi and Sanjay Gandhi also bore the brunt, he said. In Maharashtra, leaders like Datta Patil, Mrunal Gore, Keshavrao Dhondge, Krushnarao Dhulap and Gopinath Munde kept various state governments on tenterhooks, but there was no viciousness as in the present times, the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said. Chief ministers like Shivajirao Nilangekar, A R Antulay and Vilasrao Deshmukh had to quit because of the opposition attack, he noted. "Today, the opposition is a just a comedy show. It is doing nothing, but threatening of ED inquiries and indulging in character assassination," he claimed. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-there-any-need-to-open-cinema-drama-halls-when-bjp-entertaining-people-asks-raut-1034418.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Ministers in Amarinder Singh govt question decision to 'drop' them||Hours before the first cabinet expansion of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government, a group of ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh government on Sunday questioned the apparent decision to drop them. Earlier, a section of Congress leaders from the state had written to party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu demanding that "tainted" former minister Rana Gurjit Singh should not be included. The leaders also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up "by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader". The copy of the letter was also sent to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. In another development, ministers in the previous Amarinder cabinet — Balbir Singh Sidhu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar, held a joint news conference here shortly before the cabinet expansion, and asked what was their fault that they had been dropped. Balbir Sidhu even broke down while asking “what is my fault?” while Kangar, too posed the same question. Seven new faces are likely to be inducted in the Punjab cabinet while five ministers, who were part of the Amarinder Singh-led government, are expected to be dropped, sources said. Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be included in the cabinet, according to the sources. Amloh legislator Randeep Singh Nabha, who was learnt to be upset over being ignored for the ministerial post in the new cabinet, is expected to be given a cabinet berth and may be accommodated in place of Kuljit Nagra, who was earlier among the probable, sources said. However, the list of names is yet to be officially declared. Balbir Sidhu held health portfolio and Revenue department was with Kangar. Both detailed several initiatives taken for the welfare of people and said they had worked hard and left no stone unturned. "I want to ask party high command what is my fault and why I was excluded," asked Balbir Sidhu, as he broke down and his voice was choked with emotion. "I am a soldier of Sonia Gandhi," he said. "They should have asked for my resignation and I would have given it happily... People of my area are disappointed.  I am not upset with losing my ministry, I have no greed for power. But I want ask what was the need to humiliate us?," he said. He recalled he had made himself available round-the-clock when Covid pandemic was at its peak. He said he and his entire family too had contracted Covid earlier. He said despite performing he has been punished.           Meanwhile, seven Congress leaders including a former PPCC chief wrote to Navjot Sidhu demanding Rana Gurjit not be included. Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. At that time, he had held Irrigation and Power portfolios. In the letter to Sidhu, these leaders demanded to drop Rana Gurjit Singh from the proposed cabinet berth, alleging that "he is a known corrupt and tainted politician of Doaba". The letter was written by Mohinder Singh Kaypee, former PPCC president, MLA Sultanpur Navtej Singh Cheema, MLA Phagwara Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Jalandhar North legislator Bawa Henry, Chabbewal legislator Raj Kumar, MLA Sham Churasi, Pawan Adiya and Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Khaira had defected from the Aam Aadmi Party and joined Congress recently. "We the undersigned MLAs and leaders of Doaba wish to convey huge resentment amongst the public and the Congress cadre on the proposed inclusion of tainted Rana Gurjit Singh. "Needless to mention, he was dropped from the cabinet in January 2018 due to the infamous mining scandal...," they alleged in the letter while detailing various allegations which were made against Rana Gurjit at that time. "We wonder why Rana Gurjit Singh is being included in Cabinet as he was dropped in January 2018 because of these charges..," they wrote. They also pointed out that despite the Doaba region having approximately 38 percent Dalit population, no representation in the proposed cabinet expansion has been given to a leader from the community and demanded inclusion of a "clean Dalit face.." Six-time MLA Rakesh Pandey too expressed unhappiness over the proposed names in the expansion claiming seniors were ignored. Meanwhile, Balbir Sidhu said he has also written to party senior leadership including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, asking "what is my fault..". Kangar recalled that when he held Power department portfolio, he had made himself available round-the-clock to the people and he used to attend to complaints related to power even late in the night and try to resolve it immediately. When he held Revenue department, he digitized entire record, said Kangar.  However, both Balbir and Kangar said they congratulate those who are being inducted and assured their full support to the new team led by Charanjit Singh Channi, who recently became the chief minister after unceremonious exit of Amarinder Singh. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ministers-in-amarinder-singh-govt-question-decision-to-drop-them-1034443.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi carries out first Cabinet expansion, inducts 15 Ministers, 7 new faces||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi carried out his first Cabinet expansion on Sunday, inducting 15 Cabinet Ministers which included seven new entrants.        The new faces in the Channi Ministry are Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli. Rana Gurjit Singh has made a comeback after resigning in 2018 from the Amrinder Singh Ministry. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the legislators. Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who were ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh led cabinet, were retained as Cabinet Ministers. Channi had taken oath as the chief minister following the unceremonious exit of Congress veteran Amarinder Singh after a prolonged power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rana Gurjit Singh, Mohindra and Singla are considered close to Amarinder Singh. A total of 18 MLAs, including the chief minister, can be included in the cabinet. Channi's two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were sworn in on Monday.  Earlier, a section of Congress leaders from the state had written to the party's Punjab unit chief Sidhu against the induction of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh, alleging he was “corrupt and tainted". The leaders had also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up "by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader". A copy of the letter was also sent to the chief minister. Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. At that time, he had held Irrigation and Power portfolios. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-carries-out-first-cabinet-expansion-inducts-15-ministers-7-new-faces-1034460.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Nitish reiterates demand for caste census, says it is in national interest||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated his demand for a caste census, saying it is in national interest and will facilitate development of the communities lagging in development. Asked about the Centre's affidavit in the Supreme Court that virtually ruled out census on the caste lines, he told reporters that it was "absolutely not correct" but added that the matter was not directly related to the issue of caste census. In the national capital to attend Home Minister Amit Shah's meeting with the chief ministers of naxal-affected states, the JD(U) leader also rejected arguments against caste census and asserted that the demand for it has been coming from not only Bihar but many states. Kumar said he will speak to members of different parties in Bihar over the issue to chart out their next course of action. He had led an all-party delegation from the state to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of such a headcount across the country. However, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday that caste census of backward classes is "administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision". In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the government has said that caste enumeration in Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011 was fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies. Kumar asserted that caste census can be done by imparting appropriate training to people. However, the Bihar chief minister, whose party's ties with the BJP have been uneven for some time, refused to be drawn into any political implications of the issue. "Caste census is in the interest of the country. It will help the country's development," he said. After the Centre's stand, many BJP leaders in Bihar have strongly defended the move and questioned the need for caste census. The BJP has made it clear that its stand on the politically fraught issue can be different from those, including some of its allies, supporting the step. As far as the BJP is concerned, it stands for "sab ka saath, sabka vikas", the party had said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-reiterates-demand-for-caste-census-says-it-is-in-national-interest-1034487.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||BJP is 'jumla party', will defeat it across India: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday termed the BJP as a "jumla (rhetoric) party" and asserted that she would defeat the saffron camp across the country in the days to come. Addressing a public meeting, Banerjee, who is the Trinamool Congress candidate for the September 30 Bhabanipur by-poll, criticised the Centre for not allowing her to attend a global peace meet in Rome and claimed that such attempts by the BJP will not succeed in stopping her. Echoing her, the TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said the party will no longer be limited to Bengal and is politically ready to take on the BJP at the pan-India level. "The BJP is the biggest jumla party in the country. It has only lies and hatred to offer. If you speak against them, they will unleash central agencies against you. They (BJP) are the party of a dancing dragon, who will remove your name from the list of citizenship in the name of CAA, NRC and NPR," she said. The TMC supremo also accused the saffron camp of bringing in outsiders to create disturbances during the by-poll. "The BJP thinks it can do whatever it wants just because it is in power. It doesn't follow human rights and democratic rights in the states where it is in power -- Uttar Pradesh, Assam, or Tripura. So many people died due to Covid in Uttar Pradesh. They did not allow cremation of those bodies and threw them in the Ganga. Human rights are violated in these states regularly, but Human Rights Commission won't visit these states," she said. "In the days to come, we would take on the BJP at the national level and defeat them," Banerjee said. Abhishek Banerjee also said the party would never compromise in its fight against the saffron camp. "You are not merely voting for Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur. In future, we would fight to oust the BJP at the Centre," the TMC national general secretary said. Speaking on the Trinamool Congress' plan to foray into BJP-ruled states, he said, "We have started working in Tripura recently. We are expanding our presence in Assam and other states. In the coming days, the TMC is going to Goa too. Be ready (BJP). We are ready to take our political battles outside Bengal." Hitting out at the Congress months after the bonhomie between the two parties at the national level, Banerjee alleged that "the Congress, the CPI (M) too have an understanding with the BJP." The TMC boss also claimed that the Congress, the BJP and the CPI (M) had joined hands to defeat her in the Bhabanipur by-election. "The Congress compromised with the CPI(M) during the Left Front regime. I had left the party because of this and formed the TMC. Now, they have compromised with the BJP in Bengal," she said. The feisty TMC boss slammed the Centre again for not allowing her to participate in the global peace meet in Rome, where she was the "only invitee" from the country. "They (BJP) lost, yet they have no shame. They are indulging in hooliganism here and in Tripura. They are now jealous of us. As I was the only invitee to the global peace meet, they did not allow me to go. But I will say whatever I have to say. I will send my message," she said. "Many states do not take permission for these things, but I do as I maintain discipline and courtesy. I try my best to keep good relations with External Affairs ministry and have always supported our nation on external issues. I was not allowed to participate in programmes in Chicago, China, Cambridge and St. Stephens. How many times will you prevent me to participate in these programmes," Banerjee asked. Besides Banerjee, the BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and the CPI (M) 's Srijib Biswas are contesting from Bhabanipur in south Kolkata. The Congress has decided not to field a candidate there. The votes will be counted on October 3.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-is-jumla-party-will-defeat-it-across-india-mamata-banerjee-1034492.html
26-09-2021||National Politics||Rumblings in Punjab Congress grow louder amid Cabinet expansion||Rumblings in the Punjab Congress grew louder with the first cabinet expansion of the Channi government on Sunday as a group of ministers from the Captain Amarinder Singh-led regime openly resented being dropped while a separate row emerged over the induction of a former minister who had resigned in 2018 owing to an infamous mining scandal. Key aides of former CM Captain Amarinder Singh, including Balbir Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Shyam Sundar Arora and Rana Gurmit Singh were dropped as 15 ministers were inducted on Sunday. Six new faces — Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli — were inducted to the Channi cabinet, while former minister Rana Gurjit Singh — who had resigned in 2018 from the Amarinder Singh Ministry — staged a comeback, kicking up a row. Others, who were administered an oath by Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit are Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu.  They were ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh-led cabinet as well. Most of the ministers in the Channi government are close to Sidhu. Sunday's Cabinet expansion completes the process as a total of 18 ministers including the CM can be included in the Cabinet. Channi, a Dalit leader, had taken oath as CM on September 20 along with two Deputy Chief Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa from the dominant Jat community and OP Soni, a Hindu leader. The Congress leadership's sustained efforts to put up a united front on the day of cabinet reshuffle — through multiple rounds of meetings with Punjab leaders in the last few days — did not cut much ice owing to the bitter rivalry between former CM Singh and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. "Mera kasoor kee si (What was my fault?)" was the emotional cry of dropped former health minister Balbir Sidhu, who said his performance during Covid-19 was appreciated far off including in the Canadian Parliament. While Sidhu asked the party high command to explain why he was dropped, Kangar also went on to voice his anguish. Both held a joint news conference shortly before the cabinet expansion. Rakesh Pandey, a six-time MLA also voiced his unhappiness. Those who were inducted as ministers, however, said they will take forward the government's work. Nabha hailed it as a "good clean beginning". Nabha was accommodated in place of another probable Kuljit Nagra, who could not make it in the last round. A group of state Congress leaders had earlier sent a missive to PPCC chief Sidhu protesting the induction of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh into Cabinet, calling him corrupt and demanded that this slot should instead be fille dup by a "clean dalit leader." The Chief Minister also marked the copy. The signatories to the letter incuded six MLAs and former state chief Mohinder Singh Kaypee, who expressed their "huge resentment amongst the public and the Congress cadre" Gurjit's inclusion rued that no dalit leader from Doaba region was included despite the region having approximately 38 percent Dalit population. However, Gurjit made it to the Channi cabinet. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rumblings-in-punjab-congress-grow-louder-amid-cabinet-expansion-1034508.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Parents, teachers demand reopening of Delhi schools for students of primary section, classes 6-8||A group of parents and school teachers on Saturday staged a protest outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence, and demanded reopening of schools for students of primary section and classes 6-8. Carrying banners of 'Poor man's child -- No mobile no internet', 'Child's mental faculties develop only in schools', they said that children are becoming victims of mental and physical problems since they are forced to stay indoors.    Following a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, the Delhi government had last month announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1.  The Delhi government had clarified that no student would be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents would be mandatory. RC Jain, president of the Delhi State Public Schools Management Association (DPSMA), said the government had said that it would analyse the situation after reopening of schools for classes 9-12 and then decide on reopening further. "It has been close to a month but there has been no Covid case reported from any school. Even the positivity rate in the national capital is below 0.1 per cent. We want that schools should be reopened not only for classes 6-8 but also for primary classes. If there is a change in the current scenario, they can be closed again," he said. Jain said parents and school teachers participated in the protest and added that considering the situation, both online and offline classes can proceed in tandem. "Schools have reopened in other states. It's worrying that schools in the national capital have not opened yet. Vaccination has been happening at a decent pace and many people have been inoculated," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parents-teachers-demand-reopening-of-delhi-schools-for-students-of-primary-section-classes-6-8-1034261.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||TRF terrorist arrested in Jammu, terror attack foiled||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday arrested a terrorist affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF), an offshoot of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba near the Jammu Railway station, foiling a plan by the ultras to carry out an attack in the city. Sheikh Sunain Yousuf alias “Raja” alias “Sultan”, a resident of Gadapora village of south Kashmir's Shopian, was arrested and a pistol and seven rounds were recovered from him. A hunt has been launched to nab two of his associates who provided support to him for reconnaissance, a police spokesman said. On the basis of credible inputs about the movement of Kashmir-based terrorists to Jammu for a specific task to create terror in the area, he said Jammu and Kashmir Police's Special Operations Group (SOG) Jammu laid ambushes at different locations in Jammu city.  During checking near railway station Jammu, a two-wheeler driver dropped a pillion rider about 50-60 metres behind the check point and sped away, the spokesman said. He said the suspected person, carrying a bag, started moving fast towards a nearby bylane but was chased by police and overpowered at some distance. The search of the suspect led to the recovery of a pistol loaded with seven cartridges, the spokesman said, adding he was put under sustained questioning on the spot by officials of SOG Jammu which revealed that he is an active terrorist of TRF and had come to Jammu for a specific task. However, he said the task was not yet conveyed to him by his handlers. “He had come to Jammu on directions of handler Ahmed Khalid alias “Hamza” alias “Haqparast”, a Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) based active handler of the TRF outfit,” the spokesman said. He said the terrorist was also in touch with valley-based handlers through telegram and signal apps. “The questioning of the arrested terrorist is going on. A hunt has been launched to nab two of his associates who provided support to him for reconnaissance,” the spokesman said, adding more arrests and recoveries are expected at his disclosure. A case under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Arms Act was registered in Bahu Fort police station and further investigation is on, the spokesman said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trf-terrorist-arrested-in-jammu-terror-attack-foiled-1034339.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Fearless, brilliant: Rahul Gandhi hails former PM Manmohan Singh on birthday||Senior Congress leaders greeted former prime minister Manmohan Singh on his birthday on Sunday, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi saying he has a great understanding of issues facing the country and there is much to learn from him.  Singh, a Rajya Sabha member and one of the Congress's top leaders, turned 89 on Sunday. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, posted, "A visionary. A devoted patriot.A man of his words. Dr. Manmohan Singh, you are the leader India truly deserves." "#HappyBirthdayDrMMS, the Congress party & the entire nation cherishes you & your immense contributions- today & everyday. Thank you for everything you've done,"  the party tweeted. The Congress said Singh's unbridled commitment to India's progress - right from the time of being the finance minister to the prime minister to even today - has benefitted every Indian to a scale unimaginable. In a Facebook post, Gandhi said, "Happy birthday to Dr. Manmohan Singh ji. He is fearless and brilliant with a great understanding of the issues our country has been facing. There is much to learn from him." "I wish him good health and happiness," he said.  Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, senior leaders Sachin Pilot, Mukul Wasnik, Salman Khurshid, among others, wished Singh on his birthday.  The renowned economist, credited with bringing in sweeping reforms in the 1990s, was prime minister for 10 years until the Congress was defeated by the BJP in the 2014 polls and PM Narendra Modi took power for the first time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fearless-brilliant-rahul-gandhi-hails-former-pm-manmohan-singh-on-birthday-1034362.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Ahead of polls, Uttar Pradesh's cabinet expansion today||The Council of Ministers headed by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be expanded on Sunday evening, officials said. A swearing-in ceremony has been scheduled at the Gandhi auditorium in Raj Bhavan at 5:30 pm, they said. The officials, however, remained tight-lipped about the number or the names of ministers who will be inducted in the cabinet, barely months ahead of the crucial 2022 assembly elections in the state. The name of Brahmin leader Jitin Prasada, who switched over to the BJP from the Congress, is being considered. Repeated efforts to contact Prasada were in vain. Sanjay Nishad, whose NISHAD (Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal) party will contest the elections with the BJP, could also be included. There are 53 ministers in the UP cabinet at present, and seven more can be inducted as per the constitutional limit. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-polls-uttar-pradeshs-cabinet-expansion-today-1034372.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Sojat Mehndi from Rajasthan gets GI tag||Sojat Mehndi from Rajasthan has received the geographical indication (GI) tag from the government, a move that helps growers of this product get a premium price as no other producer can use the name to market similar goods. "GI tag for Sojat Mehndi is a win-win for farmers, MSME players, artisans and consumers alike if we can leverage it to enhance its exports given its herbal cosmetic and medicinal uses. It will contribute to both employment and revenue," Rajasthan's Department of Science and Technology Secretary Mugdha Sinha told PTI. A GI tag is used for an agricultural, natural or a manufactured product (handicraft and industrial goods) originating from a definite geographical territory. Typically, such a name conveys an assurance of quality and distinctiveness, which is essentially attributable to the place of its origin. Darjeeling Tea, Tirupathi Laddu, Kangra Paintings, Nagpur Orange and Kashmir Pashmina are among the registered GIs in India. According to experts, the tag gives protection to the producer of those genuine products which command premium pricing in domestic as well as international markets. Once a product gets this tag, no person or company can sell a similar item under that name. This tag is valid for 10 years following which it can be renewed. GI is covered under a law of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Mehndi Vyapar Sangh Samiti, Sojat, Rajasthan, and the state's Department of Science and Technology are the registered proprietor of this GI tag. Sojat Mehndi originates from mehndi leaves grown in Sojat. It is fully naturally cultivated by rainwater for getting high lawsone content in mehndi leaves. Sojat tehsil of the Pali district in Rajasthan has several natural factors such as geological structure, topography and drainage system, climate and soil that makes it suitable for the crop. By drying mehndi leaves, fragrant oil is also extracted. The leaves of the mehndi plant, bark, seeds and root are taken for medicinal use. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sojat-mehndi-from-rajasthan-gets-gi-tag-1034384.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Rains lash most parts of Madhya Pradesh; IMD predicts more showers||People in most parts of Madhya Pradesh woke up to a rainy Sunday morning and the MeT department has predicted more showers in the state over the next few days. "Almost the entire state received rainfall in the last 24 hours," P K Saha, senior meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bhopal office, told PTI. Due to the weather systems built over Madhya Pradesh, the state is likely to receive showers for another four to five days, he said. The official said the monsoon season starts in the state from June 1 and ends by September 30, but this time, the withdrawal is likely to be delayed. The monsoon trough was passing through Guna in north MP, he said, adding that the upper air circulation was lying over central parts of north MP and neighboring areas. Besides, the upper air cyclonic circulation was lying over the northeast of the Arabian Sea. These systems were bringing in moisture, causing rains in the state, he said. The official also said that Segaon area of Khargone district received the highest 116 mm rainfall in west Madhya Pradesh, while Mada in Singrauli district recorded the highest 86.4 mm downpour in east MP in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Sunday. The state has almost received its average rainfall quota this monsoon season, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-lash-most-parts-of-madhya-pradesh-imd-predicts-more-showers-1034386.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Authorities baffled as man demands Modi's presence for his vaccination||Authorities here in Madhya Pradesh were left baffled when a man, hesitant to take vaccine against Covid-19, said he will take the first jab in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A video of the incident, which took place on Saturday, surfaced on social media platforms, and district officials later said they will again reach out to the man and convince him to get vaccinated. The incident occurred when a vaccination team reached the tribal village Kikarwas, located about 130 km from the district headquarters, said Manoj Dubey, the resource coordinator of Dahi block in Dhar. In the video, a state government team was seen trying to convince the hesitant villager, asking him who should be called so that he can be vaccinated? The villager initially says a senior official should be called. When the team asks if he wants the SDM (sub-divisional magistrate) to be called, the man asks them to convey to him (SDM) to call (PM) Modi. “Only two persons, including the man and his wife, are left unvaccinated in the village out of the eligible population. We will approach the man again and convince him to get vaccinated,” Dubey told PTI over phone. The Madhya Pradesh government teams are running door-to-door campaigns to convince villagers to take Covid-19 vaccine. The state government has announced to hold a mega vaccination drive on Monday to achieve the target of inoculating all eligible people with the first dose. Till Saturday evening, 6,07,88,981 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the state, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/authorities-baffled-as-man-demands-modis-presence-for-his-vaccination-1034414.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Killer of BJP leader among two LeT ultras gunned down in Kashmir encounter||A self-styled commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), who was accused of killing a BJP leader and his family last year, was neutralised along with his associate by security forces in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Sunday. A police spokesperson said a cordon-and-search-operation was launched in Watrina, Bandipora, 70 kilometres from here, by the Army’s 14-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police after a specific input about the presence of militants in the area. “A contact was established with the two hiding militants on Sunday morning. Frequent appeals were made to the militants to surrender but they refused and fired upon the search party of security forces. In the retaliatory action, both the hiding militants were killed,” he said. The police identified the slain militants as Abid Rashid Dar alias Haqani and Azad Ahmed Shah, both affiliated with the LeT. Shah, they said was “involved” in the killing of BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and father on July 8, 2020 in Bandipora along with Usman and Sajad alias Haider, both Pakistanis militants. Usman and Sajad were killed in Kreeri in September last year. Police said Abid Dar was a Pakistan-trained militant who had crossed over the Wagah border in April 2018 and had infiltrated back in 2019. “He was involved in local militant actions and had been tasked with recruitment and running the ranks of the Lashkar in north Kashmir,” the spokesperson said and added two AK-47 rifles, one pistol and other incriminating material seized from the possession of the slain militants. Nearly 110 militants and 21 security forces and police personnel have been killed in Jammu Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July. Among the militants slain in J&K this year, only 11 were Pakistanis while the rest were all locals. According to the army, there are still 200-225 militants active across the J&K despite low infiltration this year. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/killer-of-bjp-leader-among-two-let-ultras-gunned-down-in-kashmir-encounter-1034430.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Indian Air Force conducts air show over Dal Lake||As part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations, the Indian Air Force (IAF) Sunday held an impressive air show in the skies over the scenic Dal Lake in Srinagar. During the air show, formation of MiG-21 Bison fighter aircrafts held a flypast while Sukhoi SU-30 and SU-20 held an impressive aerobatic display. Display by paramotors and para-jumpers also mesmerized the audience. Besides, the air show also included Akashganga skydiving display, an IAF symphony orchestra display and a motivational photo exhibition. The event, as per an official spokesperson, was organised in collaboration with Jammu and Kashmir K government and was witnessed from the Sher-e-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC). While J&K Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha was the chief guest at the event, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief HQ Western Air Command, Air Marshal BR Krishna, was the senior most IAF Officer and the chief host, he said. The spokesperson said the star attraction of the event was the ‘Surya Kiran Aerobatic Display Team’ or SKAT, also known as ‘Ambassadors of IAF’. “The team has the distinction of being one among the few nine-aircraft formation teams in the world. Flying the highly versatile Hawks manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, SKAT set hearts racing with their synchronized aerial ballet in the sky. Maneuvers by Chinook heavy lift helicopters culminated the air show,” he said. While addressing the gathering, LG Sinha said that such events by the IAF will encourage youth of J&K to join the prestigious Air Force. He also paid glowing tributes to the fallen Indian Air Force officers and jawans for their sacrifice in safeguarding the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-air-force-conducts-air-show-over-dal-lake-1034433.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Yogi to expand UP Cabinet in a bid to balance caste, regional aspirations||Attempting to balance caste and regional aspiration, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will expand his ministry on Sunday evening, months ahead of the crucial assembly polls. The swearing-in ceremony is scheduled at Gandhi Auditorium in the Raj Bhavan at 5.30 pm, officials said. Officials, however, remained tight-lipped over the number and names of ministers to be sworn in as the name of Congress Brahmin leader Jitin Prasada — who switched over to the saffron party — is doing the rounds. UP Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma had recently told PTI that inspired by the work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Prasada wanted to join the BJP much earlier. Prasada had been inducted into the BJP amid its internal worries about the thin representation of the community in the party. Repeated efforts to contact Prasada proved futile. Sanjay Nishad's name, whose party NISHAD — Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal — will contest the 2022 UP assembly elections in alliance with the BJP is also making rounds. Nishad was in the news recently for his demand from the BJP to project him as a deputy chief minister face in the elections. He had claimed that 18 per cent of voters belong to Nishad (fishermen) community which plays a deciding role on 160 assembly seats. The Nishad Party had contested the 2017 assembly elections as an ally of the Peace Party, led by Dr Ayub, and contested 72 seats. Its candidate Vijay Mishra had won from Gyanpur seat in Bhadohi district. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party had allied with the BJP and Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen Nishad was nominated from Sant Kabir Nagar from where he won the elections. Apart from this, the name of former Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya is also doing the rounds as a probable face for induction in the Yogi Adityanath ministry. There are 53 ministers in the UP Cabinet at present and seven more can be inducted as per the constitutional limit. At present, there are 23 Cabinet ministers in UP including the chief minister. There are nine ministers of state with independent charges and there are 21 ministers of state. The maximum strength of the UP Cabinet can be 15 per cent of the total strength of its Assembly. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly has 403 seats. In the 2017 UP Assembly elections, the BJP had won 312 seats out of the 403 seats. Its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) had won nine seats. The Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) too had contested the 2017 assembly polls in alliance with the BJP and had won four seats but it had walked out of the alliance in 2019. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-to-expand-up-cabinet-in-a-bid-to-balance-caste-regional-aspirations-1034434.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Ex-JeM militant arrested in J&K's Kishtwar after 20-year hunt||A former Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militant on the run for 20 years was arrested Sunday in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Bashir Ahmad alias Jaffar Khan, a resident of Nowgam village, was wanted in a 2001 abduction and murder case in the jurisdiction of police station Marwah, a police spokesman said. Ahmad becomes the fourth absconding militant arrested by police in the district since September 15. Before him, Nazir Ahmad, who was absconding for 12 years, was arrested on September 15. Two days later, police had arrested Abdul Gani alias Mavia who was on the run for 19 years. Dulla alias Jameel was arrested on September 25 after a long 20-year hunt. The spokesman said police, acting on specific information, arrested Bashir Ahmad after raiding suspected locations in the Marwah area. A local court has sent him to judicial custody, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-jem-militant-arrested-in-jks-kishtwar-after-20-year-hunt-1034450.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||UP hikes sugarcane purchase price by Rs 25 per quintal||In a major decision barely months ahead of the upcoming 2022 Assembly elections, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced a Rs 25 per quintal hike in the purchase prices of sugarcane in the state. Addressing a meeting of farmers here organised by the BJP's Kisan Morcha, Adityanath said, "The government has decided that the variety of sugarcane for which Rs 325 per quintal was paid to farmers, that price has been increased to Rs 350, which will be paid to farmers." "The government has also decided to increase the price of ordinary sugarcane variety, to Rs 340 (per quintal) up from Rs 315 (per quintal). The government has also decided to the hike the value of the 'anupyukt' (less yielding) variety of sugarcane by Rs 25 per quintal." Elaborating about the benefits, Adityanath said, "This will enable the sugarcane farmers to increase their income by 8 per cent, and will be a transformation in the lives of 45 lakh farmers." He also said that 119 sugarmills will be operated, and they will be linked with ethanol.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-hikes-sugarcane-purchase-price-by-rs-25-per-quintal-1034456.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath expands cabinet to set caste equations right before polls||In an apparent bid to set the caste equations right ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, due in six months time, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday expanded his cabinet by inducting seven new faces, including former Congress leader Jitin Prasada. The seven ministers, who were administered the oath of office and secrecy by governor Anandiben Patel at Raj Bhavan, included Prasada (Brahmin), Paltu Ram, Sangeeta Bind and Sanjeev Gond (SC), Chatrapal Gangwar, Dinesh Khatik and Dharmveer Prajapati (all OBCs). While Prasada was made a cabinet minister, all the others were made ministers of state. Prasada had crossed over to the BJP from Congress a few months back and his inclusion in the ministry was apparently aimed at countering the perceived resentment in the Brahmin community. Besides the inclusion of ministers from SC, ST and OBC communities was also intended to woo the non-jatav Dalits and sections of the OBC, which were in sizable strength in pockets across the state. The expansion comes within days of an electoral alliance between the BJP, Nishad Party and the Apna Dal. Union minister and party's UP in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan had then said that some other smaller outfits were also in touch with the saffron party and that they might also be included in the alliance. Political analysts here said that the cabinet rejig barely six months before the assembly polls was also an attempt to offset the possible loss of jat votes owing mainly to the ongoing agitation by the farmers of western UP region against the new farm laws. The opposition parties termed the cabinet expansion a 'desperate' attempt to gain electoral mileage in the forthcoming polls. "It is nothing but an attempt to hide the failure of the state government on all fronts... it will not help the BJP gain peoples' support," Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-expands-cabinet-to-set-caste-equations-right-before-polls-1034477.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Rohini court shootout: Assailants had planned to surrender after killing gangster, say sources||Rahul and Jagdeep, who shot dead Jitender Gogi inside the Rohini court and were then killed in police retaliatory fire, had planned to surrender after assassinating the gangster, sources said on Sunday. On Friday, the duo, dressed as lawyers, entered the courtroom of Judge Gagandeep Singh, and fired upon gangster Gogi, killing him there. Rahul and Jagdeep alias Jagga were from Gogi's rival gangs, according to the sources. Police personnel opened fire on the two assailants in retaliation as the lives of people in the courtroom and court complex were in danger, police said. In a late-night development on Saturday, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police arrested two persons — Umang Yadav and Vinay — in connection with the Rohini court incident. The sources said that the accused reached the court in a car at 10 am on Friday and the initial plan was that four persons, dressed as lawyers, would go inside the court, kill Gogi and then surrender before a judge. However, one of them was wearing a black jeans and because of this, Yadav and the person who was wearing the black jeans did not go inside the court, the sources said, adding that Rahul and Jagdeep went through with the plan. Efforts are on to apprehend the person in the black jeans and his identity is yet to be revealed, they said. Yadav and Vinay were arrested from a flat in northwest Delhi's Haiderpur area and it belonged to the former, police said. Gogi was a rival of Tillu, another gangster, and according to police, their gangs have been at war for many years. Tillu, Sunil Rathee and Naveen Bali, all chiefs of different criminal gangs, are behind this incident, the sources said, adding that they are all in jail. The person who was wearing the black jeans was sent by Bali. Rahul was an associate of Rathee and Jagdeep an associate of Tillu, they said. The sources said that on September 15, Yadav received a call from Tillu that two persons will come to him on September 20. Yadav was instructed that he will arrange accommodation for them, they said. Those behind the incident already had the information that Gogi will be produced at the Rohini court on September 24 (Friday), the sources said. On Friday, they were informed that one more person will join them around 10 am outside the court. This person was the one wearing black jeans, they said. The Delhi Police's Special Cell has in custody Yadav, while Vinay's custody was given to the Prashant Vihar police station around 3 am on Sunday, the sources said. Police said they will try to take into remand Tillu, Rathee and Bali, who are all in jail, to interrogate them regarding the incident. The Special Cell has recovered a pistol from Yadav which Tillu gave him around five to six months ago. The source of the weapon has been traced to Tillu and investigation will reveal the other details, they said. On Sunday, Gogi's postmortem was conducted at the Maulana Azad Medical College, police said, adding that the postmortem of Rahul and Jagdeep will be conducted on Monday, most likely in the same hospital. According to an FIR registered in connection with the Rohini court shootout, Sub-Inspector Vir Singh, who was part of the security team engaged in the exchange of fire, in his statement said several innocent people could have lost their lives if there was no immediate retaliation against the two assailants. Singh said that since the duo were firing indiscriminately, and it was not possible for the police team to nab them "physically", especially when the judge, court staff and advocates were inside the courtroom, and anyone could have died. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-shootout-assailants-had-planned-to-surrender-after-killing-gangster-say-sources-1034497.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||MP: Woman booked after videos of her dance outside temple go viral||Police on Sunday registered a case against a young woman, whose videos of her dancing on Bollywood songs outside a temple in Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur city went viral on social media, an official said. The action was taken against her after a Bajrang Dal leader lodged a complaint alleging that she danced outside the Janrai Toriya Mandir, a Ram-Sita temple, in an "obscene manner" in order to "hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus", the police official said. The woman has 2.5 million followers on her Instagram account, where she posted these controversial dance videos. "Following the complaint lodged by Bajrang Dal leader Surendra Shivhare about the videos, the woman, identified as Aarti Sahu, has been booked under IPC section 298 (deliberate intention of hurting religious feelings of any person)," Chhatarpur's Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Shashank Jain said. Further legal steps will be taken after the examination of the videos and other facts, he said. In his complaint, Shivhare said that Sahu deliberately danced in an obscene manner in front of the temple, and shared the videos on social media with the intention of hurting the religious sentiments of Hindus. In a video statement later, Sahu said she has been going to the temple since she was a child. "I regret and seek apology from people if my videos hurt their sentiments. It was not my intention," she said, adding that posting videos on Instagram was the main source of earning for her family. Sahu said she has removed those videos from her Instagram account. In the two viral videos, the woman was seen dancing on two Bollywood songs - 'Daye lage kabhi baye lage' from the movie "Cocktail" and 'Meri sham awadh se aayi hai' from the movie "Welcome to Karachi" in front of the temple gate.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-woman-booked-after-videos-of-her-dance-outside-temple-go-viral-1034513.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||Ready to agitate for 10 years, but won't allow farm laws to be implemented: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said farmers protesting against the central farm laws for the last 10 months are ready to agitate for 10 years, but will not allow the “black” legislations to be implemented. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been sitting at Delhi's borders for the past 10 months demanding that the farm laws, enacted in September last year, be scrapped. “It has been 10 months of this agitation. The government must listen with open ears that even if we have to agitate for 10 years we are ready,” said Tikait, while addressing a well-attended “Kissan Mahapanchayat” in Panipat. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader said that the Centre will have to repeal these laws. Indicating that farmers were ready to intensify their stir if their demands are not met, Tikait asked farmers "to keep their tractors ready", saying "these may be required anytime (to move towards) in Delhi". The mahapanchayat came a day ahead of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's ''Bharat Bandh'' call for September 27 against the Centre's three contentious farm laws, marking completion of 10 months of the ongoing agitation. Tikait also said that if the present government does not rollback these laws then future governments will have to take it back. “Those who have to rule in this country, they will have to repeal these laws,” he asserted, while adding that “we will not allow these laws to be implemented, we will continue our agitation”. Tikait said that if farmers have not returned to their homes for 10 months, they will continue to agitate for 10 years, but will not allow the laws to be implemented. Attacking the central government, Tikait said, “They have taken cudgels at wrong place. Had they sensed the mood of these farmers (protesting against the farm laws), they would not have brought these black laws. These farmers will force this government to bow.” Tikait urged young farmers to make full use of social media to strengthen the ongoing agitation against the laws, saying there is a big responsibility on their shoulders to counter the propaganda which is sometimes unleashed to defame the stir. He said the government earlier had tried to project this agitation as limited to Punjab only. Then farmers were branded with various names and later it was also projected as if the stir was only of big farmers, Tikait said. The BKU leader thanked farmers of Haryana, saying a good number of them participated in the Muzaffarnagar 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh earlier this month. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat came just months ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. With polls also due early next year in Uttarakhand and Punjab, Tikait said similar meetings like the one at Muzaffarnagar will be held in these states too. Talking to reporters in Panipat after the event, Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that if the government does not listen to their demands, they will have to intensify their stir. He also called upon all sections of society to make the ‘Bharat Bandh’ successful. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ready-to-agitate-for-10-years-but-wont-allow-farm-laws-to-be-implemented-rakesh-tikait-1034522.html
26-09-2021||North and Central||'Monsoon Festival' concludes in J&K's Patnitop, sees footfall of over 6,000 visitors||The first-ever two-day 'Monsoon Festival' concluded at the famous Patnitop hill station in Udhampur on Sunday, attracting over 6,000 visitors who enjoyed enthralling cultural and musical performances by popular artists and singers from within and outside Jammu and Kashmir. The second day was marked by a soulful Sufi rendition by the Ali brothers and foot-tapping Punjabi songs performed by Armaan Bedil, an official spokesman said. He said the folk art giants of Jammu region, including renowned Romalo Ram and Party, Ram Ditta and Party, Kud Dance Pancheri Party, Deepak, Vishakha, and Divya Bharti were amongst the main attractions. Volleyball and kabaddi competitions were also organised by involving local youth clubs and winners were felicitated, the spokesman said. The two-day festival was organised by the Directorate of Tourism, Jammu in collaboration with Patnitop Development Authority to encourage tourism in the region and promote it as a hill resort destination. This would create awareness about its many natural and cultural attractions during the monsoon season. The festival, held as part of the 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', exposed tourists to traditional culture, music, cuisines, handicraft, handlooms, games, besides performances by celebrity artists from outside J&K at a single venue, the spokesman said. Chief Executive Officer, Patnitop Development Authority, Sher Singh said the festival was aimed at promoting tourism of different kinds — leisure, adventure and religious — in and around the hill resort, such as Sudh Mahadev, Shankhpal, Gouri Kund, Nag Temple, Shivgali and Mantalai. "Adventure activities like cable car at Skyview Empyrean, Zipline at Patnitop and Sanasar, trekking on picturesque routes found in this circuit have enormous tourism potential which are required to be explored,” he said. He said the Patnitop Development Authority would be organising more events in the coming days and make them a regular annual affair. “We are looking at reaching a footfall of more than 6 lakh this year," he said. Nearly three lakh tourists have visited Patnitop circuit this year since Covid-19 induced lockdown curbs were relaxed in the second week of June. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-festival-concludes-in-jks-patnitop-sees-footfall-of-over-6000-visitors-1034528.html
26-09-2021||Oasis||Let’s be industrious, not indolent||Isaac Watts (1674-1748) was an English theologian who wrote nearly 750 hymns and a volume of verses titled Divine and Moral Songs for Children. The latter (immensely popular at one time) seeks to cultivate various virtues in young people. ‘Against Idleness and Mischief’ endorses diligence. It praises the bee that is always on the move, gathering honey and storing it. ‘In works of labour or of skill, I would be busy too,’ declares the poet, speaking as a child for whom the lesson is intended. One’s early years, he adds, should be spent ‘in books or work or healthful play’. In the third stanza, he explains why being busy is essential: ‘Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do.’ Long before Watts, inactivity had been equated with iniquity, In fact, he was recalling the age-old expression, ‘An idle mind is the devil’s workshop,’ when he urges youngsters (and, of course, adults) to be on guard. He believes that we should constantly strive to focus on something worthwhile, to keep from falling prey to wickedness. All this might sound a bit old-fashioned in the 21st century. Indeed, as far back as 1850, Watts’s warning was viewed as simplistic. A character in Charles Dickens’ David Copperfield, asks another whether Satan cannot influence ‘busy hands’ just as easily as idle ones. Several years later, Lewis Carroll comically parodied Watts’s poem in Alice in Wonderland, wherein a far-from-lazy crocodile expends effort on polishing its tail.  Today, in our fast-paced lives, letting our thoughts wander for awhile hardly seems a sin. Actually, Isaac Watts does not have anything against such mental meandering. What he cautions us against is inertia that is potentially dangerous. While a vacant mind may not invite evil, it can certainly make room for gloom. In the recent past, haven’t we found that engaging in creative pursuits has helped us dispel depression? It makes sense, therefore, to be industrious rather than indolent!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/let-s-be-industrious-not-indolent-1034533.html
26-09-2021||Opinion||A book around Gandhi’s autobiography||In his preface to his newly edited book, Restless as Mercury (Aleph Book Company, 2021), Gopalkrishna Gandhi, the distinguished scholar, reminds us that Gandhi reminiscences are found outside his autobiography as well. Gandhi’s speeches, recorded conversations, and articles, letters and other kinds of writings contain, he writes, “Glimmers about his life, his association with people and with his large and growing family, biological and ideological… (and) personal observations about his inner struggles…” While biographers of Gandhi have worked with them over the years, Restless as Mercury is an exciting first attempt at gathering together many of his autobiographical “cameos” coeval with the time period traversed in Gandhi’s autobiography, The Story of My Experiments with Truth, that is, from the time of his birth till 1920. Restless as Mercury recuperates new occasions from Gandhi’s life and extends the familiar ones in valuable ways. We come away with new accounts of his parents, his struggles, friendships and prison experiences in South Africa, his visits to England. His relations with his wife and children and extended family, in particular, his difficult relationship with his eldest son, Harilal, who only finds a passing mention in his autobiography, find elaborate discussion. Initially involved in the political struggles in South Africa, Harilal increasingly grows distant. Focused on his moral quest, Gandhi’s unwillingness to see his family as separate from “the wider family of living beings” reveals itself across many, many moving moments in Restless as Mercury.  Besides, there are dozens and dozens of details present all through that newly illuminate Gandhi’s world. Gandhi had found consolation and moral inspiration in The Book of Daniel and Qisas al-Anbiya (Stories of the Prophets) on separate occasions. And, photographs of Jesus Christ, Annie Besant, Justice Ranade, Sir William Hunter and of the Indian contingent in the Boer War were found on the walls of his office in Johannesburg. And, he didn’t drink tea and coffee since they were products of slave labour. Compiled and edited with abundant care and love, Restless as Mercury does not purport to be a companion volume to Gandhi’s autobiography, which the author famously claimed was written at the urging of a spirit dwelling inside him (“antaryami”). Still, the newly gathered first-person reminiscences of Gandhi in this book show a similar moral intensity in writing his self. The elegance in prose is seen here as well. Gopalkrishna Gandhi establishes a narrative flow among the autobiographical segments taken from disparate sources before gathering them inside the chapters of his book. The painstaking effort of establishing linear narrative coherence, though, presents, at times, interpretive risks. Let’s take an instance. The chapter ‘My Mother’ shares a valuable childhood episode that Gandhi had narrated in an interview with Christian missionaries given in 1938: “Uka, a child from an ‘untouchable’ caste used to come to clean the lavatories in our house. My mother said to me, “You must not touch this boy, he is an untouchable.” “Why not?” I questioned back, and from that day my revolt began.” If Gandhi’s response to his mother embodied the quality of “revolt,” it is reasonable to suppose that untouchability weighed on his mind from an early age. However, since his philosophical deliberations on the meaning of civilisational freedom in his celebrated Hind-Swaraj (1909), discuss caste without engaging the problem of untouchability, his childhood experience with Uka appears to have taken significance as memory, parable and event only in later life, after his return to India from South Africa. Restless as Mercury resurrects curiosity and excitement about Gandhi’s life at a time when it seemed utterly familiar. By enabling fresh encounters with his world, through his eyes, its editor, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, lets us witness again his distinct styles of moral action, his ways of taking the world seriously. It isn’t a small gift.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-book-around-gandhi-s-autobiography-1034255.html
26-09-2021||Opinion||My Sweet (non-Hindutva) Lord||George Harrison’s My Sweet Lord was the biggest-selling single of 1971, and the first number-one song by an ex-Beatle. The song’s recurrent chanting of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness’ maha mantra in the midst of an upbeat pop groove gave a big fillip to mainstreaming the ISKCON movement, both in the West and in India. Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna/Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare/Hare Rama, Hare Rama/I really wanna see you! After all, it’s one thing to see whirling, bald-pated White kids, with a tilak on their foreheads and their necks wrapped in three strands of tulsi beads, dancing around with tambourines in saffron robes – always worn slightly too short for some odd reason – singing bhajans at New York’s Times Square or at LAX airport, and it’s another altogether for a groovy ‘Vaishnava Beatle’ to be rocking out a global number-one hit on a slide guitar. And it is both a touching and a catchy tune. Certainly, a better song than the Chiffons’ 1963 hit He’s So Fine, that Harrison had purloined the melody from – or, as the judge ruled in the ensuing copyright infringement lawsuit, had “subconsciously” plagiarised. Substituting the transcendental Hare Krishna refrain for a meaningless doo-lang doo-lang doo-lang from the Chiffon’s song obviously elevated the musical spirit. What a number-one pop hit is to the music world, a massively popular global conference supported by Harvard University, Princeton, Columbia, etc., with over 10,000 persons registered, would be to the academic world. It is just this kind of chart-buster that we have witnessed since September 10, when the Dismantling Global Hindutva conference launched. The DGH conference seeks to raise awareness about the corrosive nature of Hindutva, the far-right ideology undermining India’s secular and democratic traditions and stifling academic freedom in India and all across the globe. The diasporic organisers are especially eager to ensure that the White world understands that the Hindu religion is quite distinct from Hindutva ideology. The conference organisers, generally more liberal and left-leaning, have obviously been assailed by right-wing institutions, Sanghis, and others who argue that Hindutva is not a fascist ideology and that the DGH crowd is grossly misrepresenting both Hinduism and Hindutva. I think that both sides have a point. On the one hand, favouring the DGH organisers, Hindutva ideology is indeed a corrosive form of nationalism designed to threaten secular, pluralist democracy, just as its early proponents (e.g., Savarkar, Golwalkar) themselves had articulated. But, on the other hand, favouring the Sanghis, the DGH collective do seem to be grossly misrepresenting the overlapping elements shared between Hinduism and Hindutva. Unlike the human face that the saffron team would like to paint on it, however, these shared elements are not salutary and uplifting ones. Rather, they are their shared anti-egalitarian and anti-democratic practices of caste hierarchy and discrimination. Oh sweet Lord, yes, I said it. In the process of righteously battling Hindutva, the diasporic Brahmins of the American Ivy League are sweetening Hinduism to conceal its underbelly of caste. And caste hierarchy is a foul underbelly of Hinduism itself for which Hindutva bears absolutely no responsibility. But to be fair, just as George Harrison only “subconsciously” pilfered from the Chiffons, perhaps the all-upper-caste NRI Hindus behind DGH do not consciously whitewash Hinduism in the process of exposing the toxicity of Hindutva. As they say, “The conference is guided by an ethical commitment to protecting the rights of minorities, dissidents, and ordinary people whose very existence is under attack by Hindutva’s proponents.” But, what about an ethical commitment to protecting the rights of Dalit-Bahujan, whose very existence is under attack by Hinduism’s Brahmanical practices? Granted, the globalisation of Hindutva is an urgent and compelling problem. But eventually, we are also going to have to face the question why, at all the elite American universities supporting DGH, there are no tenure-track Dalit-Bahujan faculty, especially considering the burgeoning Ambedkar Chairs and well-funded subaltern research agendas. For, who could forget those immortal words of George Harrison (hey, I know, I know): Gurur Brahmā, gurur Viṣṇu/gurur devo Maheśvaraḥ/guruh sākṣāt, paraṃ Brahma/tasmai śrī gurave namaḥ||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/my-sweet-non-hindutva-lord-1034256.html
26-09-2021||Opinion||Our netas do know better, but they can’t help themselves anyway||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari recently took a jibe at ministers who try to promote themselves by putting up cut-outs, hoardings, and birthday wishes, telling them those will not help their political careers in any way. Wait, so the BJP knows that?! Pray, tell me then, why do the vaccine certificates have pictures of the Prime Minister, confusing poor foreign officials into thinking Indians travelling abroad are faking their documents with someone else’s picture? Here is a new story from the very old Kathasaritsagara about doing things when you should know better. There was once a wealthy merchant who had a son called Ishwaravarma. Now, the merchant didn’t want his son to squander away his wealth on some courtesan. So, while Ishwaravarma was still young, his father dropped him off to the house of Yamajihva, a famous courtesan, and paid her handsomely to teach Ishwaravarma all the tricks of her trade so that he would never have his money stolen by a clever courtesan. After a year, Ishwaravarma completed his ‘education’, and set out on his way, with five crores (told you his father was rich!), to explore the world. Ishwaravarma had not gone far, when he saw a courtesan, Sundari, performing at a local temple, and promptly fell in love with her. All that he had learnt slipped out of his mind instantly. Ishwaravarma sent her a message through a friend and arranged to meet her. Sundari gave him all the right responses, and after just a couple of nights together, he had already given her a little fortune from the money he had. Sundari pretended to refuse the gifts, claiming that Ishwaravarma’s affections were enough, but her mother gently told her to accept, and accept she did, with a show of great embarrassment. Ishwaravarma’s friend advised him to leave, reminding him of what he had learnt about courtesans, but the smitten one insisted that Sundari was not like the others, that she would perish without him. When the friend at last induced him to leave, after he had already a lost of a couple of crores, Sundari wept all morning on the day of his departure, and pretended she had completely lost her appetite. But she and her mother had a secret plan to keep him there. They got someone to spread a net across a well at the corner of the town. As a sad Ishwaravarma took leave of them, Sundari insisted on accompanying him till the end of the town. Almost as soon as they parted and Ishwaravarma set out on his way ahead, he heard a tragic scream and came rushing back -- Sundari, out of grief, had jumped into the well to end her life, he was told. He jumped into the well and rescued her from the well, thanking fate for the net that had saved her from sure death. Then he went back to town with her and lived there for a few more weeks -- until he had parted with all his money. Then, suddenly, Sundari’s mother threw him out of the house, and Sundari didn’t seem to care that he was leaving. Ishwaravarma’s friend escorted the dejected chap to his father, who went straight to Yamajihva and demanded a refund of ‘tuition fee’ because she had clearly not taught him well enough. Yamajihva heard the story, laughed, and apologised for forgetting to teach Ishwaravarma the old ‘well trick’. She now taught him how to get back his money. She called out to her monkey, Ala, who knew a rather unique trick. She gave Ala a couple of thousand, and he promptly swallowed the money. Then she asked him to give her two hundred, and he promptly produced two hundred for her. Ishwaravarma returned to Sundari, with Ala. Now that his father had given him more pocket money, Sundari and her mother were excited to see him again. Sundari was even more thrilled to see the monkey. She thought the monkey could cough up any amount of wealth at will, and begged Ishwaravarma to give it to her. Ishwaravarma, just as Yamajihva had taught him, refused to part with it -- until Sundari offered all the wealth she had in exchange for the monkey. He took up the offer, got all his money back, gifted Sundari the monkey after secretly feeding it a couple of thousand, and scooted from there quickly. That brings us to the end of our tale, but as usual, some of you will argue that the story is too incredible, even as a parable. Well, real life is rather unbelievable too, isn’t it? If one can believe cow dung can cure Covid-19, why can’t one believe a money-producing monkey? Or that politicians can spruce up their image by putting up their pictures everywhere – including on vaccination certificates?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/our-netas-do-know-better-but-they-can-t-help-themselves-anyway-1034257.html
26-09-2021||Opinion||The relevance of a diminished Quad||So, the much anticipated first in-person Quad summit has ended with the four-member countries issuing a lengthy statement, a detailed factsheet and even a separate significant statement on the "Quad Principles on Technology Design, Development, Governance, and Use." With the first summit being held in the virtual mode in early March, US President Joe Biden, Indian PM Narendra Modi, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga met physically in the East Room of the White House for two hours on September 24. And therein lies the importance of the meet, with Biden signalling his administration's intent to step up the engagement in the Indo-Pacific in the wake of China's belligerence in the region. And yet, despite the leaders of four of the world's leading democracies converging in Washington DC for a summit-level meeting within a span of six months, much of its strategic thunder was stolen by the freshly-minted AUKUS. Announced just days ahead of the Quad summit, Australia, the UK and the US plan to expand their defence capabilities under the rubric of the AUKUS trilateral military pact. To begin with, Australia will acquire eight nuclear-powered (not nuclear-armed) submarines with assistance from the US and UK. With Australia consequently cancelling a $66 billion contract with France for conventional diesel-electric submarines, Paris is obviously hopping mad. After initially choosing not to comment on AUKUS after its announcement on September 15, India later sought to play down concerns that the Quad stood diluted now. Foreign secretary Harshvardhan Shringla has stated that while the Quad is a "plurilateral grouping", AUKUS is a security alliance between three countries. "We are not a party to this alliance. From our perspective, this is neither relevant to the Quad, nor will it have any impact on its functioning," he said. It was amidst the backdrop of AUKUS taking shape that the second Quad summit was held. The summit's joint statement shows that the Quad will continue to focus on the Covid-19 response, vaccine partnerships, climate change, infrastructure development, and education. Running into a lengthy 17 paragraphs, as opposed to the five-paragraph joint statement issued after the first summit, it's a mix of old iterations now elaborated upon in greater detail with some new initiatives thrown in. The statement and allied documents, however, do little to disabuse the notion among many that AUKUS is now the strategic partnership to watch out for in the Indo-Pacific. Of course, the Quad's joint statement made the mandatory reference to a "free and open Indo-Pacific". It affirmed to "recommit to promoting the free, open, rules-based order, rooted in international law and undaunted by coercion, to bolster security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and beyond."  With no military heft like AUKUS, the Quad will seek to counter China by other means. An important initiative, detailed in the Quad principles on technology, is clearly aimed at countering China in the technology realm. "Technology should not be misused or abused for malicious activities such as authoritarian surveillance and oppression, for terrorist purposes, or to disseminate disinformation," it said. The Quad summit also expressed support for 5G deployment and diversification to help member countries to promote a "resilient and secure telecommunication ecosystem." This is important since the Chinese company Huawei with its 5G technology, has been widely perceived as intrusive and a threat to national security by many countries. India too left out Huawei when it announced the commencement of 5G trials in May this year. Notably, the Quad also focused its attention on critical technologies such as semi-conductors and decided to launch a joint initiative to ensure their supply-chain security. But the AUKUS has somewhat diluted the Quad's strategic salience in the Indo-Pacific. While some argue that the trilateral security alliance will supplement the Quad's efforts, there are fears it will effectively reduce the Quadrilateral grouping to playing second fiddle in this region. This, just when the Quad appeared to be coming into its own, having moved from official-level meetings and anodyne statements running into a few sentences when the grouping was revived in 2017, to two summits within just six months this year. Many in the Indian defence establishment are irked that while the US has consistently rebuffed it over the years even to discuss nuclear propulsion for submarines and aircraft carriers, it had no such qualms when it came to Australia. India, of course, is not a military treaty ally of the US like Australia, Japan and the UK. There is also the reality that India and Japan, both facing an already aggressive China on their frontiers, do not want a further spike in tensions with their immediate and much larger neighbour through an avowedly military alliance like the AUKUS. With the huge chasm erupting between the AUKUS and Paris, India could also conceivably turn to a miffed France for nuclear-propulsion military technologies. As part of the robust bilateral partnership, France is already building the Scorpene diesel-electric submarines in India and supplying the Rafale fighter jets to the IAF. Soon after the announcement of the AUKUS, French president Emmanuel Macron incidentally was on the phone with Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussing cooperation in the Indo-Pacific. Only time will tell if the military initiatives under AUKUS actually complement the non-military ones under the Quad to take on China in the Indo-Pacific. India, of course, will have to prepare for any eventuality. (The writer is a senior journalist. Twitter: @ParulChandraP)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-relevance-of-a-diminished-quad-1034369.html
26-09-2021||Panorama||Infosys' tax portal: A wake-up call for both govt and IT vendors||Infosys is caught in the middle of a huge public embarrassment due to the bugs in the new Income Tax e-filing 2.0 portal they developed for the Income Tax Department (ITD). The glitches in the application became apparent immediately after its launch on June 7 this year. It is not uncommon for a software application to be launched with known bugs. But the bugs in e-filing portal 2.0 broke all limits of acceptance. There were complaints about even basic functionalities like the login and OTP reception. Bombay Chartered Accountants Society wrote an open letter to the finance minister enclosing details of 56 bugs. ICAI made a special presentation before the Finance Minister and representatives from Infosys about the bugs. Scores of other individuals and organisations shared bugs via online platforms bringing more shame to the IT giant. It is saddening to see the name of an iconic home-grown institution being dragged through the mud due to the glitches in the portal. Is the failure in a software project solely the responsibility of the vendor? The open bid for a Managed Service Partner to create the new e-filing portal was published by ITD on February 8, 2018. The Cabinet approval for this project came on January 16, 2019, almost a year later. While sharing the news about the Cabinet approval, the then finance minister Piyush Goyal informed that the new portal will be developed in 18 months followed by three months of testing; making it a 21-month project in total. Twenty-one months may seem excessive for developing an application. But considering the size of this project, that timeline is not that long; it may have been quite inadequate too. As per the notice inviting bids for this project published by the ITD on February 8, 2018, the scope of the project was to design, develop, operate and maintain two applications: 1) e-filing and 2) CPC (Centralised Processing Centre). The e-filing portal is the one currently in the limelight. It enables income tax filing, arrear demands, grievance management, etc., of individuals, HUF, companies, and non-company entities. Each of these entities further branches out to various subcategories like salaried/self-employed individual, RI/ NRI, domestic/foreign company, firm/LLP/local authority, etc.; each having their specific validations and privileges in the system. The CPC portal is the non-public facing part of the system. It handles tax processing, tax accounting, records management, data interchange, and digitisation. The public-facing e-filing portal could be smaller compared to the CPC portal that handles the back-office activities performed by the ITD officials. Tata Consultancy Services was the vendor for the previous e-filing portal, who handled it since 2012. Meanwhile, Infosys has handled the CPC portal for several years since its inception. This familiarity with the CPC portal and its operations might have given Infosys the confidence to agree on such a competitive timeline. Scope vs deadline In the case of both e-filing and CPC 2.0 projects, Infosys’ task was not to recreate the existing applications but to transform them. Recreating an application is relatively easy since the exact length and breadth of the project are known beforehand. But transformation projects are different. Instead of definitive requirements, they have aspirational objectives: Like the following broad objectives of this project stated in the press release after the Cabinet approval. - Faster and accurate outcomes for the taxpayer - First time right approach - Enhancing user experience at all stages - Promoting voluntary tax compliance Such objectives can mean different things to different people. Unless the requirements are clearly defined beforehand by the client, it may take several months for the vendor to finalise proper solutions. There can be instances where major changes are suggested even days before the launch. It takes us to the question of whether the scope of every aspect of this project was precisely defined by the ITD while assigning the project to Infosys. Or did the scope evolve after the commencement of the project? If so, was Infosys given the proper extension in the timeline to accommodate the changes? Considering that Infosys had started the work only after the Cabinet approval in January 2019, the project was launched in little less than 18 months; three months less than the original estimate of 21 months. It would be interesting to know whether the testing process of three months was conducted as initially planned. No project goes live without the sign-off from the project director or equivalent authority at the client’s end. Were the authorities at the ITD, who signed off the portal as fit for public release, aware of all the issues beforehand and decided to release it anyway? Like any other industry, underquoting of timeline and price to win projects is a prevailing practice in the software industry too. This incident should be a reminder to all IT vendors about setting proper expectations regarding the delivery timeline and scope of projects they undertake. To put it in Infosys co-founder N R Narayana Murthy’s words, “it is better to underpromise and overdeliver than vice versa.” On the other hand, it is unfair to crucify just the vendor for all the mishaps in the application. Software development requires constant involvement from the client. Government and its authorities shall view IT vendors as partners in building our nation’s IT Infrastructure. Proper third-party auditing shall be placed for projects to define and control the scope. Timelines should be competitive, but not unrealistic; there is a thin line between both. Public shaming of companies will lead to a point where capable organisations will hesitate to take up government projects for the fear of loss of reputation. (The writer is a Business Analyst) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/infosys-tax-portal-a-wake-up-call-for-both-govt-and-it-vendors-1034534.html
26-09-2021||Second Edit||Hurdles galore in Covid-19 relief execution||The demand for payment of ex gratia compensation to the kin of Covid-19 victims has finally found some positive response with the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) recommending Rs 50,000 to be paid to them from the state disaster relief funds. Just as in the case of vaccinations, it needed the intervention of the Supreme Court for the Central government to take a decision on the matter. The government had cited several reasons behind not making any payment, but there are many moral and legal grounds, as pointed out by the court, to concede the demand. The court was happy with the guidelines framed by the NDMA which state that all claims must be settled within 30 days of the submission of the required documents. There are several challenges, including administrative difficulties, that need to be faced before the relief becomes a reality for the families of the victims. About 4.45 lakh deaths have been officially recorded till mid-September but it is widely agreed that this is an undercount. A large number of deaths may have eluded the count for various reasons. Governments have tried to keep the mortality figures low and so many deaths were not taken into account. There have been problems with the definition too. A large number of deaths were attributed to co-morbidities rather than to the virus infection, though they may not have occurred but for the infection. There are no records of many deaths, especially of those that occurred at places other than hospitals, and proper certification with the reasons for death may not be available. Even hospital records may be patchy and inadequate in some states. These and other similar issues will have to be addressed fairly and with sympathy. A large number of families have lost their earning members and the compensation would offer some solace, though it may be too little and too late. The decision also underlines the state’s responsibility to support victims of disasters, natural or otherwise, and would set a precedent for the future. The paperwork for this should be kept simple and the procedure should be efficient. Legal issues that may arise should be settled quickly. There is a view that only those belonging to the poorer sections should get the compensation, but that will complicate the procedures and will be difficult to implement. The Centre contributes 75% to the disaster relief funds in most states and 90% to others. Still, the states will feel the pinch. There may be the need for other institutional mechanisms which can be readily invoked to deal with such requirements in future. People should not be forced to go to court for relief every time such a tragedy strikes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/hurdles-galore-in-covid-19-relief-execution-1034535.html
26-09-2021||South||Andhra govt extends support to farmers call for Bharat Bandh||The Andhra Pradesh government has declared full support to the Bharat Bandh on September 27 led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, and also to workers of Visakhapatnam steel plant, state Information and Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said on Saturday. He said the Andhra Pradesh government, including the YSR Congress, will support the concerns of farmers and steel plant workers. Nani told reporters that the state government has decided to stop APSRTC buses across the state from September 26 midnight to September 27 afternoon. He also said Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy has made it clear that he is completely opposed to the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam steel plant. The minister appealed for a peaceful protest in the Bandh. Left parties, Congress and Telugu Desam Party have already extended their support for the Bharat Bandh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-govt-extends-support-to-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-1034310.html
26-09-2021||South||Cyclone Gulab moving towards northern tip of coastal Andhra Pradesh; Jagan govt braces for Sunday night landfall||As the cyclonic storm Gulab continued to move towards the northern tip of coastal Andhra Pradesh, the Jaganmohan Reddy government begun preparing for the impact of landfall, expected on Sunday night. According to the Indian Meteorological Department, the storm over the Bay of Bengal moved nearly westwards at 10 kmph speed on Saturday night and was lying about 270 km east-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) and 330 km east of Kalingapatnam (Andhra Pradesh) on Sunday dawn. “Gulab is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh - south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur, as a cyclonic storm with maximum sustained wind speed of 75-85 kmph gusting to 95 kmph, around mid-night of 26th September,” according t the IMD bulletin at 8:30 am. A tidal wave of about 0.5 m height above the astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of Srikakulam, Sompeta, Vizianagaram, and Ganjam districts during the time of landfall. Fishermen are advised not to venture into east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea. Due to the cyclone, areas in south Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh could receive extremely heavy rainfall on Sunday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Telangana while north interior Odisha and Chhattisgarh will get heavy rain, the weather forecast said. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the cyclone preparedness on Saturday evening, and an alert was sounded in three north coastal AP districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam. About 86,000 families in these three districts have been identified as living in low-lying areas and the officials mapped them with specific high-ground cyclone shelters. While one SDRF and NDRF team each is positioned at Visakhapatnam, two NDRF teams are deployed at Srikakulam. All the 76 Mandal Emergency Operation Centres, 145 multipurpose cyclone centers, eight tourist locations connected to the District and State Emergency Operation Centres with emergency warning communication systems are activated. Officials said that the services of the village/ward volunteers could be utilised for disaster management and related activities in the affected areas. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-gulab-moving-towards-northern-tip-of-coastal-andhra-pradesh-jagan-govt-braces-for-sunday-night-landfall-1034348.html
26-09-2021||South||V M Sudheeran's grievances will be heard, will try to resolve them: KPCC president||Jumping into firefighting mode over veteran Congress leader V M Sudheeran's resignation from the political affairs committee of the party's state unit, Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran on Sunday said his grievances will be heard, examined and a resolution will be arrived at as the party wants him to be a part of it. Speaking to mediapersons in the morning, Sudhakaran said Sudheeran will be requested to withdraw his resignation when he will be met to discuss his grievances. He said that the veteran leader's concern will be heard, examined and thereafter, the party will try to find a resolution for the same as "we want him to continue as a part of the party". Sudhakaran, however, refused to clarify what were the reasons behind Sudheeran's resignation, saying it need not be discussed with the media. He said the issue would be resolved internally by the party and there was no need to discuss the same with the media. Amidst discussions on the reshuffling of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, veteran leader and former KPCC chief Sudheeran resigned from the political affairs committee of the state unit, party sources had said on Saturday. The displeasure over the reshuffle procedures and the working style of the present leadership under new KPCC chief Sudhakaran were said to be the reasons behind his sudden decision, they had claimed. Sudheeran had handed over the resignation letter to the state leadership on Friday, the sources had added. Known for his non-corrupt and idealist image, Sudheeran's firm stand on various issues had led to differences between him and many of his party colleagues in the past. Reacting to the reports of Sudheeran's resignation, senior Congress leader and MLA, P T Thomas said the KPCC chief would intervene into the issue and clear any misunderstanding of the veteran. Thomas, also the working president of the KPCC, said a major discussion or consultation with regard to the reshuffle of the state unit leadership was yet to be started. Recently, KPCC former general secretary K P Anil Kumar and its secretary P S Prashanth had resigned from the primary membership of the grand old party over the selection of new DCC presidents.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-m-sudheerans-grievances-will-be-heard-will-try-to-resolve-them-kpcc-president-1034358.html
26-09-2021||South||Bumpy ride for Kerala's Silver Line high-speed railway project||The proposed Silver Line semi high-speed rail project of Kerala that aims at reducing the travel time from Thiruvananthapuram in the south to Kasargod in the north, covering a distance of 530 kilometres, to four hours is likely to have a bumpy ride as the Congress-led United Democratic Front has raised red flag to the project citing viability and ecological issues. The much-hyped project of the Pinarayi Vijayan government is in the initial stages of land acquisition and has been already witnessing stiff resistance from landowners. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought the opposition's cooperation for the project. The Silver Line has been projected not just as a faster mode of transportation, but also as an eco-friendly alternative mode of transport that could decongest the state roads and bring down pollution caused by vehicles. It is estimated that once commissioned. over 46,000 persons who use roads would shift to Silver Line daily and over 12,850 vehicles would remain off the road. This would not only reduce pollution but bring down fuel consumption. It will have eleven stops in ten out of the 14 districts. Land acquisition would be the major challenge for the project as around 20,000 houses with around 1.5 lakh people and 50,000 shops would have to be displaced for acquiring 1,198 hectre land for the project. Besides, around 150 hectre farmland would be also required. The estimated project cost is around Rs. 64,000 crore and various models like public-private-partnership and foreign funding are being considered for the project.  A  panel of the opposition UDF has reported that the project was not viable and poses environmental issues. A four to 10 metre wall on either sides of the rail line across the state would affect water flow, especially during heavy rains and could lead to floods, the opposition maintained and suggested strengthening the existing rail network and setting up airstrips as alternatives. Kerala Rail Development Corporation, a state-railway ministry joint venture for improving rail infrastructure, which is the implementing agency of the project, maintains that the fencing on either sides of the track, which is mandatory as the running speed is around 200 kmph, would be designed in such a manner that water flow would not be affected. In paddy fields elevated structures are planned to avoid damage to fields. Expansion of the existing rail network involved serious practical and technical hurdles and hence the fresh high-speed rail is the suitable option for Kerala. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation's former principal advisor 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan also said that strengthening the existing rail network would be only a temporary option and an alternative high speed line was required for the state. "However, the Silver Line project was not at all feasible especially due to the high land requirement and displacements involved. What is suited for the state was an elevated and underground rail line that would require minimum displacement. The DMRC had mooted a high-speed rail line in Kerala earlier, it was not taken forward," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bumpy-ride-for-keralas-silver-line-high-speed-railway-project-1034462.html
26-09-2021||South||6 Andhra Pradesh fishermen missing as cyclone Gulab inches closer to coast||Six fishermen from Srikakulam district in north coastal Andhra Pradesh were reported missing in Bay of Bengal on Sunday evening as the cyclonic storm Gulab moved closer to the shore and is likely to make landfall around midnight. The three north coastal districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam had been receiving moderate to heavy rain under the influence of Gulab. AP State Disaster Management Authority Commissioner K Kanna Babu said Gulab lay centered around 85 km from Kalingapatnam in Srikakulam district and likely to cross the coast between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur (in Odisha) around midnight. He reviewed the situation with the district Collectors and other officials in Visakhapatnam and directed them to be on high alert. Six fishermen from Palasa, who returning to their native village by sea in a new boat they purchased in Odisha two days ago, were feared missing in the storm. One of the six called his village over phone and informed that their boat lost balance and five of his fellow fishermen were lost in the sea. Subsequently, his mobile phone too went silent, indicating that he too might have gone missing. The villagers brought this to the notice of Fisheries Minister S Appala Raju, who immediately called the Navy authorities for help to trace and rescue the missing fishers. Meanwhile, the South Central Railway informed in a release that eight trains on the Vijayawada-Howrah route were diverted via Kharagpur, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur and Balharshah. Two other trains that were supposed to begin journey on Sunday, have been rescheduled for Monday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/6-andhra-pradesh-fishermen-missing-as-cyclone-gulab-inches-closer-to-coast-1034479.html
26-09-2021||South||Caste-based Census is necessary, NDA ally PMK tells Centre||A nationwide, caste-wise enumeration, as part of the Census is an unavoidable necessity and hence should be carried out by the central government, Pattali Makkal Katchi founder leader S Ramadoss said on Sunday. Pointing to the Union government's contention in the Supreme Court of a policy decision since 1951 against caste-wise enumeration, the PMK leader said taking such a stand is not in sync with the present times. It is a fact that it has been the Centre's policy for decades, but this is "not correct," he said in a statement. The reasons listed out by the central government for carrying out a count of Scheduled Castes and Tribes in the Census applied equally for Other Backward Classes and such data is sought by several High Courts and the Supreme Court, he said. If caste-wise data is not collected, there is a "danger" of reservation for OBCs "disappearing" over the next few years and hence, caste-wise enumeration in Census is necessary and cannot be avoided. The Centre's contention that "while working towards a casteless society, a caste-wise enumeration is not needed" only showed that it has not understood the subject. Only an egalitarian society could help create a casteless society and to make sure that it happened, all castes should witness development. For that, reservation is the foundation and to ensure it, caste-wise enumeration in Census is necessary and the Union government should realise this, Ramadoss said. On the Union government's claims on practical difficulties, he said the Britishers had carried out the exercise during an era — between 1881 and 1931 — when there were no developments in science and technology as seen today and the enumeration had a "99 per cent accuracy," and only based on such data, reservation for OBCs is provided. "It is to be pointed out that Karnataka had undertaken a caste-wise enumeration four years ago." The Centre also pointed that its list of OBCs differed from that of states, Ramadoss said adding it is not a problem. Even if a headcount was done based on Centre's OBC list, it could be used in accordance with the requirements of state governments. "Necessity is the mother of invention. In India, there is an unavoidable necessity for a caste-wise enumeration in Census. Considering it, if a decision is taken to carry it out, all practical problems can be addressed." The central government should hence, carry out the 2021 Census by including caste wise enumeration, he said. Days ago, the Centre had told the Supreme Court that caste Census of Backward Classes is administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision". PMK is part of the National Democratic Alliance in Tamil Nadu. The PMK's cadre base is predominantly, Vanniya Kula Kshatriyas, falling under the Most Backward Classes (MBC) category in the state. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/caste-based-census-is-necessary-nda-ally-pmk-tells-centre-1034486.html
26-09-2021||South||Normal life in Kerala likely to be affected on Sept 27||Normal life in Kerala is likely to be affected on Monday as the ruling left-front and opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front decided to observe a hartal in support of the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Public road transport services are likely to remain off roads as many trade unions have also extended support to the stir. Shops and commercial services may also remain shut. The BJP state leaders had flayed the decision of the left-front and the UDF to go on hartal. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/normal-life-in-kerala-likely-to-be-affected-on-sept-27-1034502.html
26-09-2021||South||School teacher gets 29-year rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting student||A teacher has been sentenced to rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 29 years by a Special Fast Track Court for sexually assaulting a first standard girl student. The court here said the offence committed by the teacher was inhumane and barbaric. "The perverted act of the convict on an innocent young girl of 6.5 years certainly calls for severe punishment and hence I decided to impose it on him," the court said. The child narrated the incident to her parents who lodged a complaint. The court said a teacher is considered to be the embodiment of knowledge, wisdom and fine qualities of life. "Guru is a friend, a philosopher, guide, social engineer and nation-builder. In Indian philosophy, Guru occupies an exalted and envious position. His influence is not confined to an individual but it extends to families, institutions and education establishments, in fact, in all spheres of life. He imparts knowledge, teaches the values of life, provides guidance and building of the nation itself," the court noted in the judgment. According to the prosecution, the child, aged 6.5 years at the time of incident, was molested in 2012 by the teacher when he accompanied the students on a study tour from the school. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/school-teacher-gets-29-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-sexually-assaulting-student-1034511.html
26-09-2021||South||Kerala to come to standstill with LDF-UDF endorsed hartal, BJP terms strike 'anti-people'||Kerala is expected to come to standstill on September 27, with the ruling LDF government and the Congress-led UDF supporting the nationwide farmers strike, even as the BJP on Sunday claimed that the hartal was "anti-people". INTUC state president R Chandrasekharan told PTI that since the hartal has the support of both LDF and UDF, the state is expected to come to a standstill on Monday. He said except RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), all other trade unions are supporting the strike and therefore, it is expected to be peaceful and there would be no blocking of vehicles or forced shutting down of shops. BJP state General Secretary George Kurian, on the other hand, said it was "something strange" that LDF and UDF which were allegedly responsible for destruction of the farming sector in Kerala were endorsing a hartal in support of farmers in Punjab. Kurian told PTI that the hartal was "anti-people". He alleged that food cultivation went down in the state as a result of the LDF and UDF rule here over the years. Claiming that the new farming laws would also benefit the farmers in Kerala, he said while the trade unions affiliated to BJP are not supporting the hartal, they would not be openly opposing it. Chandrasekharan also said since public transport would not be operational, the attendance in government offices would be affected. He also said that BJP and its trade unions' silence on the issue indicates they too are supporting the hartal as if they were opposed to it, they would have said so. He said the intention behind the strike was to show the support of the people and unions here to the farmers' cause. Chandrasekharan said just like the farmers, the workers in the southern state were also affected by alleged taking away of laws protecting their interests. He said in future, both groups would need to move forward with the support of each other. Kerala's ruling LDF on Thursday had called for a state-wide hartal on September 27 to express solidarity with the farmers protesting the Centre's anti-farm laws. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, spearheading the anti-farm agitation, announced "Bharat Bandh" on September 27 aiming at further strengthening and expanding the farmers' agitation which began in November last year. Talking to reporters, LDF convenor and CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan had said five lakh people will participate in the protest in the state against the central government's anti-farmer policy. The protesting farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-come-to-standstill-with-ldf-udf-endorsed-hartal-bjp-terms-strike-anti-people-1034519.html
26-09-2021||South||Kerala man dupes people of Rs 5 crore claiming antique collection||Causing embarrassment to many prominent personalities in Kerala, including MPs and IPS officers, a man held for duping several persons of around Rs 10 core by posing as an antique merchant, was allegedly having connections with them. Pictures of the accused with many prominent persons like Congress president in Kerala and Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran and a minister in Kerala have come out and those who were cheated had stated to the police that the accused used his connection with prominent persons to convince them. Monson Chacko alias Monson Mavungal, 52, a native of Alappuzha district in Kerala, was held by the Kerala Police's Crime Branch during the late hours of Saturday. A massive collection of 'antiques' at his home-turned-museum in Kochi were found to be fake ones. It included 'Throne of Tipu Sultan', watch costing Rs 30 crore and first telephone of India. Most of those were suspected to be made locally. He had also claimed in some promotional videos that he was in possession of couple of silver coins that Judas got for betraying Jesus Christ and clothes used to wipe blood of Jesus Christ. Several luxury cars were found on the premises of his houses. It was suspected that many of the cars were damaged in floods and purchased for throwaway price. Though he claimed to be heading an organisation of non-resident Indians, it was found that he was not even having a genuine passport. His claim that he was having doctorate was also found to be false and his real qualification was still unknown. Four persons had complained that Mavungal cheated them by collecting over Rs 5 crore after making them convinced that Rs 2.62 lakh crore was due on him as proceeds of sale of antiques to royal families in countries like UAE, Brunei and London was held up due to technical and procedural issues and the money was required to clear it. Meanwhile, several other cheating complaints against him also surfaced. One of the petitioners, Shammer, said that whenever they raised suspicions over his dealing, Mavungal convinced them by using his links with prominent persons. A portion of the money was even handed over in the presence of Sudhakaran.  However, Sudhakaran said that though he had acquaintance with Mavungal, he was unaware of his dealings and was not associated with it. He also said that the allegations against him could be part of a political ploy by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. There were also allegations on a couple of senior police officers to sabotage the investigation by changing the investigation officer. But the investigation was later transferred to Crime Branch after those who were cheated petitioned higher ups. Pictures of senior IPS officers at Mavungal's house with family also came out. There were also unconfirmed reports that some senior police officers were present at Mavungal's house in connection with a family ceremony when the Crime Branch team reached there to nab him. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-dupes-people-of-rs-5-crore-claiming-antique-collection-1034520.html
26-09-2021||State||Karnataka govt may regularise 2 lakh illegal pumpsets||Wary of inviting farmers’ wrath which could impact its poll prospects, the Karnataka government is likely to regularise power supply to over two lakh illegal irrigation pumpsets, even if it places an additional burden on the state’s finances already strained by the pandemic.  “There are 2.57 lakh applications seeking regularisation of illegal connections, and the number keeps increasing,” Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar told DH.  According to data tabled by Kumar in the Assembly, the government has supplied power to 22,897 illegal connections so far this year. Between 2018 and 2020, the government has regularised 4.41 lakh illegal connections under the jurisdiction of various electricity companies — Bescom, Mescom, Cesc Mysore, Hescom and Gescom. The highest number of regularised connections are under Hescom (Hubballi), data shows.  In fact, Kumar stated the government’s stand in a written reply: “When it comes to providing electricity to farmers’ irrigation pumpsets, no distinction is made between illegal connections and new applications seeking power supply. All applications are being given electricity connections.”  Since 2019, the government has incurred an expenditure of at least Rs 1,277.29 crore in energising illegal irrigation pumpsets. “This is a huge burden,” a source from the Energy Department said.  There are around 30 lakh irrigation pumpsets operated by farmers in the state.  Without regularising the illegal connections, the government will not be able to meet its promise of providing uninterrupted 3-phase power supply for seven hours during the day.  The irony is that Kumar himself is looking at streamlining the department. He is pushing for a plan to install prepaid meters in government offices that owe Rs 5,792 crore in electricity dues. However, he is not keen on acting against illegal irrigation pumpsets, lest it upset farmers and impact the BJP’s poll prospects.  In July, the government managed to convince the Centre to surrender 300 MW of power that was being supplied for Rs 5.30-Rs 6 from the NTPC to Escoms. This will lead to annual savings of Rs 650 crore, according to Kumar.  The state produces nearly 30,000 MU power, sufficient to manage the demand. Still, it must continue to purchase power from other states due to long-term agreements that are valid till 2044. Cancelling them will lead to heavy penalties and the advocate-general has advised against any unilateral decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-may-regularise-2-lakh-illegal-pumpsets-1034275.html
26-09-2021||State||Free police, revenue officers from giving money to politicians, Bidari asks govt||Retired Director General and Inspector General of Police Shankar Mahadev Bidari stated that unless the politicians stop collecting money for postings and transfers from officials of home and revenue departments, it is not possible to eradicate corruption in government departments. Inaugurating retired police officers bhavan, here on Sunday, he said the government, irrespective of any party that comes to power, has cultivated the practice of collecting money from police officers and revenue department officers for postings and transfers. Those who pay bribe to the politicians will indulge in corruption to compensate for the bribe paid to the government. So politicians must end this practice, he demanded. "Police, judges, and advocates must be allowed to discharge their duties promptly. In many developed countries like America, France, Japan, children of president are punished if they go against the rule. But in India, VIPs are not punished at all. People with poor background are punished. People who looted crores of rupees are shielded in India. The judiciary system must be strengthened for the progress of a nation. BJP, Congress and JD(S) leaders promise voters that they would develop the state if they are voted to power. It is nothing but a myth as all parties are the same with regard to corruption," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/free-police-revenue-officers-from-giving-money-to-politicians-bidari-asks-govt-1034490.html
26-09-2021||State||Hurdles in aid for houses damaged in floods to be cleared: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday that a meeting with Revenue and Finance department officials would be held in Bengaluru next week to overcome hurdles in compensating for the houses damaged in the 2019 floods but not included in the list of beneficiaries. The government has announced that it will give Rs 861 crore in compensation for the 44,205 houses damaged during the 2019-20 floods. Bommai told reporters here that he himself had reviewed the situation, wherein some of the houses damaged in the floods had been left out from compensation. The government had announced compensation in three categories and one review meeting has been held already. There were some queries by the Revenue department and a report has been sought. Next week, a meeting with Finance department officials will be held, Bommai said. The compensation process for crops damaged due to floods too has commenced and Rs 263 crore has been given, he added. The sugar directorate office will become functional here from October 3 and the government has issued orders in this regard. Orders were also being issued for more offices that will be shifted to Belagavi.  By December, all possible offices will be shifted here. The government will conduct the winter session of the legislature at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha here in the month of December and the cabinet will soon take a decision in this regard, he stated. Bommai said farmers had raised the issue of sugarcane dues by private sugar factories. “We shall ask the private factories to clear dues and if they do not, we shall not hesitate from taking legal action. A meeting with sugar directorate and apex bank officials will be held,” the CM said.  The Border Protection Authority will be strengthened in the coming days, Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hurdles-in-aid-for-houses-damaged-in-floods-to-be-cleared-cm-bommai-1034544.html
26-09-2021||State||Karnataka govt pins blame on old hardware for Kaveri portal woes||Delays in updating the required technology infrastructure in sub-registrar offices is one of the key reasons for the abrupt shutdowns of the Kaveri property registration software of the Revenue Department. According to the government, UPS and batteries installed at sub-registrar offices for servers that host the Kaveri platform were over seven years old and shut down often. Such shutdowns caused the Kaveri database to crash, affecting property registrations from few hours to few days on end. Measures are on to address these issues by shifting the database to a central server, apart from providing new UPS and batteries to sub-registrar offices. In a written response to a question by Congress MLC K Govindaraj, Revenue Minister R Ashoka noted that existing Kaveri platform was outdated and the process was on to develop Kaveri 2.0. Local servers The software run by the Stamps and Registration Department was currently dependent on both local and centralised servers. On some occasions, UPS and batteries at sub-registrar offices do not work leading to ‘abrupt shutdowns’, which in turn resulted in a ‘database crash’. Apart from it, property registrations are hit if there is any disruption in the servers at the Directorate of Electronic Delivery of Citizen Services, which provides OTP services to Kaveri software. “Kaveri is also linked to various other platforms, and its efficiency is affected by how the linked softwares perform” he said. Bhoomi, E-Swatthu and E-Aasthi are among the software that are linked to Kaveri.  Kaveri 2.0 was under development by Centre for Smart Governance. “Since, the new version will operate from a centralised server, there won’t be any server issues once the new software is operational,” he said. Hardware in sub-registrar offices were procured in 2013 and are outdated. The government will employ Build, Own, Operate and Transfer model to update the hardware. High maintenance Despite the questionable performance of Kaveri, the government has spent Rs 4.91 crore for its maintenance since 2018-19. While Rs 3.89 crore was spent between 2018-19 to 2020-21 for the upkeep of Kaveri, Rs 1.01 crore was spent in the first five months of the 2021-22 fiscal, according to the response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-pins-blame-on-old-hardware-for-kaveri-portal-woes-1034546.html
26-09-2021||State||IAF Training Command gets new commanding officer||Air Marshal Manavendra Singh took over as Air Officer Commanding in Chief (AOC-in-C) of Training Command on September 25. Commissioned in the flying branch of the Indian Air Force in December 1982 as a helicopter pilot, the Air Marshal is a 39-year veteran of the service and also a qualified flying instructor. According to a statement, he has 6,600 hours of operational and instructional flying. During his illustrious career in the IAF, the Air Officer has held numerous command and staff appointments. He was the Station Commander of a frontline airbase. As an Air Vice Marshal, he held the coveted appointments of Assistant Chief of Integrated Defence Staff (Joint Operations) at HQ Integrated Defence Staff, Senior Officer-in-Charge Administration at HQ Eastern Air Command, Senior Air and Administrative Staff Officer at HQ Maintenance Command. As an Air Marshal he served as Senior Air Staff Officer, Southern Air Command and Director General (Inspection & Safety) at Air Headquarters. Prior to taking over as AOC-in-C of Training Command he held the appointment of AOC-in-C HQ Southern Air Command. The Air Marshal is an alumnus of National Defence Academy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/iaf-training-command-gets-new-commanding-officer-1034550.html
26-09-2021||State||IPS officer Dr KV Jagadeesh passes away||Senior police officer Dr KV Jagadeesh, IPS, passed away in Bengaluru on Sunday. Dr Jagadeesh (44) hailed from Kolar and had joined the Karnataka Police in 2005 after graduating in Medicine. He was promoted to IPS cadre in 2012 and had served in various capacities including that of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Dr Jagadeesh was under treatment for a few years for cancer. He was admitted to a hospital recently and breathed his last on Sunday. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Sources in the family revealed that the last rites will be performed in Kolar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ips-officer-dr-kv-jagadeesh-passes-away-1034551.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||COMEDK results announced; over 44,000 candidates clear test||As many as 44,111 candidates have cleared the entrance test, conducted by the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK), for admissions to undergraduate engineering courses at the private engineering colleges. The results of COMEDK UGET were announced on Sunday. As many as 44 candidates from Karnataka featured in the top 100 ranks list.  Interestingly, this year boys outshone girls by securing all the top 10 ranks. The test was conducted online in 244 centres located across the country onSeptember 14. Veeresh B Patil, a student of the Oxford Independent PU College, Bengaluru, has emerged the topper. “I could revise the key concepts by just looking at my notes which I made when my lecturers were teaching,” Patil said. The topper is aspiring for a seat in the Indian Institutes of Technology by writing the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) scheduled for next month. Shiva Sudhan Rajamani of St Paul’s English School at JP Nagar, Bengaluru, who bagged the second rank, said, “I mainly focused on preparing for the Common Entrance Test (CET) and that preparation also helped me crack the COMEDK test.” As many as 66,304 candidates had enrolled for the test. Of which, 44,111 of them (16,632 from Karnataka and 27,479 non-Karnataka) had appeared for thetest. A total of 4,660 candidates, including 1,244 candidates are from Karnataka, have managed to score between 90 and 100 percentile.  According to the press release issued by COMEDK, the details of tuition fees and counselling dates would be notified soon. “The COMEDK counselling would be conducted online and the candidates have to upload the scanned copies of the documents using their login,” said the release. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/comedk-results-announced-over-44000-candidates-clear-test-1034396.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Winter session of Karnataka Assembly likely to be held in Belagavi: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the government is mulling hosting the winter session of the state legislature in this border district in December, and more government offices will be shifted here, by then. "Already orders have been issued and instructions given to officials to start the functioning of the Sugar Directorate from here from October 3, also orders have been issued to shift some government offices here, while it is yet to be issued for few others, and we will take necessary action in this regard," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters, he said, "there is a thinking to hold the legislature session here in December, it will be placed before the cabinet for approval, and all those offices that can be shifted here by December, will be shifted." Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti had urged the government to hold the monsoon session of the legislature in Belagavi, but it was held in state capital Bengaluru from September 13 to 24. If held in December as planned, this will be the first legislature session in Belagavi, after the BJP came to power in 2019. Sessions have not been held in Belagavi in the last two years due to floods and Covid-19 pandemic. Belagavi in north Karnataka, bordering Maharashtra, has been hosting legislature sessions once a year since 2006. Karnataka has constructed the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, modelled on the Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state secretariat and legislature in Bengaluru, for this purpose, and it is also seen as an assertion that Belagavi is an integral part of Karnataka. Maharashtra claims that Belagavi belongs to it. Other than the session held once a year for about two weeks, the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha building remains mostly unutilised. It has been a long-standing demand of the people of north Karnataka to shift some government offices to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi, aimed at addressing regional imbalance, and for the benefit of citizens of the regions, who otherwise have to travel to Bengaluru. In 2018, then Congress-JDS coalition government in the state had given in principle approval to shift some government departments, boards and commissions to the north Karnataka region to address the alleged discrimination. Last year, the then Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had directed authorities to identify state level government offices to be shifted to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi within a month and execute it. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/winter-session-of-karnataka-assembly-likely-to-be-held-in-belagavi-cm-bommai-1034459.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||As Karnataka govt allows full attendance for classes 6-12, paediatric Covid-19 testing still at 3%||On a day when the Karnataka government decided to allow schools to function in full capacity from class 6 to 12, five days a week, state health commissioner Dr K V Trilok Chandra said the paediatric Covid testing levels remained low at 3%, which shows no improvement from when the data was last reviewed on September 15. Experts say Covid cases among children may go undetected if the paediatric sampling rate continues to remain low.  The State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), last Sunday, on September 19, had expressed concern over the low sampling rate among children and asked the government to ramp up testing to 10% within a week, which ends on Sunday, September 26. TAC says the third Covid wave may start in October or November.  Dr C N Manjunath, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing told DH, "Even after a week from September 15 to September 22, if the testing rate has remained 3%, as against TAC recommendation of 10%, Covid cases among children may go undetected, especially after schools are going to be in full attendance soon with today's decision." State Health Commissioner Dr K V Trilok Chandra told DH, "As of now we are doing only 3% Covid testing among children. By the coming week, we hope to reach 10%. We have done around 1.05 lakh Covid tests among children from August 23 to September 22, which accounts for 3% of the total Covid tests (including those of adults) done in this time period. We are facing some challenges like hesitancy for RT-PCR testing, especially among children below five years of age, as there is discomfort when throat swabs are taken. Not just symptomatic children coming to health facilities, even asymptomatic children are being tested. The tests are being done as a part of the Arogya Nandana scheme by the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) officials visiting schools." Data shared by RBSK showed 1,41,274 samples were collected across the state from 12 to 17-year-olds studying in class 6 to class 12, from August 15 to September 22. According to this data, the BBMP collected only 104 samples in this period while Bangalore Urban district 2071 samples. However, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) D Randeep said on September 21 alone the BBMP had collected 4,675 Covid samples from the 0-18 years age group. "On September 21, the elderly aged 60 years and above accounted for 4.21% (3,008) of the tests done. As many as 48,114 18-60-year-olds were tested. So kids accounted for 8.37% of the total samples tested on that day," he said. The BBMP has 743 swab collectors across the city and tests symptomatic children at private paediatric hospitals like Shishuka and Rainbow Children's Hospitals, state-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, BBMP's Dr Babu Jagjivan Ram General Hospital, and BBMP paediatric Covid Care Centre at Regional Institute of Cooperative Management. On being asked about the discrepancy in figures, Dr Trilok Chandra said, "We will ask our officials to compare and check data again." Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-karnataka-govt-allows-full-attendance-for-classes-6-12-paediatric-covid-19-testing-still-at-3-1034481.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah terms BJP 'Talibanis', claims RSS running Karnataka administration||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday alleged that "BJP are Talibanis" and also claimed that it's actually the RSS that is running the administration in Karnataka. "BJP has a factory of lies with them, they only produce and market lies. We can relate it to Goebbels's theory that was under Hitler's rule. Hitler had a Minister called Goebbels (Paul Joseph Goebbels) for spreading false propaganda," he said.  "RSS and BJP are from Hitler's 'vamsha' (genealogy). BJP are Talibanis. Be careful about them," the former CM said.  Siddaramaiah was speaking at an event to distribute ration kits to poor families and relief cheques to families that lost someone due to Covid-19. It was organised by Congress MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao, on the eve of his father and former CM late R Gundu Rao’s birthday here. Alleging that BJP always comes to power through the "backdoor as they don't get the blessings of the people", the Congress legislature party leader said, B S Yediyurappa brought his party to power by poaching our MLAs through "Operation Kamala"; now they have removed him from the Chief Minister post. "Now Basavaraj Bommai is the Chief Minister, he is made the CM by RSS and Yediyurappa, he has to abide by them. With BJP's mask, RSS does the driving (of administration)," he said. Claiming that the BJP and RSS did not have Mahatma Gandhi or Ambedkar's photo at their offices for long, he said, "They are now playing the drama of embracing these national icons." "The BJP people are experts in telling lies, Narendra Modi (Prime Minister) says Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas....is there a single Chiristian or Muslim in his cabinet? Look at the way they perform the drama," the Leader of Opposition in the assembly said, as he hit out at the PM accusing him of not fulfilling the promise on job creation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-terms-bjp-talibanis-claims-rss-running-karnataka-administration-1034495.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 775 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||Karnataka’s Covid-19 numbers continued their steady descent. In just a one week period, the number of new cases fell by 9.8%, however, the testing numbers have also failed to climb back up in recent weeks. According to official data, the state recorded 5,529 cases in the last seven days, out of which 775 were new cases registered on Sunday. In that same period, the state’s testing numbers fell from 9.78 lakh over seven days between 13 to 19 September to 9.22 lakh tests conducted over the last one week. This represents a decline of 5.6%, although the decline is even precipitous if a four-week period is considered: 17.2%. In comparison, testing in Bengaluru Urban saw a 3.3% bump this past week in comparison to a fortnight ago, which was nevertheless accompanied by a small decrease in the number of new cases found in the city in the last seven days (2,010 cases), when compared to the previous week (2,055 cases), representing a contraction of 2.1% in the number of new cases being found. The city recorded 255 new cases on Sunday. The districts recording the next highest numbers on Sunday were: Dakshina Kannada (99), Mysuru (81), Kodagu (55) and Chikkamagaluru (52)   The state also discharged 860 people on Sunday. This leaves the state’s active caseload at 13,213. Nine new deaths were also disclosed. Out of these, three were backlog deaths from Bengaluru Urban. These had actually transpired in August. Child cases  As per the state Covid-19 War Room, Karnataka recorded 238 cases of pre-teens (0-9) infected with Covid-19 between 19 and 25 September and 773 cases of teens (10-19). In comparison, the state had recorded 247 pre-teen and 827 teen cases a fortnight ago (between 12 and 18 September) Vaccination  In the last seven days, the state dispensed 2.63 million vaccination doses, out of which 1.34 million were second doses. Vaccination numbers on Sunday (77,524 as per the Covid-19 bulletin), were the lowest single-day numbers since May 23, when 41,478 doses had been administered. In total, the vaccinations have covered 77.37% of the population with at least one dose, while 32.30% of the population has received two doses of a vaccine. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-775-new-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-1034498.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jnanpith awardees’ schools set for facelift||The Karnataka government has decided to renovate 11 schools, where Jnanpith awardees studied, at a cost of Rs 16 crore.  The project, which was announced during the 2021-22 budget, will be taken up now with the government releasing the funds. Following a request by the department of public instruction, the state government had recently issued an order releasing the amount. However, as per the estimation, the amount needed for renovation and upgradation of these schools was Rs 47 crore. Even the then adviser to government (education reforms) Prof M R Doreswamy had submitted a proposal to the government requesting to release funds to give these schools a facelift. The department has constituted a committee, headed by the chief executive officers of the respective Zilla Panchayats, to monitor the renovation works of these schools.  According to the report available with the department, most of the schools, where Jnanpith awardees studied, are in a bad condition and also in need of facilities, like toilets, drinking water dispensers and other basic infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jnanpith-awardees-schools-set-for-facelift-1034555.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka schools cite logistics issues in reopening with 100% capacity||The Karnataka government may have given a green signal for reopening schools with 100% attendance for grades 6 and above from October 1 but private school managements say they have an uphill task in complying with the government’s decision. The private school managements have pointed out several challenges which include transportation, infrastructure and shortage of teachers. Following the difficulties and challenges, some of the private school managements favour hybrid learning throughout this academic year. Speaking to DH, D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said it is the biggest challenge for the schools that they have to follow all Covid-19 safety protocols with the available infrastructure. “Even after allowing 100% attendance, if the government insists on two children per desk, how can the schools manage?,” questions Shashi Kumar. The budget schools said they cannot conduct both offline and online classes. “Even now, if the government gives the option for children to attend online and offline, we cannot oblige and will offer only offline mode. The parents are reluctant to send kids to offline classes due to fee issues,” said a member of the association. The schools say it is difficult to provide transportation facilities. “If we operate school transportation, then we need to charge transportation fees. In the current situation, most parents are not willing to pay and it is really a big challenge. We will try to do our best,” added Shashi Kumar. A majority of the ICSE and CBSE schools have decided to continue with hybrid learning as most parents prefer online classes. Some schools have decided to collect the opinion of parents. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-schools-cite-logistics-issues-in-reopening-with-100-capacity-1034556.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Despite normal monsoon, rain-related queries shoot up by 15% in Karnataka||Despite witnessing a normal monsoon, Karnataka witnessed a 15% increase in queries pertaining to monsoon. With untimely rains and prolonged cloudy conditions, farmers were apprehensive about the erratic pattern and unpredictable rainfall and repeatedly called up “Varuna Mitra”  a rain-related helpline set up at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). As per the records made available to DH by the KSNDMC, the helpline received about 8.14 lakh calls during this monsoon season. Interestingly, July witnessed the highest number of calls as several districts received excess rainfall during the month. During the 2020 monsoon, the helpline had received only 6.92 lakh calls, according to officials. “Almost 95% of the calls to the helpline are made by farmers to find out when rainfall begins and stops in their region,” the operators said. However, this year, most farmers were worried about when the cloudy conditions would be cleared as cloudy conditions prevailed for a long time in the state due to various systems. The Varuna Mitra helpline receives 7,000 to 10,000 calls every day and 90% of the calls are completed within 120 seconds, said the officials of KSNDMC. The helpline operates on a 24/7 basis with 32 parallel phone lines. The number of calls received by the helplines has seen a steady increase in the last five years - except for a dip in 2019 - with an average of 6,27,701 calls. The highest calls were received from the Ballari, Tumakuru, Kalaburagi, Raichur and Vijayapura districts. “Farmers use our weather information to decide on sowing, manuring and irrigation, harvest and drying. It is simple, but very crucial information for them as it will decide their year-long hard work,” Manoj Rajan, Director, KSNDMC said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/despite-normal-monsoon-rain-related-queries-shoot-up-by-15-in-karnataka-1034558.html
26-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Climate change to hit rice, ragi, groundnut crops in Karnataka: Study||Climate change will bring major changes in Karnataka’s agriculture landscape by 2035 with a study flagging drop in the yield of major crops such as ragi, rice, groundnut, redgram, soybean while some crops like cotton and sugarcane will see an increase in yield, thereby increasing the risk of glut in market. Macro studies have already indicated that a temperature rise of 2 to 3.5 degrees Celsius will lead to up to 25% loss in net agriculture revenue. However, The vulnerability assessment by H S Shivaramu, former head of Agrometeorology section in University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru, used crop simulation models to arrive at scenarios specific to Karnataka. The overall productivity of crops during 2035 showed a 5.6% decline in productivity of rice compared to the existing yield. Other crops fared worse with productivity loss of sorghum put at 20.3%, soybean 28.9%, redgram 19.2%, ragi 12% and groundnut 9.6%. There will be an increase in the yield of some crops that thrive in a relatively high carbon-di-oxide atmosphere due to the moisture-retaining nature of the soil in which they are grown. So, the productivity of cotton will go up by 55.6%, followed by maize (24.5%), chickpea (13.5%) and sugarcane (6.1%). “That the yield of some crops goes up may not be the bright side of the issue,” said Prof Shvaramu, now dean of Horticulture College in Kolar. “Several problems may crop up. As some crops thrive, more farmers may adopt them, leading to a glut in the market. We are staring at a future where the diversity of crops is eroded and the cope-up mechanism of the farmers can’t withstand the weather extremes,” he told DH. The study assessed the risk to crops based on data on soil properties, crop yield (2001 to 2018 data from the Union Agriculture Ministry), climate data (1981-2018) from IMD, rainfall projection by IISc (2021 to 2050) among other materials. Welcoming the adoption of some of the existing mitigation measures, including crop diversification, drip irrigation and groundwater recharging among others, the study has proposed weather-based cropping pattern,  strengthening the agrometry services, flood adaptation and more programmes to encourage organic farming and conserve soil health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/climate-change-to-hit-rice-ragi-groundnut-crops-in-karnataka-study-1034559.html
26-09-2021||West||‘Messiah of migrants’ Sonu Sood squares up to taxmen’s charges||He idolises Sylvester Stallone, is pally with Jackie Chan and a die-hard fan of Amitabh Bachchan, boasts of 60-odd multilingual films in his resume, and has eye-catching looks - but actor Sonu Sood attained global popularity more for his charities than his cinemas. That helped 48-year-old Sonu Sood — technically a “migrant” to Mumbai himself — attain a cult status of sorts among his fans, and helped set an example for many of his ilks to follow suit. In mid-2020, with the Covid-19 pandemic at its first peak, with the nationwide stringent lockdown in force, Sood took to the streets to help out the stranded masses and became a messiah of the migrant workers, the worst-hit class. The actor got down to real-life business, organising buses, trains and even a few flights to help the displaced and anxious people reach their destinations, and soared to the top of several popularity charts. His Juhu home became a rest house for the poor, hungry, penniless people hoping for a ‘lifeline’ to survive and return home to their separated near-and-dear ones. And, he tried to live up to their tall expectations. Somewhere, something seems to have gone wrong politically, even though he claims he “politely declined” offers of Rajya Sabha membership from two parties. A few days ago, he had some unexpected and uninvited “guests” — in the form of Income Tax sleuths — who carried out a series of searches going after his suspected tax evasions, irregularities in books, dubious source of funding, diversion of funds and more, allegedly to the tune of over Rs 250 crore, as per an official statement. Social media is rife with debates that Sood, who was seen rubbing shoulders with many a high-and-mighty of Indian politics, may have unwittingly gotten into the bad books of the ruling party at the Centre. Sood recently agreed to become the Brand Ambassador for the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government’s mentorship programme for school students Desh ka Mentor after a high-profile meeting with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The media even speculated that the AAP may field Sood for the upcoming Assembly polls in Punjab. The nationwide tax survey in 28 locations came days after the above incident. “Every rupee in my foundation is awaiting its turn to save a precious life and reach the needy. In addition, on many occasions, I have encouraged brands to donate my endorsement fees for humanitarian causes too, which keeps us going,” Sood clarified after remaining incommunicado for a few days. Sood hails from an ordinary middle-class family from Punjab. Born on July 30, 1973, in Moga to Shakti Sagar Sood, owner of Bombay Cloth House and a teacher Saroj Sood, along with his two sisters Monika and Malvika Sachar, he had humble beginnings. His inspiration for social work and charity were his own parents. His father used to run langars in his hometown and his mother used to teach poor children. With his good looks and perfect physique, inspired by posters of Rambo, Sood decided to pursue his dreams. He came to Mumbai in the late 1990s, armed with an engineering degree from Yeshwantrao Chavan College of Engineering, Nagpur, with a cash of around Rs 5,000 in his pocket. His first Mumbai suburban train railway pass ID card bears the date July 8, 1997, which marks the beginning of his rickety life’s journey to stardom. Barely a couple of years later in 1999, he got his first big break in a Tamil film Kallazhagar, and in 2000, he got a chance in a Telugu film. Married to Sonali, he climbed up the success ladder in the south Indian (Tamil and Telugu) film industry, mostly essaying the role of an antagonist. He got a break in 2002, with Shaheed-e-Azam, where he played freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. Mani Ratnam’s Yuva lodged him to fame and the Telugu movie Super virtually catapulted him to stardom. There was no looking back since then. He went global as Randall, with China’s second-highest grosser Jackie Chan movie Kung Fu Yoga, and later launched a film company Shakti Sagar Productions. He owns a hotel in Juhu and founded the Sood Charity Foundation last year. During the lockdown, he collaborated with childhood friend and restaurateur Neeti Goel to help out the stranded people. Nevertheless, the IT sleuths raised uncomfortable questions about the source of his funds used for the charity work for migrants. Currently, Sood is going around defending himself and vows to come out unscathed from the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/messiah-of-migrants-sonu-sood-squares-up-to-taxmen-s-charges-1034318.html
26-09-2021||West||Maharashtra banks on its rains to lure tourists||Maharashtra is using rainfall to lure tourists from countries with less or no rainfall in the first-of-its-kind concept of 'monsoon tourism'.  The state’s tourism, environment and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray has come up with the concept, saying that the three coastal Konkan districts of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg would be the core for the project and there would be linkages with neighbouring districts.  “The Konkan region is known for very good rainfall. Even when I used to visit the region for campaigning and political meetings earlier, I used to add two days to enjoy the nature during monsoon,” Thackeray told DH in an interview ahead of World Tourism Day which has a theme of ‘Tourism for Inclusive Growth’. Thackeray said this would also offer job opportunities for locals and the government is raising infrastructure for this project.  “Monsoon has its own beauty and charm… rains are not meant to be a situation where everything is shut always. Konkan’s beautiful landscape turns greener and one can see the red Earth…it is a natural wonder which people should be encouraged to explore, let people come to just walk around, do trekking, climb mountains, see the greenery," Thackeray, a Shiv Sena leader, said. “There are many countries in the world where there is no rainfall or very less or scanty rainfall…for them, rain is a thrill…we will extend a red-carpet welcome to them,” Thackeray said, adding that this can also be coupled with medical tourism when people would like to recuperate after surgeries, undergo physiotherapy or treatment like naturopathy and Ayurveda.  “We already have a caravan policy in place,” he said.  According to Thackeray, the Chipi-Parule airport in Sindhudurg district would be commissioned in November. “The airport puts Konkan in the international aviation map,” he said, adding that while neighbouring Goa has an international airport, another one is coming up in Mopa. Besides, he said the road widening project involving Mumbai-Goa Highway is also underway.  “In Konkan, on one side you have the mighty Arabian Sea and pristine beaches and on another side, you have a mountain range connecting western Maharashtra,” he said.  “The region is known for flora and fauna, art and culture, the Konkani cuisine, Malvani cuisine” he said, adding that it offers excellent trekking and trails. “Internationally, there are a large number of tourists who want that,” he said.  Thackeray pointed out that the government has also approved a beach shack policy. However, the pre-condition is that the ecology and turtle-nesting sites should not be disturbed.  When asked about the government’s strategy of promoting tourism, he said, “As a government, we would be enablers. We are encouraging private participation and involvement of locals. We want to market Maharashtra as a complete destination,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-banks-on-its-rains-to-lure-tourists-1034360.html
26-09-2021||West||Pro-Hindu group protests against Alia Bhatt's 'kanyadaan' ad outside Manyavar showroom in Navi Mumbai||A pro-Hindu outfit staged a protest outside the showroom of a clothing brand in Navi Mumbai against its advertisement featuring the marriage ritual of 'kanyadaan', claiming that it hurt religious sentiments of the community. During the protest held on Saturday, members of the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti held placards and shouted slogans against Manyavar clothing brand's company Vedant Fashions Ltd, outside its outlet in Vashi area. The right wing outfit's spokesperson Dr Uday Dhuri in a release claimed the company's advertisement "misrepresented" the 'kanyadaan' ritual performed during Hindu marriage ceremonies and hence, hurt the religious sentiments of the community.  The organisation in its release demanded an unconditional apology from the company and asked it to immediately withdraw the advertisement. It appealed to people to boycott the clothing brand until it apologises and withdraws the advertisement. The ad features Bollywood actor Alia Bhatt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pro-hindu-group-protests-against-alia-bhatts-kanyadaan-ad-outside-manyavar-showroom-in-navi-mumbai-1034374.html
26-09-2021||West||This iconic cannon in Mumbai is worshiped as a deity||Mumbai is known to throw up surprises, this time it is with a temple in the Carnac Bunder off the Mandvi-Masjid Bunder in south Mumbai, where cannons are worshipped as a deity. Locals of Mandvi Koliwada and neighbouring areas worship the half-buried canon with the cascabel at the top and cemented into a small temple. People apply vermilion, incense sticks, flowers and even garland it. “Mumbai being an important city at one point of time had several cannons…in recent years, we have documented 27 cannons. We have to preserve the rich heritage. Few lucky ones are adorned as bollards, trophies, decoration of traffic islands and are even objects of worship,” says Dr Tejas Garge, Director of Directorate of Archaeology and Museums of the Maharashtra government. He added that they have to be protected from natural hazard and human vandalism A session titled ‘Cannons of Mumbai: Story of the Lost Cannons of Mumbai’ was hosted by the Maritime Mumbai Museum Society in collaboration with the Museum Society of Mumbai, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya and Bombay Local History Society on Sunday. Of the 27 cannons documented in the city, 10 are off the porch of Mantralaya, the state secretariat in Mumbai, four in the Mumbai Museum, three at Carnac Bunder, two in Elephanta Island, two at Gateway of India, two at Cross Maidan, two in Wadala, one at the Taj Mahal Hotel and one at the Archaeology and Museums Directorate. The two cannons at Gateway of India are unique and largely go unnoticed. “These are used as bollards where the ships’ rope are secured,” he said.  “The cannons speak a lot about the establishment of colonial rule in India and the shoreline defence strategies from the 16th to 20th centuries,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/this-iconic-cannon-in-mumbai-is-worshiped-as-a-deity-1034383.html
26-09-2021||West||Huge oil patches around Mumbai region beaches||Huge patches of oil and tar balls have been reported from various places along the shores of Raigad and Palghar districts in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region.  Environmental activists Sumaira Abdulali, NatConnect Foundation founder-director B N Kumar, Dharmesh Barai, besides the traditional fisherfolk community have flagged off the Maharashtra government on the issue.  Abdulali pointed out a spill at the Kihim beach, besides other places.  The NatConnect Foundation tweeted to the Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav and Maharashtra counterpart Aditya Thackeray on this issue. Reporting from Rev Danda and Nagaon in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, Kumar said: “It is a matter of serious environmental concern”. Looking at a number of ships anchored on the high seas off Nagaon, Kumar said: “Obviously, oil is either dumped or oil vessels are being carelessly washed in the sea. Whatever is the reason, the sea is throwing it back to the shore. This kind of presence of oil is bound to affect marine life.” The beaches are otherwise just beautiful, and they look like virgin beaches, Kumar said. But one feels sad to see the environment getting polluted so badly, he added. This is Nature's return gift for polluting the sea, he said and called for a high-level technical investigation into the phenomenon. “Alibaug also has a huge slurry of oil,” said an environmental lover Chaya Taralekar. “Sad to see spoiled beaches,” she lamented. Traditional fishing community Paramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti spokesperson Dilip Koli said “This is horrible. Fish and other marine life is getting badly affected. The government must quickly intervene,” Koli said. Mangrove Soldiers, a group of citizens who keep clearing huge garbage from mangroves in Navi Mumbai, have come across many plastic bottles being washed ashore. “We have seen thousands of footwears and now even mattresses coming back to the shore,” said Dharmesh Barai who leads the clean-up drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/huge-oil-patches-around-mumbai-region-beaches-1034397.html
26-09-2021||West||Goa BJP chief tests positive for Covid-19||Goa BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Sunday said he had tested positive for coronavirus. “I wish to inform everyone that, earlier this morning, I have tested positive for Covid. Following all the protocols, I have immediately isolated myself and have sought necessary medical care on doctor's advice, and luckily I am doing fine. Thank you so much for being so supportive,” Tanavade tweeted.  I wish to inform everyone that, earlier this morning, I have tested positive for COVID. Following all the protocols, I have immediately isolated myself & have sought necessary medical care on doctor’s advice, and luckily I am doing fine. Thank you so much for being so supportive. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-chief-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1034538.html
