27-09-2021||First Edit||A mixed bag from Washington||Some clarity has emerged over the role of the India-US-Japan-Australia Quad following the first in-person summit of the leaders of the four nations as well as the bilateral meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden at the White House on Friday. When Biden recently announced the new Australia-UK-US (AUKUS) military alliance in the Indo-Pacific, which involves the UK and US sharing nuclear-powered submarine technology with Australia to build it up as a counterweight to Chinese naval power in the region, it raised questions over the relevance and future of the Quad, and of India’s role in it. Now, we know. The Quad, in Modi’s words, is to be a “force for global good.” This involves India stepping up the supply of Covid vaccines to other countries in the Indo-Pacific and under the UN COVAX initiative, while the US steps up the supply of raw materials to India to produce the vaccines. The Quad’s vaccine diplomacy in the Indo-Pacific region, an important item on its cooperative agenda, is thus set to take off now. Quad members also agreed to cooperate on climate change, supply chain issues, coordinate diplomacy over Afghanistan, and to work together on global infrastructure development as an answer to China’s Belt and Road Initiative. India’s doubts over a push to turn the Quad into a hard military alliance have been allayed with the meetings in Washington. Countering China will remain the goal, but the Quad will seek to do so through soft power, an area where India has considerable resources and experience. Prime Minister Modi’s bilateral meetings with Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris did not seem to go quite as well, though. Not only was the backslapping, bonhomie and hugging that marked Modi’s meetings with Donald Trump missing, Modi seemed visibly ill at ease in his meetings with the current US leaders. Both Biden and Harris stressed the need for New Delhi and Washington to act to “protect democracy” at home. Harris, in particular, underscored the importance of “strengthening democracies at home” in order to be able to “defend democratic principles and institutions…around the world.” This is unlikely to have gone down well with Modi, whose illiberal governance has raised eyebrows in many countries. If Modi’s visit to the US provides India satisfaction and relief on the way the Quad is shaping up, the same clearly cannot be said for the health of India-US bilateral relations. In the past, for instance, it was the US that pushed India on expanding trade. This time, it was Modi doing the trade pitch, while the American leaders seemed almost uninterested. New Delhi must act to ensure the robustness of the US-India partnership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-mixed-bag-from-washington-1034859.html
27-09-2021||In Perspective||Is the Kerala bishop playing rook for the Sangh Parivar?||The controversial comments of a Kerala bishop claiming that Muslims are targeting Christians to convert them using ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotics jihad’ is an un-Christian abuse of religion that can cause communal disharmony and polarisation.  Syro-Malabar Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt of the Pala diocese in Kerala, while addressing the laity recently, alleged that the Catholic Church is “losing our young women” and anyone who denies this is being “blind to reality”.  The bishop, who presides over the largest concentration of Syro-Malabar Catholics in Kerala, went on to say that because in a democratic country like India it is not easy to use weapons to destroy people of other faiths, jihadis are using means that are not easily identifiable. “Two such widely discussed means today are ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotics jihad’ (luring non-Muslims to the use and sale of drugs).”  Predictably, the bishop’s controversial allegations, not backed by evidence, have drawn sharp reactions from a cross-section of society, including Muslims and Christians.  Muslim organisations have slammed the bishop’s claims, saying it was intended to isolate Muslims, create a phobia against them, and stir up communal hatred. They will ask the government to charge the bishop for his remarks if he does not withdraw them. However, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who initially said people holding responsible positions shouldn’t cause religious divisions, later said the government will not initiate legal action against the bishop. Many have criticised the doublespeak of Vijayan as well as the CPI(M)’s soft stance on the bishop’s hate speech.  Christians, a sizable vote bank, account for around 20% of Kerala’s population, whereas they form just 2.3% of India’s population.  Christian thinkers and intellectuals have hit out against the bishop for his ill-founded allegations. Stating that Christianity is a religion of love and not of hate, Valson Thampu, a Christian Theologian and former principal of St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, told this writer: “It is an un-Christian abuse of religion to infect the congregation concerned and the Catholic community beyond, with communal virus.  “The bishop has also belittled Catholics as an imbecile herd that cannot distinguish between right and wrong; only if that were the case can others threaten them with strategies like ‘love jihad’ or ‘narcotics jihad’.”  Prominent Catholic women from across India have written to the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI) expressing deep concern over Kallarangatt’s remarks. Many nuns, too, in Kerala have spoken out against the open Islamophobia. Some are of the view that the bishop’s “false alarm” has nothing to do with protecting Catholic youth from narcotics or love jihad but has more to do with the desperate need that the Church faces to divert the attention of its members from its own internal disarray induced by corruption and crime in high places. One can cite several cases but suffice to mention a few that have captured national and international attention recently -- The Cardinal Mar George Alancherry financial misconduct case, the rape-accused Bishop Franco Mulakkal case, the murder of Sr. Abhaya, the Sr. Lucy case, etc -- all in Kerala. Many Christians in Kerala are a discontented lot with these scandalous happenings and the attempts of the Church to cover up or protect the accused.  But Fr. Babu Joseph, the former spokesman of the CBCI, noted that Kallarangatt’s comments cannot be construed as having communal overtones since he is addressing a social issue raised by some other responsible people, too.  “In a multi-religious society like Kerala, it is but natural that some incidents of interreligious marriages take place, and it has been happening on a voluntary basis,” Fr. Babu Joseph told Crux, a Catholic news portal.  While no other bishop in any other Christian denomination has such allegations or complaints, the Kerala Catholic Church Council and several other dioceses have supported Kallarangatt’s claims, according to media reports.  Also, it must be pointed out that the governments at the Centre and the state have denied any ‘love jihad’ in Kerala. Yet, the Church and the Sangh Parivar have often brought up this thorny issue.  “The Church hierarchy is under duress to dance to the tune of the Sangh Parivar, which strategises its political conquest of Kerala via improvising communal strife between Muslims and Christians,” says Valson Thampu. Despite the BJP’s determined efforts to garner Christian votes any which way, even raising the ‘love jihad’ issue, it lost miserably in the Kerala Assembly elections this year, failing even to save the lone seat it had won in 2016.  It is imperative for an independent body to conduct a proper investigation into the bishop’s claims and make public the findings. While those in responsible positions must be cautious about what they say so as not to create conflict between religions, priests too should refrain from using the pulpit for polemics and stoking societal divisions. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based independent journalist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-the-kerala-bishop-playing-rook-for-the-sangh-parivar-1034856.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bharat Bandh: Protests in Kalaburagi||Activists of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) Karnataka staged a protest near the Central bus stand on Monday as part of the nation-wide Bharat Bandh. The bandh has been called to urge Union government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws. RKS leader H V Diwakar, CPI district leader Sharanabasappa Mamashetty and others took part. There was heavy deployment of police personnel across the city to prevent any untoward incident. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bharat-bandh-protests-in-kalaburagi-1034644.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||More tourists visit Mangaluru by private jets||With travel picking up after lifting of the Covid-19 lockdown and weakened curfew in Dakshina Kannada, the number of tourists visiting Mangaluru in their private planes is on the rise. On the eve of World Tourism Day, Mangalore International Airport welcomed tourists from Pune in a private jet. They were welcomed by officials from the Department of Tourism at the airport. A total of thirteen guests who arrived from Pune visited 1000 pillar Basadi in Moodbidri, Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple, Bappanadu Durgaparameshwari Temple, Dharmasthala and Kukke Subrahmanya Temple. On Monday, they will proceed to Madikeri, sources said. Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project's Yathish Baikampady said this was not the first time that tourists had arrived in Mangaluru in a private jet. Such cases of private planes landing at the airport with tourists should be encouraged, he said. Tourism Department deputy director Manikya said that all efforts are being made by the district administration to revive the industry along with stakeholders. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-tourists-visit-mangaluru-by-private-jets-1034666.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bharat Bandh fails to have much impact in Karnataka districts||The nation-wide Bharat Bandh failed to live to its fullest potential across districts in Karnataka on Monday. The 'Akhila Bharat Bandh' call given by Samyukta Kisan Morcha did not have much impact on the movement of vehicles and people in Chikkamagaluru. The majority of the business establishments, including hotels and milk parlours, remained open. A few shops were closed. Members of various organisations staged a protest at Hanumanthappa Circle and demanded the repeal of farm laws. In Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Mysuru also, the bandh call evoked a poor response. Private and KSRTC buses, autorickshaws, and taxis operated as usual in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi. The call for bandh was restricted to a series of protests in Mangaluru and other parts of the district. Raitha Sangha general secretary Ravikirana Punacha said that along with protesting against farm laws, the protesters would raise their voice against the high-tension electricity line to Kerala from Udupi, installation of smart meter for electricity and poor compensation for the acquisition of land for Mangaluru-Karkala highway as well. DK Private Bus Operators Association President Jayasheela Adyantaya said the association extended moral support to the farmers' protest. However, in the interest of the people, the buses are operating as usual.Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts too saw little impact from the bandh. The farmers organisations extended support to the bandh and took out protest marches at their respective districts. The bandh was limited to protests, as all government offices functioned normally. KSRTC buses were plying normally in the morning. A few protesters demanded the shopkeepers to shut business and extend support. A few members torched tyres on the junctions to disrupt movement of vehicles. Even though Mysuru did not see much impact from the bandh, farmers under different organisations staged protests in parts of the city. Public transport was operational across the city and police deputed men at vantage points. In Davengere, police took more than 20 agitating farmers into custody when they tried to stage 'rasta roko' on the national highway near zilla panchayat. Protesters expressed their ire against the Centre by dumping vegetables, including onions, on the road. Student union leaders appealed to bus drivers and conductors to not operate buses.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bharat-bandh-fails-to-have-much-impact-in-karnataka-districts-1034678.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Proposal for developing three islands in Mangaluru sent to government: MLA||Mangalore South MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath said that a proposal for the development of three kudru (islands) in his constituency has been submitted to the government for approval. The proposal has been prepared after consulting the stakeholders and was sent to the government through the deputy commissioner, he said during a stakeholders workshop and conclave organised on the occasion of World Tourism Day, by the district administration and Dakshina Kannada Tourism Development Committee on Monday. He said there are plans to develop atleast one kudru through government funding and the remaining through PPP mode. The discussions are still underway. The 135-acre land earmarked for the International Convention Centre and golf course at Bengre should be protected from encroachment, by fencing around the said land. There is a need to work on how to engage a visitor to Mangaluru for a day or for atleast few hours, he said. Mangalore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman Ravishankar Mijar said “we have failed to showcase our potentials. At the same time, the infrastructure too needs to be developed to promote tourism. An investors meet should be convened to showcase the ample of opportunities available for investment in the tourism sector at the earliest." This in turn would help in getting investments, he felt. The MUDA is engaged in the beautification of Mangaluru under the theme Green Mangaluru. Efforts are being made to develop parks and riverbeds and lakes in the city.Stating that Covid-19 pandemic has hit the tourism sector, Mijar said there is a need to to give a boost to the industry through investments. Coastal Development Authority Chairman Mattaru Rathnakar Hegde said that though Karnataka is blessed with a 320-km long coastline, we have failed in developing it as per expectations. As a result, the tourism sector failed to contribute to the treasury of the government. Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Water Transport S Angara said that there is a need to identify unexplored tourist spots in the district. There is a need to simplify various guidelines to promote tourism. Further, he said that there are plans to develop fishing harbours and jetties in Mangaluru. Work on the master plan at a cost of Rs 380 crore is being implemented at Kukke Subrahmanya Temple, to provide facilities for the visiting devotees. In his introductory remarks, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that there is a need to identify deficiency on why the coastal district failed to find its place in the tourism map and work towards finding solutions to the problems bothering the sector. Nature trails, trekking trails in Belthangady, Sullia and Puttur need to be publicised. He called upon the people to behave responsibly by adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. An official teaser on tourism in Dakshina Kannada prepared by Nisarga Advertising and Event planning was released on the occasion. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/proposal-for-developing-three-islands-in-mangaluru-sent-to-government-mla-1034812.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cop rapes minor girl, a rape survivor, in Karnataka; father lodges complaint||A police constable accused of sexually assaulting a minor, a rape survivor, was arrested by the Kadaba police on Monday. Following a complaint from the survivor’s father, a case was registered under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act against constable Shivaraj at the Kadaba police station. The girl’s father, in a complaint to the police, said that he and his wife were working as labourers. He said his minor daughter was sexually assaulted two years ago and the case was subsequently disposed of six months ago. The father said the accused constable Shivaraju, attached to the Kadaba police station, kept making visits to his house in their absence on the pretext of issuing summons. “When confronted, my daughter confessed that Shivaraj, promising to marry her, had a sexual relationship with her. As a result, my minor daughter is pregnant,” the father said in his complaint. The father also accused Shivaraj of kidnapping his wife and daughter and keeping them in a secret location in Mangaluru. As the cop’s shameful act of exploiting a rape victim went viral on social media, Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Sonawane Rishikesh Bhagawan rushed to the Kadaba police station and held a meeting with the officials there. Later, the SP told reporters that full details of the case would be revealed after a detailed investigation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cop-rapes-minor-girl-a-rape-survivor-in-karnataka-father-lodges-complaint-1034841.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt transfers Nanjangud tahsildar||The Karnataka government on Monday transferred out the tahsildar of Nanjangud in Mysuru, in what is said to be the fallout of the demolition of a Hindu temple there. In a notification issued by Revenue department, Nanjangud Tahsildar Mohana Kumari has been appointed as competent authority for multi-crore IMA scam in place of S M Shivakumar. Kumari is transferred “in the interest of public and the administration,” the notification said. The demolition of the Ucchagani Mahadevamma temple in Nanjangud created a political nightmare for the BJP government, which introduced a law to protect all such illegal religious structures from being razed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-transfers-nanjangud-tahsildar-1034844.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Almatti to get zoo soon||In a bid to lure more tourists to Almatti, the Karnataka government has decided to set up a zoo at the Lal Bahadur Shastri reservoir site, Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol said on Monday. Speaking at a World Tourism Day event at Muchkhandi near Bagalkot, Karjol said, “The Almatti dam has emerged as a major tourist destination with world-class gardens, musical fountain and boat ride. The proposed zoo will further promote tourist activities in the region.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/almatti-to-get-zoo-soon-1034872.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cong leaders keen to embrace BJP: Minister||Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraja stated that some Congress leaders are keen to embrace the BJP and the details of the number of such leaders would become public in the coming days. Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he said, this is being discussed at state-level and national-level meetings. The Central leaders would take a call on this. He also made it clear that no leader from BJP would embrace Congress. "We are strong in BJP and we would face the next assembly polls under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai." Referring to the protest by Congress, he said the protest by Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC President D K Shivakumar will make no impact on any one because BJP has the support of people. The results of three city corporation polls-Hubballi-Dharward, Belagavi and Kalaburgi are the evidence for this. "Congress has no other issue to take the government to task. So, Congress leaders are raising price hike issue. People are aware of everything. There was no need for nation-wide bandh," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-leaders-keen-to-embrace-bjp-minister-1034897.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sericulturists to be given special identity cards: Minister||Sericulture Minister K C Narayana Gowda stated that the government would issue special identity cards to sericulturists to ensure that they would not face any problem from police or middlemen while ferrying silk cocoons to the market. He was holding a talk with sericulturists at Kachinakatte village in the taluk on Monday. He said, mulberry plants are hit by Thrips & Mites disease. He also asked officials to spray Nuvan and Rogar on mulberry plants at free of cost to control the disease. He also announced that best sericulturists would be given awards. The minister also asked the officials to treat farmers with utmost respect as they are hardworking people. There is remunerative price for silk in the market. There is a plan to set up silk product stalls in airports. The government is planning to produce silk worth Rs 10 lakh. Besides, the government will set up helpline centres to listen to their grievances. For the benefit of sericulturists, hi-tech silk cocoon market will be set up. The government is committed to provide all required facilities to farmers, he said. The minister interacted with farmers by standing on the farm field for more than 40 minutes. He also promised that he would stand by farmers at all times. The minister said sericulturists of Shivamogga district have done better than their counterparts in other districts in the state by getting silk yield ten to eleven times in a year. Such farmers would be honoured. Later, the minister went to the residence of a sericulturist and had lunch there. Gram Panchayat President Shwetha, villagers were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sericulturists-to-be-given-special-identity-cards-minister-1034898.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress a party of 'gulamagiri': Bommai hits back at Siddaramaiah's 'BJP are Talibanis' remark||Replying to Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah's remarks likening BJP to Taliban, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday stated that Congress is a party of slavery, and for Congressmen, even patriotism of the BJP looks like slavery. "Siddaramaiah is frustrated, and his words are not suitable to be uttered by a former chief minister," he said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, because of the Macaulay's education policy adopted by the Congress during their rule, India was deprived of opportunities to compete at the global level. Now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is bringing a revolution in education, by introducing the new National Education Policy (NEP) to prepare children for the 21 century knowledge era. But, Congress leaders are trying to find fault in that also, Bommai added. Siddaramaiah on Sunday had alleged that "BJP are "Talibanis" and also claimed that it's actually the RSS which is running the administration in Karnataka. Speaking at in event in Bengaluru, he had said, "RSS and BJP are from Hitler's 'vamsha' (genealogy). BJP are Talibanis. Be careful about them." Reacting to this, Bommai said looking at Siddaramaiah's statement it comes across that he is "frustrated". "He (Siddaramaiah) is a former Chief Minister, the way he spoke is not befitting to the position he has held in the past," he added. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-a-party-of-gulamagiri-bommai-hits-back-at-siddaramaiahs-bjp-are-talibanis-remark-1034704.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Deve Gowda slams Congress as JD(S) begins 2023 Karnataka Assembly polls bootcamp||The JD(S) on Monday kickstarted a 4-day training workshop aimed at the 2023 Assembly polls with party supremo H D Deve Gowda launching an attack on Congress, especially former chief minister Siddaramaiah. Gowda was speaking at Janata Parva 1.0, a JD(S) orientation workshop for party leaders, with an aim to bring the party back to power in 2023. "I am alive and will drive this party forward. I will personally travel each district," Gowda, the former prime minister, said.  Directing his ire against Siddaramaiah who recently stated that the JD(S) will never come to power on its own, Gowda warned the Congress leader against belittling the regional party. "It was I who introduced Siddaramaiah to public life. However, he set out to defeat me with a vengeance in Tumkur as he was upset about losing his seat in Mysuru," Gowda said. "Siddaramaiah also wove a propaganda in Hassan against JD(S), alleging that we were the BJP's 'B' team," he said. "Albeit such efforts, the Congress won only 79 seats," he said, adding, "How long will Siddaramaiah lie that the party lost because of coalition with JD(S)? He must speak the truth." He further questioned the secular credentials of the Congress after it had tied up with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra.   Meanwhile, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy launched 'Mission 123' with an aim to win that many seats in the upcoming Assembly elections. "We will make all efforts to reach this goal. The party will chart out specific targets for candidates contesting the next elections. Necessary training will be provided for it," Kumaraswamy said. Kumaraswamy said the 4-day workshop will focus on how the party can achieve the 123 target. "The party will take up programmes in every district. I'll meet party workers at the hobli-level," he said. With several leaders ready to jump ship to the Congress, Kumaraswamy said he would not bother about those who quit. "There are still some efforts to poach workers from our party. Such workers who are sitting on the fence have not been invited to the workshop," he added.  There are some people who slight JD(S) by commenting that the party is a "30-seat" party, he charged, indirectly taking a dig at Siddaramiah. "We will show them our strength in the next elections." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/deve-gowda-slams-congress-as-jds-begins-2023-karnataka-assembly-polls-bootcamp-1034834.html
27-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY tour likely in October||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s much-anticipated state tour will start after the Dasara celebrations in October, according to BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Yediyurappa has said that his tour will focus on strengthening the party organisation. “I will also participate in the tour. The details of the tour are yet to be chalked out,” Kateel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-tour-likely-in-october-1034901.html
27-09-2021||Main Article||Revisit farm laws, build trust||It was one year ago that the three farm laws were passed rather hastily in Parliament. The laws were issued as ordinances in June 2020 and then converted into bills for passage in Parliament. They were rushed through without much discussion or debate. For laws that are described as far-reaching reforms, surely some discussion should have been allowed? The government’s response is that the underlying issues were known for a long time, as if implying that there was no use wasting any more time debating them. Since the ruling party had its numbers to get a majority vote, the bills passed and got the President’s assent. The supporters claimed they were examples of bold reforms and applauded the government’s ability to take this risk and spend political capital. This is a narrow and misguided assessment. Reforms by consensus are better than reforms by stealth or by brute force of majority. Especially in areas that affect half the population of the country directly. Besides, agriculture is a state subject as per the Constitution, so consensus-building is imperative. Opposition to the ordinance had already begun in June. And then in September, from the very day of the passage of the three laws, wider protests and agitation started.  Thus, just like the laws, the agitation against them is one year old, too. It has survived a cold winter, rains and floods, internet blockade and much police action. There have been several rounds of talks between the government and farmers’ representatives. All of these talks failed. In January, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the laws, and appointed an experts’ committee to suggest the way forward. By December, much of the global media was describing the outcry as the biggest farm protest in the world. During that month, an estimated 250 million people across the country responded, showing solidarity with the protest. One CNN columnist wondered, with such a massive support, if Black Lives Matter or MeToo could be globally trending protests, why were India’s farm protests not trending globally? One young activist was arrested because she was disseminating a “toolkit” for organising protests! Internet was occasionally shut down to make it difficult for farmers to spread their message. The government threatened Twitter to block dozens of accounts, which the American social networking service complied with. A recent rally in Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, attracted a million-plus protest participants. The agitation is not dying down, and positions have hardened. The repeal of the three farm laws is their demand, nothing less. The detractors claim that the support base is small, and represents only the interest of big farmers and entrenched lobbies of middlemen in Punjab and Haryana.  So, what are the three farm laws? Simply put, they actually relax shackles on the farmers. The first one allows the farmer to sell produce outside the premises of the designated yards (mandis), the second one allows the farmers to directly negotiate and enter into contracts with corporates, the third one relaxes the restrictions of the Essential Commodities Act, i.e., relaxes the restriction on storage and transportation of farm produce. All three farm laws are thus a relaxation of constraints on the farmer. They give new freedoms to the farmers. How can that be a bad thing? Well, that is because the concern is about what happens next. The slippery road from these laws to their implications. If government procurement through designated mandis drop, then the minimum price assurance (the MSP support) is lost. The government is currently under no statutory obligation to purchase any minimum quantity. The assurance of MSP can be vacuous if no quantity is purchased. The mandi taxes, collected on the mandi transactions, help build and maintain infrastructure. Is the government planning to dismantle mandis eventually?  Secondly, on contract farming, the farmer is not allowed to seek recourse to courts, in case of a breach of contract. How will a small farmer fight the might and muscle of large corporations? He is supposed to take help from the local district magistrate. But the recent video of a young district magistrate instructing police to break the skulls of protesting farmers does not inspire confidence that the bureaucracy will stand by the small farmer. On the dilution of the essential commodities law also, there is no guarantee that the government will not intervene when food inflation spikes. The farmers fear that whenever their crops start fetching a higher price, the “reform” law will be suspended to their detriment, and prices will be forcibly capped. This was indeed done for sugar, and export controls and stocking limits were imposed soon after the September passage of the laws.  So, all three laws leave room for farmers to be distrustful of the government. And it is here that much action is needed, i.e., to rebuild the trust and confidence of the farmer. As such, as we get closer to state elections, farm agitation will be an important and emotive electoral issue.  India’s farm sector needs to be unshackled. But, elsewhere. For instance, liberalise land leasing laws. Allow greater play for money lenders. Make it possible for tenant farmers to access formal credit. Remove the fitful export and import bans on food products. Encourage animal husbandry, which is the fastest-growing part of agriculture income. Encourage land consolidation, at least of a major bulk of the 140 million small parcels of land across the country. Digitisation of land records and removing ambiguity in ownership should go a long way.  The country has very diverse agro-climatic regions, and hence the one-size-fits-all approach will not work. Modifying the Public Distribution System to include millets and local varieties will help farmers as well as the nutritional needs of people. Enable forward and futures markets for farm produce, which can eventually complement, if not eliminate the need for, MSP. Activate and energise the linkage between agriculture universities and extension services. Hybrid varieties at least for non-food crops can vastly increase productivity and incomes.  Farming needs intellectual and scientific knowledge inputs much more than subsidised water, electricity, credit or fertilisers. Earlier this month, we celebrated the 86th birthday of Sharad Joshi, one of modern India’s dynamic, firebrand, indefatigable campaigners for farm reforms and the upliftment of farmers. Following his writings and advocacy would be a good place to start. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/revisit-farm-laws-build-trust-1034857.html
27-09-2021||National||India emerges as Dubai's second-biggest trade partner||India has emerged as Dubai's second-biggest trading partner after China with the overall volume touching 38.5 billion dirham in the first half of 2021, according to official data released on Sunday. According to a Dubai government statement, the emirate had a trade volume of 86.7 billion dirham with China in H1 (first half) of 2021, followed by India and the US at third position. Trade with India grew 74.5 per cent year-on-year to 67.1 billion dirham from 38.5 billion dirham in H1 2020. China recorded 30.7 per cent growth year-on-year with total trade with Dubai standing at 66.3 billion dirham in H1 2020. In H1 2021, the USA traded 32 billion dirham with Dubai, up 1 per cent year-on-year from 31.7 billion dirham. Saudi Arabia came fourth with 30.5 billion dirham up 26 per cent from H1 2020, followed by Switzerland at 24.8 billion dirham. The total share of the five biggest trade partners in H1 2021 amounted to 241.21 billion dirham compared to 185.06 billion dirham in H1 2020, up 30.34 per cent. Gold topped the list of commodities in Dubai's H1 external trade at 138.8 billion dirham (19.2 per cent of Dubai trade), followed by telecoms at 94 billion dirham (13 per cent). Diamonds came third in the list at 57.3 billion dirham (8 per cent), followed by jewellery at 34.1 billion dirham (4.7 per cent), and vehicle trade at 28 billion dirham (4 per cent). Dubai's non-oil external trade surged 31 per cent in the first half of 2021 to reach 722.3 billion dirham from 550.6 billion dirham in the corresponding period in 2020. Exports grew 45 per cent year on year in H1 2021 to 109.8 billion dirham from 75.8 billion dirham, which supports the goal of the 10 x 10 program (one of the nation's 'Projects of the 50' initiatives) to increase the UAE's exports to 10 global markets by 10 per cent annually. Imports rose by 29.3 per cent year-on-year to 414 billion dirham from 320 billion dirham. Re-exports grew 28.3 per cent year-on-year to 198.6 billion dirham from 154.79 billion dirham. Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of The Executive Council, said Dubai has reinforced its status as one of the world’s fastest-growing business hubs. “Dubai’s existing sea and air network will be expanded to cover 200 new cities around the world. We are confident that we will continue to build on our growth momentum to achieve our ambitious sustainable development projects and plans,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-emerges-as-dubais-second-biggest-trade-partner-1034614.html
27-09-2021||National||'Bluetooth slippers': How candidates tried to cheat in REET exam||The Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers was held across the state on Sunday amid tight security measures that included suspension of mobile Internet services in some districts to prevent cheating. Five people were arrested in Bikaner with slippers fitted with Bluetooth devices for allegedly attempting to cheat in the exam for the selection of teachers. Conducted by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, the exam was held in two shifts at 3,993 centres set up across 33 districts. As many as 16.51 lakh candidates had enrolled themselves for it. Elaborate security arrangements were made for the exam. Strict steps were taken to check any attempts of cheating and mobile Internet services were suspended in many districts, including Jaipur. In Dausa and Jaipur rural, police arrested four and eight dummy candidates and busted a gang involved in cheating in Bikaner, Ajmer, Pratapgarh and Sikar. Seven others were arrested from different places in connection with fraud in the REET exam. SP of Bikaner Priti Chandra said five people were arrested in the Gangshahar police station area for trying to cheat in the exam. Among them, three were REET aspirants who were found wearing slippers fitted with a small calling device connected with a SIM card. A tiny Bluetooth-enabled device was fitted in the ear of the candidates which was not easily visible, she said. Two of those arrested were gang members who provided the candidates with the slippers each costing Rs 6 lakh. "They were caught at a bus stand before the exam. During checking, the slippers and other devices were recovered. The main accused and the gang leader identified as Tulsaram Kaler is absconding while two members of his gang were arrested," she said. Chandra said police in other districts were alerted after the arrests were made. Also, one person was held in the Jainarayan Vyas Colony police station area of Bikaner. Acting on the information of Bikaner police, two candidates were arrested in Pratapgarh and one each in Sikar and Ajmer. At an exam centre in the Alwar district, candidates were angered by the delay in starting the examination in the first shift.  Superintendent of Police, Bhiwadi, Ram Moorty Joshi said the exam was delayed because the papers were not made available to the centre on time. The exam of the first shift at one centre will be conducted again, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bluetooth-slippers-how-candidates-tried-to-cheat-in-reet-exam-1034645.html
27-09-2021||National||India reports 26,041 new Covid cases, 276 deaths: Active infections lowest in 191 days||India added 26,041 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,36,78,786, while the active cases declined to 2,99,620, the lowest in 191 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,47,194 with 276 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.89 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,856 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 92 consecutive days, the ministry said.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.24 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 28 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been below three percent for the last 94 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,31,972, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 86 crore.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 276 new fatalities include 165 from Kerala and 36 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,47,194 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,38,870 from Maharashtra, 37,726 From Karnataka, 35,490 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,603 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,736 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-26041-new-covid-cases-276-deaths-active-infections-lowest-in-191-days-1034650.html
27-09-2021||National||Labour survey may be revamped to measure participation of women better: Report||India could soon revamp the way it measures women participation in the overall workforce to commensurate with international standards and fully capture their contribution. "There is a view that the PLFS has certain measurement issues with female participation rate. This can be addressed by tweaking the questionnaire to make it more comprehensive and focussing on a reduced recall period of one week instead of a year," said one of the committee members, to ET. The existing set of questions on workforce participation are not comparable with international standards, said the report. The changes proposed by the committee, if accepted by the government, could only be taken into consideration for computing data for the financial year 2022-23 as the new questionnaire will have to undergo pilot tests before it replaces the existing one. According to the UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) India study, India is the only country among the 153 surveyed countries where the economic gender gap is larger than the political gap. "Gender stereotypes and lack of infrastructure have traditionally sidelined women from core manufacturing functions. As a result, not many are able to reach leadership roles," said the UNGC study. The study found that raising women's participation in the labour force to the same level as men can boost India's GDP by 27 per cent. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-survey-may-be-revamped-to-measure-participation-of-women-better-report-1034671.html
27-09-2021||National||PM launches Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, says it can bring revolutionary changes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced pan India rollout of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission to create a massive healthcare database that can be accessed by a unique digital identification to retrieve a person’s past medical records while seeking new health advices. The success of such a database, however, would depend on the involvement of private sector as 60-70 per cent of the healthcare services in India are provided by private hospitals, diagnostics centres and doctors running their private clinics. The database, according to the Prime Minister, will contain an individual’s medical history and diagnostic reports, doing away with the need to keep a physical file and carry it to hospitals or physicians all the time. The database will also contain information on doctors and diagnostic centres. "Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will help connect digital health solutions across the country. All Indians will get a digital health ID under this scheme. Every citizen's health record will now be digitally secure," the Prime Minister said, underlining that "digitisation will make healthcare easier". In the line of Unified Payments Interface (UPI) that transformed the online payment experience, the new mission envisages a Universal Health Interface (UHI) - unified by decentralised network based on a standard protocol for all types of health services - without monopolistic platforms. Such an interface (UHI) can subsequently be used for services like (1) discover hospitals and primary care (2) discover labs (3) discover a pharmacy (4) discover a medicine across pharmacy (5) book a physical appointment with a doctor (6) tele consultation and e-prescription (7) book an ambulance (8) book an appointment for home collection of pathology samples (9) check availability of medicine (10) order medicine (11) check facilities at a hospital and (12) check availability of critical care beds as well as facilities in a hospital. The Health ID of every citizen will also "work as their health account, to which personal health records can be linked and viewed with the help of a mobile application," says the government. "We have 130 crore Aadhar number, 118 crore mobile subscribers, nearly 80 crore internet users and around 43 crore Jan Dhan bank accounts. Such a huge interconnected (digital) infrastructure is not available anywhere in the world,” Modi said on the national rollout of the scheme which has been tried successfully in a pilot mode in six Union Territories – Chandigarh; Ladakh; Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu; Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. Initially, the mission would connect the hospital’s digital health solutions using a common platform. It would lead to creation of a unique digital ID using which the patient or doctor can access the past medical records from the archives of another hospital in another city. "With this inclusive, efficient and affordable digital ecosystem, one can access quality healthcare anytime, anywhere," tweeted RS Sharma, the Chief Executive Officer of the National Health Agency that will implement the scheme. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-launches-ayushman-bharat-digital-mission-says-it-can-bring-revolutionary-changes-1034672.html
27-09-2021||National||Tamper-proof results? CBSE hops on blockchain train||The Central Board of Secondary Education has come up with a solution called ‘academic documents’ using Blockchain technology to record its result certificates in a linked chain structure and provide transparent, tamper proof and paperless usage of these certificates. According to officials, the result certificates are kept in a distributed manner at different locations involving multiple stakeholders, protecting them against any attempt of tampering, under this technology. Blockchain technology ensures that academic documents are recorded in a secure and tamper proof manner. These documents can be accessed online in a trusted and verifiable manner. The ‘Academic BlockChain Document’ can be used by various educational institutes for verification at the time of admission for higher studies as well as by companies for job offers. "CBSE’s Academic (BlockChain) Documents or ABCD has been established using Blockchain technology to record the certificates in a linked chain structure. To begin with, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has made available digitally signed certificates of class 10 and 12 for years 2019-2021 and will gradually push the certificates of previous years in the coming months. "Upon issuance of new certificates by CBSE, the digitally signed certificates will be sent to the Blockchain-based system creating an additional secure link," a senior official of the CBSE said. This network is established with nodes at Bengaluru, Pune and Jaipur. Presently, the certificate chain is managed by NIC at its data centres. "One of the challenges usually faced is verification of the authenticity of certificates produced by candidates for admissions, jobs, loans, among others. The verification of correctness and genuineness of the certificates with universities or boards concerned requires considerable effort and processing time. "Hence most of the times, the institutes and organisations insist on production of original certificates by the candidates. The Academic (BlockChain) Documents address these challenges regarding verification of documents produced by the candidates," the official added. Blockchain technology records data in a distributed ledger with ownership of all participating stakeholders. The data is recorded in the chain based on the consensus among the stakeholders and simultaneously replicated at all the locations in the distributed network of blockchain nodes. "This eliminates the dependency on a third party for verification. Data is linked and stored with cryptographic security so that it is immutable and traceable. The linking of the blocks in the block chain ensures that they cannot be tampered with and the data is trustable as it can be verified across the participating stakeholders,” the official explained. The CBSE had earlier developed its own digital academic repository called ‘Parinam Manjusha’ in 2016. This repository has been integrated with the National e-Governance Division’s (NeGD) digital locker platform. "At present, result data of class 10 and 12 examinees of 18 years -- 2004 to 2021 -- is available online for downloading of digital academic documents by students and verification by employers and higher education institutions. "Approximately, 12 crore digital real time generated, digitally signed and PKI based QR coded academic documents such as marks sheets, migration certificates and pass certificates are available in this repository,” the CBSE official said. The documents can also be used for online counselling by the institutes by integrating their systems with plug-in interfaces. Banks and financial institutions can also use this system for sanctioning of educational loans and merit-based scholarship based on the qualifications of the applicants. "One can verify the authenticity of the certificates even after several years of issuance. It will provide the trail of all the insertions or changes made on a particular certificate," the official said. Check out the latst DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamper-proof-results-cbse-hops-on-blockchain-train-1034679.html
27-09-2021||National||Kerala HC to continue hearing Centre's appeal against early second vaccine dose order on September 30||The Kerala High Court on Monday said it will hear, after three days, the Centre's appeal against a single judge order allowing the second Covishield dose after four weeks from the first for those who want to take it earlier than the present suggested gap of 84 days. A bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly did not pass any interim order in the matter and listed it for hearing on September 30. The Centre has challenged the September 3 decision by Justice P B Suresh Kumar, which had come on a plea by Kitex Garments Ltd, seeking permission to administer the second dose of the vaccine to its workers without having to wait for 84 days. Kitex, in its plea, had said it has vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose at a cost of nearly Rs 93 lakh, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions. The bench on Monday directed Kitex to, in the meantime, furnish the vaccination details of its employees, advocate Blaze K Jose, appearing for the company, said. He also said that the Centre had sought an interim stay of the September 3 order, but the bench refused to grant the same. However, Assistant Solicitor General P Vijayakumar, appearing for the Centre, said that since the company has not yet filed a contempt plea for non-compliance of the September 3 direction, a stay was not pressed for. The central government, in its appeal, has contended that if the single judge's decision is not set aside, it could derail the vaccination policy of the country and would result in disorder in the implementation of the strategy of the Union government to fight Covid-19. The Centre has also claimed that the September 3 judgement was an attempt to evaluate the issue on the basis of the right to equality provided in the Constitution instead of viewing it from a scientific angle and if allowed, would result in social disaster which should not be allowed to happen. It had also said, "The single judge ought to have seen that if the government is forced to honour the claims of other groups or industrial units like the petitioners (Kitex Garments), the same would have a cascading adverse effects on the organised and regulated pattern of vaccine administration." The Centre's petition has contended that the national vaccine policy is formulated based on the opinion and advice of experts in the field and also based on clinical trials and hence, any change in the policy can only be carried out based on the necessary approvals and clinical trials. The single judge on September 3 had said that if the Central and state governments can permit persons travelling abroad to choose between early and better protection from Covid-19, there is no reason why the same privilege cannot be extended to those here who want early protection in connection with their employment or education. On this, the Centre, in its appeal, has said it had offered relaxations in favour of certain persons who were a separate class by themselves and for valid reasons and Kitex cannot claim parity with them. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-hc-to-continue-hearing-centres-appeal-against-early-second-vaccine-dose-order-on-september-30-1034715.html
27-09-2021||National||New German govt expected to continue strong ties with India, says German envoy||India is becoming an important country for Germany in the Indo-Pacific region and the next coalition government in Berlin is expected to continue strong ties with New Delhi, German Ambassador Walter J Lindner said on Monday. He said relations between India and Germany saw a significant upswing including in areas of trade and investment in the last over one decade and that the upward trajectory in ties is likely to continue. "None of the global issues can be solved without India, be it climate change, global warming, trade issues, Covid-19 vaccination and terrorism...India is important for us," he told reporters. His comments came as a new coalition government is expected to take the reins in Berlin following the parliamentary elections. According to reports, Social Democrats (SPD) was ahead of the ruling conservative bloc of Angela Merkel in the federal elections. The federal elections marked the end of Merkel's 16-year tenure as the German Chancellor, a period that saw significant expansion of India-Germany ties.  Merkel has already announced that she will not seek a fresh term at the helm of the country. "The Indo-Pacific is becoming more and more important and India has emerged as a major player in the region," the German envoy said.  On Afghanistan, he said there was a need to address the need for humanitarian assistance in the country. Referring to the Taliban's takeover of Kabul, he said the world community failed to properly predict the speed with which the group took over the country.  Watch DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-german-govt-expected-to-continue-strong-ties-with-india-says-german-envoy-1034729.html
27-09-2021||National||Women groups to dispose waste in 26 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada||For effective disposal of garbage in gram panchayat jurisdiction, the authorities have started entrusting the responsibility to women groups. Accordingly, agreements have been made with gram panchayat-level federation of women for waste management in 26 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada district. The women have already undergone training in waste disposal, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dr Kumar told DH. The work will be commissioned shortly. The groups will be involved in solid waste management in panchayats. They will carry out house-to-house waste collection and take steps to dispose it as well, he said. In fact, the gram panchayats have also been permitted this year to use funds under the 15th Finance Commission to purchase vehicles for door-to-door waste collection at a cost of Rs 6 lakh. Trained to manage The women have to collect waste from shops, hotels and houses and later segregate the waste. The income earned from manure prepared using wet waste and from selling dry waste will go to the Federation. The women will have to drive the vehicles and women are being trained to manage the entire process. Through National Rural Livelihood Mission, the gram panchayat level-federation is constituted with women members. Along with the purchase of vehicles for waste collection, sheds are also constructed for waste processing. The initiative will help in improving the livelihood of women, said sources. Of the 223 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada, CEO Kumara said, 154 gram panchayats have earmarked land for solid waste treatment. Tahsilars have been directed to identify land for the waste management in the remaining 69 gram panchayats. The dry wastes are being collected in 71 gram panchayats in the district. In fact, Balepuni Gram Panchayat started Bapu Solid Resource Management Centre (SRMC), on the model of Vandse Solid and Liquid Waste Resource Management (SLRM) unit, back in 2020. The team of women, who have taken up the initiative of SRMC are engaged in segregating the dry waste collected. The collected dry wastes are further categorised into several varieties like straw, pens, plastic wrappers, bottles, hair and so on and are sold to earn income. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-groups-to-dispose-waste-in-26-gram-panchayats-in-dakshina-kannada-1034735.html
27-09-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Backlog of deaths puts BBMP in tight spot||“With regard to the origin of Covid-19 and the ease of doing business rankings, institutions of global governance have damaged the credibility they had built after decades of hard work,” the Prime Minister said, while addressing the United Nations General Assembly at the headquarters of the international organization in New York.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-backlog-of-deaths-puts-bbmp-in-tight-spot-1034743.html
27-09-2021||National||In a separate stir, hundreds of farmers confront cops in Noida||Hundreds of people from various villages here and a large number of police personnel were involved in a confrontation on Tuesday during a demonstration over land compensation outside the Noida Authority Office on Delhi's outskirts, coinciding with the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws. The protestors, mostly supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Parishad, have been staging a sit-in outside the Noida Authority's office for the past several days over a host of demands including hiked compensation for their land acquired by the government. Police officials said that security had been heightened in the area in view of the ongoing protest and barricades were also set up to prevent the protestors from moving towards the Authority's office in Sector 6. While trying to pacify the demonstrators, led by farmer leader Sukhvir Pahalwan, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh asked them “not to take the law into their hands”. “You have all the right to hold a protest, but you should also be thoughtful of your actions causing problems to other people, affecting their movement,” Singh told the protestors, including several women. “We do not expect you to take the situation to a point wherein the police would be required to use force or initiate legal action against you all because that is not going to help anyone,” the officer added. This protest by the Bharatiya Kisan Parishad is not linked with the bigger ongoing farmers' stir against the three contentious farm laws, but is related to the residents of 81 villages of Noida whose land has been acquired in the past. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-separate-stir-hundreds-of-farmers-confront-cops-in-noida-1034746.html
27-09-2021||National||NCW to launch dairy farming training programme for women||In a bid to make rural women financially independent, the National Commission for Women is launching a training programme in dairy farming to make them aware of scientific and practical methods, including in marketing, and earn substantially more. The country-wide training and capacity building programme is done in collaboration with agricultural universities to identify and train women associated with dairy farming and allied activities in different aspects such as value addition, quality enhancement, packaging and marketing of dairy products among others. The first such programme 'Value Added Dairy Products' for women Self Help Groups was launched at Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences in Haryana's Hisar in association with Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission. NCW Chairperson Rekha said financial independence is key to women empowerment. "Women in rural India are involved in every part of dairy farming yet they have been unable to attain financial independence. This project aims to empower women and help them achieve financial independence by training them in quality enhancement of dairy products, its value addition, packaging and increasing the shelf life and marketing of their products," she said. The NCW said it has been working to help women reach their full potential and contribute towards building a sustainable economy and these programmes are part of realising this goal. It said it strongly believes that the economy cannot succeed with half its population being held back from performing their best. As part of the programme, the NCW aims to help women farmers and Self Help Groups through scientific training and a series of practical ideas to effectively conduct extension activities in the dairy farming sector. It will provide training to women for enhancing their business and encouraging them towards entrepreneurship. NCW will also select trainers who will further train women entrepreneurs, women-run milk-cooperative societies, women self help groups etc," the NCW said. The aim is to "create a sustainable and replicable district level model in the dairy sector which can be further adopted in the dairy farming regions of the country. The aim of the project is to harness the immense potential in villages in creating and marketing dairy products and empowering women along the process to achieve financial independence", the NCW said. Last week, the NCW had launched a programme for girl students in colleges across the country aimed at capacity building and personality development so that they could confidently face the job market. The programme was aimed at giving training to degree and post graduate students on interpersonal skills, time management skills, documentation of critical ideas, identifying career opportunities, building resume and preventing and handling cybercrimes among others. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-to-launch-dairy-farming-training-programme-for-women-1034753.html
27-09-2021||National||5 unusual ways students cheat in exams and yet get caught||Recently, five people were held in Rajastan while trying to cheat in the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers exam by use of 'bluetooth slippers'. Exam cheating is not a new thing anywhere in the world, but here are 5 unusual ways students tried to cheat in exams - oftentimes failing spectacularly. 1. Bluetooth Bluetooth is likely among the most common methods used by examinees to try to one-up their tests. The trick is simple, the cheater carries a bluetooth device equipped with a speaker (such as a modified slipper in the Rajasthan case), and a person on the other side of the connection reads out answers from the questions on the paper the examinee tells them. 2. Impersonation You've seen people impersonate others almost flawlessly in movies - sometimes with people literally wearing a mask of the person they're impersonating - but the trick in exams is remarkably more mundane. A cheater (often with a sufficient closeness in appearance) takes the place of the examinee and answers the test for them in exchange for payment. Many times, however, they're undone by either the examiner on call, or oftentimes, their biometrics. 3. Literally climbing on to the side of the exam hall and reading the answers out Desperation to score well in exams has taken many forms- from exchanging chits to small glances in exam halls, to subtly seeking outside help - but this is perhaps the most brazen way that cheating has been conducted. The most infamous incident would be in 2015, when friends and relatives of examinees in Hajipur, Bihar literally climbed to the side of the exam hall and gave the answers of the test paper to the examinees. 4. Apple Watch Weird though it may be, students have been accused of cheating in exams for merely carrying an Apple Watch - or any smartwatch for that matter - in the exam hall. However, this method is prone to easy detection as a smartwatch is a rather obvious piece of accessory, and because it usually requires the use of a mobile phone to function effectively as a cheating device. 5. Paper leak A classic among classics, paper leaks are commonly used as tools for cheating by unscrupulous entities who may or may not be examinees. The scale of the leaks can be as little as a few small copies sent around via WhatsApp, to full-blown leaks which result in exams getting cancelled altogether. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-unusual-ways-students-cheat-in-exams-and-yet-get-caught-1034758.html
27-09-2021||National||J&K will reap benefits of Article 370 abrogation slowly, silently: Athawale||nion Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale on Monday said the abrogation of Article 370 by the BJP-led government was in the interest of the people of Jammu and Kashmir who would reap its benefits 'slowly and silently'. He also opposed any dialogue with the Taliban which took over Afghanistan last month and said there is a need to remove them from power to provide justice to the people of that country. Athawale, who is the national president of the Republican Party of India (A), reached here to address his party workers and taking stock of the implementation of the central schemes under his ministry. “The abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A was in the interest of the people of Jammu and Kashmir as it was the biggest hurdle for outside investors to buy land and set up their units in the Union Territory. “After the government's daring move, the people will invest in J&K and generate jobs for local youths who will stay away from the militancy which will soon meet its death,” the minister told reporters on the sidelines of a function. He said the BJP-led government had no benefit from the abrogation of Article 370 but for the people of J&K, it has paved the way for large scale development and the people would reap its benefits “slowly and silently” in coming times. “The government stands with the people of Jammu and Kashmir and is going to help the UT to reach new heights of development,” the minister said. He added that his ministry would lend all its support to the Lt Governor-led J&K administration to ensure that all the centrally sponsored schemes reach the public. Asked about National Conference president Farooq Abdullah's suggestion to the Centre to hold dialogue with the Taliban government in Afghanistan, he said “he (Abdullah) is a respected senior leader of J&K who was also former chief minister and former Union minister but we do not support his statement.” “Taliban is a terrorist group which has forcibly taken over Afghanistan. I feel it is not good to support them and they should be removed from there as people are facing injustice and human rights violations under their rule,” the minister said. On AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi reported remark that the political condition of Muslims in Uttar Pradesh is like that of a 'band party' at a wedding despite constituting 19 per cent of the state’s population, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is taking everyone along under the slogan of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas' without any discrimination.” “He (Owaisi) is wrong in saying that Muslims do not have any leader in UP. Yogi Adityanath, who is the chief minister of UP, is there to take care of everyone including Muslims who should not pay heed to the provocative slogans and support the BJP and NDA for the overall welfare of the society,” he said. Asked about his comment on the reported statement of senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh that divisive mentality is being taught in schools backed by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Athawale said he is a big leader and a former chief minister but his statement is far from the truth. “RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat is considering Muslims as their own, while the BJP has Muslim minority morcha's across the country. We are all Indians and there is no difference among us,” he said. Responding to another question about some congress leaders drawing a parallel between the Taliban and the BJP, he said such comparisons are completely wrong. “The centrally sponsored schemes of the BJP-led government are meant for everyone, irrespective of their religion. The BJP government is taking care of the Muslim community which is evident from the statement of UP chief minister that not a single case of the communal riot was reported during his four-and-a-half-year rule.” He expressed faith in the trade union leader Tanveer Hussain who joined the party recently and said his party which follows the ideology of the Babasaheb (Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar) would grow under his leadership. The minister assured all possible help to the daily wagers who are seeking regularisation of their services and labourers in getting jobs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-will-reap-benefits-of-article-370-abrogation-slowly-silently-athawale-1034761.html
27-09-2021||National||V M Sudheeran quits AICC||Veteran Congress leader V M Sudheeran, who had quit from the political affairs committee of the KPCC two days ago, has also tendered his resignation from the membership of the AICC, apex decision making body of the party, sources close to him said on Monday. They told PTI that he had tendered his resignation from the AICC two days ago when he quit from the political affairs committee of the KPCC. This came amidst efforts by the Congress' national and state leadership to pacify Sudheeran. AICC general secretary (in-charge of Kerala) Tariq Anwar, who is currently in the state, said he will talk to Sudheeran. Anwar had earlier said the party wanted to involve every senior leader on the organisational matters but "we can not compel them". On Sunday, Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly, V D Satheesan had met Sudheeran as part of the state Congress leadership's efforts to pacify the veteran, who had raised some grievances regarding organisational matters in Kerala. After meeting Sudheeran, Satheesan had said that it is difficult to make him budge from his decision and had also admitted to faults on the part of the senior leadership in the state. Though Sudheeran has not yet stated the reasons for his resignation, sources said the displeasure over the reshuffle procedures and the working style of the present leadership under new KPCC Chief K Sudhakaran were said to be behind his decision. Known for his non-corrupt and idealist image, Sudheeran's firm stand on various issues had led to differences between him and many of his party colleagues in the past. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/v-m-sudheeran-quits-aicc-1034764.html
27-09-2021||National||RSS leaders support weekly over allegations on Amazon, seeks government probe||Describing the allegations made by Panchjanya, a journal with RSS leanings, against the American multinational company Amazon as serious, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has demanded that the government investigate the whole matter. Talking to IANS, a RSS leader said that the allegations levelled against Amazon in the cover story of Panchjanya are serious and the government should investigate the matter. An expert on the RSS, Rajiv Tuli told IANS that the report of Panchjanya was based on a revelation made by a whistleblower, and so it was necessary to conduct a proper investigation.Rajiv Tuli said that spending such large amounts only on lawyers or in the name of consultancy is a matter of investigation. He said there should also be a probe into the effect on small merchants because of Amazon. At the same time, Tuli said Amazon should also present its stand on the issue. Panchjanya had earlier levelled various allegations against IT company Infosys in a cover story. IANS spoke to Hitesh Shankar, editor of Panchjanya, on the whole matter. Talking to IANS, Hitesh Shankar said that a whistleblower from Amazon had revealed that the company had used a large sum of money to bribe government officials. The question should be asked to Amazon what wrong does it do that it needs to bribe. He said that Amazon wants to capture the Indian market, it wants to capture the economy and is also hurting Indian culture. A similar thing was done by the East India Company, he added. The Panchjanya editor said that the company works to influence the policies of a country. In response to a question from IANS on the RSS and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's reaction to a recent story by Panchjanya on Infosys, Hitesh Shankar said that the notion that Panchjanya is the mouthpiece of the RSS is wrong. He clarified that Panchjanya is not an RSS mouthpiece and it stands by its story even today. As far as Sitharaman's response is concerned, Shankar said she has also admitted that there are flaws. Yes, it may be that the language is sharp or there may be disagreement with the style, but no one has disagreed with the facts put forth by Panchjanya, he said. Asked about the investigation into the story on Amazon, the Panchjanya editor said that many business communities have written letters and demanded a CBI probe into the matter. Speaking to IANS on the revelation of Panchjanya, Ashwani Mahajan, National Co-convenor of Swadeshi Jagran Manch affiliated to the Sangh Parivar, said they have been raising their voice about Amazon since 2015 that the company was illegally retailing through the back door. Mahajan said that Amazon was resorting to corruption and bribery to operate illegally. It wants to capture the economy of our country and hence it is right to call it East India Company 2.0., said Mahajan. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-leaders-support-weekly-over-allegations-on-amazon-seeks-government-probe-1034767.html
27-09-2021||National||Congress' Rajani Patil elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha from Maharashtra||Gandhi family aide and senior Congress leader Rajani Patil was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Maharashtra. The BJP which has fielded Sanjay Updhayay, the party’s Mumbai general secretary and prominent North Indian leader, had decided to withdraw its candidature. Monday was the last date for withdrawal of candidature. For Patil, this is the second term in the Upper House in Parliament - earlier having been elected in 2013. In 1996, she was elected to Lok Sabha from Beed. Patil is the AICC in-charge of Jammu & Kashmir. The seat had fallen vacant following the death of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s close aide Rajiv Satav, who passed away on 16 May because of Covid-19 related complications. Last week, state Congress president Nana Patole and Congress legislature party leader and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat met leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and urged him for an unopposed election. In terms of strength of the Maha Vikas Aghadi in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, the scales were in favour of Patil. Fadnavis consulted senior leaders including his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil and the final call of withdrawal of candidature of Upadhyay was taken. "I have withdrawn my candidature at the directive of the party," said Upadhyay. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-rajani-patil-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha-from-maharashtra-1034770.html
27-09-2021||National||Government to extend existing foreign trade policy till March 2022: Piyush Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said the existing foreign trade policy (FTP) will be extended till March 31 next year. The government had earlier extended the FTP 2015-20 until September 30 this year due to the Covid-19 crisis. The Foreign Trade Policy provides guidelines for enhancing exports to push economic growth and create jobs. "We are notifying it today evening or tomorrow...We have decided to extend the policy until March 31 (2022)...and in the (new) financial year, we can start with the new policy," he told reporters here. He expressed hope that by that time, Covid-19 issues would be resolved. On March 31, 2020, the government had extended the Foreign Trade Policy 2015-20 for one year till March 31, 2021, amid the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown. Exports during April-September 21, 2021, stood at over $185 billion, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-extend-existing-foreign-trade-policy-till-march-2022-piyush-goyal-1034772.html
27-09-2021||National||Charges against Amazon serious, can't be ignored; what RSS says is irrelevant: Congress||A day after RSS-linked weekly "Panchjanya" dubbed Amazon as "East India Company 2.0", the Congress on Monday said whatever the Sangh says is irrelevant as it does not say anything in national interest, but in the interest of the ruling BJP. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, however, said the allegations against the US e-commerce giant are serious and cannot be ignored. "The issue of Amazon is a serious one and it merits everybody's attention. The allegations against Amazon are very serious and they cannot be ignored," he said. Asked about the comments of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Khera said, "What the RSS says about Amazon is irrelevant because there is a duet going on between the RSS and the BJP. "We have seen that duet and they stand exposed in the farmers' agitation. We have seen the dubious role played by the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh as it has not come in support of the farmers even for one day in the last 10 months." The Congress leader said "nobody takes what the RSS says seriously anymore, because they do not speak the language in national interest, they talk in the interest of the BJP." In its latest edition, which will hit the stands on October 3, the RSS-linked weekly has carried a cover story that is highly critical of Amazon. "Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the article titled "East India Company 2.0" reads. Claiming that Amazon wants to establish its monopoly in the Indian market, it says, "For doing so, it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/charges-against-amazon-serious-cant-be-ignored-what-rss-says-is-irrelevant-congress-1034778.html
27-09-2021||National||Employment in 9 non-farm sectors at 3.08 crore in Apr-Jun, up by 29% from 2013-14||An estimated 3.08 crore people are working in nine core non-farming sectors, including manufacturing, construction and transport, in April-June this year, marking a rise of 29% from 2.37 crore reported in the Economic Census of 2013-14, a government survey said on Monday. The first round of Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) for April-June 2021 released by Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav also showed women participation in the workforce of these nine sectors was only 29.3%, which was "slightly lower" than 31% reported during the Economic Census. The QES, an establishment-based survey, is aimed to provide employment estimates for a sizable segment of the non-farm economy covering nine sectors -- manufacturing, construction, trade, transport, education, health, accommodation and restaurants, IT/BPOs and financial services. It compares its data with the 2013-14 Economic Census as the final report of the Economic Census in 2020 is not available yet. The manufacturing sector accounts for the highest share of estimated workers at 40.6%, followed by Education at 21.8%, Health at 8.4%, IT/BPOs at 6.7%, Trade at 6.6%, Financial Services at 5.7% and Transport at 4.3%. Accommodation and restaurants (2.9%) and construction (2.4%) sectors have the least share among the workers and the survey said that the restriction on movement and others imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic could be the reason behind this. The most impressive employment growth of 152% from 2013-14 has been recorded in the IT/BPO sector, while growth rates in Health is 77%, Transport 68%, Financial Services 48%, Construction 42%, Education 39% and Manufacturing 22%. However, employment in Trade came down by 25% while the decline in Accommodation and Restaurant sector was by 13%. Of the 3.08 crore workers, only 1.6% are self-employed. Among the self-employed too, the women participation is very low as they account for only 11.4%.  The highest number of self-employed workers were accommodation and restaurants followed by trade. Among regular employees, the highest number of workers were in the health sector (99.2%) followed by IT/BPOs and financial services at 99% each. Among the total work-force in nine sectors, 70.7% were men. A sector-wise analysis showed that women had the highest share in the education sector where they accounted for 43.9% followed by health 39.9%, financial services 34.1% and IT/BPOs 31.8%. In the nine sectors, the women workforce is the least in the transport sector at 14.9%. While 87.5% were regular workers, further analysis showed that 7.8% were contractual workers, 2.1% casual workers and 1% fixed term employees. Among the regular workers category, the maximum number was found to be in the IT/BPO sector (98%) followed by Health (94.8%). The highest number of contract workers were found to be in the construction sector (17.6%) followed by the manufacturing sector (10.4%). Within casual workers, the construction sector has the highest at 12.5%) followed by the manufacturing sector (3.3%). The survey said 32.7% of the workers in seven sectors except Education and Health) were above matric but undergraduate followed by 31.1% were matric or below. While 30.8 % workers were graduates or above and 5.4% reported under not known category. Within the category of education level of matric/secondary or below, the highest level of percentage was in the manufacturing sector (37.1%), followed by the construction sector (34.3%). In the category of Graduate and above, the highest level of percentage was in the IT/BPOs sector (69.8%), followed by the financial services sector (58.5%). Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employment-in-9-non-farm-sectors-at-308-crore-in-apr-jun-up-by-29-from-2013-14-1034781.html
27-09-2021||National||Can't treat young doctors as football in game of power, SC tells Centre on last-minute changes in NEET SS exam||The Supreme Court on Monday took an exception to last-minute changes in examination pattern for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2021 for super speciality courses, by telling the Centre that it cannot treat young doctors as a football in a game of power. "Hold a meeting and put your house in order. We cannot put these young doctors at the mercy of insensitive bureaucrats," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna told the National Medical Council, and other authorities. Taking up a plea filed by Prateek Rastogi and other 40 Post Graduate qualified doctors, the bench told the counsel, "Students start preparing for super speciality courses months and months in advance. Why is the need to change the same last minute before the exam? Why can you not proceed with the changes from the following year?" "Just because somebody has the power, it does not mean he would wield the power in any manner," the bench told senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the National Board of Examination. The court also warned of strictures if it found the reasons for introducing changes were not satisfactory. Singh, who along with the NMC counsel sought time to file a reply in the matter, maintained that the changes were as per existing norms prior to 2018. "Don't treat these young doctors as footballs in the game of power... This (examination) is so important for their career. Now you cannot introduce changes last minute. These young doctors might be put at ruse due to the last-minute changes," the bench said. The court told the authorities to deal with young doctors sensitively. The court asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati to hold a meeting with the concerned authorities and place on record the developments before it next week. Earlier, senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that the notification for the examination, scheduled to be held on November 13-14 this year, was issued on July 23, 2021. However, on August 31, 2021, another notification was issued changing the pattern of the exam, putting the candidates at a great disadvantage due to lack of ample time for preparations. Maintaining that the rules of the game cannot be changed after it has started, the counsel said as per the prevailing pattern from 2018 to 2020, 60 per cent marks were allotted from questions in the super speciality, while 40 per cent were distributed for questions from feeder courses. However, as per the proposed pattern, the entirety of questions for the critical care super speciality will be drawn from general medicines, leaving the candidates from other disciplines in a difficult situation.  Terming the decision as manifestly arbitrary, the petition contended the National Board of Examination and the National Medical Council have given a complete go-by to the specific directions of the central government to notify the students well in advance on any change in the pattern of examinations. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-treat-young-doctors-as-football-in-game-of-power-sc-tells-centre-on-last-minute-changes-in-neet-ss-exam-1034783.html
27-09-2021||National||Anandrao Adsul in ED radar over Rs 900 crore City Cooperative Bank fraud||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday carried out a search operation at places linked to senior Shiv Sena leader and former MP Anandrao Adsul in connection with a fraud vis-a-vis the City Cooperative Bank Ltd. Adsul and his son Abhijit Adsul have been under the radar of the ED for some time now for the alleged Rs 900 crore fraud. Adsul, who was close to late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, is a five-time MP from Amravati (SC) seat - and from August 2002-May 2004, was union minister of state for finance in the NDA government led by late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Adsul was defeated by Independent candidate Navneet Kaur Rana, the wife of Independent MLA Ravi Rana. The Ranas have been raising the issue of alleged misappropriation involving the cooperative bank. It may be mentioned that Adsul had challenged the election of Navneet Kaur Rana on the grounds that the caste certificate provided by her is fake. The Bombay High Court has cancelled her caste certificate, which she had challenged in the Supreme Court. This morning, the ED officials asked Adsul to accompany them to their office. However, the 74-year-old politician complained of uneasiness and is now admitted in the Lifeline Hospital. "Anandrao Adsul and Abhijit Adsul need to be arrested," said Ravi Rana, who is now considered close to the opposition BJP. The Maha Vikas Aghadi constituents came to the defence of Adsul. "This is an old case dating back to 2014. It is unnecessary victimisation,” said Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant. State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said that it is yet another move to unnecessarily create troubles. State minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said, "It is just yet another move to destabilise us…Anandrao Adsul is a former finance minister and a prominent union leader of the banking sector." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anandrao-adsul-in-ed-radar-over-rs-900-crore-city-cooperative-bank-fraud-1034785.html
27-09-2021||National||Bharat Bandh against farm laws disrupts lives in pockets, highway blockades and train 'rokos' in places||Several trains were cancelled, highways and key roads blocked and many thousands stranded for hours on Monday as a nationwide 10-hour shutdown against the Centre’s three agri laws disrupted lives across parts of India, particularly in the north. The impact of the 6 am to 4 pm Bharat Bandh, which saw demonstrations in many places, passed off relatively peacefully with no reports of injuries or serious clashes. It was felt the most around Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, the centre of the farm protests, and also in large pockets of Kerala, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. Protesters blocked highways and arterial roads and squatted on tracks in several places from morning as the shutdown called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions got underway. The blockade was lifted at 4 pm. The day marks one year since President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the three controversial laws and 10 months since thousands of farmers set up camp at Delhi’s border points to voice their protest. Though large parts of India were untouched by the shutdown, north India felt the pinch with about 25 trains being affected and massive jams that prevented the cross border movement of commuters as well as trucks carrying essentials. The Delhi-NCR region, including the satellite towns of Gurgaon, Ghaziabad and Noida, where thousands cross the borders each day was particularly hit. Delhi itself was mostly unaffected, but there was chaos at its borders with traffic snarls that stretched through much of the day and commuters who couldn’t get to office, or college or even to that important doctor’s appointment. Images of cars waiting to be let through, lined up back to back as far as the eye could see, told their own story. While there were instances of unwell patients being let through, among those stuck at the Delhi-Gurgaon border was a man who couldn’t make it for his appointment at the Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon. Farmers blocked other roads leading into the national capital, including at Ghazipur in western Uttar Pradesh Not far away in Sonipat in Haryana, some farmers squatted on tracks. In nearby Patiala in Punjab, too, members of the BKU-Ugrahan sat on the tracks to register their protest. Punjab saw a complete shutdown in many places, including Moga, where farmers blocked national highways. Farmer leaders from Punjab have, in many ways, spearheaded the year-long protest. “#I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard…,” Punjab’s new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said in a tweet. In neighbouring Haryana, highways in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra were blocked. There were also reports of farmers squatting on rail tracks at a few places in the two states. “More than 20 locations are being blocked in Delhi, Ambala, and Firozepur divisions. About 25 trains are affected due to this," a Northern Railway spokesperson said. Farmer leader Yogendra Yadav told a TV channel that the bandh was “extraordinarily successful”. Expressing happiness at the “geographical spread” of the strike, he said farmer organisations were out on the street in many states. He also apologised to those who were affected saying, "Please bear with us." Many non-NDA parties extended support to the bandh. These included the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party, Telugu Desam Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Left parties and Swaraj India. The YSR Congress government in Andhra Pradesh had also announced support to the Bharat Bandh. In West Bengal, life was largely unaffected but Left activists blocked roads and railway tracks in many places. Images from Kolkata showed protesters swarming a section of a railway track. Similar images came in from West Midnapore with Left Front supporters blocking the IIT Kharagpur-Hijri railway line. The ruling Trinamool Congress stayed away but said it supported the demands of the SKM. Elsewhere in the region, vehicular movement was impacted and shops shut in several places in Jharkhand, including in the state capital Ranchi and Dumka. Road blockades led to congestion on key highways. In Bihar and Odisha, too, there was a mixed response. RJD and CPI members blocked railway lines in Patna, Ara, Jahanabad and Madhepura in Bihar and several roads were closed too but markets were mostly open and offices registered usual attendance. Most private schools in the state were, however, shut. In Odisha, reports came in of protesters at different places in towns such as Bhubaneswar, Balasore, Rourkela and Sambalpur. They also blocked the railway lines at Bhubaneswar station. In Kerala, where the strike was supported by the ruling LDF and the opposition Congress-led UDF, KSRTC bus services were off the road with almost all trade unions in the state taking part. People who had to travel opted for private modes of transport while others stayed home. The shutdown did not have any major impact in the initial few hours in Karnataka with all business and establishments functioning normally and transport services available. However, attempts to organise a 'Rasta Roko' at national and state highways led to disruption of vehicular movement in some places, especially in Bengaluru. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies were exempted from the strike. Expressing support for protesting farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the farmers' non-violent 'satyagraha' is still resolute. Posting rhyming lines in Hindi on Twitter, Gandhi said, "Kisano ka ahimsak satyagraha aaj bhi akhand hai, lekin shoshankar sarkar ko ye nahi pasand hai, isliye aaj Bharat Bandh hai (Farmers' non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that's why it is Bharat Bandh today)." "We have to stand unitedly with the farmers, otherwise the future of our nation is dark," Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters. The SKM on Sunday had appealed for complete peace during the bandh and urged all Indians to join the strike. “It is a day to express support to the annadatas (farmers) of the country, the ones who keep all Indians alive,” it said in a statement. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest.  Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged the laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave farmers at the mercy of big corporates. The government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-bandh-against-farm-laws-disrupts-lives-in-pockets-highway-blockades-and-train-rokos-in-places-1034792.html
27-09-2021||National||Received unprecedented response to Bharat Bandh call: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a united forum of farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, on Monday said its call for a Bharat Bandh received "unprecedented and historic" response from more than 23 states and not a single untoward incident was reported from anywhere. "Reports have been pouring in about the overwhelmingly positive and resounding response to the Bharat Bandh call … to mark 10 months of peaceful protests with rightful demands from the 'annadaatas' of the country. Spontaneous participation from various sections of the society was witnessed at most places," it said in a statement. The SKM said the bandh was observed peacefully in "more than 23 states" and not a single untoward incident was reported. It also appreciated state governments and political parties that extended support to the bandh. "Reports have come in from hundreds of locations from Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Pondicherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal about the bandh, and numerous events to accompany the same," the statement said. In Punjab alone, people gathered at more than 500 locations to express their support to the bandh. Numerous non-farmer associations also stood in solidarity with farmers, it said. "Life came to a near standstill in several states like Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand and Bihar. Reports indicate that in several parts of southern Assam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, this was the situation. Scores of protests marked the day in states like Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand," the SKM said in the statement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/received-unprecedented-response-to-bharat-bandh-call-samyukta-kisan-morcha-1034796.html
27-09-2021||National||Congress calls PM's visit to Central Vista project site a 'thoughtless, insensitive' gesture||The Congress on Monday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for visiting the construction site of the Central Vista project, and dubbed it as a "thoughtless and insensitive" gesture. The party also said the timing of the Central Vista project was questionable as the country was still recovering from the coronavirus pandemic after losing precious lives during the second wave. "We would have supported him had he visited some hospital site. I am sorry we cannot support a gesture as thoughtless, as insensitive as this," Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters. Asked about the prime minister's visit to the under-construction site of the new Parliament complex, the Congress leader asked whether he ever visited a hospital or an oxygen plant site. "I don't know if the prime minister was seen visiting a hospital or an oxygen plant under construction. Three months ago, we were trying to save our loved ones and today our PM goes to visit the Rs 25,000 crore Central Vista project, the timing of which is questionable. The country is yet to recover from the pain, grief and sorrow that we went through," he said. Modi on Sunday visited the construction site of the new Parliament building, which is expected to be completed in the second half of the next year. He also spoke to people involved in the construction as he inspected the ongoing work, official sources said. The building is part of the Central Vista project, which has faced criticism from the opposition. Government officials have said that Parliament's Winter session in 2022 will be held in the new building. The new Parliament building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-calls-pms-visit-to-central-vista-project-site-a-thoughtless-insensitive-gesture-1034809.html
27-09-2021||National||Police officers who abuse power have to face consequences after regime change: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday said that the police officers who cosy up with the government of the day and also make money, have to pay back after the change in the ruling dispensation. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana orally said that cops, falling in such a category, must not be protected and rather they should be jailed. Initially, the bench said that it was not inclined to grant interim protection from arrest to a suspended IPS officer from Chhattisgarh, Gurjinder Pal Singh, who is facing extortion charges. But it granted protection to him in the third case lodged against him. The court, however, told Singh's counsel that his client cannot take protection from arrest in every case. It pointed out, things take a wrong turn when people start extracting money, as they were close to the government. “This is what happens if you're close with the government and do these things. You have to pay back one day," the bench said. Singh, an ADG-rank officer had earlier too moved the top court seeking protection in a case of disproportionate assets and sedition filed by the Chhattisgarh government. On his plea, seeking protection in yet another case related to extortion, bench also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said, “When you're good with the government, you may extract. Then you've to pay back with interest…..”. The bench said it is a new trend in the country. As Singh's counsel said officers like him need protection, the bench retorted, "No, they've to go to jail”. However, the top court, after hearing arguments, granted Singh interim protection and issued a notice to the Chhattisgarh government. It fixed the matter for further hearing on October 1. This is the third case where Singh had moved the top court seeking protection. On August 26, the top court had granted him interim protection in other two other cases. Earlier on August 26, dealing with his similar plea, the top expressed its concern over a "disturbing trend" of police officials aligning with a political party in power, later getting targetted with criminal cases when the another regime comes into office. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-officers-who-abuse-power-have-to-face-consequences-after-regime-change-supreme-court-1034823.html
27-09-2021||National||50 trains affected due to Bharat Bandh, all services restored now: Railways||Around 50 trains were affected by the Bharat Bandh called by farm unions on Monday to protest the Centre's three agri laws, officials said. The affected train services became normal in the afternoon after people moved off rail tracks following the end of the 10-hour bandh, they said. The shutdown disrupted lives across parts of India, particularly in the north. Protesters blocked highways and arterial roads, and squatted on tracks in several places from the morning as the shutdown called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, got underway. The blockade was lifted at 4 pm. "More than 20 locations in Delhi, Ambala, and Ferozepur divisions had been blocked. About 50 trains were affected due to this. All train movement is normal now since 4:30 pm," a spokesperson for the Northern Railway said. Officials said the Delhi-Amritsar Shan-e-Punjab, New Delhi-Moga Express, Old Delhi-Pathankot Express, Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra, and Amritsar Shatabdi are some of the trains that have been affected. The bandh started at 6 am and continued till 4 pm. In the North-Western Railway zone, rail traffic on the Rewari-Bhiwani, Bhiwani-Rohtak, Bhiwani-Hisar and Hanumangarh-Sadulpur-Sriganganagar-Fatuhi sections were affected due to the shutdown. According to Lt. Shashi Kiran, Chief Public Relations Officer, North-Western Railway, the Bathinda-Lalgarh special train service as well as the Sriganganagar-Ambala special train service were cancelled due to the bandh. Partially cancelled train services include the Jaipur-Daulatpur Chowk Special train service which left Jaipur on Monday but will operate only till Dhulkot. The Daulatpur Chowk-Jaipur Special will leave Ambala on Monday. It will run partially between Daulatpur Chowk-Ambala stations. Other partially operated services included the Tilakbridge-Sri Ganganagar Special train service which will operate from Rewari in place of Tilak Bridge, the Rewari-Jodhpur Special train which operated from Sadulpur instead of Rewari and the Delhi Sarai Rohilla- Bikaner Special train service which left Delhi Sarai on Monday but will operate up to Sri Ganganagar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-trains-affected-due-to-bharat-bandh-all-services-restored-now-railways-1034843.html
27-09-2021||National||Sushmita Dev elected to Rajya Sabha from West Bengal unopposed||Sushmita Dev, who joined Trinamool Congress a little over a month ago, was on Monday declared elected unopposed in the Rajya Sabha by-poll in West Bengal. Dev collected the certificate of her election from the Speaker and returning officer during the day, an official in the speaker's office said. The BJP did not field any candidate against her in the by-poll which was necessitated as TMC's Manas Bhunia quit the Rajya Sabha after winning the assembly election from Sabang in Paschim Medinipur. The saffron party's leader Suvendu Adhikari had said that BJP would not field any candidate against her but concentrate in its fight to defeat Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhabanipur assembly by-poll slated to be held on September 30. Dev, daughter of former Congress heavyweight and union minister for several terms Santosh Mohan Dev, had quit the grand old party and joined TMC on August 16. She later told reporters "I will intensify the battle against BJP, fight it in Rajya Sabha and voice the atrocities committed by the party's governments in Tripura and Assam". She accused the Narendra Modi government at the Centre of not allowing the opposition to air its views on important issues in Parliament. Dev, a former Lok Sabha MP from Silchr in Assam, criticised the state Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for the firing on protestors during an eviction drive in Darrang district last week that claimed two lives. She had lost to BJP in Silchar in the Assam assembly polls held earlier this year. She was the All India Mahila Congress president before she resigned from that party. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushmita-dev-elected-to-rajya-sabha-from-west-bengal-unopposed-1034854.html
27-09-2021||National||Zoji La, Asia's longest high-altitude tunnel, to be operational by 2026||Asia’s longest bi-directional high-altitude tunnel under the treacherous Zoji La will be operational by 2026, giving year-round access to the icy heights of Ladakh from Jammu & Kashmir. The 14.15-km-long tunnel under the Himalayan mountain ranges is of strategic importance as it would help speedier deployment of the armed forces along the boundaries India shares with Pakistan and China in Ladakh. Zoji La, the high-mountain pass of blizzards is located at a height of 11,500 feet and remains covered under snow for five to six winter months, cutting off road access to the Union Territory of Ladakh. Even post-winters, Zoji La has 20-feet-high snow walls that melt slowly as the temperature rises, causing road blocks and traffic jams, Brig G S Kambo (retd), Executive Director, National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation told reporters here. Kambo said work was progressing at a brisk pace on the Rs 4,600-crore project to build the strategically important tunnel which will be complete before 2026. The project, awarded in 2012, had run into trouble as the company that was executing it – IL&FS – went bankrupt. The government called for fresh tenders following which the project was awarded to Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Ltd in October last year. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari is scheduled to review the progress of the project on Tuesday. Earlier, Gadkari laid the foundation stone for four highway projects in Kashmir valley. The 121-km projects will cost Rs 3,612 crores. He also inaugurated the Baramulla-Gulmarg and Vailoo-Donipawa worth Rs 85 crore and Rs 158 crore respectively. The minister also inaugurated the work of Donipawa-Ashajipra that connects with Anantnag district at a cost of Rs 57 crore. The four-lane 42 km-long ring road in Srinagar will cost Rs 2948.72 crore. The new projects will promote tourism in the valley and also help people to visit rural areas without touching Srinagar. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zoji-la-asias-longest-high-altitude-tunnel-to-be-operational-by-2026-1034865.html
27-09-2021||National||India, US fail to make headway in resolving trade concerns during Modi's visit||India and the United States could not make much headway in resolving the mutual trade concerns during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with President Joe Biden in Washington last week, apart from agreeing to reconvene the Trade Policy Forum by the end of the current year. Modi did stress on the importance of trade in India-US bilateral relations in his opening remarks at the meeting with Biden in White House. The meeting however ended without any specific assurance from the US on early restoration of the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) trade privilege for India or for greater market access for India in the US. The Biden Administration maintained that the US was no longer willing to negotiate a trade deal with India. A source in New Delhi said that Modi government might no longer ask the US for early restoration of the GSP trade privilege for India. The privilege was withdrawn by Biden’s predecessor President Donald Trump’s administration in June 2019 and India had been prodding the US to restore it. The source said that New Delhi would now rather focus on greater market access for India in the US, particularly for the automobile, engineering and agricultural products. The Biden Administration too had been asking New Delhi to make it easier for the US companies to do business in India. But the joint statement issued after Modi-Biden meeting at the White House did not indicate any breakthrough in the talks between the two sides, neither on GSP restoration nor on greater market access for Indian and the US companies in each other’s markets. They agreed to reconvene the India-US Trade Policy Forum before the end of 2021, to “enhance the bilateral trade relationship by addressing trade concerns, identifying specific areas for increased engagement and developing an ambitious, shared vision for the future of the trade relationship”. The Trade Policy Forum had not been convened since 2017, as the erstwhile Trump Administration had not been interested in managing bilateral trade issues through the forum. The source told the DH that Modi-Biden agreement to reconvene the Trade Policy Forum indicated that the two sides would like to restart engagement to resolve issues, even if the meeting between the two leaders had not achieved any breakthrough immediately. Modi and Biden also agreed that the US-India CEO Forum and the Commercial Dialogue would be convened in early 2022, leveraging the talents of the private sector. They noted ongoing negotiations on an Investment Incentive Agreement that would facilitate investment in development projects and committed to an early conclusion. A trade deal was expected to be signed after Modi-Trump meeting in New York on September 24, 2019, but the could not narrow differences and the deal was not signed. A “mini trade deal” with “limited scope” was then expected to be inked after the Modi-Trump meeting in New Delhi on February 25, but it was also shelved. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-fail-to-make-headway-in-resolving-trade-concerns-during-modis-visit-1034887.html
27-09-2021||National||New version of Akash missile successfully flight-tested||A new version of the Akash missile was successfully flight-tested on Monday from the integrated test range at Chandipur in Odisha, officials said. The missile -- 'Akash Prime' -- intercepted and destroyed an unmanned aerial target mimicking an enemy aircraft in its maiden flight test, they said The flight testing took place at around 4:30 pm, the officials said. "In comparison to the existing Akash system, Akash Prime is equipped with an indigenous active RF seeker for improved accuracy. Other improvements also ensure more reliable performance under a low-temperature environment at higher altitudes," said an official. The modified ground system of the existing Akash weapon system was for the flight test. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Indian Army, Indian Air Force and other stakeholders on the successful trial of the Akash prime missile. He said the successful flight test proves the competence of the DRDO in designing and developing world-class missile systems. DRDO Chairman G Satheesh Reddy also congratulated the team involved in the successful flight trial of the missile. He said Akash Prime system will further boost the confidence of the Indian Army and Indian Air Force as the Akash system is already inducted and now getting improved with more lethal missiles.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-version-of-akash-missile-successfully-flight-tested-1034902.html
27-09-2021||National||Cyclone Gulab: Uttarandhra braces for possible flash floods from Odisha||A day after Cyclone Gulab made landfall in the neighbouring Srikakulam district, several areas in Visakhapatnam city remained inundated in the floodwaters. While water is being pumped out, people in low lying areas were evacuated to safer spots and relief measures are underway. Under the cyclonic effect, heavy to very heavy rains were recorded on Sunday in the three north coastal Andhra Pradesh districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, known as the Uttarandhra region. 33.3 cms rain was recorded at the TTD Kalyanamandapam in Visakhapatnam Rural, followed by 32 cms rainfall at Adavivaram. Monitoring the situation from Visakhapatnam, AP Chief Secretary Adityanath Das said that winds were blowing at a speed of 80-90 km per hour during the storm, uprooting trees in some places. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy held a video conference with the district collectors and other officials over the impact of Gulab Cyclone and directed them to expedite the relief measures in the affected areas. The CM instructed the concerned authorities to restore the power supply as soon as the rains subside. While an ex gratia of Rs five lakh is announced for the families of the deceased, the CM ordered that Rs 1000 should be given to each family while returning to their homes from the relief camps. The state government is yet to take stock of the prevailing situation and record any unreported loss of life in the affected areas. Reddy has directed the officials to prepare a report on crop damage “in a generous manner and provide immediate relief to the farmers.” Officials were advised to remain on high alert as neighbouring Odisha is experiencing heavy rains, which could lead to flash floods in Uttarandhra. The CM has ordered the evacuation of people residing along the Vamsadhara and Nagavali rivers to the relief camps. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-gulab-uttarandhra-braces-for-possible-flash-floods-from-odisha-1034911.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||Former Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro to join TMC ahead of polls?||Former Goa chief minister and incumbent Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro is likely to join the Trinamool Congress on Monday, sources claimed on Sunday. The TMC has already announced its plans to contest the next year's Goa Assembly elections. Amid rumours of him joining the Mamata Banerjee-led party, Faleiro has called a press conference on Monday where he would make an “important announcement.” When contacted, Faleiro refused to clarify whether he is joining the TMC on Monday. “I am in deep meditation. I am reading everything. One thing I will tell you (that) people of Goa are suffering, somebody has to stand up,” he said on Sunday. “I will offer comments at an appropriate time,” the former chief minister added. TMC leader Derek O'Brien told PTI on Saturday in Goa that the party will be contesting the upcoming Assembly polls and they were in touch with several local leaders. He had said that the TMC will announce its chief ministerial candidate soon. Reacting to the TMC's announcement to contest the polls, the Congress on Sunday issued a statement saying Goans have full faith in the Congress "which has respected the sentiments and emotions of the people". “Goans will never fall prey for political gambles and gimmicks and will never compromise on Goa's identity,” said the statement signed by Goa Pradesh Congress Committee President Girish Chodankar and Congress Legislative Party president Digambar Kamat. Faleiro was credited with devising strategies and stitching alliances that led to the formation of governments in Mizoram, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur. In 2013, he was chairman of the Karnataka Pradesh Assembly Elections Screening Committee. In the 2017 Assembly elections in Goa, Congress won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House restricting the BJP to 13. However, surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and formed government under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already thrown its hat in the ring ahead of the polls, with the party's national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing free power up to 300 units per month and 80% jobs for locals if his party is voted to power during his recent visit to Panaji.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-goa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-to-join-tmc-ahead-of-polls-1034616.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM stops vehicle to wish newly-married couple||A newly-married couple was in for a pleasant surprise when Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday stopped his vehicle to wish them. The Punjab government's Twitter handle posted a video of the incident and tweeted, "During his visit to Bathinda today, Chief Minister @CHARANJITCHANNI spotted a newly married couple at village Mandi Kalan and suddenly stopped his vehicle to convey his best wishes." The video shows the chief minister, who was on a tour of the cotton belt in Bathinda district, hugging the man and also giving 'shagun' to his wife after alighting from his vehicle. With several police personnel surrounding him, he is also seen tasting some sweet dish carried in a 'parat' (platter) by the family. Channi is then seen asking when did they get married and a woman from the family replying that their marriage took place on Saturday. In the video, he is seen conveying his best wishes with folded hands. A few days back, Channi had performed Punjab's folk dance 'Bhangra' with students at an event in Kapurthala. He, along with his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, undertook a whirlwind tour of the cotton belt in the Malwa region of the state to assess the loss because of pink bollworm pest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-stops-vehicle-to-wish-newly-married-couple-1034620.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||Mamata failed to stop post-poll violence, has no right to attend peace meet in Rome: Suvendu Adhikari||A day after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee claimed that the Centre had disallowed her attendance at a global peace meet in Rome, Leader of Opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, on Sunday said she did not have a right to participate in such event as she "failed" to contain violence against BJP activists in the state. Adhikari also accused his former mentor and the TMC supremo of not taking steps to arrest those who were involved in post-poll violence in Khejuri, Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district and other places of the state. During a campaign for BJP nominee Priyanka Tibrewal for the by-poll to the Bhabanipur assembly seat where Banerjee is also contesting, Adhikari said, "You don't deserve to attend a peace meeting. You abetted those who attacked our activists and supported violent acts by TMC cadres." He also said, "Despite our repeated pleas, your administration was silent. How can you then think of representing the country in a peace meeting?" Adhikari's remark came after Banerjee had alleged that the “jealous" BJP did not allow her to attend the event. The CM had also claimed that she was invited to Rome in the first week of October to participate in the global peace meet in which the Pope, other religious heads, dignitaries from various countries are slated to attend, where she would have been the only Indian and the “only Hindu lady”. Describing Banerjee as a dictator, Adhikari said, "Remember, you had ordered that there would not be any Durga idol immersion on Bijoya Dashami sometimes back in 2017 and the court had to intervene. Is it the true role for a Hindu?" He also accused the "administration led by the CM" of trying to stop Durga Puja in Contai in Purba Medinipur. "Your administration tried to stop a Durga puja as I am associated with it for 22 years. The puja will finally take place by the intervention of the court. Had you been a true Hindu, you could not have resorted to such an action using the administration," said the BJP MLA from Nandigram. Adhikari wondered why the TMC supremo is "spending so much time and energy" in Bhabanipur if she is "sure of a big win in the September 30 by-poll". Banerjee, who lost to Adhikari in Nandigram during the April-May assembly polls, is contesting the by-election from the Bhabanipur segment to retain her chief minister's chair. A resident of Bhabanipur, Banerjee had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force in the volatile state, to dare Adhikari, her former protege, on his home turf. The CM had claimed that a conspiracy was hatched to hurt her and defeat her in Nandigram. Though she powered the TMC to a resounding win for a third straight term in office, the TMC boss failed to register victory in Nandigram. Shortly after the poll results were announced in May, state cabinet minister and TMC MLA from Bhabanipur Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to facilitate her return to the assembly from there. Adhikari also accused Banerjee of "having little knowledge of history as she often makes wrong statements about historical events in public meetings". Reacting to Adhikari's comments on Banerjee, a Trinamool Congress leader said, "He has proved how he has adapted to the BJP's vindictive and intolerant attitude in less than a year after joining the saffron camp." "Mamata Banerjee is very much conscious of the heritage and our history. We don't have to learn history from Adhikari," the TMC leader said. He also denied the allegations that BJP workers in Nandigram and Khejuri were attacked by the ruling party, and said Adhikari's henchmen unleashed violence on TMC activists. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-failed-to-stop-post-poll-violence-has-no-right-to-attend-peace-meet-in-rome-suvendu-adhikari-1034624.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Stop blushing at Modi's US tour!||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ability to maintain a high level of energy while keeping a busy schedule on his trips abroad has drawn curious enquiries from admirers and sceptics alike. Official sources say that one of his tricks is to pack his hours with back-to-back engagements so that it doesn't let the mind think much about any fatigue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-stop-blushing-at-modis-us-tour-1034625.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||Bharat Bandh: Rahul Gandhi voices support for farmers, slams govt as 'exploitative'||Expressing support for protesting farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the farmers' non-violent 'satyagraha' is still resolute but the "exploitative" government does not like this and that is why a 'Bharat Bandh' has been called. The Congress has asked its workers, state unit chiefs and heads of frontal organisations to take part in the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions to protest against the Centre's three agri laws. Many non-NDA parties have extended support to the nationwide 10-hour strike on Monday called by farmers protesting against the three agri laws under the aegis of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Posting rhyming lines in Hindi on Twitter, Gandhi said, "Kisano ka ahimsak satyagraha aaj bhi akhand hai, lekin shoshankar sarkar ko ye nahi pasand hai, isliye aaj Bharat Bandh hai (Farmers' non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that's why it is Bharat Bandh today)." Gandhi used the hashtag 'IStandWithFarmers' with his tweet. The SKM on Sunday had appealed for complete peace during the Bandh and urged all Indians to join the strike. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest.  Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bharat-bandh-rahul-gandhi-voices-support-for-farmers-slams-govt-as-exploitative-1034659.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||Jaishankar arrives in Mexico to discuss bilateral, trade and investment cooperation||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has arrived in Mexico for a three-day official visit with an aim to boost bilateral cooperation in trade and investment as well as other areas with one of India's top trading partners in Latin America. This is Jaishankar’s first visit to the North American country as the External Affairs Minister. He was received by Minister of Finance and Public Credit Rogelio Ramírez de la O with whom he discussed Mexico’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Thank Minister of Finance and Public Credit @R_Ramirez_O for receiving me. Discussed Mexico’s response to the Covid challenge,” Jaishankar said on Twitter. "An External Affairs Minister’s visit from India after 41 years," Jaishankar tweeted. Acabo de aterrizar en México. An External Affairs Minister’s visit from India after 41 years. Participating in celebrations of Mexico’s 200th anniversary of attaining Independence. We are working together in the UN Security Council.India is Mexico’s 9th largest trade partner. Jaishankar, who is in Mexico at the invitation of his Mexican counterpart Marcelo Ebrard Casaubón, reached here after concluding his visit to the US for the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. During his visit, Jaishankar will participate in the commemorative events of the 200th anniversary of the consolidation of Mexican Independence along with other world leaders. In addition to his meeting with Casaubón, he will also call on President of Mexico Manuel Lopez Obrador and interact with the leading CEOs and the business community in Mexico, which is currently India’s second largest trade partner in Latin America and is a member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) alongside India for the 2021-22 period, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The two-way trade in 2018 was $10.155 billion, comprising exports worth $5.231 billion and imports valued at $4.923 billion, according to official data. India's exports comprise mainly of vehicles and auto parts, chemicals, aluminium products, electrical machinery and electronic equipment, steel, gems and ceramic products. India imports crude oil, electrical goods and machinery from Mexico.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaishankar-arrives-in-mexico-to-discuss-bilateral-trade-and-investment-cooperation-1034702.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||Congress an irrelevant, rotting puddle: TMC mouthpiece||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) gave a clear indication through an editorial in its party mouthpiece that it aims to be in the driver’s seat of the proposed anti-BJP alliance. It dubbed the Congress as a “rotting puddle” and stated that the Mamata Banerjee-led party could play the role which the Congress used to play against BJP in national politics. The editorial in the TMC’s mouthpiece Jago Bangla stated that the grand old party had become “irrelevant” and claimed that in Bengal the TMC was the “real Congress.” “The TMC now bears the flag of Congress’s legacy. It (TMC) is the sea. The rotting puddle is now irrelevant. Those who are still in the Congress are welcome in the TMC,” the editorial read. Accusing the Congress of failing in its responsibility of fighting against the BJP, the editorial stated that if the TMC could play the role of the “real Congress” in Bengal, then it could do the same in the near future at the national level. Although it claimed that the TMC “respects” the Congress, the editorial accused the grand old party of losing several seats in the last two Lok Sabha elections to help the BJP come to power at the Centre. The editorial urged Congress to understand the problem through “introspection.” It also stated that instead of a repetition of the outcome of 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the TMC along with the people and other non-BJP parties will perform their duties by adapting “the practical model” of defeating the BJP in a real fight in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “The Congress aided the BJP in coming to power at the Centre by losing in scores of seats in Lok Sabha seats,” the editorial stated. It further alleged that by failing to organise movements against the BJP in Bengal, the Congress was giving an advantage to the saffron party in the state. “It was the TMC and not the Congress which showed in the West Bengal Assembly elections, that the top leadership of the BJP can be defeated. The Congress has failed to create an impression that the BJP can be defeated at the national level,” the editorial proclaimed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-an-irrelevant-rotting-puddle-tmc-mouthpiece-1034808.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||TMC in Goa looks like 'Modi-Shah' model and not 'Mamata' model, says Congress||The Goa Congress on Monday termed as a “blessing in disguise” the exit of the veteran party MLA Luizinho Faleiro who it said had lost touch with the people in his constituency. Faleiro resigned as MLA of Navelim and as a primary member of Congress alleging that the state party unit is being run by a "coterie of leaders who prioritise self-interests". Speaking on the Trinamool Congress's announcement to contest the Goa Assembly polls, due early next year, the Congress said the TMC in Goa doesn't look like a “Mamata model” but seems to be a “Modi-Shah model”. All India Congress Committee (AICC) Goa Desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao told reporters that the real intention of the TMC in entering Goa raises a lot of questions that need to be answered. “What are they (TMC) going to do? Whom are they helping? Nobody comes 3-4 months before elections (in a poll-bound state). TMC leader (and West Bengal CM) Mamata Banerjee behaves responsibly but his model of TMC does not look like a Mamata Model, rather it looks like a Modi-Amit Shah model,” Rao, flanked by Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat and others, told reporters in Panaji. He said the resignation of Faleiro is a “blessing in disguise” as the senior leader had lost the connection with the people in his constituency (Navelim). “The party was reassessing the situation in the constituency (Navelim). There are so many aspirants in that constituency who can contest and win on the Congress ticket,” he said. Rao said this kind of event (Faleiro's exit) gives the party more energy. Chodankar said Faleiro's resignation, at a time when the Congress is emerging as a main opposition against the BJP, shows that he has ditched the Goan people. “Goans will never forgive Luizinho Faleiro,” he said, adding that Faleiro was never on the forefront of any agitations launched by Congress. “Faleiro now speaks of starting a movement in Goa. Where was he when Congress was raising various issues,” Chodankar questioned. TMC leader Derek O'Brien told PTI on Saturday in Goa that the party will be contesting the upcoming Assembly polls and they were in touch with several local leaders. He had said that the TMC will announce its chief ministerial candidate soon.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-in-goa-looks-like-modi-shah-model-and-not-mamata-model-says-congress-1034864.html
27-09-2021||National Politics||10-hour 'Bharat Bandh' by farmers kicks up political row||The "Bharat Bandh" called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions on Monday, seeking the repeal of the three contentious farm laws, threw road and railway traffic out of gear in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana while evoking mixed and lukewarm responses in different other places. The 10-hour long protest during which farmers blocked national highways and squatted on railway tracks, affecting the movement of more than two dozen trains including Shatabdi kicked up a political row between the ruling BJP and the Opposition. “In the war of right and wrong, you cannot afford to be neutral!! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws!!" Punjab state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu tweeted. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee firmly stands by Farmer Unions demand for Bharat Bandh on 27 Sept 2021. In the war of right and wrong you can not afford to be neutral !! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws !! Two Opposition Chief Ministers -- Charanjit Singh Channi of Congress-ruled Punjab and Arvind Kejriwal of AAP-ruled Delhi said the demands of farmers were legitimate and asked the Centre to repeal the farm laws. "Farmers' non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that's why it is Bharat Bandh today," former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. Taking it further, his party colleague, Pawan Khera told Prime Minister Narendra Modi, "You cannot be arrogant when you are the prime minister. You have to listen to your country and when 60 per cent of your country speaks, please speak to them." While Khera called for the need to "stand unitedly with the farmers otherwise the future of our nation is dark,", Union Minister from BJP Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi alleged that the few political parties have "hijacked" the farmer protest doing the "criminal conspiracy" of "fanning" the protest for their "political gains". Reminding the Prime Minister of his remarks in January that the government is still a phone call away and is ready to talk to farmers any moment to resolve the politics, Congress took a dig saying, "the farmers are still waiting for that phone call." BJP dismissed the charge, claiming the Modi government has repeatedly reached out to farmer unions and had also offered a moratorium on the implementation of the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, which were passed by Parliament in September last year. The attempts to break the logjam between the government and protesting farmer unions have failed even after 11 rounds of talks and there has been a communication break between the government and the farmers since January 26 after tractor rally violence. Meanwhile, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait thanked people for the "nationwide success of the peaceful Bharat Bandh" and said it was a "slap" on the face of those, who described the farmer agitation as an event limited to just three states. "Thousands of farmers expressed their anger coming out in streets in the whole country, which was supported by traders, labourers, employees and trade unions. Political parties also supported the Bandh. The government should not live under the misconception that the farmers will return home empty-handed. Farmers are unflinching on their resolve to get the contentious farm laws withdrawn," Tikait said. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said the bandh was "extraordinarily successful". A statement of Samyukta Kisan Morcha said claimed that the bandh was successful at hundreds of locations from Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Pondicherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal. While the blockade of Delhi-Haryana borders led to a standstill for hours during peak traffic hours, more than two dozen inbound and outbound trains passing through Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab -- Delhi-Amritsar Shan-e-Punjab, New Delhi-Moga Express, Old Delhi-Pathankot Express, Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra, and Amritsar Shatabdi--- were affected due to blockades and sit-ins at 20 major railway stations. In Punjab, there was also a total shutdown with vehicles off the roads and commercial establishments shut. The national highways in Amritsar, Rupnagar, Jalandhar, Pathankot, Sangrur, Mohali, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Bathinda, were blocked by the protesters. The bandh impact was felt in BJP-ruled Haryana as well, as protesting farmers blocked the national highways in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Hisar, Charkhi Dadri, Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Panchkula districts. The SKM had exempted all emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief-and-rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies from the bandh call. Keeping the past protest in mind, the Delhi police kept the roads around the historic Red Fort as well as the dual carriageway at the Ghazipur border out of bounds for traffic. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/10-hour-bharat-bandh-by-farmers-kicks-up-political-row-1034913.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||PM Modi visits new parliament building construction site, inspects work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday visited the construction site of the new parliament building, which is expected to be completed in the second half of the next year.    Modi spoke to people involved in the construction as he inspected the ongoing work, official sources said.    The building is part of the Central Vista project, which has faced criticism from the opposition. Government officials have said that Parliament's winter session in 2022 will be held in the new building.    The new parliament building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. It will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-visits-new-parliament-building-construction-site-inspects-work-1034609.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||7 Naxals killed, 3 held in 3 years in MP: CM Chouhan at meeting chaired by Amit Shah||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday said his government was working hard to curb the Naxal menace in the state and usher in development in its rebel-hit areas. Speaking during a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi, Chouhan also said that the state police have killed seven Naxals and arrested three others in the last three years, according to a statement issued by the MP government. A total of 12 lakh workers have been paid Rs 802 crore in the Maoist-hit area in Madhya Pradesh during the last fiscal, the CM was quoted as saying. Chouhan said that Rs 375 crore has been spent on developing infrastructure in the rebel-hit areas of the state over the last five years, it added. During the meeting, the MP chief minister also said money was being spent on a large scale for the development, with a special focus on the tribal population in the Naxal-hit Balaghat, Mandla and Dindori districts. Addressing chief ministers, state ministers and top officials of 10 Naxal-hit states, Shah said that the fight against the Maoists has now reached its final phase and it needs to be accelerated and made decisive. Shah urged the chief ministers of Naxal-affected states to give priority to addressing the menace so that it can be eradicated within a year and sought a joint strategy to choke the flow of funds to the red ultras. Apart from Chouhan, the chief ministers who attended the meeting were Naveen Patnaik (Odisha), K Chandrashekar Rao (Telangana), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra) and Hemant Soren (Jharkhand). However, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh, Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy of Andhra Pradesh and Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan skipped the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-naxals-killed-3-held-in-3-years-in-mp-cm-chouhan-at-meeting-chaired-by-amit-shah-1034617.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police tightens security at border points||The Delhi Police has beefed up security in border areas of the national capital in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws on Monday. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. A senior police officer said adequate security arrangements have been made to maintain the law an order situation and prevent any untoward incident in the national capital during the bandh. Patrolling has been intensified, extra personnel have been deployed at the pickets especially across the border areas and every vehicle entering the national capital is being thoroughly checked, according to the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, “In view of Bharat Bandh, adequate security arrangements have been made as a precautionary measure. Pickets at the border areas have been strengthened and all vital installations, including India Gate and Vijay Chowk have adequate deployment.” No protester is being allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city’s borders, the official said. “The security is preventive and we are fully alert. There is no call for Bharat Bandh in Delhi, but we are watching the developments and adequate number of personnel are on ground,” another officer said. Police personnel have been deployed on all roads leading to Delhi through villages near border areas while all vehicles are being checked at the pickets, they said. The SKM had also asked political parties to “stand with farmers in their quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism”. "As this historic struggle completes 10 months, SKM has called Monday (September 27) to be observed as Bharat Bandh against the anti-farmer Modi government,” the SKM had said in a statement. “The SKM appeals to every Indian to join this nationwide movement and make Bharat Bandh a resounding success. In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day," it said. The bandh will be held from 6 am to 4 pm during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions will be closed throughout the country, it had said. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two parties have failed to break the deadlock.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-delhi-police-tightens-security-at-border-points-1034651.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Auto, taxis operate as usual in Delhi; shops open||Autorickshaws and taxis plied normally and shops were open in the national capital on Monday, with their unions and associations extending only "in-principle support" to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers but deciding not to join the strike. The auto, taxi unions and traders bodies said their livelihood has already been hit hard due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown so they were not joining any strike. The Bandh has been called by farmers against the Centre's three agri laws. "Previously also we had supported Bharat Bandh by the farmers but continued to ply our autos and taxis. This time also we are in support of genuine farmers but not on strike because our members are in deep distress due to shrinking earnings in pandemic times," said Rajender Soni, general secretary of the Delhi Auto Taxi Union. The Sarvoday Driver Association of Delhi, representing many drivers of cab aggregator platforms, also supported the farmers but did not join the strike. "We are in support of the farmers but our work was affected due to the pandemic and we cannot afford to go in their support by striking," said Kamaljeet Gill, president of the Association. Other auto and taxi unions expressed the same sentiment. "We fully support the farmers. But in view of the financial crisis faced by us due to Covid, we are extending our moral and in-principle support to them and their demand while working normally," said Anuj Rathor, secretary of the Rashtriya Rajdhani Kshetra Auto Drivers Association. Markets and shops in the city were open as farmers have not contacted our associations for any strike, said Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry(CTI). "Also, the festival season is approaching and its time for traders to recover some of the losses they faced due to the pandemic and lockdown. Although we support the farmers and urge the government to meet their demand," he said. The traders support farmers and their demands but they were not in a position to close down shops because they were already in trouble due to the adverse impact of the pandemic on their trade and businesses, he added. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest.  Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-auto-taxis-operate-as-usual-in-delhi-shops-open-1034673.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block highways at many places in Punjab||Farmers on Monday blocked highways and other roads at many places in Punjab, where the ruling Congress said it firmly stands by the farm unions' call for Bharat Bandh against the Centre's three agri laws. In neighbouring Haryana too, there were reports of protesters blocking some highways, including in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra. There were also reports of farmers squatting on rail tracks at a few places in the two states. In Punjab, a complete shutdown was observed at several places, including Moga, where farmers blocked the Moga-Ferozepur and Moga-Ludhiana National Highways. The Bathinda-Chandigarh National Highway too was blocked by farmers, sources said. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged the Centre to repeal the three “anti-farmer laws”. “#I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard. I request the farmers to raise their voice in a peaceful manner (sic),” Channi tweeted. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the PPCC firmly stands by farmer unions’ for Bharat Bandh. “Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee firmly stands by Farmer Unions demand for Bharat Bandh on 27 Sept 2021. In the war of right and wrong you can not afford to be neutral !! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws !! (sic),” Sidhu tweeted. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee firmly stands by Farmer Unions demand for Bharat Bandh on 27 Sept 2021. In the war of right and wrong you can not afford to be neutral !! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws !! In Haryana, protesting farmers blocked the national highway in Charkhi Dadri while in Kurukshetra too, several roads were blocked. In an advisory issued on Sunday, the Haryana Police had stated that people could face traffic disruptions on various roads and highways of the state due to the bandh. In view of the bandh, elaborate arrangements have been put in place by the civil administration and police according to directions of the state government, a Haryana Police spokesperson said. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. The SKM had also asked political parties to “stand with farmers in their quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism”. "As this historic struggle completes 10 months, SKM has called Monday (September 27) to be observed as Bharat Bandh against the anti-farmer Modi government,” the SKM had said in a statement. “The SKM appeals to every Indian to join this nationwide movement and make Bharat Bandh a resounding success. In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day," it said. The bandh will be held from 6 am to 4 pm during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions will be closed throughout the country, it had said. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two parties have failed to break the deadlock. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-highways-at-many-places-in-punjab-1034674.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Metro station near Delhi's Tikri border closed for security reasons||A Delhi Metro station near Tikri Border, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers' protests, was on Monday closed for security reasons in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws. The station in Haryana — Pandit Shree Ram Sharma — falls on the Green Line of the network. "Security Update Entry/exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma has been closed," the DMRC tweeted. Green Line connects Kirti Nagar station in Delhi with Brig Hoshiyar Singh station in Haryana. The Delhi Police has beefed up security in border areas of the national capital in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws on Monday. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. A senior police officer said adequate security arrangements have been made to maintain the law an order situation and prevent any untoward incident in the national capital during the bandh. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two parties have failed to break the deadlock. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-metro-station-near-delhis-tikri-border-closed-for-security-reasons-1034675.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Parts of Delhi witness traffic snarls due to road closures, diversions||Parts of the national capital witnessed traffic snarls on Monday morning as police closed some key roads to prevent any untoward incident during the Bharat Bandh called by farm unions against the Centre’s three farm laws. The Delhi Police has increased security checks at its border points which led to the slowing down of traffic and it informed commuters about road closures and traffic snarls on Twitter. According to police, roads around the historic Red Fort as well as the dual carriageway at Ghazipur border were closed for traffic. “Traffic movement is closed on Red Fort on both the carriageways Chhatta Rail and Subhash Marg are closed from both sides… Traffic movement is closed on Dhansa Border Both Carriageways (sic)," it tweeted. Traffic AlertTraffic movement is closed on Red Fort Both the carriageways Chhatta Rail and Subhash Marg are closed from both sides. “Due to blocking of National Highway 24 and 9 by protesters, commuters coming from Sarai Kale Khan can take alternate route for Ghaziabad i.e. Vikas Marg for Ghaziabad and for Noida via DND,” the traffic police said on Twitter. “The Ghazipur border is closed for traffic from both sides due to farmers’ protests. Commuters wishing to commute to and fro between UP and Delhi may use DND flyway, Vikas Marg, Signature bridge, and Wazirabad road. Traffic on NH 24 and 9 is being diverted towards Maharajpur, Apsara and Bhopura borders,” it tweeted. According to police, the traffic is heavy at the Kalindi Kunj flyover and Kalindi Kunj metro station while it is moving slowly on DND flyway. The traffic is also heavy at Rajokri toll plaza as the local police have set up a checkpoint for vehicles. The Delhi Police has beefed up security in border areas of the national capital. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. A senior police officer said adequate security arrangements have been made to maintain the law an order situation and prevent any untoward incident in the national capital during the bandh. Patrolling has been intensified; extra personnel have been deployed at the pickets especially across the border areas and every vehicle entering the national capital is being thoroughly checked, according to the police. No protester is being allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city’s borders, the official said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-parts-of-delhi-witness-traffic-snarls-due-to-road-closures-diversions-1034682.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC to hear plea on safety at court premises on September 29||The Delhi High Court on Monday said it would hear on September 29 a plea concerning the safety at court premises here. Lawyer Richa Singh mentioned before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that she has moved an early hearing application in the petition which is pending since 2019 and specifically mentions the situation of Rohini Court complex. A counter affidavit was filed and loopholes on ground situation were pointed out, she added. “Your application will come for hearing on Wednesday,” said Chief Justice Patel. On September 24, a shootout inside the Rohini courtroom left three gangsters dead and a law intern injured. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, officials said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Witnesses said a law intern has also sustained bullet injury in her leg and some also claimed that the gang members pumped 10 bullets into Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals. Sources said Gogi received about seven bullet injuries, even as there was no official confirmation from police on this. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-on-safety-at-court-premises-on-september-29-1034690.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||273 dengue cases in Delhi this year, 149 in September||Over 60 fresh cases of dengue have been reported in the national capital in the last one week, taking the total count this year to more than 270, according to a civic report released on Monday. In this month alone, at least 149 cases have been recorded till September 25, which is about 54 per cent of the cumulative cases. According to the civic report, 102 cases of malaria and 52 cases of chikungunya have also been reported till September 25 this year. The number of dengue cases for January 1-September 25 period stands at 273, which is also the highest since 2019 when the count had stood at 282 during the same period. Last year, 188 dengue cases were reported in the entire month of September, and 190 the year before that. In preceding years, the figures stood at 374 (2018), 1103 (2017), 1,362 (2016) and 6,775 (2015), according to data shared by Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on September 22. He had claimed that the city this year has recorded the lowest count of dengue cases in September, vis-a-vis the corresponding numbers in the last six years. As per the civic report issued by the municipal corporations last week, 211 cases of dengue were recorded till September 18 this year. So, 62 fresh cases have been logged in one week while 72 cases were reported in the month of August, as per the report. Dengue mosquito larvae breed in clear, standing water, while those of malaria thrive even in dirty water. Cases of vector-borne diseases are usually reported between July and November, but the period may stretch till mid-December. The month-wise distribution of cases are -- January (0), February (2), March (5), April (10) and May (12), June (7) and July (16), it said. In the previous years, the cases in the same period were -- 1,692 (2016), 1,807 (2017), 481 (2018), 282 (2019) and 212 (2020), as per the report. However, no deaths have been reported due to dengue in the city till now, it said. Malaria, dengue and chikungunya are accompanied with high fever and therefore, doctors feel that people might suspect that they have contracted COVID-19. Civic bodies in Delhi have intensified their measures to prevent outbreak of vector-borne diseases. Dengue cases reported in the national capital till date are "under control" and the Delhi government is alert and all prepared to handle any situation arising out of the vector-borne disease, Jain had told reporters early this month. The Delhi health minister also said that the government's anti-dengue drive, '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' running for the last few weeks to raise awareness on its prevention, and it will be further intensified. North Delhi Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh recently had told reporters that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation will run an intensive week-long campaign from October 2-7 to keep vector-borne diseases under control. South Delhi Mayor Mukesh Suryan recently had alleged that the Delhi government was playing "campaign politics" when it came to the fight against the vector-borne diseases, termed its anti-dengue drive an "eyewash". The senior BJP leader in the party-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), at a press conference here, had claimed that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was "taking credit" in controlling vector-borne diseases in the city. Standing Committee Chairman of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Jogi Ram Jain recently had held a meeting with the officials of public health department on prevention of dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Jain had directed officials to conduct awareness campaigns in all areas under the NDMC so that maximum citizens can be made aware. He had also directed them to regularly check for breeding of mosquito larvae on premises of government buildings, schools, offices, community buildings and dispensaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/273-dengue-cases-in-delhi-this-year-149-in-september-1034700.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Sugarcane price hike by UP government a joke: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait has termed the increase in the purchase price of sugarcane announced by the Uttar Pradesh government as a “big joke” on farmers. His remarks have come in the wake of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announcing a Rs 25 per quintal hike in the purchase prices of sugarcane in the state taking it to Rs 350 per quintal. “The hike of Rs 25 per quintal is not acceptable to farmers… It is a big joke by the Uttar Pradesh government on the farmers,” Tikait said in a statement issued by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik here. The BKU leader claimed the purchase price of sugarcane was higher and diesel cheaper in neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh. Due to diesel being expensive in Uttar Pradesh, the state government’s hike is inadequate, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sugarcane-price-hike-by-up-government-a-joke-rakesh-tikait-1034706.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Increase purchase price of sugarcane further as farmers in distress: Varun Gandhi to Adityanath||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Monday urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to further increase the purchase price of sugarcane to Rs 400 per quintal, saying farmers are in "misery" and have been hoping for a higher increase. His remarks come a day after Adityanath announced a Rs 25 per quintal hike in the purchase prices of sugarcane in the state taking it to Rs 350 per quintal. While thanking Adityanath for increasing the cane prices, Gandhi in a letter to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister suggested that the recent hike would be insufficient as the "farmers are in misery due to economic distress." "In the last four years the input cost for farmers such as prices of seeds, fertiliser and power have substantially increased....Farmers are in misery due to economic distress and have been hoping for a higher increase in cane prices," Gandhi said. The three-time MP from Uttar Pradesh had also written a letter to Adityanath earlier this month in which he had sought an increase in cane prices. Reiterating his demand, Gandhi said lakhs of farmers are looking at Adityanath with hope that he will further increase the cane prices. "With continuous rise in input cost for farmers, the cane prices should be fixed at minimum Rs 400 per quintal. It is matter of livelihood of lakhs of farmers and labourers," Gandhi said. Cane is mainly grown in western UP, which is the epicentre of the farmers' protest in the state against the Centre's farm laws. Gandhi had earlier sought various relief measures for farmers in Uttar Pradesh including subsidy on diesel, bonus above MSP of wheat and paddy and doubling the amount under the PM KISAN scheme. Gandhi, the MP from Pilibhit, has also been advocating for re-engaging with protesting farmers to reach a common ground.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-purchase-price-of-sugarcane-further-as-farmers-in-distress-varun-gandhi-to-adityanath-1034710.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block highways, squat on railway tracks at many places in Punjab, Haryana||Normal life was hit as farmers blocked highways and squatted on railway tracks at many places in Punjab and Haryana on Monday in view of a "Bharat Bandh" called by farm unions against three agriculture laws of the Centre. In Punjab, the ruling Congress said it firmly stands by the farm unions' "Bharat Bandh" call against the three contentious laws. A complete shutdown was observed in the state, with transport services suspended during the bandh period, while shops and other commercial establishments remained shut at most places. National and state highways in several districts, including Amritsar, Rupnagar, Jalandhar, Pathankot, Sangrur, Mohali, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Bathinda, were blocked by the protesters. In neighbouring Haryana, the protesters blocked highways in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Hisar, Charkhi Dadri, Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Panchkula districts. The protesting farmers squatted on railway tracks at many places in the two states. Ferozepur's Divisional Railway Manager Seema Sharma told PTI that some passenger trains have been cancelled while some other services have been rescheduled. With the protesters squatting on railway tracks, she said as far as possible, the railway authorities try to halt the trains at a station so that the stranded passengers can get some facilities. Farmers squatted on railway tracks at many places in the two states, including at Shahbad near Kurukshetra, Sonipat, Bahadurgarh, Charkhi Dadri, Jind, Amritsar, Patiala, Barnala and Lalru near Derabassi. Several trains were held up due to this. Phagwara Station Superintendent Devinder Singh said the Amritsar-bound 03005 Up Howrah Mail coming from Kolkata was stopped by the railway authorities at 6.35 am, while the Jammu-bound 08237 UP Begampura Express had to be halted at Phagwara at 6.46 am. He said though the Begampura Express had no scheduled halt at Phagwara, it had to be stopped due to track blockade near Jalandhar. The Amritsar-Katihar Express, the Saharsa-Amritsar Express, the Uchahar Express trains were halted at the Ambala Cantonment railway station, while the Ambala-Saharanpur passenger train was halted at the Jagadhri railway station. At the Karnal railway station, the Swaraj Express train headed to Jammu was halted. Three trains were also halted at the Kurukshetra railway station, officials said. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged the Centre to repeal the three "anti-farmer" laws. "#I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard. I request the farmers to raise their voice in a peaceful manner," he said in a tweet. State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the PPCC firmly stands by the farmer unions' "Bharat Bandh" call. "Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee firmly stands by Farmer Unions demand for Bharat Bandh on 27 Sept 2021. In the war of right and wrong you can not afford to be neutral!! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws!!" he tweeted. Hundreds of farmers blocked the Ambala-Delhi National Highway. They put barricades on the roads leading up to the Shambhu border near Ambala and squatted in the middle of the road. The traffic towards Delhi was diverted to alternative routes. A large number of trucks and other vehicles were stranded on both sides of the highway. A number of farmers gathered at the new grain market in Ambala city, from where they marched towards various city markets to request the shopkeepers to keep their shops closed. Most of the grain markets of Ambala district, the wholesale cloth market, Sarafa bazaar, educational institutions and several commercial establishments remained closed. Shops also remained shut at some other places in Haryana, including in Karnal and Kurukshetra. In Amritsar, a large number of farmers held a protest near the Golden Gate, the entry point of the holy city. Farmer leader Sarwan Singh Pandher said the Centre should repeal the "black farm laws" without further delay. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the agitation, had earlier appealed to people to support the bandh. The bandh will be held from 6 am to 4 pm during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions will remain closed or suspended throughout the country, it had said. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief-and-rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies, will be exempted, it had added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-highways-squat-on-railway-tracks-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-1034712.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Farmers' call for Bharat Bandh has full support of Samajwadi Party: Akhilesh Yadav||Expressing his support to the farmers' agitation against three agriculture laws of the Centre and their "Bharat Bandh" call, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said the ruling BJP, which is not giving respect to farmers, has lost the moral right to remain in power. He also claimed that the farmers' movement has started becoming a cause of disintegration within the BJP "Samyukta Kisan Morcha's 'Bharat Bandh' has full support of the SP. The arrogant BJP, which is not giving respect to the 'annadata' (farmers) of the country, has lost the moral right to remain in power. The farmers' movement has started becoming a cause of disintegration within the BJP," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi with the hashtag #BJP_Khatam (BJP finished). संयुक्त किसान मोर्चा के ‘भारत बंद’ को सपा का पूर्ण समर्थन है। देश के अन्नदाता का मान न करनेवाली दंभी भाजपा सत्ता में बने रहने का नैतिक अधिकार खो चुकी है। The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmers' unions leading the 10-month-old agitation demanding a repeal of the three contentious farm laws, has given a call for the "Bharat Bandh" on Monday. In a separate tweet, Yadav regretted that the original form and quality of the "Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway", the foundation of which was laid by him, was compromised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "I am happy that the Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway, the foundation of which was laid to remove the poverty and backwardness of Purvanchal (eastern Uttar Pradesh), has been completed. But it is also sad that the BJP has compromised its original form and quality. The BJP does not know how to make way for development," he said, using the hashtag #sp_ka_kaam_janta_ke_naam (SP's work is for the people). पूर्वांचल की ग़रीबी व पिछड़ेपन को दूर करने के लिए जिस समाजवादी पूर्वांचल एक्सप्रेस वे का शिलान्यास किया था उसके पूरा होने की ख़ुशी है, पर ये दुख भी है कि भाजपा ने इसके मूल स्वरूप व गुणवत्ता से समझौता किया है। Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-has-full-support-of-samajwadi-party-akhilesh-yadav-1034731.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: A year on, farmers' stir stays strong||A year ago this time, farmers and farmer organisations across the country spurred independent India's largest protest(s) after the passage of the three contentious farm laws in Parliament. Led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and Bharatiya Kisan Union, farmers and their allies have said they will continue to protest the new legislatures till they are repealed. Protesters young and old have stood at the borders of Delhi over the last 10 months, weathering the region's harsh winter and the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Some hundreds of thousands of farmers, including women and children, descended on the national capital as part of the 'Dilli Challo' movement on November 25 last year. The farmers have since held a number of rallies and protests against the three farm laws, including the tractor rally on January 7, the infamous January 26 tractor parade and the relatively smaller protest held at Jantar Mantar during the monsoon session of Parliament last month. However, relations between the Centre and farm unions have thawed since the January 26 violence in the national capital, with many BJP politicians terming farmers from anti-nationals to terrorists. The tractor parade into Delhi on Republic Day, which was supposed to be a peaceful affair, turned violent after a group of protesters broke police barricades at the Sighu and Tikri border. Some protesters were also said to have pelted stones at policemen. They also vandalised a DTC bus on the way to Red Fort, where actor-activist Deep Sidhu and a few others scaled up the ramparts and hosted a Sikh flag alongside the tricolour. Delhi Police and other security forces subsequently dispersed the protesters with teargas and lathi-charge. 37 farm leaders were named in an FIR filed by Delhi Police the next day and several hundred individuals were detained, including Deep Sidhu and Laksha Sidhana — both of whom are now out on bail. Security around the Delhi border was beefed up further, with cops placing multiple concrete slabs and sheets of nails to prevent a repeat of the Republic Day violence.  Farm unions and the Union government, who last held a dialogue on January 22 — their 11th meeting — have yet to meet face-to-face since. Barring Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait's Mahapanchayats across Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and a few other states, protests against the three farm laws were far and few between. The farmers' protest returned to the limelight in July when they held a 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar. The stir that began on July 22 witnessed the attendance of hundreds of farmers apart from celebrities and Opposition leaders. Another protest in Karnal earlier this month took an ugly turn after an IAS officer was seen instructing cops to crack protesting farmers' heads open. Monday's Bharat Bandh is the largest protest since the second wave of the pandemic, which Tikait has already termed as 'successful.' Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-a-year-on-farmers-stir-stays-strong-1034737.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Trade unions stage protest at Jantar Mantar in support of farmers' Bharat Bandh call||A section of the trade unions and civil society groups held a protest at Jantar Mantar in solidarity with the "Bharat Bandh" called by farmers against three agriculture laws of the Centre. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the agitation against the tree contentious laws, had appealed to people on Thursday to join the bandh. Holding banners that read "Long Live Farmers Unity", demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and equal opportunities for all, the protesters held a march at Jantar Mantar. Organisations including the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the All India Kisan Sabha, the Janwadi Mahila Samiti and the United Trade Union Congress (UTUC) participated in the protest and also raised their voice against issues apart from those related to farmers. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders since November last year and demanding a repeal of the three farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agriculture reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two sides have failed to break the deadlock. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trade-unions-stage-protest-at-jantar-mantar-in-support-of-farmers-bharat-bandh-call-1034749.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||World Tourism Day: Now an app to ease sightseeing in Delhi||On World Tourism Day, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a mobile app that provides information about tourist spots along with their brief history, popular local cuisines, market places and heritage walks in the national capital. The 'Dekho Hamari Delhi' app will be useful for those visiting the city and will enhance the tourism experience, he said on Monday. Delhi is a historic as well as a modern city and has everything to offer -- from good food and markets to monuments. The only thing that was lacking was information, the chief minister said.  "That (gap) has now been plugged by this mobile app. It will show fun parks, eating joints, monuments, popular markets and even public conveniences within a 5 km radius near you.  "Not only for tourists, but this app will also be very useful for Delhiites. This kind of app is available only in a few cities around the globe," Kejriwal told a gathering at the Delhi secretariat auditorium. He appealed to the public to download the app and stressed that even Delhiites will find monuments and eateries which they were not aware of.  Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the tourism portfolio, said this app is like an "invitation for people to visit Delhi and live it". "Our government strives to give tourists from all over the world the best experience. Now tourists can plan their complete journey with one app," he said.  According to tourism department officials, Delhi was the fourth most visited place in the country in 2019. The mobile application has developed to brand Delhi as a tourist destination and its tagline is 'You don't just visit Delhi, You Experience It'. The app will provide all tourism-related information in one place. Besides historical sites, it will also show popular places, markets, eating joints and parks. Users will get a sneak peek into tourist destinations, including heritage sites, of Delhi through audio and videos on this platform. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/world-tourism-day-now-an-app-to-ease-sightseeing-in-delhi-1034751.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot's elder brother appears before ED in money laundering case||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's elder border Agrasain Gehlot appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Monday for questioning in a money laundering case probe against him and others that is linked to alleged fertiliser export irregularities, official sources said. His statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the sources said. The senior Gehlot, accompanied by a lawyer, appeared before the ED at around 11:30 AM. Agrasain Gehlot had been earlier questioned in this case but he had approached the court seeking relief from the ED action. The sources said that the Rajasthan High Court recently asked him to cooperate with the agency in the investigation as it directed the ED not to take any coercive action against him. The agency had raided his businesses located in Rajasthan in July last year. The raids came when a political slugfest was then on between CM Ashok Gehlot and his then deputy CM Sachin Pilot in the desert state. The ruling Congress in the state had said it will not be scared of such actions undertaken by central probe agencies. Agrasain Gehlot's son Anupam too had deposed before the agency in this case. The ED action of last year came after it filed a criminal case under the PMLA based on a 2007-09 Customs department case where it was alleged that irregularities took place in the procurement and export of subsidised Muriate of Potash (MOP) meant for farmers and investigation in this case was finalised in 2013. It took cognisance of the Customs FIR and a charge sheet (filed on July 13, 2020) in this case to press money laundering charges and probe a "smuggling syndicate" allegedly linked to Agrasain Gehlot, his firm Anupam Krishi and others. The agency had said the case pertained to fraudulent export of MOP, a restricted commodity for exports, in the guise of industrial salts to buyers based in Malaysia and Taiwan. Its export is restricted so that it is available to Indian farmers, they had said. Agency sources said Agrasain Gehlot and his firm were slapped with over Rs 60 crore in penalities by the Customs for these alleged export irregularities in 2013. It was alleged by ED sources that Gehlot's company allegedly "diverted" 35,000 metric tonnes of MOP that had a value of Rs 130 crore in the international market. The ED claimed that Gehlot, in his capacity of being a dealer, was the custodian of the MOP and was "solely responsible" for its proper distribution to the farmers and his alleged connivance with a company Saraf Impex Pvt Ltd and others resulted in the diversion of MOP that was imported by Indian Potash Limited at concessional rate of duty.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlots-elder-brother-appears-before-ed-in-money-laundering-case-1034768.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Kashmiris need not worry about situation along LoC: Army officer||The people of Kashmir do not have to worry about the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) as the Army is fully geared up to deal with any eventuality, a senior Army officer said on Monday. "The situation (along the LoC) is pretty good. We are fully geared up with our deployment and control. We don't have to worry, the people of Kashmir don't have to worry about what is happening on the LoC," General Officer Commanding of the Army's 15 Corps Lieutenant General D P Pandey told reporters at Boniyar in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district. He said "small" incidents keep on happening but the overall situation in Kashmir is good. "There is a heavy footfall of tourists, one can't get a room. People of Kashmir are happy, they have understood the game of the separatists. Nobody is with them (separatists) now. We should pray that things remain peaceful," Lt Gen. Pandey said. Earlier, the corps commander inaugurated the digital classrooms in 10 Army Goodwill Schools in Kashmir. "With the inception and impact of technology in all spheres of life, the Indian Army has also incorporated innovative changes in the existing learning and teaching techniques in Army Goodwill Schools. "In one such endeavour, the Indian Army, in collaboration with the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL), undertook a project to upgrade and digitise the classrooms in 10 Army Goodwill Schools of Kashmir Division in the districts of Baramulla, Kupwara, Bandipora and Anantnag," officials at the function said. They said the project included converting 128 classrooms into smart classes, which will revolutionise the teaching process. The project, which cost Rs 3.1 crore, was funded by the PGCIL through their CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiative and was executed by iDreams Limited, Gurugram. The work on the project commenced in March 2020. However, due to Covid-19, it was halted from April to September last year and the digitisation of all classrooms was finally completed by December. The key aspects of classrooms 2.0 are an enjoyable learning process, improved student engagement, attractive graphics, better instructional materials and ability to cater to all learning styles. "Sixteen Army Goodwill Schools out of a total of 28 have been digitised till date. We hope to digitise the remaining 12 also, so that all the children studying in these schools of the Kashmir valley can enjoy the benefits of the latest teaching techniques," the officials said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiris-need-not-worry-about-situation-along-loc-army-officer-1034773.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||As elections approach, parties in UP shun ‘criminal-politicians’||With the Yogi Adityanath government taking credit for cracking down on criminals and making it an election issue, political parties are now having a rethink on aligning with those who have a criminal background but also enjoy influence in their areas. BJP leaders, including the chief minister, have been lately making claims on how the Uttar Pradesh government has improved the state’s law and order situation by crushing the mafia and even demolishing unauthorised buildings owned by them. Adding heft to the state government’s claims, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh while speaking at a public meeting in Maharajganj last week had remarked that development requires good law and order and “criminals start trembling even in their sleep when they hear the name of Chief Minister Yogi". In a bid to distance herself from criminal elements, BSP chief Mayawati recently declared that her party will not field its jailed party MLA from Mau Mukhtar Ansari again in the assembly elections due early next year. She also tweeted that the BSP will not field bahubalis (strongmen) and mafia in the upcoming polls. Five-time MLA from Mau Mukhtar Ansari, who was accused in several serious cases, including the murder of MLA Krishnanand Rai of Ghazipur's Mohammadabad region in the year 2005, is currently lodged in Banda jail. However, smaller outfits like the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM are desperate to find their footing in the political scene of Uttar Pradesh and are not averse to wooing the the alleged criminals from bigger parties. The AIMIM has offered Mukhtar Ansari the seat of his choice while Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Omprakash Rajbhar, an old ally of the jailed legislator, has come out in his support. Besides Mukhtar Ansari, others who have continued to find their way to different houses with the support of political parties are Gyanpur (Bhadohi) MLA Vijay Mishra, Sayedaraja (Chandauli) MLA Sushil Singh, former Jaunpur MP Dhananjay Singh and Phulpur MP Atiq Ahmed. On August 28, Sibagatullah Ansari, the elder brother of Mukhtar Ansari and a two-time MLA from Ghazipur's Mohammadabad constituency, left the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the Samajwadi Party (SP) triggering speculations that the Akhilesh Yadav-led party will use the Ansari brothers, who have influence in eastern Uttar Pradesh, to polarise Muslim votes. When asked, SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said, “The SP never gives tickets to criminals. We believe in principle that criminalisation in politics is fatal for democracy. SP will not give tickets to criminals.” Senior spokesperson of the BJP, Harishchandra Srivastava told PTI: "Filing of a case is not a proof of a person being a criminal. Lawsuits are sometimes filed due to political reasons, but as far as BJP is concerned, it has always been against criminalisation of politics. In 2017, BJP gave the slogan of crime-free Uttar Pradesh.” When reminded that Ashok Singh Chandel got a BJP ticket from Hamirpur, Srivastava said, "I can't say if something has happened as an exception, but as a policy, the party is always against giving political cloaks to criminals and even in 2022 this policy will be followed.” Accused of murder, Chandel won from Hamirpur in the 2017 assembly election but was sentenced by the court and had to resign after being convicted. Similarly, Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who won from Bangermau in Unnao by contesting the election on a BJP ticket, had to resign after being convicted of rape. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said, "The Congress party will not give tickets to those detained in serious criminal cases.” According to the Association for Democratic Reform (ADR) report, 147 MLAs in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly have criminal cases registered against them. These include 83 of the BJP, 11 of the SP, four of the BSP and one of the Congress. According to ADR convenor Sanjay Singh, in 2017 the BSP gave tickets to 38 per cent people with criminal cases registered against them, followed by SP (37 per cent), BJP (36 per cent) and Congress (32 per cent). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-elections-approach-parties-in-up-shun-criminal-politicians-1034786.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||No major impact of Bharat Bandh in Madhya Pradesh; Bhopal, Indore unaffected||The Bharat Bandh call given by some farmer unions against the Centre's new farm laws had no major impact in Madhya Pradesh on Monday as day-to-day and commercial activities went on as usual. Eyewitnesses said road traffic was normal in the state capital Bhopal and commercial hub Indore. However, talking to PTI, Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shivkumar Kakkaji claimed, "The bandh called by farmers against the three laws and for demanding guaranteed MSP for crops has been successful.” He further claimed that the outfit had given relaxation from the shutdown to Bhopal as most of its residents are (private and government sector) employees and not farmers, but the protest was successful in the farming community-dominated small towns of Nimar region, Shahdol, Umaria, Raisen and Silwani. Kakkaji said he was sitting in the "control room" in Bhopal and was getting reports that the shutdown call was "successful", and added that no untoward incident was reported from anywhere. Peaceful protests were also seen in districts like Vidisha and Satna. The Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh's Indore unit president Rajkumar Patidar said they had planned to stage protests at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) campuses and other places, but the district administration did not give them permission for it. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) did not support the bandh. Its Indore-Ujjain unit president Kamal Singh Aanjna said," We want the issues related to farmers to be resolved through discussions with the government in a peaceful manner." To mark one year since the laws were passed, farmer organisations called a Bharat Bandh on Monday from 6 am to 4 pm. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. The government has projected them as major reforms, but the unions allege that the laws will leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates. Farmers have been protesting against the three laws on Delhi's borders since November last year.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-major-impact-of-bharat-bandh-in-madhya-pradesh-bhopal-indore-unaffected-1034801.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||East Delhi Mayor suspends 17 AAP members for alleged misconduct in EDMC House||East Delhi Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal on Monday suspended 17 AAP members of the EDMC for 15 days for allegedly creating ruckus and indulging in misconduct during the proceedings of the House, officials said. The 17 members also include nominated members of the opposition party, they said. The issue that led to chaotic scenes in the EDMC House is related to a temple in east Delhi. The EDMC House, ruled by the BJP, currently has 64 members. Civic elections are due next year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/east-delhi-mayor-suspends-17-aap-members-for-alleged-misconduct-in-edmc-house-1034828.html
27-09-2021||North and Central||Jitin Prasada is technical education minister in UP government||The charge of the Uttar Pradesh technical education department has been given to Jitin Prasada who was inducted into Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's council of ministers on Sunday after crossing over to the BJP from the Congress in June. The allocation of the department to Prasada was announced on Twitter by Adityanath on Monday. The portfolio was earlier held by Kamal Rani Varun who succumbed to Covid on August 2 last year. मा. कैबिनेट मंत्री श्री जितिन प्रसाद जी को प्राविधिक शिक्षा विभाग का दायित्व प्रदान किया गया है। आपको हार्दिक बधाई! Prasada along with six other ministers took the oath of office and secrecy at the Uttar Pradesh Raj Bhavan on Sunday. While Prasada was administered oath as a cabinet minister, the six others were sworn in as Ministers of State. Among the ministers of state, Chhatrpal Singh Gangwar has been given the revenue portfolio, Sanjeev Kumar got Social Welfare and SC & ST Welfare department while Dinesh Khatik got the charge of Jal Shakti and Flood Control, according to the chief minister's tweet. Paltu Ram has been given the Department of Sainik Welfare, Homeguard, Prantiya Raksha Dal and Civil Defence. Sangeeta Balwant has been the co-operative department, while the department of industrial development has been assigned to Dharamveer Prajapati. Congratulating the new ministers, Adityanath in another tweet said, "All the ministers, who were inducted on Sunday have been given the responsibility of their departments. I am confident that under your leadership, the development of the departments concern will touch new heights." Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel had administered oath to the new ministers at the Gandhi Auditorium in the Raj Bhawan on Sunday in the presence of the chief minister. With the latest inductions, the constitutional limit of having a maximum of 60 ministers in the state has been reached. Sunday's expansion of the Council of Ministers headed by Adityanath was the second expansion. The first one took place in August 2019. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jitin-prasada-is-technical-education-minister-in-up-government-1034907.html
27-09-2021||Oasis||Pitru Paksha, a tribute to our forefathers||On entering heaven after his death, Karna was offered a lot of gold for his good deeds on earth. However, his hungry soul pined for food. Lord Indra expressed regret, reminding him that he had donated a lot of gold but never food in his lifetime in memory of his ancestors. Karna confessed to not having done so, simply because he had no knowledge of who they were. To make amends, he was permitted to return to earth for 16 days and donate food and water in their memory. The Brahmapuran dedicates the dark fortnight of the waning moon during the month of Ashvin (7th in the Hindu lunar calendar) to pitru paksh or homage to our ancestors. Yama frees all souls to visit their children and accept food they offer at the shraadh ceremony. In the Atharva Veda, another way of food reaching the forefathers is explained:Tvamagna iditho jaathavedo Vaaidyani surbheenikritva/ Praada: pitrubhya//Meaning, “O admirable God of fire, you know how and in what condition my father resides. Whatever food we present as an offering, please reach it to him with your beneficence.” In Garudapuran it is said: Aayu: putraan yash: swarg kirti pushtim balam shriyam /Pashun soukhyam, dhanam praapnuyaat pitrupujanaat// This means that when shraadh is performed to their satisfaction, the deceased bless their successors with longevity, progeny, fame, salvation, heaven, glory, stability, strength, prosperity, cattle, happiness, money, growth and eternal blessings. There are six types of tarpan - offerings. Devtarpan makes an offering to water, air, Surya, Agni, Moon, energy and the gods that work selflessly for the welfare of mankind. Rishitarpan makes an offering to Narad, Charak, Vyas, Dadhichi, Sushrut, Vashisht, Vishwamitra, Panini and other rishis for their influences. Divyamanavtarpan is to thank all those who made sacrifices for the welfare of mankind such as the Pandavas, Raja Harishchandra, Janak and all historical heroes through the ages. Divyapitratarpan is for offerings to those forefathers who left behind great values and wealth for successors. Yamtarpan is for remembering the God of Death and to accept the principle of birth and death. Manushyapitratarpan is to thank all those connected to the family as relatives, teachers, friends and others. Having received so much from our chain of ancestry, a ceremony to offer gratitude is a small act indeed!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/pitru-paksha-a-tribute-to-our-forefathers-1034855.html
27-09-2021||Opinion||BJP's unravelling in Bengal and politics of defections||One can reasonably say that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is being paid back in its own coin in Bengal. Former Union minister Babul Supriyo is the fifth BJP leader to have recently defected to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after Mamata Banerjee scored a triumphant victory in the assembly elections earlier this year. The TMC’s third consecutive win set off the BJP’s unravelling in Bengal. Riding high on its 2019 Lok Sabha gains in the state — not to mention hubris — the BJP had expected to vote the TMC government out of power. The TMC’s assembly landslide not only put paid to the BJP’s aspirations. The defeat revealed glaring fault lines in the party’s campaign strategy as well. Most importantly, the result foregrounded the cultural hiatus between the BJP’s Hindi-speaking central leaders and Bengal’s homespun chief minister, who successfully used Bangla nationalism against those she described as “bohiragoto” (outsiders). Since the results, Bengal’s BJP leaders have been deserting the party one after another. The spate of defections brings home an important truth: that like other parts of the country, Bengal is susceptible to random switches in party loyalty. The process began in 2011 when the TMC defeated the Left Front government of 34 years, and large sections of Left cadres, even elected representatives, crossed over to the winning side. Next, when the BJP replaced the Communist Party of India-Marxists (CPI-M) as the TMC’s principal adversary, TMC cadres and leaders flocked to the new party on the block. Mamata Banerjee’s trusted aide Mukul Roy quit the TMC and joined the BJP in 2017. Following their defeat three years on, Roy rejoined the TMC in 2021. On a broader, national level, the BJP is no stranger to defections in electoral politics. The party’s own role in engineering defections from Congress-led governments has come in for some hard-hitting criticism. There are half a dozen states where, after coming to power at the Centre in 2014, the BJP transformed its minority status to a majority. To turn losses into gain, the BJP adopted a range of dubious tactics, destabilising and toppling elected Congress governments. Take the case of Madhya Pradesh, for instance, where a 22-member strong contingent of legislators loyal to Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the Congress last year. Scindia himself joined the BJP. The depletion in the ruling Congress ranks resulted in the BJP forming government. Given the backroom machinations preceding the takeover, the party’s feeble defence that it had nothing to do with the rebellion, and it was all Congress’s doing, cut little ice. A similar pattern of outmanoeuvring the Congress and grabbing power was seen in Karnataka (2018-19), Meghalaya (2018), Goa (2017) and Manipur (2017). In all these states, despite not having the numbers to form a government, the BJP edged the ruling Congress out and grabbed power. It’s not just the BJP that finds itself in the dock in this context. All political parties are busy playing the defection game. The practice has come to acquire such legitimacy that political parties appear like clones of private corporations. At the first whiff of misfortune, their employees are ready to explore lucrative options in other corporations/political entities. The attractiveness of financial and career mobility (read as the fruits of power) are what matter. The fundamentals of politics (or at least what they used to be)-ideology, principles, values-were thrown out the window a long time ago. Commenting on defection, media anchors and commentators usually talk about the professional dexterity of ‘Chanakyas’ in dominant parties, waxing eloquent about the skills of manipulators, driven by killer instinct and the will to dominate the political turf. The manoeuvres to whittle down and queer the pitch for competing rival parties are praised as evidence of animal spirits and the success of the art of realpolitik. Though electoral democracy intrinsically hinges on power, perhaps never before has the process been held hostage to such fecklessness. Elections now take place without the guarantee that the party voted in will endure the next five years. Representative politics has become subsumed in post-electoral manipulations. As long as voters continue to indulge mushrooming party-hoppers, the trend is unlikely to reverse. The public does not seem to care about the absence of integrity in the representatives they elect. Popular cynicism about politicians is at an all-time high. There was a time career politicians were looked down upon. Politics, it was innocently believed, was a higher calling, beckoning those who wished to serve the public, not themselves. That naivete has long been replaced by a different sensibility, by the creed of ‘politics for me and myself’. Public service be damned. In recent years, such charlatanism has come to be accepted, even rationalised, if not appreciated, as a means of toppling legitimately elected governments. It’s not that Indian democracy is suddenly bedevilled by defection or infiltrated by the Aaya Ram Gaya Ram culture. Indian politics, in the past, has been a narrative of a great many party hoppers. The lure of power and not conviction in one or another kind of politics has time and again shown up the vulnerability of electoral democracy. It must, however, be pointed out that the idea of defection is not a bad thing in itself. Leaving a political party and choosing another is not always negative. Blind obedience to political masters, regardless of principles, is not a virtue. The crucial question is: what motivates defections? Can power be the sole motivation behind quitting a party and moving to the side of the victor? If that is the case, elected governments will continue to remain vulnerable to the wiles of unscrupulous political players. And elections will become increasingly redundant.Ends (Monobina Gupta is the author of 'Left Politics in Bengal' and 'Didi: A Political Biography') Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjps-unravelling-in-bengal-and-politics-of-defections-1034717.html
27-09-2021||Opinion||Pitfalls of India's plan for palm oil self-sufficiency||Sri Lanka must have got their oil palm strategy utterly wrong as the nation takes conscious steps to withdraw from promoting these plantations. Why else would India come up with an oil-palm scheme that is diametrically opposite of its southern neighbour if not for a eureka moment of realisation and decide to invest more than Rs 11,000 crore to boost its productivity in the North-East and Andamans - two regions that share similar characteristics as Sri Lanka. Surely, somebody from the scheme formulation team must have analysed this development in a country well-versed in managing plantations including tea, rubber and coconut. Yet as India aims for atmanirbharta, an ingrained sustainability conundrum lies in this clamour for palm oil self-sufficiency. As plastic overtook our lives with elan, as fossil fuels permeate our lives, similarly palm oil is the very epitome of a processed product designed to increase our consumption levels beyond sustainable requirements. Market forces and our inability to shift our habits from an induced palm oil dependency to a palate where we can choose to eat, wear and consume products adapted to our traditional way of living is another lifestyle change as we steadily move away from whole foods. Just as the demand for plastic and fuel accelerated in the human desire for cheap, long-lasting and durable products, palm oil fills these very criteria for consumables, beauty products and access to processed food. As debates over sustainability proliferate worldwide, we find ourselves asking oft-repeated questions on a loop - why do we consume plastic knowing its negative impacts, why do we insist on purchasing fuel-guzzling SUVs and above all, why do we insist on eating a variety of biscuits, chips, and processed food derived from palm oil. Yet, palm oil is not the villain. It is a naturally occurring edible vegetable oil that comes from the fruit of the oil palm tree and has been used by human beings for thousands of years. But as with tea, coffee, turpentine from pine trees, apples and many more crops that found acceptance during the colonial era and were consequently planted across favourable climes, palm oil morphed into a lubricant for machinery and an ingredient for candle making. This set the wheels in motion, and the colonial rule established European led plantations in Central Africa and Southeast Asia, regions that also support large scapes of evergreen forests.  A species capable of providing benefits to humanity and used in sustainable quantities for millennia is now a rainforest gobbling industrial beast. It has overrun large parts of Indonesia and Malaysia, where plantations cover 17 million hectares, producing 85-90 per cent of the global palm oil output, covering almost half the area of Germany. It now threatens similar landscapes with heavy rainfall and suitable soil, an ominous shadow looming over Northeast India and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Yet, the recent push for palm oil lies in the centre of a strange twist of the interplay between finitude, fragility and fairness that make up the sustainability matrix. As the threat of global warming rose, developed nations strived to increase their usage of vegetable oils to wean away from finite fossil fuel resources.  Biodiesel became a buzzword in the early 2000s. Yet, it was soon realised that much of it was being grown under the garb of large scale forest conversion or existing agricultural practices. A case in point is the boom in soy demand in the United States which led to the diversion of all available soy into the biodiesel industry and the corresponding jump in palm oil demand from Southeast Asia. A resource as finite as land put a brake on the growing aspirations of the biodiesel industry while exposing the fragility of the land, which in several cases were wiped clean of their biodiversity. The continuing expansion of palm oil plantations raises questions of the fair treatment of displaced and dispossessed indigenous communities who have become palm-oil refugees of the modern era. In hindsight, a project deemed sustainable ended up ravaging large areas of old-growth forest in Southeast Asia while releasing more carbon that it could have avoided, thereby undermining its long term sustainability. Endangering animal life, destroying fragile habitats, disrupting livelihoods of indigenous people and ravaging forests, modern palm oil industry's stars are dependent upon the choice humankind makes on saving elephants, orangutans, birds, snakes and trees on the one hand and choosing to consume biscuits, chips, crackers, soaps, shampoos on the other. At the moment, nature and biodiversity appear to be on the losing side. There are fears these plantations will have a massive impact on the livelihoods of tribal communities and their forest. The food system and ecosystem will be affected, and community ownership will go to contract farmers who have money. Local communities will not understand the details of whether to resist or to accept palm oil in most cases. There will be vested people among the tribe who can mislead people.  Palm oil production jumped four times from 1995 to 2015 to 62.6 million tonnes and 74.6 million tonnes in 2019. It is expected to rise to 240 million tonnes in 2050. While the current rise took a toll on enormous amounts of forest in the past 20 years, jumping to 240 million tonnes entails the appropriation of new land in a land-scarce planet. A study reported that between 1990 and 2005, up to 60 per cent of palm oil expansion occurred at the expense of primary tropical rainforest. The economics behind this forecasted growth is astounding. For palm oil to remain economically viable, it needs to have access to cheap land, and forests are the only remaining cheap land left. On the other hand, draining, burning and diverting forests and peat swamps for palm oil leads to extensive fires, contributing to the global carbon emissions as more and more land comes under these plantations. It is no surprise that Indonesia is now the third-largest contributor of carbon to the atmosphere after China and the US, with the accelerated destruction of Borneo's forests contributing to the most significant single-year global increase in carbon emissions in two millennia. Yet, even for the most eternal of optimists, the threat is not what happened to the world's tropical forests in the past few decades but the shadow that looms over our forests now. Governments and banks continue to bat for palm oil production with the rapid conversion of forest lands underway. And the threat to undisturbed forests expands, even as most of the expansion happens far away from the public gaze.  India, which has a long history of plantation crops such as tobacco, tea, coffee, and apple ravaging nature, is keen to welcome palm oil in the Northeast and the Andaman islands. As the world's leading vegetable oil buyer, of which palm oil forms an astounding 60 per cent of the imports, the current focus appears to reduce dependency upon the palm oil-producing nations of Malaysia and Indonesia, fuelled by geopolitical and economic reasons.  The right note is being struck at forums with the country looking at an increase in palm oil to more than 11 lakh tonnes by 2025-26. However, the proposal by the National Mission on Edible Oils-Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) to extend cultivation by an additional 6.5 lakh hectares, an area almost as big as the state of Sikkim, needs to be carefully evaluated in a country considered extremely land scarce. Not very long ago, similar claims were made for Jatropha under the National Policy on Biofuels 2009. Paeans were written by energy consultancies, research institutes and biofuel enthusiasts on how this nondescript shrub would reduce our oil import and make India self-sufficient. A decade later, the experiment lies in shambles as only a paltry 0.5 Mha of the targeted 13.4 Mha (134 lakh hectare) could be brought under Jatropha cultivation by 2017. While many blame the unavailability of quality seeds as the primary reason for its failure, the fact that such vast swathes of so-called 'wasteland' do not exist cannot be overlooked.  Similar attempts have been made to promote palm oil plantations since 1991, and as a result, palm oil production has increased to 3.70 lakh hectares producing 3.65 lakh tonnes in 2020-21. Assessments suggest that India can increase the land under palm oil to around 28 lakh hectares. Concerns exist as the current definition of a forest in India includes oil palm plantations. As the palm oil rollout begins, how will these plantations be regarded - as forests or otherwise. If plantations could make a profit without harming local communities and local biodiversity, we would have certainly noticed it in the nearly 200 years old history of such land conversion. Various sustainability frameworks and ESG safeguards look great on paper, but monoculture plantations are fundamentally incompatible with biodiversity and human rights. Take any plantation - sugarcane, tea, rubber, avocado, palm oil, soya bean or timber or pulpwood - the story repeats everywhere across all spatio-temporal scales.  Of the many documentations of the ecological and societal risks associated with changing land use to plantations, a 2019 report by Oxfam points to workers on tea plantations in the Assam region of India systematically denied their rights to a living wage and decent working and living conditions. Like there is no clean coal, there are no benign plantations. In the middle of a climate breakdown, the authorities need to rethink the idea of planting endless rows of fast-growing biodiversity devastating monoculture palm trees in two of the most pristine places of India, thus adding to the pressure on already scarce land use, and worse, adding to the pressure on degraded forest lands. (Kunal Sharma is faculty at Azim Premji University. Sandip Chowdhury is working with the climate justice team of an INGO. Views expressed are personal and do not reflect that of his employer.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pitfalls-of-indias-plan-for-palm-oil-self-sufficiency-1034800.html
27-09-2021||Panorama||‘Covid-19 settling down as an endemic, third wave unlikely’||With just a fortnight for the start of the Dasara-Diwali festival season, worries about a possible third wave of Covid-19 are on everyone’s mind. In an interview with DH’s Kalyan Ray, one of India’s foremost virologists, T Jacob John, a former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, shared his views on the third wave, whether booster shots of Covid-19 vaccines are needed, and should the gap between the two doses be shortened. Excerpts: Do you foresee a third wave after the festival season? Is there a way to figure out what the scale of such a wave would be? Prediction of the future is an Indian pastime. We do not know how to predict future virus-human interactions because the past did not give us clear metrics. Between the first and second waves, the virus behaviour changed drastically and that could not be predicted. While other countries did not predict the "end of the problem" by January 2021, Indian oracles predicted the end of the problem, reflected by the assertion in the Davos Economic Forum in February 2021. After the second wave, the same oracles swung the pendulum to the other extreme and predicted “greater problem awaits India" by way of a third wave. Both predictions were unfounded and that illustrates that we in India do not have real oracles who collect all data with an eye on accuracy and then project forward, mainly to prepare for the next phase of the battle. Real (professional) oracles are missing in India. The UK and USA and all democracies in the western world have them as "epidemiologists, professional and government-employed" who are the real prophets of "public health". China has them in large numbers but not being a democracy, they are controlled by the State. India just does not "believe" in their profession and does not employ them. All well-trained ones work overseas or in Indian universities and institutes. Is Covid-19 becoming endemic in India? Will there be a requirement for annual shots like the influenza jabs in the USA? Whether oracles agree or not, nationally (except Kerala) our epidemic has settled down as "endemic" meaning low and relatively steady numbers not showing trend of going up but trend of coming down is compatible. Such a trend has been consistent over 11 consecutive weeks. A third wave is quite unlikely unless a super-transmissible variant, far more transmissible than Delta turns up. That is where all attention must be focused to keep all variants under watch. Regarding annual shots, I am no oracle but my hunch is that we will need a "booster dose" once for sure. Whether we will need any more will depend on study data -- longevity of robust immunity post-one booster. Sars-CoV-2 is quite unlike influenza in more than one way and my scientific knowledge tells me that annual boosters will not be needed. With multiple studies recommending double doses of the Covid-19 vaccines due to limited utility of the single-shot particularly when the epidemic is being driven by the Delta variant, is there a need to have a relook at India’s current vaccination strategy and shorten the gap between the two doses of Covishiled to maximise the number of people fully vaccinated (currently it is 60% vs 20%)? You are absolutely correct; we do not need an oracle to say that. Science calls for two doses as early as possible and for both Covishield and Covaxin it is four weeks. A High Court Judge in Kerala had no problem in figuring that out. Not only that -- if officials analyse severe Covid-19 cases with mortality, they will find that almost all are in persons not given two doses. Like Kerala, the officials must put an emphasis on reducing deaths and not just doing vaccination as a modern ritual. Men above 65 and persons with immune-suppressing diseases or treatments actually deserve the third dose. Will the number of breakthrough infections (Covid-19 cases two weeks after the second dose) increase among the general population as time passes and will a booster shot help? Everyone will gradually learn the new game, never played before -- universal adult vaccination. The Covid-19 experts in any country are not paediatricians well versed in the game. There are rules to go by. We know that all "non-replicating" vaccines given to children are by schedule of "primary series" and "boosters". Primary (actually priming) series are usually 3 doses. Even then immunity wanes over about one year or a bit more, and a booster is necessary in the second year of life. Covid-19 vaccines cannot be any different. Is it alright to reopen the school at all levels once the teachers and staff are vaccinated? In states like Delhi where schools have reopened (Std: IX to XII), the majority of the parents are still not sending their wards to the school. Are their fears justified? If all teaching and non-teaching staff are vaccinated (two doses) and also all grandparents and parents, then the schools must reopen as soon as possible, but not all at once but slowly and by testing the waters. If parents are not willing to send children then either the conditions have not been fulfilled or parents have not been informed. The order of reopening should be Anganwadis and primary schools first, with piloting a few and monitoring for two incubation periods -- two weeks -- and if the coast is clear, open all others. Next, reopen middle schools on a pilot basis and observe for two weeks. If everyone is convinced of the sky not falling, open all middle schools. Then all higher secondary can be opened as the skills and drills of infection prevention and monitoring are by now fully practised. What's the way out for Kerala to reduce its caseload and daily new infection count? Kerala has been doing a balancing act when festivals come. Eid was on July 20 -- the trend of daily numbers was unaltered post-Eid. Onam (August 20) is an "all religion" festival and lasts 10 days. It was followed by a spurt in infections (from August 25) that has now begun declining since September 10 and the trend I hope will sustain. The two-dose vaccination coverage as of now is 27% and as it increases, the decline in numbers will sustain. All hospitalizations are in persons not given two doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-settling-down-as-an-endemic-third-wave-unlikely-1034861.html
27-09-2021||Panorama||Mitigating impact of Covid-19 on education||Education is the fundamental right of every citizen of the county, and quality education is one of 17 global goals that make up the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Education makes an essential contribution to building democratic societies, where differences of opinion can be freely expressed and where a wide range of voices can be heard. This will ultimately lead to eliminating the differences or discriminations in gender, region, religion, language, wealth, etc. But does everyone have access to the quality of education? One in five children, adolescents, and youth has been entirely excluded from education. In developing countries, this is 1 in 4 for girls. The Global Education Monitoring (GEM) Report 2020 report stated that more than 264 million school-age students do not have access to education. Is this the same for all the social classes?  The GEM Report reveals that rich people have five times more access to early education than poor. It warns that education opportunities continue to be unequally distributed and barriers to quality education are still too high for many students. This is the situation before Covid-19, and it is even worst after that. More than 90% of the student population affected by Covid-19 due to school closures. UN Secretary-General António Guterres said that “the pandemic has created the most severe disruption in the world’s education systems in history and is threatening a loss of learning that may stretch beyond one generation of students.”  Due to nationwide and local lockdowns, nearly 1.5 billion school children were affected by school closures. In response to the unprecedented educational challenges created by school closures due to the Covid-19 pandemic, more than 90% of countries have implemented some form of remote learning policy. The people who could afford and have access to online education and its resources are continuing with their education without any interruptions, but this is not the case for everyone.  Globally, 72% of school children unable to access remote learning live in their countries’ poorest households. This is almost equal to three out of four children. For more than 463 million children whose schools closed due to Covid-19, “there was no such a thing as remote learning,” the head of the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) said in 2020 when the agency launched a new report outlining the limitations of remote learning and exposing the deep inequalities in access.  It is important to understand the characteristics and number of children who could not benefit from these remote learning policies so that the policies can be improved.  What can be done to make the situation better? The GEM report supported the implementation of policies like mid-day meals in some counties that improved the enrollment of students in schools. So, the governments may explore the possibilities of offering similar benefits to the students to continue their education from homes in this situation. If teachers and educated individuals can take the responsibility of teaching in their neighbourhood in tiny groups maintaining the social distance norms, this will have a more significant impact at a large scale over a long time. The TV-based remote learning policies had the potential to reach the highest proportion of students (62%), which accounts for almost 930 million students worldwide. This suggests television has a significant role in delivering education during school closures, even though this medium may not reach every student and does not offer a convenient way to transmit course materials.  It is very important to think about the future of the next generation. The governments and foreign direct investments should consider the need for urgent investment to bridge the digital divide. They should develop alternative learning tools or platforms to compensate every student.  (The writer is the Country Coordinator for Commonwealth Youth Peace Ambassador Network)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mitigating-impact-of-covid-19-on-education-1034862.html
27-09-2021||Right in the Middle||The tale of an ordinary woman||Two decades ago, when I was least expecting, the landline rang. It was “Ratnakka”, as she was popularly known in social circles. “Are you willing to play a role in a drama on behalf of our Mahila Sangha?” she asked. Having been a career lady with a day job in a bank, followed by domestic and children’s responsibilities, socialising had turned foreign to me. But a spark of excitement went through me as I recollected my teenage years wherein I had adorned the stage multiple times. Without much ado, I replied, "Yes!" She explained that it was a doctor’s role and I was thrilled, as it had been my childhood dream to become a medical doctor. Then followed the rehearsals at a common friend’s house wherein I ventured to ask her as to why she had selected me for the protagonist’s role as I was almost non-existent in the social circle. She laughed and replied frankly, “Oh, this sangha is a political hub, and as the president, I chose you as you are the only non-political person that I know of”. From then on, a mutually respectful relationship bloomed and I paid my obeisances to her whenever we met, as she was more than two decades older than me. We occasionally met at social or religious functions and she would at times reserve a seat for me at her side as I would invariably get lost trying to find a spot for lunch. She became Ratnatte to me. She would discuss issues bothering her with me as she knew that it would not go beyond me. I remember her eyebrows raised in appreciation when I told her that I was teaching at a business school. She would patronise me at religious ceremonies teaching me one or two things and I would follow meekly, which pleased her to no end. She had no children of her own but that did not bother her in any way. She motivated herself and became the central figure at all gatherings. She became the doyen of the “Lakshmi Shobhane” chanting culture which she relentlessly advocated every Friday at various people’s homes. A diminutive woman, not very literate, with a modest background, becoming a figure in demand is no mean task, but she accomplished this with the tool of self-motivation! At our last meeting, she was worried about her husband’s health. So recently when I got to know about her illness it saddened me as to why such a thing happened to a God-fearing lady, but I got my answer when the eternal gates opened for her on the auspicious Ashadh Ekadashi. God does not forget those who do not forget him!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-tale-of-an-ordinary-woman-1034860.html
27-09-2021||Second Edit||Air quality now even more of a concern||The World Health Organization’s (WHO) new Global Air Quality Guidelines (AQGs) have set the standards much higher than its existing benchmarks, and should alert the world to the threat of rising air pollution. The new guidelines are more stringent than the earlier recommendations made in 2005. They are based on the latest scientific studies on the impact of air pollution on health. According to the report, 90% of the world’s people live in areas with at least one especially harmful type of pollutants, such as particulate matter, sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide. The guidelines were revised because it has been found that much lower levels of pollution than given in the earlier guidelines can cause damage to health. According to the report, air pollution causes seven million premature deaths annually in the world. Disparities in pollution levels are increasing and low and middle-income countries are facing increasing threats from pollution due to urbanisation and the burning of fossil fuels.  India’s pollution levels are far above the WHO standards. They were so even before the new guidelines arrived. According to the World Air Quality Report 2020, 22 of the world’s 30 most polluted cities are in India, and Delhi is the most polluted capital city. Air pollution kills some two million Indians every year and is the fifth largest killer in the country. The acceptable PM (particulate matter) 2.5 exposure limit over 24 hours prescribed by the 2009 National Ambient Air Quality Standards is four times the new WHO limit. For exposure over a year-long period, it is eight times the revised threshold. The 2019 National Clean Air Programme aims to achieve a 20-30% reduction in PM 2.5 concentrations over the 2017 levels in 100 cities by 2024. But the programme does not have any legal mandate.  Air pollution has never been considered a major health hazard to be tackled on an urgent basis in the country. It is not just a health problem but seriously affects economic growth, too. Various studies have linked the state of air pollution to loss of GDP in states and cities. Climate change is going to make the situation worse in the coming years. So, it is necessary to evolve plans to counter air pollution and to implement them earnestly. This may pose challenges in a country with very diverse geo-climatic zones, but there is the need for effective action in the interest of public health and development. The new guidelines being prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board should be linked to the latest WHO norms, and the effort must be to formulate strategies on their basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/air-quality-now-even-more-of-a-concern-1034858.html
27-09-2021||South||Bharat Bandh: Public transport hit in Kerala||The hartal in Kerala supported by the ruling LDF and the opposition Congress-led UDF to express solidarity with the protesting farmers who have called a nationwide 'Bharat Bandh', started early Monday morning. Public transport, especially KSRTC bus services, was hit as almost all trade unions in the state are participating in the hartal, and people who had to travel opted for private modes of transport while others stayed home. Trade union leaders, like INTUC state president R Chandrasekharan, had on Saturday said the state-wide hartal would be peaceful and there would be no blocking of vehicles or forced shutting down of shops. While BJP had termed the hartal as "anti-people", the party's state General Secretary George Kurian on Saturday had said that while the trade unions affiliated to it are not supporting the strike, they would not be openly opposing it. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, spearheading the anti-farm agitation, announced "Bharat Bandh" on September 27 aiming at further strengthening and expanding the farmers' agitation which began in November last year. The protesting farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bharat-bandh-public-transport-hit-in-kerala-1034692.html
27-09-2021||South||Took inspiration from RINL plant to crack UPSC exam, says qualifier Lakshmi Soujanya||Many of us know RINL as yet another steel producing company, but M Lakshmi Soujanya — who has made it to the 2020 Civil Service Examination qualifiers' list — says the PSU's township has been a "pillar of support" for her and she took a lot of inspiration from its '24X7' running plant. Soujanya, daughter of M Venkata Rao who works as a senior manager at the Steel Melting Shop (SMS) 1 at RINL plant in Visakhapatnam, has scored 127th rank in the coveted UPSC examination, results for which were announced last week. Speaking to PTI, Soujanya said it was the RINL plant that gave her the steely resolve to crack one of the toughest examinations in the country. "Our plant functions 24X7 for all of us. I knew I have to prepare in a similar way for the exam," she said. The 32-year-old Soujanya was speaking from Tirupati in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. She also expressed her wish to "pay back" to the township where she was born and brought up. "RINL was always there like a pillar of support for me. Along with a few other previous UPSC qualifiers, I would like to set up a preparation centre in the township." The students looking to prepare for UPSC can get all study material and counselling from the centre, she said. Soujanya said Union Minister of Steel Faggan Singh Kulaste has also congratulated her on clearing the examination. In a telephonic conversation, the minister said "he is happy that someone from the steel family has made it to the examination. He said to me it is time to pay back to the nation and society," she said. Speaking further about her experience at the RINL township, Soujanya said she has spent her childhood there. She has done her schooling from DAV Public School located in the plant area. After schooling, she went to NIT Warangal to pursue B-Tech in Computer Science from where she went to take up a job in a private company. When asked how she made up her mind for the examination, the engineering graduate replied "I was working with a company in Bengaluru. I had come to Visakhapatnam during the holidays when my uncle asked me to try for UPSC. I took it seriously and quit my job. I worked there till 2016." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/took-inspiration-from-rinl-plant-to-crack-upsc-exam-says-qualifier-lakshmi-soujanya-1034724.html
27-09-2021||South||Supreme Court grants 4 months time to TN poll panel to conduct local body elections||The Supreme Court on Monday granted four more months to the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission's (TNSEC) for concluding the poll process for the urban local body elections in the state. The top court, on June 22, had granted an opportunity to the TNSEC to conduct by September 15 this year the local body polls in nine new districts carved out of four existing ones in Tamil Nadu and had warned it of contempt action in case of non-compliance. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli took note of the submissions that now six more municipal corporations and 28 new municipalities have been added and some more time would be needed to complete the poll-related formalities. “Even if the reasons are very silly, we want to give some more time,” the bench said and asked senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the state poll panel, as to how much time he wanted for the TNSEC. Please grant time till April end of next year, Rohatgi said. “Four months time,” the CJI said, which was accepted by the state poll panel. During a brief hearing, the bench expressed surprise over the consent of the PIL petitioner S Shankar, who had earlier filed the plea for holding of the local body elections, in the grant of extra time to the poll panel. "Mr (P) Wilson (senior advocate) you have filed this petition for election. Now you are agreeing for the time and the adjournment," the bench observed. The senior lawyer said the poll panel has to conduct elections for more than 600 urban bodies and now, six municipal corporations, 28 municipalities have been constituted and it will lead to a decrease in the number of existing 528 town panchayats in the state. Earlier, the bench had taken strong note of TNSEC plea seeking 6 to 7 months more for concluding processes related to local body elections, saying the government can go for all elections except the local bodies. “The government can do anything it wants to do. But whenever the issue of local bodies elections comes up, they say, no, no,” the bench had said. “This court vide order dated June 22, 2021, while disposing of the miscellaneous application, granted an extension of time till 15th September 2021 to complete the entire process including publication/notification of election schedule and the result thereof before 15th September 2021 as the Constitutional mandate to conduct elections in a time-bound manner cannot be defeated in any manner,” the bench had said in its order. The order had taken note of the September 13 notification of the TNSEC which said that no order was required to be passed as elections for rural local bodies were underway. “So far as prayer (ii) in the said application is concerned, Senior counsel appearing for Mr S Shankar is directed to file an affidavit within a period of two days from today. List the matter after two days,” the court had said on September 20. The state poll panel seeks time for carrying out the preparatory works to complete the election process for urban local bodies as ordered by the top court. A vacation bench, on June 22, had granted one more opportunity to the TNSEC to conduct by September 15 the local body polls in nine new districts carved out of four existing ones and had warned it of contempt action. “We grant an extension of time till 15th September 2021 to complete the entire process including publication/notification of election schedule and the result thereof before 15th September 2021 as the Constitutional mandate to conduct elections in a time-bound manner cannot be defeated in this manner,” the bench had said. The top court was then hearing an application filed by the TNSEC seeking an extension of six months to hold elections to the local bodies in the nine newly carved out districts of the state. It had then noted the order of the top court passed on December 6, 2019, and had said that instead of four months given to hold the elections, the poll panel has taken 18 months. It had also been noted that the tenure of the local bodies expired in 2018-19 and since then there were no new elected representatives. The bench had said that if the order of the court is not complied with, then the poll body will be liable for contempt action. On December 11, 2019, the top court had directed the Tamil Nadu government and the state poll panel to conduct upcoming local bodies' elections by relying on the 2011 census instead of the 1991 census as alleged by the then opposition party DMK. The court's earlier order had come on the plea of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which had then sought quashing of the notification, issued by the state poll panel on December 7, 2019, for local body election alleging that it did not provide quota for women and SC and ST candidates as per the 2011 census and was using 1991 census for this purpose. The top court, on December 6, 2019, had put on hold the elections for the local bodies in nine new districts, carved out of four existing ones, in the state for complying with legal formalities such as delimitation and reservation in four months. The top court had modified its earlier order and asked the delimitation commission to conclude the delimitation exercise within three months instead of four months in nine districts. It had been said however that TNSEC could proceed with the elections to all panchayats at the village, intermediate, and district levels in the remaining 31 revenue districts of the southern state. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-grants-4-months-time-to-tn-poll-panel-to-conduct-local-body-elections-1034748.html
27-09-2021||South||Kerala fake antiques seller was allegedly known to cops, MPs||A man held by police on Saturday accused of cheating several individuals by collecting around Rs 10 crore after claiming to possess centuries-old antiques is allegedly connected to prominent personalities in Kerala, including MPs and IPS officers. Pictures of the accused with these prominent personalities have begun to surface online and those who were cheated had stated to the police that the accused used his connection to these well-placed individuals to convince his victims that his antiques were genuine. Monson Chacko alias Monson Mavungal, 52, a native of Alappuzha district in Kerala, was held by the Kerala Police's Crime Branch during the late hours of Saturday. A massive collection of 'antiques' at his home-turned-museum in Kochi were found to be fake ones. It included the 'Throne of Tipu Sultan', a watch costing Rs 30 crore and the first telephone of India. Most of them were suspected to be made by local carpenters. He had also claimed in some videos that he was in possession of a couple of silver coins that Judas received for betraying Jesus Christ and clothes used to wipe the blood of Jesus Christ. Around ten cars luxury cars were found on the premises of his houses. It was suspected that many were actually those damaged in floods and worn-out cars which were purchased for a throw-away price. Though he claimed to be heading an organisation of Non-Resident Indians, it was found that he did not even have a genuine passport. His claim that he was having a doctorate was also found to be false and his educational qualification is still unknown. Four persons had complained that Mavungal cheated them by collecting over Rs 5 crore after convincing them that Rs 2.62 lakh crore due to him as proceeds for the sale of antiques to royal families in countries like UAE was held up due to technical and procedural issues and the money was required to clear it. One of the petitioners, Shammer, said that whenever they raised suspicions over his dealing, Mavungal convinced them otherwise by using his links with prominent people. A portion of the money was even handed over in the presence of a Congress MP holding a key party position. A picture of Mavungal with a minister in Kerala also came out. There were also allegations of attempts by a couple of senior police officers to sabotage the investigation by changing the investigation officer. But the investigation was later transferred to Crime Branch after those who were cheated petitioned higher-ups. Pictures of senior IPS officers at Mavungal's home have also surfaced. There were also unconfirmed reports that some senior police officers were present at Monson's house in connection with a ceremony when the Crime Branch team reached there to nab him. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-fake-antiques-seller-was-allegedly-known-to-cops-mps-1034777.html
27-09-2021||South||Man sets himself on fire near TN CM Stalin's residence||A man whose nomination to contest the rural civic poll in Tuticorin District was rejected, set himself on fire near Chief Minister M K Stalin's residence on Monday, creating a flutter. Identified later as A Vetrimaran, he got close to the house of Stalin on Chittaranjan Salai and took the extreme step to press his claim for acceptance of his nomination to contest for the post of village panchayat president, a release said. Police personnel in the vicinity doused the fire and rushed him to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, where Health Minister Ma Subramanian visited him. Rural civic polls are set to be held on October 6 and 9 in Tamil Nadu. The 'ordinary' civic polls cover nine reconstituted districts in addition to polls to fill vacancies (casual election) in 28 other districts. Belonging to Jameen Thevar Kulam village in Kovilpatti taluk of Tuticorin district, Vetrimaran alleged (in a representation addressed to Stalin) that the nomination papers filed by him and his wife were rejected by an official and sought immediate acceptance of their papers. This is to contest for the post of village panchayat president, reserved for Scheduled Castes. He also named a few persons and alleged threat from them to kill him and sought action. In a video clip made available to the media, the Minister was heard assuring the man in the hospital that his grievance would be addressed and advised him to get treated for his wounds. "First, take care of your health," the Minister said. Vetrimaran told Subramanian that he headed an outfit, the Tamil Nadu Parayar Peravai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-sets-himself-on-fire-near-tn-cm-stalins-residence-1034804.html
27-09-2021||South||Hartal in support of Bharat Bandh on World Tourism Day sparks resentment in Kerala||As normal life in Kerala was affected on Monday with the ruling left-front and opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front observing dawn to dusk hartal in support of the Bharat Bandh of farmers organisations, the political leadership is being widely flayed for observing a hartal on the World Tourism Day. Kerala tourism has been initiating a series of initiatives like caravan tourism that offers luxury caravans to tourists as part of its efforts to revive the sector that was hit by back-to-back calamities, Nipah and Covid over the last few years. But a hartal that brings the state to a standstill would be sending a bad impression about the state, lamented those in the hospitality sector. Unlike many other states, hartals often invoke much support in Kerala with life being badly hit. On Monday also public transport services remained off roads and shops and commercial enterprises remained closed. Though political leadership announced exemption to tourism sector from hartal, the ground reality said otherwise. Around 100 hartals, including local and state-wide, were observed in the Kerala annually over the last several years. Abraham George, former president of the Kerala Travel Mart Society, said that it was unfortunate that it was a hartal in Kerala on the World Tourism Day. It would send wrong message especially when efforts were made to revive the sector. Most tourists plan vacations much in advance and hence the hartals would torpedo their plans. Resentment of the people towards hartals has also triggered a strong campaign against the state political leadership on the social media. Many accused that while the world was celebrating the day of travel, in Kerala the political leadership was curtailing people's freedom of movement. A tourism department official pointed out that during time of recent election campaign the political parties in Kerala decided to keep off from nationwide stirs as part of the farmer's stir. But no such consideration was shown to the tourism industry while observing a hartal on the World Tourism Day. Even as the Kerala High Court disposed of a petition challenging the hartal considering the state government's submission that adequate permission would be ensured to those who do not want to join the stir, on Monday hartal supporters even ransacked a private office in Kerala for functioning on hartal. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hartal-in-support-of-bharat-bandh-on-world-tourism-day-sparks-resentment-in-kerala-1034811.html
27-09-2021||South||Tamil Nadu firm to set up unit in Hosur for supplying components for Boeing||Tamil Nadu-based Aerospace Engineers Private Limited has won a long-term contract from Boeing, the world’s largest commercial and defence aircraft manufacturer, to produce and supply critical aviation components and parts. The company will invest Rs 150 crore for setting up the new factory at Hosur, the industrial city located just outside Bengaluru, and expanding its existing Salem facility over the next 24 months that will generate employment for 1,000 persons. The state government is already working on transforming Hosur into a hub for manufacturers of electric scooters and their accessories.  This is the first time that a company based out of Tamil Nadu is entering into a direct contract with Boeing. Aerospace Engineers Private Limited, which is an MSME unit based in Salem, handed over the contract order to Chief Minister M K Stalin at the Secretariat here on Monday.  Government officials said the contract won by the Salem-based company is a boost to the state government’s aerospace policy and Stalin’s dream of ‘Make in Tamil Nadu’ products making it to every part of the globe.  The state government is developing an aerospace park in Sriperumbudur near Chennai for making the state a major hub for manufacturing components for the aerospace industry. Officials said 14 plots have so far been allocated to aerospace industries of which two firms have launched production.  “This contract is a testament to the commitment to quality, precision, and collaborative culture of MSMEs in Tamil Nadu. The cooperation between Aerospace Engineers Private Limited and Boeing is a significant milestone and will provide an impetus to the growing aerospace and defence ecosystem in Salem & Hosur and Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor,” a senior official said.  Aerospace Engineers Private Limited was started in 1988 and is dedicated to manufacturing and supplying high-precision and high-quality parts and sub-assemblies to customers in the aerospace and defence industry. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-firm-to-set-up-unit-in-hosur-for-supplying-components-for-boeing-1034822.html
27-09-2021||South||DMK candidates elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha from Tamil Nadu||Two DMK candidates – Dr Kanimozhi N V N Somu and K R N Rajeshkumar – were on Monday elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha in the by-elections held to two seats. Both candidates were elected as no other candidate filed nomination papers to fill the two seats that fell vacant earlier this year. With the unanimous election of Kanimozhi and Rajeshkumar, the DMK’s strength in Rajya Sabha will now be 10. The announcement was made as the last day for withdrawal of nominations ended on Monday. The by-elections were necessitated after two AIADMK members – R Vaithilingam and K P Munusamy – resigned their posts following their election to the Tamil Nadu Assembly. While Vaithilingam’s tenure ends in 2022, Munusamy’s tenure is till 2026. A press release from the Assembly Secretariat had said Kanimozhi filed nomination for the seat vacated by Munusamy, while Rajeshkumar is in contention for the seat resigned by Vaithilingam. Out of the total 18 Rajya Sabha seats from Tamil Nadu, eight are currently held by DMK and five by AIADMK, while PMK, Tamil Maanila Congress, and MDMK hold one seat each. Kanimozhi and Rajeshkumar were announced elected unopposed today. Kanimozhi, who unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections twice in 2011 and 2016, is the granddaughter of N V Natarajan, who is one of the five leaders along with C N Annadurai and V R Nedunchezhian formed the DMK in 1949 after quitting the Dravidar Kazhagam then led by social reformer E V R Periyar. Kanimozhi’s father N V N Somu was Union Minister of State for Defence during the United Front government. He died in a helicopter crash in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh while on an official visit. Rajeshkumar is in charge of the DMK’s unit in Namakkal district and his nomination is significant given the party makes a concerted effort to make further inroads in the western region, a bastion of the AIADMK. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-candidates-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha-from-tamil-nadu-1034836.html
27-09-2021||South||After supporting farm bills in Parliament last year, YSRCP backs Bharat Bandh||Exactly a year after supporting the passage of the controversial farm bills in Parliament, the YSRCP government of Jaganmohan Reddy has on Monday extended support for the Bharat Bandh observed to fight back against the legislation. The shutdown was peaceful in Andhra Pradesh with schools closed and state road transport services suspended till afternoon. Normal life was affected as shops and establishments too downed their shutters for first half of the day. On Saturday, minister for information and transport Perni Venkataramaiah stated that the YSRCP government has declared its total support for the bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions on agitation near New Delhi for the past several months. The minister said that his government and party support the concern of the farmers and also the workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, which the Narendra Modi government has planned to privatise. In September 2020, the YSRCP, which has a strength of 22 Lok Sabha MPs and six Rajya Sabha MPs, had supported the centre on the two farm bills, like it had backed the Citizenship Amendment Act earlier. The YSRCP had changed its position on CAA too later, calling it discriminatory. The fresh U-turn has attracted criticism from the BJP. “With what authority is the YSRCP, which had then supported the farm bills, is now backing the Bharat Bandh?,” questioned state unit chief Somu Veerraju. Somu also shared a video clip of YSRCP Parliamentary leader Vijayasai Reddy stating his party's endorsement for the bills in Rajya Sabha. Non-BJP parties like the TDP, Left have held protests in support of the bandh in AP. The ruling TRS party had opposed the farm bills in Parliament. Congress and Left parties organised protests in some places but overall the bandh call evoked tepid response in Telangana, while the K Chandrasekhar Rao government remained distant from the bandh call. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-supporting-farm-bills-in-parliament-last-year-ysrcp-backs-bharat-bandh-1034838.html
27-09-2021||South||Functioning style of Congress leadership in Kerala triggers criticism||Resentment in Kerala Congress over the style of functioning of the new state leaders aggravated further on Monday as another senior leader openly flayed the leadership even when efforts to pacify a disgruntled senior leader was not yet fruitful despite intervention of the national leadership. Former Kerala PCC president Mullapally Ramachandran on Monday came out in the open against the Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran for accusing him of not attending phone calls and not utilising the opportunities given for discussions on revamping the party. Ramachandran told reporters that it was improper to give time slots to senior leaders for discussions by the Kerala PCC president and he would be the last person to turn up for such a discussion. Nobody would also tell that I would not attend phone calls, he said. Ramachandran made the comments along with AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar who called on him at his residence in Thiruvananthapuram. Anwar also called on another former Kerala PCC president, V M Sudheeran, who had quit from the political affairs committee earlier. Sudheeran imposed further pressure by resigning from the AICC as well. After the closed door talks with Anwar, Sudheeran said that he had raised his concerns with the national leadership, especially with regard to lack of proper consultations by the state leadership on matters like selection of the state and district officer bearers. The approach and functioning style of the new leadership was not in the right direction. He also said that he would take a decision on withdrawing his resignation after the national leadership's decision on the issues he raised come. Anwar said that the suggestions made by Sudheeran was being considered seriously by the party. The national leadership earlier backed the new state leadership comprising of Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan when there was resentment from senior leaders like Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala over the selection of district committee presidents. But now, the national leadership is making serious intervention as more leaders, including party MPs, sought the its intervention to stop the resentment from aggravating further. Already, four leaders left the party during the last few weeks and three had also joined the CPI(M). The major discontent among the senior Congress leaders, who have been running the show over these years, was that they were not being involved in finalising the list of new office bearers though their suggestions were sought by the Sudhakaran-Satheesan leadership. Moreover, both the leaders were also making open statements ignoring the senior leaders. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/functioning-style-of-congress-leadership-in-kerala-triggers-criticism-1034852.html
27-09-2021||South||Kerala allows people to carry electric scooters and cycles by bus||In a move that could make bus journey more attractive, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation has decided to allow passengers to carry cycles and e-scooters in buses. Transport Minister Antony Raju said that the facility would be made available from November in Scania and Volvo buses to Bengaluru as well as long distance low-floor buses. Fares would be fixed for carrying the vehicles. The Kerala SRTC also decided to withdraw a hike in bus charges that was imposed to tide over the crisis caused by Covid. Meanwhile, a proposal to hike the bus charges was under government's consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-allows-people-to-carry-electric-scooters-and-cycles-by-bus-1034863.html
27-09-2021||South||Cyclone Gulab: Telangana announces holiday for schools, colleges and offices on Tuesday||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that all the government offices and educational institutions across the state would remain closed on Tuesday because of the incessant rains. Heavy rains are being recorded in many parts of the state, including Hyderabad, since Monday morning, due to the effect of the cyclone Gulab. The storm from the Bay of Bengal had crossed the Andhra Pradesh shore at Kalingapatnam late evening on Sunday. The remnant of the cyclonic system has by Monday evening weakened into a depression over north Telangana, adjoining south Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha, causing heavy to very heavy rains in these regions. A high alert warning has been issued in Hyderabad as heavy rainfall is predicted for two more days. Several roads and colonies are already flooded causing traffic jams and other troubles for the public. Rain water has stagnated in many places like Khairatabad, Mallepalli, LB Nagar, Yousufguda, Attapur. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has deployed 170 monsoon teams to attend to contingencies, and has set up 30 relief centres for the people needing evacuation from low lying areas. 202 motor pump sets were also dispatched to various locations in the city for draining out the stagnated water. City police commissioner Anjani Kumar and GHMC mayor G Vijaya Lakshmi have appealed to the public not to venture out unless necessary. Chief Minister Rao reviewed the heavy rains situation with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other officials. Rao ordered for the closure of all the government offices, and schools, colleges in the state on Tuesday. "However, departments like the revenue, police, fire services, municipal, Panchayati Raj, irrigation, roads and buildings would be on emergency duty to ensure that no property or lives are lost due to heavy rains." Meanwhile IMD officials said that Gulab, now a depression, is likely to move west-northwestwards and further weaken into a well marked low pressure area on Tuesday. “The system is likely to emerge into northeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Gujarat coast around 30 September evening and there is likelihood for the system to further intensify over northeast Arabian Sea during the subsequent 24 hours,” IMD's Monday evening bulletin said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-gulab-telangana-announces-holiday-for-schools-colleges-and-offices-on-tuesday-1034888.html
27-09-2021||State||Despite normal monsoon, rain-related queries shot up by 15%||Despite witnessing a normal monsoon, Karnataka witnessed a 15 per cent increase in queries pertaining to monsoon. With untimely rains and prolonged cloudy conditions, farmers were apprehensive about the erratic pattern and unpredictable rainfall and repeatedly called up “Varuna Mitra”  a rain-related helpline set up at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). As per the records made available to DH by the KSNDMC, the helpline received about 8.14 lakh calls during this monsoon season. Interestingly, July witnessed the highest number of calls as several districts received excess rainfall during the month. During the 2020 monsoon, the helpline had received only 6.92 lakh calls, according to officials. “Almost 95 per cent of the calls to the helpline are made by farmers to find out when rainfall begins and stops in their region,” the operators said. However, this year, most farmers were worried about when the cloudy conditions would be cleared as cloudy conditions prevailed for a long time in the state due to various systems. The Varuna Mitra helpline receives 7,000 to 10,000 calls every day and 90 per cent of the calls are completed within 120 seconds, said the officials of KSNDMC. The helpline operates on a 24/7 basis with 32 parallel phone lines. The number of calls received by the helplines has seen a steady increase in the last five years - except for a dip in 2019 - with an average of 6,27,701 calls. The highest calls were received from the Ballari, Tumakuru, Kalaburagi, Raichur and Vijayapura districts. “Farmers use our weather information to decide on sowing, manuring and irrigation, harvest and drying. It is simple, but very crucial information for them as it will decide their year-long hard work,” Manoj Ranjan, Director, KSNDMC said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/despite-normal-monsoon-rain-related-queries-shot-up-by-15-1034886.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to have R&D policy: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that an R&D policy would be formulated to unleash research and development activities across the State in all sectors. "As many as 180 R&D centres of both public and private sectors are in and around Bengaluru. This is also a major reason for the growth of IT-BT sector in Bengaluru. R&D activities in industry, agriculture and other sectors also have to be promoted across the State," he said. Hubballi-based KLE Technological University (KLETU) vice-chancellor Ashok Shettar may be appinted as the chief of the taskforce to frame the R&D policy, Bommai said.  He was speaking after formally inaugurating KLE Tech Park and 75th anniversary celebrations of BVBCET (now KLETU). On startups "A large number of startups are also situated in Bengaluru. I want to develop Hubballi and Kalaburagi as regional centres of startups. I will hold discussions with higher education minister and IT Department officials in this regard," Bommai added.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-have-rd-policy-cm-bommai-1034763.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2023 Assembly polls will usher in new era in Karnataka, Kannadigas own party will come to power: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday said that the 2023 Assembly polls will usher in a new era in Karnataka with "Kannadigas' own party" coming to power in the state, and set a target of winning at least 123 seats. The JD(S) has organised "Janata Parva 1.0", a four-day workshop for party leaders near here, aimed at bringing it to power in 2023, that was inaugurated by party patriarch and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda. "...we will work hard for the next 17 months and get involved in various party activities non-stop. We are confident about being successful in bringing a government that will be by Kannadigas for Karnataka in 2023, through the JD(S)," Kumaraswamy said. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the event, he said, "Our party's goal is 123 seats (in 224 member Assembly) for 2023. It can be 123 plus, not minus. With this focus we have started our activities....from 2023 a new era will begin in Karnataka with Kanndaigas' own party coming to power." Pointing at regional parties gaining power in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, he said "bringing a government of regional identity, by Kannadigas, of Kannadigas and for Karnnadigas in Karnataka in 2023 is the target. We want to clear the doubts about the ability of JD(S), a party with regional identity, to come to power in Karnataka." Noting that party organisation work had taken a back seat in the last two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Kumaraswamy pointed out that the 2023 elections are fast approaching and there are only 17 months left for it. He said the first set of candidates identified from the workshop will be coached on how to be closer to people in their constituencies. They will be given all kinds of training to build leadership qualities in them in a disciplined manner. "Despite all this training, if the identified candidate is not performing duties as per the party's expectations, there are provisions to change them," he said. The idea behind the training was to update probable candidates on the use of new technology and social media for connecting with the people, aimed at equipping them for the new kind of election system, he said. Pointing to the rise of DMK in Tamil Nadu, Mamata Banerjee's TMC in West Bengal and BJP's growth from the Jan Sangh established by Shyama Prasad Mukherjee 70 years ago, to it now coming to power under Narendra Modi, he said "ours (JDS or its earlier form Janata Parivar) is a party known for its people friendly programmes. We have set right certain lapses that are there within us." As a fist step in this process, the JD(S) wants to train cadres to ensure they are actively involved in all party activities in the next 18 months, with an intention to being it to power, he added. Stating that there is talk within the party that people gather wherever Kumaraswamy goes to various places, but it does not convert into votes, the JD(S) legislature party leader said this "fault" needs to be rectified, during the coming 2023 polls. Meanwhile, JD(S) supremo Deve Gowda, addressing the inaugural event said several attempts have been made to divide the party, but it has "God's grace". He questioned the integrity and moral rights of his detractors in the Congress, especially bête noire Siddaramaiah, accusing them of speaking lightly about him and his party and calling JD(S) the "B-team" of BJP. "...your party (Congress) has an understanding with Shiv Sena... what type of secularism is that? You said Deve Gowda is the B-team of BJP. You want to finish my party, tell the truth Siddaramaiah. Despite doing everything to project me as B-team, you (Congress) got only 78 seats in the 2018 Assembly polls...how long will you say such things? I'm alive.. I will come to every district and tell the truth and relevance of JD(S), he said. Gowda recalled that he began as an ordinary contractor in Hassan and how he organised people and urged the cadres to learn how to organise the party and start working. "...Don't run away from the responsibility given to you, and work with discipline," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2023-assembly-polls-will-usher-in-new-era-in-karnataka-kannadigas-own-party-will-come-to-power-kumaraswamy-1034797.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After 2 weeks, Karnataka’s daily new Covid-19 cases goes below 600||Karnataka logged 504 new Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths on Monday, taking the total number of infections to 29,73,899 and the toll to 37,746. The last time the state reported cases below 600 was on September 14, when it had 559 cases. The day also saw 893 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state, so far, to 29,23,320. Out of the 504 new cases reported on Monday, 181 were from Bengaluru Urban. Bengaluru Urban saw 265 discharges and five deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 12,804. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.48% and the case fatality rate was 3.96%. Dakshina Kannada reported 4 deaths, followed by Mysuru (3), Mandya (2) and six other districts reporting one death each. Among new cases, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 83 cases, Mysuru 47, Udupi 24, Kodagu 26 and Uttara Kannada 12, followed by others. A total of 4,72,99,938 samples have been tested for Covid in the state so far, out of which 1,03,800 tests were done on Monday alone. The state administered 2,89,224 vaccine doses on Monday, taking the total doses administered so far to 5,49,09,158. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-2-weeks-karnataka-s-daily-new-covid-19-cases-goes-below-600-1034874.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Support galore but bandh fails to impact life in Karnataka||The nationwide bandh called by farmer unions, protesting against amendments to the farm laws, did not impact the normal life in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka on Monday. However, the daylong protest evoked support with many lending their moral support to the farmers’ outcry. In Karnataka, the bandh was supported by farmer unions, pro-Kannada organisations, progressive groups, Left parties, Congress and JD(S) leaders. Taking to streets since early in the morning, farmers dumped agricultural produce on the roads and registered their dissent against the centre. In Chitradurga, farmers garlanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s portrait with onion. Flower growers in Chikkaballpur dumped quintals of flowers on the road and staged protest.   The dharna by the protesters on roads affected the movement of buses and trains for a few hours. In Bengaluru, the police stopped Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha president Kodihalli Chandrashekar and others near KR Puram while they were trying to take out a protest rally. He was asked to go to the Town Hall in his own vehicle. Similarly, another farmer leader Kuruburu Shanthakumar was detained near Maurya Circle while trying to block the road.  The city police, led by Commissioner Kamal Pant along with additional commissioners and DCPs, were on rounds at important places and took measures to maintain the law and order. “We had detained a few farmer leaders and pro-Kananda organisation leaders as a preventive measure and released them later,” said a senior police official. Pant told DH that there were no untoward incidents in any part of the city. “We will only take up a case of violation of prohibitory orders against the organisers,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/support-galore-but-bandh-fails-to-impact-life-in-karnataka-1034875.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru tourism summit in Feb to boost investment||An investors summit will be held in February 2022 to attract investments to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore in the pandemic-hit tourism sector, Tourism Minister Anand Singh said on Monday. Briefing reporters on the occasion of World Tourism Day, Singh said that the government was planning several initiatives to revive the sector, which was badly affected by the Covid-19 lockdown. A kite festival will be held in Bengaluru between February 24 and 26, at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru, he said. The government is also mulling a single-window clearance system to allow films to be shot at restricted locations across the state. The government, he said, was aware of curbs in various tourist destinations. “The single-window will provide the required clearances from Archaeology, Forest and Tourism departments. This will help both the tourism sector and film industry,” the minister said. Disruption faced by the sector in the last two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in losses to the tune of Rs 25,000 crore. Tourism’s share in state GDP was 14.8%, which has dipped, Singh said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-tourism-summit-in-feb-to-boost-investment-1034876.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 10K cases of illegal sand mining in Karnataka in 3 years||Karnataka has seen over 10,000 cases of illegal sand mining over the last three years even as the state government is trying hard to introduce a new policy to regulate the availability of this key commodity.  According to government data tabled in the Legislative Council, illegal sand mining has gone unabated even during the pandemic with about 3,451 identified cases in 2020-21 and 3,193 cases in 2019-20. In 2018-19, there were 3,869 cases identified, adding up to 10,513 cases over the last three years. Further, just over the last eight months between January and August 2021, there have been 290 cases of illegal sand transport and 35 cases of illegal sand mining. The majority of such unauthorised transport have been found in Kalaburagi, Raichur, Hosapete, Haveri and Chikkamagaluru.  The government has registered 6,116 FIRs against offenders and has levied a cumulative penalty of about Rs 20 crore. Karnataka needs about 45 million metric tonnes of sand, of which 30 million metric tonnes comes from manufactured sand (M-Sand) units. Another 4.5 million tonnes come from riverways and from licenced mining on patta lands. Then, some 2 million tonnes are procured from other states. This leaves the state with a shortfall of 8.5 million tonnes. Lack of regulation has resulted in a shortage of sand that has impacted development works, including government projects and construction of houses.  This, in spite of claims by the government of having constituted district and taluk sand committees, consisting of officials from revenue, police, forest, public works and regional transport departments, to check illegal mining.  The new sand policy, which the government has been proposing for at least over a year but is yet to implement, is expected to reduce corruption in transportation and distribution by easing a few norms within each district.  Mines & Geology Minister Achar Halappa told DH the government is making efforts to implement the new sand policy within a month’s time. “This will largely regulate the mining, transportation and distribution issues,” he said. The government will also install GPS on licensed trucks to monitor the amount of sand being transported, apart from handing over the responsibility to panchayats to monitor mining and sand distribution at the village-level.  Apparently, the new policy will allow for sand to be booked online. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-10k-cases-of-illegal-sand-mining-in-karnataka-in-3-years-1034879.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Award for TIFR scientist for work on celestial bodies||The Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA), Bengaluru, has awarded the Professor Peraiah Foundation Award for 2021 to Dr Shravan Hanasoge of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) in Mumbai for his work on deciphering the internal structure of the sun, stars and the earth. Dr Hanasoge's work has focused on the development and refinement of methods of seismology and the application of computational, theoretical and data-analysis techniques to enable the discovery of solar and stellar physics. Seismology is the science of making quantitative inferences of the hidden interior structure of an object using measurements of its surface motions. High-quality observations of the Sun, which have been taken nearly continuously for many decades, and sensitive space-based measurements of the scintillations of distant stars make detailed and careful studies of solar and stellar interiors possible. In a statement, IIA said that using novel techniques of seismology, Dr Hanasoge inferred that motions associated with convection in the Sun are more than ten times smaller than expected, an influential result that has come to be termed the “convective conundrum.”  The scientist was also part of an important study to measure the details of rotational shear in distant stars that are similar to our Sun, a result that aids our understanding of the relationship between convection and rotation in the Sun and stars. The award, instituted by the Professor Peraiah Foundation and administered by IIA, is meant to recognise outstanding work in the field of Theoretical Astrophysics and is awarded every two years. The nominees have to be scientists working in India who are below 60 years of age. The award consists of a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh, a citation, and an invitation to deliver a special lecture at IIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/award-for-tifr-scientist-for-work-on-celestial-bodies-1034881.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Visvesvaraya Technological University to implement NEP from current academic year||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) is all set to implement National Education Policy (NEP) from the current academic year by introducing BSc course in line with the course offered at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). In a virtual meeting, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday said, "A lot of choices will be made available for students under open electives. The concept (open electives) will be made more dynamic and the regulations with regard to Board of Studies (BOS) will be relaxed to facilitate timely decisions regarding revamping of curriculum and introduction of new courses." "Ability enhancement courses are added to make students globally competitive. A subject called 'Scientific Foundations of Health' has been introduced to emphasise the importance of health & wellness. Flexibility in teaching will be brought in, and to inculcate social responsibility in students pedagogy is being developed for the subject 'Social connect & responsibility," said Prof Karisddappa, vice-chancellor, VTU. The vice-chancellor added, "Taking into consideration the importance of engineering in recent global medical technology, a subject called 'Biology for Engineers' has been introduced in the 4th semester. Similarly to make students aware of the importance of sustainable development 'Environment Studies' will be introduced. To promote experiential learning integration of theory and practical will be given priority. Another new subject called 'Music and Mechanical Vibrations' has been added." "With the NEP, 24 weeks of internship will be made mandatory for engineering courses wherein students will also have the opportunity to go abroad. Also, multidisciplinary internships will be encouraged. Mapping of industry, academia, students and faculty will be made to integrate them and interdisciplinary project works will be encouraged and self study components will also be introduced," Karisddappa explained. The new curriculum has been aligned to the national skill qualification framework and formative assessment will be followed to replace the earlier practice of summative assessment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/visvesvaraya-technological-university-to-implement-nep-from-current-academic-year-1034883.html
27-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Anti-cow slaughter law: 400 cases but no gaushalas in every Karnataka district yet||Nearly eight months after the BJP government brought in an anti-slaughter law to protect cows, authorities have booked over 400 cases for offences, but are far from setting up gaushalas in every district meant to shelter senile bovines.  The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act was introduced earlier this year, imposing a blanket ban on the slaughter of cows in the state.  The only slaughter allowed is of terminally ill cattle or cattle suffering from contagious diseases or operated upon for experimental or research purposes. Also, buffalo above the age of 13 years can be slaughtered with certification from a competent authority. Uttara Kannada (Karwar) tops the list of districts with 95 out of the total 413 cases filed under the new law since February this year.  It is feared that the new law will burden farmers as they will have to take care of cattle, especially cows, even after they become barren.  The government asked farmers to leave the animals at any of the 188 non-government gaushalas and promised to construct shelters, one in each of the 30 districts, by earmarking Rs 15 crore in the 2021-22 Budget.  In the first phase, Rs 24 lakh has been released to each district. The gaushalas will be opened through Societies for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in every district.  Only recently did the government finish the process of identifying land for the gaushala in Raichur, Bengaluru Rural, Yadgir, Vijayapura, Chikkaballapur, Haveri and Gadag districts. The government is in the “final stages” of providing land for the purpose in Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Bengaluru Urban and Hassan.  “In the remaining districts, the process of starting gaushalas soon is underway,” Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan stated in a written reply to the Legislative Council during the recently concluded session of the legislature.  The first gaushala - a public-private partnership facility - to be opened under the new Act is scheduled to start functioning in Vijayapura on October 2, Gandhi Jayanti Day.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/anti-cow-slaughter-law-400-cases-but-no-gaushalas-in-every-karnataka-district-yet-1034884.html
27-09-2021||West||Bharat Bandh: No impact in Mumbai; shops, transport operating as usual||Commercial establishments and local transport were operating as usual in Mumbai on Monday and the city police also did not deploy an extra security force at key junctions and roads in the wake of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws, officials said. Congress workers, holding placards, assembled at some places like Andheri and Jogeshwari and shouted slogans against the farm bills, but other than that there was no impact of the bandh in the city so far. According to a police official, no additional security force was deployed in the city as of now, but a decision on deployment of extra police personnel may be taken later depending on the situation and programmes of political parties. "Till now, no extra force has been been deployed, but it may be placed as per local requirement," he said. The police have also not barricaded major junctions and roads, which is otherwise a normal feature during bandhs, and so far no additional security forces have been called from outside the district. There was no major protest or any untoward incident in the city so far, officials said. Shops and other commercial establishments were open as usual and traffic movement was normal, they said. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers in Delhi on January 26. The three laws — The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP (minimum support price) procurement systems and leave cultivators at the mercy of big corporates. The government, however, has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bharat-bandh-no-impact-in-mumbai-shops-transport-operating-as-usual-1034684.html
27-09-2021||West||Ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro resigns from Congress; tips Mamata Banerjee to take on Modi||Ending days of speculation over his exit, former Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro on Monday formally resigned from the Congress party and as an MLA, while slamming the Congress leadership at the Centre and Goa and tipping West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee as the tour de force to take on the BJP in the state and country. The Congress has accused Faleiro, who has been with the party for more than 30 years serving as Chief Minister on two occasions as well as an AICC general secretary on several occasions, of being deceptive and called his exit from the Congress and his praise of Banerjee, a result of a voluntary retirement service (VRS) package which Faleiro had accepted from the West Bengal-based political outfit. "Madam, the Congress in Goa is not the same party for which we had sacrificed and fought. It is functioning contrary to every ideal and principle of its founding fathers upheld by Smt Indiraji, Shri Rajiv ji and you. Shri Rahul Gandhi too has been uncompromising in his fight against the forces that seek to destroy the fabric of our nation," Faleiro has said in his resignation letter to the Congress president Sonia Gandhi. "However, the Goa unit of the party has become a cruel parody of what Congress stands for. Led by a coterie of leaders who prioritise personal gains over the responsibility we owe to our people, we have utterly failed to even be an effective opposition," Faleiro further said. While Faleiro has categorically stated that he had not joined the Trinamool Congress just yet, he showered praise on Banerjee, especially her combative politics vis-a-vis the BJP. "We have to see who has got the power to face the present dispensation which is ruling in Delhi and ruling in Goa. Definitely, I will support Mamta Congress because she has fought, she has succeeded... She symbolises women empowerment which can bring this country back on the rails of development and progress," Faleiro told a press conference in Panaji. The former Chief Minister also said that he would work towards unifying Congress splinter groups like the Nationalist Congress Party, Trinamool Congress, YSR Congress and the Indian National Congress to work together to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party, while also announcing a statewide agitation to take Goa back from the BJP. Reacting to the development All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said that  Faleiro appeared deceptive in his conduct, while also expressing sadness at Faleiro's acceptance of a VRS package from the TMC at the fag end of his career. "This could be a VRS (package). When you feel that now there is nothing for me here, just take something and go. I was not convinced by anything he was saying (during the press conference)... It is sad that people at the fag end of their careers take this kind of decision... I wish him best of luck," Rao said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-goa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-resigns-from-congress-tips-mamata-banerjee-to-take-on-modi-1034693.html
27-09-2021||West||Former Goa MGP MLA Lavu Mamlatdar to join TMC on Tuesday||Former Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party MLA Lavu Mamlatdar on Monday said he would be joining the Trinamool Congress and was keen to contest the 2022 Goa Assembly polls from Madkaim, a stronghold of MGP chief Sudin Dhavalikar. Mamlatdar, a former police officer who represented Ponda seat between 2012 and 2017, said he had been in discussions with the Mamata Banerjee-led party since September 1 and would be joining it formally in Kolkata on Tuesday. "I would like to contest the 2022 Assembly polls from Madkaim," he told reporters. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-goa-mgp-mla-lavu-mamlatdar-to-join-tmc-on-tuesday-1034738.html
27-09-2021||West||International charter flights to Goa soon: CM Sawant||International charter flights will be hitting the runways at the Dabolim international airport in Goa soon, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Speaking to reporters after a government function in North Goa district, Sawant also said that domestic and international tourists will be confident of travelling to Goa after the state is fully vaccinated by October 31. "We will get permission to start charter flights in a few days. We have sought permission," Sawant said. The Goa government had earlier this month written to the Union Home Ministry seeking permission for resumption of international charter flights — the mainstay of foreign tourism in Goa — at the goading of travel and tourism industry stakeholders in the coastal state. "When we announce that we are a 100 per cent safe vaccinated state, then national and international tourists will come here," Sawant said. "We will complete 100 per cent vaccination by October 31," Sawant also said, urging all eligible persons to take the second vaccine. Goa has already completed "102 per cent coverage of the first vaccine dose", according to Sawant. Goa is one of the leading beach and nightlife tourism destinations in the country. Before the Covid-19 pandemic almost ran the industry to ground, the state attracted nearly 8 million tourists at its peak according to government statistics. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/international-charter-flights-to-goa-soon-cm-sawant-1034787.html
27-09-2021||West||Government making senseless amendments: Rakesh Tikait||As the Samyukt Kisan Morcha-organised Bharat-bandh progressed, farmers leader Rakesh Tikait said that the BJP-led NDA dispensation at the Centre is coming out with what he described as senseless amendments in laws and policies. “Today the country witnessed the Bharat Bandh. I feel the government is making senseless amendments to the laws and policies. The government wants to sell the valuable resources of the country, they want to sell the lands,” Tikait, the national spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union said. Addressing the Bharatiya Chhatra Sansad (BCS), a national conclave for politically-inclined students hosted by Pune-based MIT School of Government, he said that youth need to join the revolution. “It is high time for the youth to step out of their homes and join the revolution. I feel this will strengthen the revolution immensely,” he said. “If the government continues to dismantle the resources, one day India will be known as ‘Mazdoor colony’ as there will only be a labour class in the country. The protest will get over only with a mutual understanding with the Government and not with the intervention of court. The government has illegally occupied the land of the country. We are absolutely against privatisation and we will sit as long as this bill is taken back. ‘Roti bhook mitane ke liye hai, privatisation ke liye nahi,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr Krishan Bir Chaudhary, President, Bharatiya Krishak Samaj, former Chairman, State Farms Corporation of India and Indian Sugarcane Development Council, Government of India and founder, Small Farmers Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC), said, “Today, the youth wants to understand the agriculture and the farmers unlike the past. There must be no concept of the mediators. It is the right of every farmer to get into the right market. This law empowers the farmers to sell their agricultural items without any pressure.” “If you look into the past, the farmers always wanted the markets to open where they could sell the food essentials directly. MSP aims to provide symmetry to the farmers and contract farming must be promoted. Contract farming will make sure that no food item gets wasted. I really believe that this bill will not just empower the farmers and the Indian economy but it will take Indian agriculture on a different level in the global market as well,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/government-making-senseless-amendments-rakesh-tikait-1034825.html
27-09-2021||West||Bombay High Court, University to open for tourists||Iconic Bombay High Court and Mumbai University buildings will now be open for tourists as part of Heritage Walks during weekends as the Maharashtra Tourism Department on Monday inked an agreement with respective authorities. The Maharashtra Tourism Department signed a heritage tour memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Bombay High Court and Mumbai University to allow tourists to visit these iconic buildings on non-working days -- Saturdays and Sundays, MTDC said on the occasion of the World Tourism Day. Mumbai University will be open for tourists on Sundays and public holidays, and the tour will be conducted by TOGA (Tourist Guide Association) guides, it added. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has launched a revamped multilingual website on Maharashtra tourism. It is available in 9 languages, including English, Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Gujarati, Telugu, French, Japanese and Spanish. Speaking on the occasion, state Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray said the emphasis on policy reforms and infrastructure development will put Maharashtra at the forefront of the world tourism map in the next few years. “We have focussed on policy reform during the past year. It is believed that in the next few years, Maharashtra will be at the forefront of the world tourism map due to the efforts taken by the tourism department,” Thackeray said at a function to mark World Tourism Day 2021. To boost the sector, the Maharashtra government has brought down the number of applications and licences needed for setting up a tourism-related business to just 10 from the earlier 70-80, he added. Similarly, the no-objection certificates (NOCs) required were brought down to 9 self-certifications from the earlier 15 NOCs and 3-month timelines for issuance of different licences, among others, were introduced that will benefit the sector. The government has also granted industry status to the tourism and hospitality sector, which was pending since 1999, the minister said. “Basic tourism infrastructure is now on the fast track. Today, several major international five and seven-star hotels were interested in setting shop in various parts of Maharashtra. We will be holding several meetings to listen to stakeholders on improving Maharashtra tourism in the coming days,” Thackeray said. The minister added that the opening of the Chippi airport in October will give a major boost to tourism in the Konkan region.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-university-to-open-for-tourists-1034837.html
27-09-2021||West||Man demands Covid-19 jab on priority, attacks doctor with axe when refused||A 32-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly attacking a medical official with an axe in Yavatmal in Maharashtra for not allowing him to jump the Covid-19 vaccination queue, police said. The doctor was unhurt in the incident that took place in Vasant Nagar under Digras police station limits, an official said. "The accused, Manohar Rathod, came to the centre and demanded he be vaccinated ahead of the queue, and got enraged when medical officer in charge Dr Santosh Jadhav told him to get registered first. He attacked Jadhav with an axe, but the latter stepped back and avoided getting hurt," the official said. The accused was arrested during the day on the basis of a complaint by Jadhav, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-demands-covid-19-jab-on-priority-attacks-doctor-with-axe-when-refused-1034895.html
27-09-2021||West||Bombay High Court issues 'working protocol' for hearing, reporting on cases under POSH Act||In a significant order, the Bombay High Court has issued detailed guidelines vis-a-vis cases of sexual harassment in workplaces including barring the media from publication without the express approval of the court.  The seven-page order on cases under Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH Act) and Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Rules, 2013 (POSH Rules) was passed by Justice Gautam Patel of the Bombay High Court.  Lawyer Abha Singh appeared for the plaintiff. On the other hand, Senior Advocate Dr Birendra Saraf with Shweta Jaydev, Suprriya Lopes and  Urvi Gupte appeared for defendants Nos. 1 and 2 and Lancy D’Souza for defendant No. 3. “It is imperative, therefore, to protect the identities of the parties from disclosure, even accidental disclosure, in these proceedings. This is in the interest of both sides. There appears to be no established guidelines so far in such matters. This order, setting out a working protocol for future orders, hearings and case file management, is a first endeavour in that direction,” Patel said, adding that the guidelines may be revised from time to time.  "Both sides and all parties and advocates, as also witnesses, are forbidden from disclosing the content of any order, judgment or filing to the media or publishing any such material in any mode or fashion by any means, including social media, without specific leave of the court," the court said. In the order of the court, the names of plaintiff, defendants, witnesses would not be mentioned.  All hearings will only be in chambers or in-camera. “There will be no online or hybrid facility for hearings. All hearings must be by physical attendance. Only the advocates and the litigants are permitted to attend hearings. Support staff (clerks, peons, etc), must leave the Court. Except the Court Master/Associate or Sheristedar and the stenographer or person providing secretarial assistance, other court staff must also leave the court and not be present at the hearing,” it stated.  On the issue of public access, the order said: “If any order is to be released into the public domain, this will require a specific order of the court. This will be on the condition that only the fully anonymised version of the order of judgement is let into the public domain for publication.” “The prohibition on publishing the names, address or other PII of the parties is absolute. All persons, including the media, are required to ensure strict compliance with these conditions of anonymity. Failure to do so will be a contempt of court,” Justice Patel made it clear in the order.  Any form of recording too has been prohibited. “Any form of recording of any part of the proceedings is strictly forbidden. Any attempt to record or transcribe any part of the proceedings will be a contempt of court,” the order said. When asked about the order, Singh said: “I would not be able to comment on it.”  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-issues-working-protocol-for-hearing-reporting-on-cases-under-posh-act-1034896.html
27-09-2021||West||Woman in Maharashtra raped by partner tries to abort fetus watching Youtube videos, hospitalised||A 25-year-old woman had to be rushed to a hospital after she tried to abort her fetus at home watching Youtube videos and her condition deteriorated, following which the man who had impregnated her was booked for rape and other offences, police in Nagpur in Maharashtra said on Monday. The incident took place in Yashodhara Nagar area of the city on Thursday, an official said. "The woman has told us one Shoeb Khan (30), on the pretext of marriage, was raping her since 2016. When she got pregnant, Khan asked her to get the fetus aborted by watching Youtube videos and getting medicines prescribed in them," he said. "While trying to carry out an abortion procedure on herself, the woman's condition plummeted and she had to be rushed by her kin to a hospital. Khan has been arrested for rape," the official informed.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-in-maharashtra-raped-by-partner-tries-to-abort-fetus-watching-youtube-videos-hospitalised-1034903.html
