28-09-2021||First Edit||Deliberate over-reaction of Assam Police: Brutality in the name of evicting encroachers||The over-reaction of the Assam police during an operation to evict alleged encroachers has attracted national attention and widespread condemnation. The operation was conducted last week in Darrang district of the state where government land was said to have been encroached by people who mostly belong to the Bengali Muslim community. Two people, including a 12-year-old boy, were killed in police firing which, considering the circumstances, was a deliberate over-reaction. There was no warning or lathi-charge before the firing. The firing was also allegedly done with an intention to kill, as both the victims were shot in the chest from the front. What has invited much revulsion and condemnation is that the photographer accompanying the police stomped many times on the body of the dying man. He has been charged after the footage came to light. The footage also showed a policeman hitting the fallen man on his head and others beating him. Eviction operations in Assam have turned out to be communal drives targeted at the Muslim population. The words of the leaders of the state’s ruling party and the government, including Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, have framed such actions in communal terms. The situation is such that all Bengali Muslims, including those who have lived in the state for generations, are called outsiders. Muslims and Hindus of Bengali origin have settled in Assam since the 19th century. To consider them, especially the Muslims, as aliens is to feed divisive politics and thrive on it. The CAA and NRC narratives aggravated this. Sarma had termed the last Assembly elections in the state as a contest between “65% and 35%’’, clearly alluding to the religious composition of the population. Such attitudes are seen to have influenced government policies and actions like freeing government land or forest areas of encroachments.  Encroachment of public land and its illegal occupation is a serious issue in Assam. The government has the right to deal with it. But it is wrong to use it for communal polarisation of society. In many of the areas that are considered illegally occupied, residents have enjoyed facilities provided by the government. It is also known that all communities have encroached on public land because of the state’s specific socio-economic and environmental circumstances, but only one community is targeted for action. There are also instances where evicted people settle down at another place or return to the same place after some time. Matters relating to land and home should be handled with care and understanding, not with vengeance and hatred. The brutality and the inhuman conduct seen last week as part of the police action was shocking even in a culture where atrocities are routine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/deliberate-over-reaction-of-assam-police-brutality-in-the-name-of-evicting-encroachers-1035299.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five arrested for assault on students near Surathkal||The Surathkal police have arrested five persons in connection to the alleged assault on students of a private medical college who were travelling in a car, near Surathkal toll gate. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that the case is being investigated by the Surathkal police. The video of the assault and the abuse, allegedly by members of a Hindu organisation, has gone viral on social media. In fact, the traffic police had tried to prevent an attack on the vehicle in which the students hailing from different faiths were travelling. The students were returning to their college after visiting Malpe beach. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-arrested-for-assault-on-students-near-surathkal-1035078.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Selco Foundation to install solar inverters at 40 Shuddha Ganga units||Selco Foundation will install solar inverters at 40 select Shuddha Ganga drinking water units, installed by Sri Kshethra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP), across the state. An agreement for annual maintenance of solar inverters was signed at Dharmasthala in the presence of Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade. SKDRDP Executive Director Dr L H Manjunath and Social Alpha CEO Manoj Kumar exchanged the agreement. Selco Foundation will maintain the solar inverter for one year free of cost. The cost of each inverter in the unit is Rs 6 lakh. Accordingly, a sum of Rs 2.40 crore will be spent on 40 Shuddha Ganga units, he said. Veerendra Heggade said that Shuddha Ganga was initiated to supply pure drinking water. There is a need to create awareness of solar energy among rural folks. Steps will be taken to use solar energy in the kitchen in the future. Dr L H Manjunath said that there were 321 Shuddha Ganga units in the state. At present, 81,000 users avail 16,20,000 litres of water daily from these units. An amount of Rs 6 crore is spent as an annual maintenance cost on these units. The expenditure on electricity bills comes around Rs 1.14 crore annually, he explained. Now, Selco Foundation has decided to install solar inverters for 40 units and maintain them for a year free of cost. SKDRDP COO Anil Kumar, Selco Foundation chairman Harish Hande were among those present at the event. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/selco-foundation-to-install-solar-inverters-at-40-shuddha-ganga-units-1035079.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ullal police arrest two persons for abusing Home Guard||The Ullal police have arrested two persons in connection with the alleged abuse of a woman Home Guard, who was on duty at Kapikad near Thokkottu.  The Home Guard was prevented from discharging her duty. The arrested are Mohammed Hasir and Nazeem from Halekote in Ullal. The Home Guard was attached to the traffic station at Naguri.  The arrested were students and were riding a two-wheeler on the wrong side of NH 66 on September 25. When the Home Guard clicked their photographs, the enraged riders allegedly abused and assaulted her before fleeing the spot. She later filed a complaint with the Ullal police. Following the complaint, the Ullal police arrested the duo on Monday.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ullal-police-arrest-two-persons-for-abusing-home-guard-1035091.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||22 passengers travelling from Mangaluru airport test positive for Covid-19||A total of 22 people among hundreds of passengers who had travelled to UAE from MIA, between August 18 and September 22, tested positive for Covid-19. The RT-PCR testing facility at MIA was set up with Gulf countries making it mandatory for passengers to undergo RT-PCR test at the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/22-passengers-travelling-from-mangaluru-airport-test-positive-for-covid-19-1035253.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Custom officers seize gold worth Rs 14.69 lakh at Mangalore International Airport||A youth from Kasargod attempting to smuggle gold worth Rs 14.69 lakh (weighing 310 grams and of 24 carat purity) into the country was detained by the Customs officials at the Mangalore International Airport on Tuesday. The gold was cleverly concealed in a powder form inside the chocolate-coloured trouser worn by the passenger. The passenger arrived from Sharjah on an Indigo flight. A case was registered and investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/custom-officers-seize-gold-worth-rs-1469-lakh-at-mangalore-international-airport-1035261.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wildlife corridors turn death traps in Karnataka as agencies bypass safety norms||The Karnataka highway-30 (Sindhanur-Hemmadaga-Anmod) is fast turning out to be a death trap for animals and humans alike. This is a result of the failure to implement mitigation measures as agreed previously. Even as the Public Works Department (PWD), Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) and the National Highways Authority of India are dragging their feet on installing rumble strips, speed-breakers and signboards, an Indian Gaur and two people were killed on the stretch recently. According to sources in the forest department, Belagavi, an Indian Gaur was knocked down by a speeding vehicle on September 15 on SH-30 in the limits of Dandeli sanctuary in Joida taluk of Uttara Kannada district. The stretch witnessed the death of two motorists near Dongargaon cross within Bhimgad sanctuary limits in Khanapur taluk of Belagavi district on September 24. "While one person died on the spot, another succumbed to injuries at the hospital," an official said. Wildlife conservationist from Belagavi, Giridhar Kulkarni, said, "The forest officials have brought this to the notice of the user agencies and demanded implementation of necessary mitigation measures. Both PWD and KRDCL had agreed to install rumble strips, speed-breakers and signboards on the roads. But, hardly any measures have been implemented till today." Together, the Belagavi-Uttara Kannada forests have a good population of tigers. They witness the crisscrossing of three state highways and a national highway through crucial wildlife habitats. SH-30 passes through the heart of Bhimgad sanctuary and is closed for traffic from 6 pm to 6 am since November 2015. SH-31 (Belagavi-Chorla), passing through Kanakumbi forest, has witnessed road kills of gaurs, leopards, reptiles and humans. State highway-34 (Alnavar-Ramnagar), passing through Nagargali forest, has also reported deaths of chitals and sloth bears due to vehicular traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wildlife-corridors-turn-death-traps-in-karnataka-as-agencies-bypass-safety-norms-1035285.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Prez Kovind to inaugurate super specialty hospital in Chamarajanagar||President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the 450-bed super speciality hospital at Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) in Chamarajanagar on October 7. The new hospital is expected to ease the problems of the people, who had to travel to Mysuru and other cities for advanced medical care. Earlier, Chamarajanagar had hit the headlines for the wrong reasons, after 24 Covid patients died due to Oxygen shortage in May 2021, during the second wave. In all, 36 people died due to a shortage of liquid medical oxygen, in the Chamarajanagar district. Dr Sanjeev, dean and director of CIMS, said the hospital has been constructed at a cost of Rs 162 crore. It will be open for the public and the outpatient department will begin functioning the next day after the formal launch, he said. At present, 750 students are pursuing the MBBS course and there are 100 BSc nursing students, 40 General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) students and 80 paramedical students at the hospital. Kovind will be the first president to visit the Biligiriranganatha temple atop the B R Hill. The district administration and the police department have made all arrangements in this regard. The temple administration too has taken all measures to sanitise the temple premises. Kovind will be the second president to visit Chamarajanagar district after A P J Abdul Kalam, who celebrated his 76th birthday with the tribals at B R Hill in October 2006.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prez-kovind-to-inaugurate-super-specialty-hospital-in-chamarajanagar-1035294.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM Bommai a puppet in RSS's hands: Congress||Making a scathing attack on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's 'gulamagiri' (slavery) remark against Congress, KPCC Spokesperson D Basavaraj stated that Bommai has become a puppet in the hands of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, he said Bommai must free himself from the clutches of RSS and show his credibility. Bommai has become chief minister by chance. So he must focus on managing the post effectively. Coming down heavily on BJP leaders, he said, though Karnataka has 25 MPs from BJP, they have no courage to demand Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide the state's share of GST compensation. So, they have no moral right to speak against Congress party. He also claimed that Congress leader Siddaramaiah had fulfilled 165 poll promises during his tenure as chief minister. "But BJP leaders are criticising Siddaramaiah for no reason. But poor people would not tolerate it. Congress is the party of poor people and BJP of affluent people. Voters would teach BJP a lesson in the coming polls," he said. Expressing sympathy towards former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, he said the party used Yediyurappa for political gains and threw him away. Now, RSS leaders are controlling the government in Karnataka. Use and throw is the culture of BJP. Corporator Chamansab and others were also present at the press conference. Siddaramaiah in Davangere on Wednesday Corporator Manjunath Gudigudal said Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah will take part in Vishwakarma Jayanti, protest against price rise and also attend a programme organised in memory of Kuruba community leaders on September 29 in Davangere. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-bommai-a-puppet-in-rsss-hands-congress-1035145.html
28-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) to announce candidates for 2023 Karnataka polls by Jan 2022||The JD(S), which has announced its intent to make a mark in the 2023 Assembly polls by aiming at 123 seats, will announce the first list of its candidates as early as January 2022, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy said on Tuesday. He was speaking at Janata Parva 1.0, the workshop organised by the party in Bidadi, to train its cadre for the next elections. The party will announce the first list of candidates on the Sankranthi festival, he said. The party has given a 30-point agenda to its workers. They have to implement it over the next three months. Those who accomplish the task will be given tickets. A special team has been constituted to examine the implementation, he said. Those who do not fare well in the 30-point agenda will be dropped immediately, he added.  The party hopes to orient its leaders towards building a grassroots movement with the 2023 polls as a target, in the ongoing workshop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-to-announce-candidates-for-2023-karnataka-polls-by-jan-2022-1035251.html
28-09-2021||Main Article||Dalit-Sikh? The sociology of caste in Punjab||The hyphenated word Dalit-Sikh, being used in the media in the wake of the recent transfer of power from a dynast to a Dalit in Punjab, connotes a historical gap, an unfinished integration, a failed promise, or worse an unbridgeable divide. For many outside Punjab, this must have come as a big surprise, even shock, since Sikhism has been understood commonly as an equalitarian religious space. Much of this shock emanates from being oblivious of the proverbial gap between the theory and the practice. Theoretically, Sikhism has been emphatically anti-caste. The Gurus, right since Guru Nanak (1469-1539), the first Guru and the founder of Sikhism, emphasised equality in public spaces. The much-talked-about tradition of Langar, for instance, that became globally known and appreciated, especially during the Covid-19 lockdown in recent times, is a powerful pointer to the faith’s scriptural endorsement of the idea of equal space, that too in the realm of food. This is revolutionary, given the hoary caste history of the subcontinent where cooking and partaking of food has remained a decisive item of distinction and discrimination. In a highly caste-entrenched territory, the Gurus propagated a new, emancipatory alternative tradition. The Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs, incorporated verses from other faiths and philosophies, including Bhakti Sants such as Sant Kabir and Sant Ravidas, who came from the lower strata of the caste hierarchy. More than 400 hymns and shlokas of Kabir and 40 hymns of Ravidas have been part of the Guru Granth Sahib. Besides these two, the holy book also borrows verses from at least 13 others, from Baba Farid, Namdev, and Ramanand to Surdas, Pipa and Dhanna. Arguably, there could not have been a better way to symbolise the dismantling of caste. Yet, caste made inroads, surreptitiously and gradually. A large number of people from the lower segment of the caste pyramid who joined the new faith in anticipation of a caste-less, equal world with dignity, waited in the corridor of uncertainty for centuries for what was rightfully and scripturally granted to them by the Gurus. The emergence of a dominant caste from the landed agriculturist community of Jatt (or Jat Sikh) made a dent to that grand possibility. The upper caste status of Jatt is primarily a function of their land ownership profile, which is almost absolute in the state of Punjab. Over time, the desperation and search for autonomous identity resulted in the mushrooming of the Deras, where Dalits joined in large numbers. The existence of Dalit Gurudwaras and separate funeral sites observed in the villages of Punjab point towards the disillusionment among the subaltern class to their caste-ridden, albeit not so visible, “everyday” life and world, which was clearly in defiance of the theoretical promises. Away from the mainstream, a rather large and fluid terrain of autonomous space remained open to be explored by the Dalits. A large number of caste categories from the Dalit community — Mazhabi Sikhs, Valmiki, Rangreta, Ravidassia, Ramdassia, Ad-Dharmis, splintered around varied axis, from occupational profile to ritual uniqueness to some revered sacred Sant tradition — continue to crisscross the entire labyrinth of the caste landscape of Punjab. The puzzle of the caste maze in Punjab can only be navigated through its nuances. Any standard broad-brush analysis will only add to the confusion.  The new Chief Minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi, for instance, is a Ramdassia Sikh. However, even though Ramdassia and Ravidassia belong to or have the same caste origin, there is a difference. Ramdassia vary from the Ravidassia in terms of their occupational profile as the former is associated with the weaving work, and it is believed that the group got initiated into Sikhism during the time of the fourth Sikh Guru, Guru Ramdas, and hence the name Ramdassia. Ravidassia, on the other hand, identify themselves as followers of Bhakti Sant Ravidas and, of late, have been asserting autonomous identity. The late Kanshi Ram, the founder of the Bahujan Samaj party, BSP, was from Punjab and, like Channi, was from the Ramdassia community, but he was not turbaned. The intertwining of religion and caste in the subcontinent simply cannot be understood through a monolith template. Sikhism, too, is no exception. There are internal debates, arguments, questions, counter-processes and continuous intellectual churning within all traditions, making them quintessentially South-Asian. If one is looking for certainty and finality while navigating the sacred landscape of the region, it is a sheer waste of time. In other words, don’t jump to conclusions looking at the turban. By itself, it says nothing much.     Punjab, with the highest proportion of Scheduled Caste population – 32% as per the 2011 Census – for any state in the country, a substantial and successful Dalit diaspora, and with prosperity and mobility brought about by the sheer hard work for decades in non-farm enterprises, was poised towards a more visible, representational and inclusive political spectacle. The new chief minister is that watershed moment, a coming of age. That hyphenated identity that he carries is a question for the larger society to answer. Not him. This symbolic is substantive. Everything else at this moment is quotidian and instrumental. And it should cheer up people who wish India’s democracy well. (The writer is a Chandigarh-based sociologist and commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/dalit-sikh-the-sociology-of-caste-in-punjab-1035297.html
28-09-2021||National||Jaishankar in Mexico to discuss bilateral trade and investment cooperation||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met Mexican President Manuel López Obrador on Monday as he began his three-day official visit to the Latin America nation, with an aim to boost bilateral cooperation in trade, investment and other sectors. "Two continents. Two civilizations. Shared concerns. Participated at an event on Returned Heritage in Mexico city. Pleasure to meet President López Obrador there," Jaishankar wrote on his official Twitter handle, attaching a photograph of the Mexican leader at the 'Grandeur of Mexico exhibition on the return of heritage' event here. At the exhibition, Jaishankar also shared photographs with First Lady Beatriz Gutiérrez Müller, Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard and Defence Minister Luis Cresencio Sandoval. This is Jaishankar's first visit to the North American country as the External Affairs Minister. He was received by Minister of Finance and Public Credit Rogelio Ramírez de la O with whom he discussed Mexico’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Thank Minister of Finance and Public Credit @R_Ramirez_O for receiving me. Discussed Mexico’s response to the Covid challenge,” Jaishankar said on Twitter. Reviewed our political cooperation, trade and investment, space and scientific potential, cultural exchanges and consular issues. "An External Affairs Minister’s visit from India after 41 years," Jaishankar tweeted. Jaishankar, who is in Mexico at the invitation of his Mexican counterpart Marcelo Ebrard Casaubón, reached here after concluding his visit to the US for the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. During his visit, Jaishankar will participate in the commemorative events of the 200th anniversary of the consolidation of Mexican Independence along with other world leaders. In addition to his meetings with Casaubón and Obrador, Jaishankar will interact with the leading CEOs and the business community in Mexico, which is currently India’s second-largest trade partner in Latin America and is a member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) alongside India for the 2021-22 period, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The two-way trade in 2018 was $10.155 billion, comprising exports worth $5.231 billion and imports valued at $4.923 billion, according to official data. India's exports comprise mainly of vehicles and auto parts, chemicals, aluminium products, electrical machinery and electronic equipment, steel, gems and ceramic products. India imports crude oil, electrical goods and machinery from Mexico.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-in-mexico-to-discuss-bilateral-trade-and-investment-cooperation-1034940.html
28-09-2021||National||ICMR experts favour phased reopening of schools with multi-layered Covid mitigation steps||Schools need to be reopened in a phased manner, starting with primary sections with proper implementation of multi-layered Covid-19 mitigation measures, according to experts at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In an opinion piece published in The Indian Journal of Medical Research, the experts said testing strategies in school settings could serve as key interventions to check the potential spread of the virus underlining routine temperature or symptom checking in schools should be avoided due to limited evidence on their utility. Experts cited a UNESCO report, which stated that school closures in India for more than 500 days have affected over 320 million children. It has hit hard children from the relatively deprived hamlets and slums with many not being able to read more than a few words. A survey has found that students missed out on social interactions, lacked physical activity and had a sense of loosening the bonds of friendship due to prolonged school closures, mentioned the piece 'Reopening of schools during Covid-19 pandemic: A persistent dilemma'.  In the opinion piece that has synthesised scientific evidence from within India and abroad on the justification for reopening of schools, experts said knowing that Covid-19 transmission is an "over-dispersed" phenomenon, testing strategies in schools could serve as key interventions to check the potential spread of the virus. It must also be acknowledged that Covid testing strategies in schools should act as an adjunct and not substitute to other organisational and behavioural interventions, stated the perspective by Tanu Anand, Balram Bhargava and Samiran Panda. Evidence indicates that restoration of functioning of the education system as it was in pre-Covid times, as early as possible appears prudent in the current Indian context, they said. "However, it would be necessary to examine state-specific as well as district-specific data on earlier waves of infection and the status of adult vaccination coverage to project any plausible third wave and its potential intensity to inform decisions related to schools reopening." "It is recommended that schools should have access to on-site testing facilities according to existing country-specific guidelines. Temporary or localised closures of a class or school may occur depending upon the local community transmission levels or if Covid-19 indicators worsen." School teachers, staff and those involved in the transportation of children should be vaccinated on an emergent basis and continue to use a mask even after receiving the jabs, the experts underlined. This combination intervention is critical as vaccination against Covid-19 does not prevent acquisition or transmission of infection, and it is true for adults and children.  "Opening of schools under this combination-intervention will ensure not only continuity of in-person learning but also instil confidence among parents that schools are safe for their children," they said. Covid-19 vaccine trials for children and adolescents are still ongoing in India. Available evidence suggests that those aged 12 years and above are at a high risk of contracting the infection. Therefore, they must be prioritised for vaccination compared to the younger children, the experts said. To get the maximum benefits of reopening schools, the opinion piece highlighted the need for devising proactive multi-layered mitigation strategies to create an optimal learning environment for the children with a reduced risk of transmission. Consistent and appropriate use of masks, implementation of a standard protocol for sanitization and hand washing are the key pillars of Covid-appropriate behaviour and must be practised by students and school staff alike. Ensuring the provision for such behaviour change practices requires planning and resource allocation by school authorities, the experts highlighted. While masks are not recommended for children under five years, six to 11-year-old children may wear a mask depending on their ability to use them safely and appropriately. Those aged 12 years and above should wear masks under the same conditions as adults, they said. Schools should ensure that the indoors are well ventilated and air conditioners should be avoided. Exhaust fans should be installed in classrooms to curtail the potential spread of the infection.  Also, children should be advised against sharing meals, spending long hours in canteens or dining halls. Referring to the open-air classes propagated by Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore at Santiniketan, Anand, Bhargava and Panda said, "Covid-19 has forced us to explore and discover innovative learning methods, particularly in the nature's lap." They said that there is ample evidence to suggest that children aged 1-17 years have similar susceptibility to a mild form of Covid-19 as in adults. "However, the risk of severe disease and mortality in children when compared to adults is much less," the experts said. Anecdotal evidence from India also points towards a sporadic rise in Covid cases in states that initiated the reopening of schools after the first wave. All these points towards over-dispersed phenomenon in Covid-19 transmission in various settings, they said. It should also be noted that global evidence suggests schools as "non-drivers" of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the community, the experts underlined. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-experts-favour-phased-reopening-of-schools-with-multi-layered-covid-mitigation-steps-1034943.html
28-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Is India inviting unwanted attention?||Lavishing praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi upon his arrival in India from the US, BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday hailed him as a "global leader" who has made India a "global player". With Modi and a number of BJP leaders on a dais set up to welcome him, Nadda said the world now looks at India in a new light and that the prime minister has made contributions towards the world's development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-is-india-inviting-unwanted-attention-1034958.html
28-09-2021||National||China installs new shelters for troops near LAC in eastern Ladakh||China has put in place new modular container-based accommodations for its troops in several high-altitude forward areas on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh in response to Indian deployment in the region, people familiar with the developments said on Monday. The shelters were installed in locations near Tashigong, Manza, Hot Springs and Churup among others, in reflection of simmering tensions between the two sides in the region, they said. The people cited above said China’s People Liberation Army (PLA) has been feeling the heat of the Indian response to its “misadventure” in the region last year and that the Chinese military has been forced to go for long deployments and boost infrastructure in the region. They said the Indian response to the Chinese actions last year, particularly after the Galwan Valley clashes, surprised the neighbouring country and that it deployed troops in areas where it never used to earlier. “Our strategy is hurting them. They are reacting to our response. We have forced PLA to go for forward deployment and boost infrastructure,” said one of the people. They said the new deployments are appearing to be affecting the morale of the Chinese troops as they were not used to operate in such difficult terrain. The new container-based accommodations were built in addition to the additional military camps that the Chinese military had set up following the escalation in tension between the two sides last year. The people said India is also ramping up construction of tunnels, bridges roads and other critical infrastructure in eastern Ladakh and other areas along the nearly 3,500-km LAC. They said China is also significantly enhancing its airbases and air defence units near the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5, last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-installs-new-shelters-for-troops-near-lac-in-eastern-ladakh-1034961.html
28-09-2021||National||Dengue's D2 strain causes concern for high grade fever, shock syndrome||A new variant of Dengue has been observed in over 11 states in the country which has become a big concern for health experts. Though the dengue outbreak is under control, several cases of high fever caused by the new variant of Dengue DENV 2 are being reported in many cities across the country. Among the multiple variants -- DENV-1, DENV-2, DENV-3, and DENV-4 of the dengue virus, DENV 2 or the strain D2 is considered to be the most severe and can even lead to fatal internal bleeding and shock. Dr Balram Bhargava, Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research, told the media that the strain is particularly virulent and capable of inducing mortality. He added that it was one of the reasons behind the mysterious fever which had hit the western UP districts of Firozabad, Agra, Mathura, and Aligarh that led to the deaths of many people last month. Speaking to IANS, Dr B.L. Sherwal, RGSS Hospital Director, said that irrespective of the Dengue strain, the precaution is the same as the same mosquito spreads the disease. He said that the most important precaution is not to let water stagnate around you and use full sleeve dress. He warned that this type of mosquito generally bites in the daytime, so we need to take extra care of it. Dr Sherwal added that these are just types of dengue with more or less the same symptoms and the same pattern of prevention too. Dr Vineeta Singh Tandon of PSRI Hospital said that D2 is more virulent and can cause high-grade fever, vomiting, joint pains, altered sensorium and may even lead to lethal complications resulting in dengue hemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome. If a person was infected by one serotype in the past, a second infection by another serotype increases the risk of causing dengue hemorrhagic fever. Rest, hydration, and managing fever with paracetamol are advisable. One should avoid taking analgesics and aspirin. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dengues-d2-strain-causes-concern-for-high-grade-fever-shock-syndrome-1034991.html
28-09-2021||National||India logs 18,795 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 201 days||The number of fresh coronavirus cases was recorded at below 20,000 (18,795) in India after 201 days on Tuesday, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 3,36,97,581, while the number of active cases declined to 2,92,206, the lowest in 192 days, according to the Union health ministry. A total 18,795 fresh Covid cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 4,47,373 with 179 more fatalities, the lowest in 193 days, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of daily fatalities was recorded at 154 on March 19. The number of active cases has declined to 2,92,206, accounting for 0.87 per cent of the total number of cases -- the lowest since March 2020 -- while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.81 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. A decrease of 7,414 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases are being reported in the country for 93 consecutive days now, the ministry said. Also, 13,21,780 tests were conducted to detect the infection on Monday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 56,57,30,031. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 29 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.88 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 95 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 3,29,58,002, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 87 crore with more than one crore doses administered in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 179 new fatalities include 58 from Kerala and 32 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,47,373 deaths due to the viral disease have so far been reported in the country, including 1,38,902 from Maharashtra, 37,746 from Karnataka, 35,509 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,661 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,751 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-18795-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-201-days-1034998.html
28-09-2021||National||WHO nod for Covaxin could take 'few more weeks' due to technical queries: Reports||The World Health Organisation's long-awaited approval for India's indigenous coronavirus shot Covaxin could take longer. WHO experts' group was supposed to take a call on emergency use listing for Covaxin on October 6, according to PTI. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. Bharat Biotech recently said it submitted all data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. The WHO website shows that it is currently reviewing the data and the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed".  Covaxin is an inactivated vaccine, developed using the Whole-Viron Inactivated Vero Cell-derived platform technology. Inactive vaccines are the toughest to produce in the world, Bharat Biotech chief Krishna Ella said in an interview. Bharat Biotech did not comment on the delay but said that it did not want to 'speculate or comment' on these reports. "We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest," the vaccine maker said, adding that it would announce the availability of regulatory approvals appropriately. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-nod-for-covaxin-could-take-few-more-weeks-due-to-technical-queries-reports-1035003.html
28-09-2021||National||Billions in welfare kitty, yet India's mining villages stay buried in poverty||When N H Malliswamy first heard about a fund to improve the lives of people affected by mining, he wondered why his village in an iron-ore extraction hub in Karnataka had never benefited. For the past year, the ex-employee of a mining firm, which was shut down for illegal operations, has tried to trace the lakhs of rupees paid by companies annually into this kitty, known as a district mineral fund. "The soles of my slippers have frayed trying to get details on the spending of these funds," Malliswamy, 45, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation, sitting outside the primary school near his home in Deogiri village in Sandur. "Slowly I have begun to understand the reason why these funds were created and how they are either being misused or not used at all. All this money can turn our lives around." In 2015, the Indian government made it mandatory for mining lease holders to contribute 10-30 per cent of their royalties to funds set up in areas affected by mining-related operations - from iron ore to coal, quartz, mica and granite. India has the world's fourth largest coal reserves and is its fourth-biggest producer of iron ore, the key material in steel-making. Growth in infrastructure development and rising demand for electric power is expected to boost mining in India after the Covid-19 pandemic, with more mines likely to be licensed. The District Mineral Foundations (DMFs), which have been set up in 600 districts across 21 Indian states, contained more than Rs 50,000 crore  ($6.8 billion) as of July, according to mining ministry data. The law requires the money to be spent on "high priority" social goals like healthcare, education, child development and improving sustainable livelihoods in places impacted by mining. But data shows that only half the funds have been spent and about half the planned projects completed so far. Human rights campaigners said the 2015 law recognised the right of local people to benefit from natural resources for the first time in a country where many mineral-rich regions are also among the poorest and most under-developed. "(The) DMF (model) is India's tool for just transition," said Bhanumati Kalluri of the Dhaatri Resource Centre, which works with women in mining areas and advocates more spending on their health and nutrition. "However, there is a huge discrepancy in the aim of setting up these funds and how they are spent. The spending is ad hoc and often not in core mining areas. The beneficiaries are not always those who are affected and need change the most." 'Healthcare not hockey' There have been frequent protests in mining districts over the past year, with rights campaigners and elected representatives calling out what they say is rampant misuse of the funds. Laxman Munda, a lawmaker in the eastern mining state of Odisha, has raised in the state assembly "diversion of funds" for building a sports stadium two hours from an iron-ore hub. The lawmaker from Bonai said "so much money" is being made from mining in his state but that has not translated into progress for residents. "There is no proper road connectivity and a good hospital is 80 km (50 miles) away. People just die on the way. It is obvious we need healthcare and not hockey fields," he said in a phone interview. Kalluri said a large share of the funds had been spent in parts of mining districts unaffected by the industry, including on air-strips, supplying electricity to an airport, constructing colleges and upgrading urban infrastructure. During the Covid-19 pandemic, there were also protests in western Goa state as DMF money was spent on coronavirus relief, with most of the equipment purchased and infrastructure built going to benefit hospitals in cities. Government data, however, shows that the DMFs have allocated about 40 per cent of their spending to a "priority category" of improving drinking water facilities. That includes setting up water purifying plants and providing water tankers to villages where water is often polluted due to mining activities. But in Sandur, part of mineral-rich Ballari district, locals said most water purification plants, which can be accessed after paying a user fee of Rs 2, were not functioning. Pavan Kumar Malapati, Ballari's administrative head, pointed to a shortage of technical expertise and manpower to ensure maintenance of the water purifiers. But efforts are being made to resolve the issue, he said, with a three-year action plan in place and consultants hired. Lack of transparency In July, the federal government warned states not to divert the funds out of mineral districts or into other programmes. Vivek Kumar Sharma, director in the union ministry of mines, which oversees the funds, said review meetings were held regularly. "The objectives are very clear and the focus is on the people," he said, noting that at least 60 per cent of the funds must be spent on improving local lives. A 2018 status report on the DMFs by the New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment suggested the reality on the ground was different. It highlighted how the DMFs had not identified their beneficiaries clearly, often limiting themselves to those living in the immediate vicinity of mines. They often left out people displaced by mining and others who have lost their livelihoods because of it, including in forests, the report said.   Check out the latest DH videos here: Neither had there been any investment in improving child nutrition and under-five mortality rates, a big problem in most mining districts especially with large tribal populations, it noted. Report co-author Srestha Banerjee said little had changed since 2018. "Mining has been increasing - the money coming in is huge but there are no plans for how to spend it... Nobody really knows what is happening," she said. Instructions are not standardised and state websites on spending are not updated, she added. Low Awareness College student N Parshuram, 22, belongs to a youth club that travels around Sandur's "mining colonies" educating people about the DMF and their rights. "All our families are linked to the mines. Some club members also work as drivers for mining companies," he said. "We live in shanties where water, power and health are real challenges. If this money is meant for us, we want to make sure we get it." In Deogiri, Malliswamy was elected in December to the village council, which plays a key role in steering the DMF. Pointing to the lack of transport, polluted open wells and the slushy road leading up the hill, he said few people here know about the funds and participation in spending decisions is low. Government officials assume that mining companies will tackle local problems as part of their corporate social responsibility work in affected communities, he said. "And companies do the bare minimum. I think we will have to get more involved and demand our rights," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/billions-in-welfare-kitty-yet-indias-mining-villages-stay-buried-in-poverty-1035008.html
28-09-2021||National||PM greets Lata Mangeshkar on her 92nd birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended birthday greetings to legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar on Tuesday. An iconic singer and an inspiration for generations of singers, Mangeshkar turned 92 on Tuesday. Modi said, "Birthday greetings to respected Lata Didi. Her melodious voice reverberates across the world. She is respected for her humility & passion towards Indian culture. Personally, her blessings are a source of great strength. I pray for Lata Didi's long & healthy life."  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-greets-lata-mangeshkar-on-her-92nd-birthday-1035012.html
28-09-2021||National||PM Modi launches 35 crop varieties with special traits to address climate change, malnutrition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched 35 crop varieties with special traits -- developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) -- to address the twin challenges of climate change and malnutrition. The new crop varieties were dedicated to the nation through a video conference organised at all ICAR institutes, state and central agricultural universities and Krishi Vighyan Kendra. According to the PMO, 35 crop varieties with special traits like climate resilience and higher nutrient-content have been developed in 2021. These include a drought tolerant variety of chickpea, wilt and sterility mosaic resistant pigeonpea, early maturing variety of soybean, disease resistant varieties of rice and biofortified varieties of wheat, pearl millet, maize and chickpea, quinoa, buckwheat, winged bean and faba bean. These special traits crop varieties also include those that address the anti-nutritional factors found in some crops that adversely affect human and animal health. Speaking on the occasion, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said 86 per cent of farmers in the country are small farmers and the PM's focus has been on enhancing the income of these farmers. The PM believes that farmers should not be dependent on compassion of others, but should rise on their own strength. For this, several schemes like PM-KISAN and transport facilities through Kisan rails have been launched to empower them, he said. From seed to market, facilities are being provided to ensure their income doubles and contribute in making India self-reliant in the farm sector, he added. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel thanked the PM for inauguration of the newly constructed campus of the National Institute of Biotic Stress Tolerance, Raipur. He said this institute will promote agriculture in the state. "Climate change is a cause of concern across the world. We are seeing its impact in our area. There are two reasons -- one is natural and the other one is reduction in carbon in soil," he said, and stressed on conducting an extensive study to ascertain the impact of climate change in the country. Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Poultry Parshottam Rupala, Ministers of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje, and former-CM of Chhattisgarh Raman Singh were present in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-35-crop-varieties-with-special-traits-to-address-climate-change-malnutrition-1035038.html
28-09-2021||National||DCGI allows Serum Institute to enrol 7-11-year-olds in Covid-19 vaccine trial||India's drug regulator on Tuesday allowed vaccine maker Serum Institute to enrol kids aged 7-11 years for its trial of US drugmaker Novavax's Covid-19 vaccine, as the country prepares to protect children from the novel coronavirus. The nation has already administered more than 87 crore doses to adults among its population of nearly 1.4 billion. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for allowing enrolment of subjects of 7 to 11 years of age group as per the protocol," a subject expert panel of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization said. Serum Institute is already conducting a trial of its Covid-19 vaccine Covovax, a domestically produced version of Novavax's shot, in the 12-17 age group and has presented safety data for an initial 100 participants. The Novavax vaccine is yet to be granted approval by Indian health authorities. Earlier this month, Serum Institute chief Adar Poonawalla said he expects Covovax to be approved for those below 18 years in January or February next year. So far, only drugmaker Zydus Cadila's DNA Covid-19 vaccine has received emergency use approval in India to be used in adults and children aged 12 years and above.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-allows-serum-institute-to-enrol-7-11-year-olds-in-covid-19-vaccine-trial-1035040.html
28-09-2021||National||25 inmates of Mandoli jail suffer minor self-inflicted injuries: Officials||Around 25 inmates lodged in prison number 11 of the Mandoli Jail sustained minor injuries, which they inflicted on themselves, after two of them were not allowed to go out of their ward, officials said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday evening, they added. All the inmates sustained minor injuries, which were self-inflicted, the jail officials said, adding that one of them was sent to the hospital, but he is back in the jail after treatment. "Two inmates wanted to go out of the ward without any reason. On not being permitted, they caused injuries to themselves and also instigated some others to self-inflict injuries," Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. All of them sustained minor injuries, he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-inmates-of-mandoli-jail-suffer-minor-self-inflicted-injuries-officials-1035044.html
28-09-2021||National||Bhagat Singh lives in heart of every Indian: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday paid tributes to revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on the occasion of his birth anniversary, saying his courageous sacrifice ignited the spark of patriotism among countless people and he lives in the heart of every Indian. Born in 1907, Singh was only 23 when he was executed by the British in 1931. His idealism coupled with his sacrifice made him a folk hero and an inspiration for many. "The brave Bhagat Singh lives in the heart of every Indian. His courageous sacrifice ignited the spark of patriotism among countless people. I bow to him on his Jayanti and recall his noble ideals," Modi said in a tweet. आजादी के महान सेनानी शहीद भगत सिंह को उनकी जन्म-जयंती पर विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि। Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhagat-singh-lives-in-heart-of-every-indian-pm-1035049.html
28-09-2021||National||India handled Covid-19 in best possible way despite limited resources: HM Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that India has handled the Covid-19 pandemic in the best possible manner among all countries in the world despite limited resources. Addressing the 17th formation day of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) here, Shah also said that the Centre is planning to roll out the 'Aapda Mitra' (Friends in Disaster) project in 350 districts across the country by imparting training to citizens as first responders to any disaster. The home minister said despite limited resources and with such a large population of 130 crore, India has fought the Covid-19 pandemic in the best possible manner among all countries. If an analysis is done by any neutral agency, it will come to the conclusion that the country has done very well in fighting the pandemic and substantially reducing the death rate, he said. Many countries had a tough time in dealing with the pandemic (Pasina choot gaya tha bahut deshon ka), he noted. Shah also praised the NDMA for its commendable work during the pandemic. Referring to the cyclone that had hit some parts of the country during the pandemic, he said it was due to the excellent planning and preparations that not a single oxygen plant was damaged and there was no power cut to oxygen plants and hospitals in cyclone-affected areas. "We have done excellent preparation under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership," he said. On the 'Aapda Mitra' scheme, he said a pilot scheme of the project has been successfully completed in 30 districts of 25 states in the country. Under the scheme, people will be given training on how to immediately respond to any disaster and how to help people in distress and rescue them, he said. Shah said those parts of the project will be provided an insurance cover and agreements are being signed with 28 states in this regard. The home minister said the government's approach is to ensure zero loss of life during any disaster and it has been successful to a great extent. He said during the super cyclone in Odisha in 1999, about 10,000 people lost their lives but this year, less than 50 people have died in three cyclones so far. "Death of 50 people is also not good and we should target that there is no loss of any life in any disaster," he said. Shah said if an early warning system for disasters like lightning comes into effect, the lives of a large number of people could be saved. The scheme for the training of community volunteers in disaster response (Aapda Mitra) has been implementing by the NDMA with a focus on training of community volunteers in disaster response in selected 30 most flood-prone districts of 25 states. The scheme aims to provide community volunteers with the skills that they would need to respond to their community's immediate needs in the aftermath of a disaster thereby enabling them to undertake basic relief and rescue tasks during emergency situations such as floods, flash-floods, and urban flooding. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-handled-covid-19-in-best-possible-way-despite-limited-resources-hm-amit-shah-1035062.html
28-09-2021||National||Punjab CM Channi allocates portfolios to ministers, Deputy CM Randhawa gets home||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday allocated portfolios to the new ministers, keeping 14 departments with himself and giving home affairs to deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and health to other deputy O P Soni. Channi, who took oath as the chief minister on September 20, gave the local government, and parliamentary affairs departments to senior cabinet colleague Brahm Mohindra. Some of the key departments which will be held by the chief minister are power, excise, mining and geology, environment, and civil aviation. Randhawa will also hold the cooperation, and jails departments while Soni will look after the defence services welfare and freedom fighters department. Another senior cabinet minister Manpreet Singh Badal gets the finance portfolio. Several ministers, including Badal, who were a part of the previous Amarinder Singh-led cabinet, have retained their portfolios. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa will be the Rural and Panchayats, and Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development Minister. Aruna Chaudhary got revenue, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria got water resources, Razia Sultana will hold water supply and sanitation, and women and child development, and Bharat Bhushan Ashu was given food, civil supplies and consumer affairs departments. Vijay Inder Singla will hold the Public Works Department, but the School Education Department he held earlier has been allotted to new entrant Pargat Singh, who will also be the new sports minister. Among the other new entrants, Randeep Singh Nabha will hold the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, Rana Gurjit Singh got technical education and industrial training, and horticulture departments, while Raj Kumar Verka will hold the social justice, empowerment and minorities, medical education and research departments. Another new face Amarinder Singh Raja Warring will be the transport minister, Sangat Singh Gilzian will be the forests, wildlife, and labour minister while Gurkirat Singh Kotli will hold the industries, and commerce departments. The chief minister will be in-charge of personnel, vigilance, general administration, justice, legal and legislative affairs, information and public relations, investment promotion, hospitality, power, tourism and cultural affairs departments. The Congress had recently picked Channi as the leader of the state's Congress Legislative Party. Amarinder Singh had resigned as the chief minister, after being locked in a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Watch the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-channi-allocates-portfolios-to-ministers-deputy-cm-randhawa-gets-home-1035063.html
28-09-2021||National||Railway projects in Andhra Pradesh derail as state govt fails to meet its share of cost||The cash-strapped Andhra Pradesh government has expressed unwillingness to honour the cost-sharing agreement with the Indian Railways, leading to the derailment of several major rail projects in the state. The state government has categorically told the railway authorities that it would bear only the land acquisition costs, pushing the long-delayed projects into jeopardy. The state government has to spend at least Rs 4,000 crore from its coffers to put the railway projects back on track, but given its precarious financial position, that looks an improbable task. The issue came up for discussion during a high-level meeting between state Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and South Central Railway General Manager Gajanan Mallya here last week, top official sources revealed. The Railways, on its part, maintained that “it is not possible” to take up all these cost-sharing projects solely with its funds owing to “the large shelf of projects”. “The discussions ended in a stalemate as either side is not ready to budge. As such, there appears little scope for any progress on these crucial projects,” a top official, who was part of the meeting, told PTI. Prime among the stalled projects are a new 309-km railway line between Nadikudi and Srikalahasthi (sanctioned in 2011-12), 255.4-km Kadapa-Bengaluru, 57.21-km Kotipalli-Narsapur (sanctioned in 2001) and 93.17-km Rayadurg-Tumkur new line. The cost of Nadikudi-Srikalahasthi line has now shot up to Rs 5,000 crore but the state so far deposited just Rs 6 crore, besides spending Rs 166 crore on land acquisition on this 50:50 cost-sharing project. The Railways, on the other hand, so far spent Rs 1,144 crore on this project and completed a 45.55-km stretch of track between New Piduguralla and Savalyapuram in Guntur district. The Kadapa-Bengaluru project has been stalled, after completion of 21.8-km track-laying, as the state government proposed a change in alignment to take the line through the Chief Minister’s hometown Pulivendula. “Realignment of the line makes it a new project for which fresh approvals are required from the Railway Board. But still the state government is not willing to bear 50 per cent of the project cost, pushing it into a limbo,” a top railway official said. Worse is the case of the Kotipalli-Narsapur new railway line that remains off-track, two decades after the then Railways Minister Mamata Banerjee laid the foundation-stone. While the state was required to share 25 per cent of the project cost (Rs 722 crore), it had so far deposited only Rs 2.69 crore. It still has to acquire 562 acres of land for the project at an estimated cost of Rs 152 crore. The Rayadurg-Tumkur project made no progress since nothing of the required 68.61 acres of land has been acquired till date. Interestingly, the state deposited Rs 260.35 crore under its share so far but is yet to spend Rs 8 crore on land acquisition, government records showed. For land acquisition alone, the AP government will have to shell out a sum of Rs 1,361 crore for road-over-bridges, road-under-bridges, new (single) rail line works and doubling projects. As many as 11 new ROBs at important places like Kakinada, Kurnool, Anantapuramu, Guntur, Kavali, Yelamanchili and Kuppam, which were nearing completion, were now stalled as the state government could not release Rs 130.61 crore for finishing balance works like approach roads. Another three ROBs were stuck after 25 per cent of works were done because the state did not release Rs 113.90 crore. Two more are in tender stage while work on another ROB in Visakhapatnam (Lakshmidevipet) has been “kept in abeyance” as the state Finance Department raised some objections, the sources said. These three works would cost Rs 248.03 crore (state share). The issue has been taken up with Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy for release of funds but to no avail. The Railways has agreed to build another 21 ROBs and RUBs with its own funds and asked the state to bear Rs 150 crore towards land acquisition. “The state is yet to give its willingness for this,” the sources added. “The AP government is not depositing its share (of money) in the cost-sharing projects. As such, execution of these projects is severely affected,” the Railway official said. On his part, the state Chief Secretary directed Joint Collectors of different districts to expedite the land acquisition process to enable faster progress in the pending rail projects. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-projects-in-andhra-pradesh-derail-as-state-govt-fails-to-meet-its-share-of-cost-1035064.html
28-09-2021||National||Cannot infringe on right to life of other citizens under guise of employment: SC on firecrackers ban||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it cannot infringe upon the right to life of other citizens under the guise of employment of a few, in considering a ban on firecrackers. "We have to strike the balance between employment, unemployment and the right to life of the citizen. Under the guise of employment of few we cannot permit others to infringe the right to life of other citizens," a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said. "Our prime focus is the right to life of innocent citizens. If we find green crackers are there and accepted by the committee of experts we will pass suitable orders," the bench added. Senior advocate Atmaram Nadkarni, appearing for manufacturers' association of firecrackers, said that Diwali is approaching on November 4 and they want Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO) to take a decision on the issue of firecrackers. He said the government should decide the matter as lakhs of people are unemployed in the industry. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan appearing for the petitioner Arjun Gopal, said series of orders have been passed by the top court and directions have been given that PESO will give final clearance to firecrackers which are safe. When Nadkarni interrupted Sankaranarayanan, the bench in a lighter vein said, "We don't want any bursting of crackers in the courtroom. Everybody will get a chance. Also, I'm afraid of firecrackers." Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Ministry of Environment and Forests, said experts have come together and suggested formulations on the issue of green crackers. Sankaranarayanan said despite several orders, the executive was not taking appropriate action to ban harmful crackers and the consistent sale of fireworks, prevalent before 2015, was still going on. He said the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has been giving certificates to firecracker manufacturers after getting into agreements with them. Sankaranarayanan alleged that Centre has now ignored PESO completely and indirectly attempts to ensure that barium nitrate ban is lifted. The bench also said that everyday there is a violation of orders and in every religious event, victory processions, marriages we can see flouting of orders and we will have to fix liability on someone, else, this will not stop at all. The court then posted the matter for hearing on Wednesday and asked Sankaranarayanan to submit a separate compilation of orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cannot-infringe-on-right-to-life-of-other-citizens-under-guise-of-employment-sc-on-firecrackers-ban-1035070.html
28-09-2021||National||Olympians, Paralympians join hands to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during festival season||India's history-making Olympians and Paralympians have joined hands in a health ministry initiative promoting safe celebrations to prevent a surge in Covid-19 cases during the upcoming festival season. The likes of Olympic champion javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and trail-blazer Paralympics gold-medallist shooter Avani Lekhara will remind citizens of the continued importance of observing Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) like maintaining hand hygiene, keeping six feet distance, wearing a mask, and vaccinating themselves if they are above 18 years of age. "Khathinaaiyon ka samjhdhaari se saamna aur samaadhaan nikaalna humari zimmedaari hai (To resolve and face problems is our responsibility) …Sports aur Zindagi mein!" they can be heard saying in a promotional video.  Other athletes who feature in the video to support the initiative of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare include Tokyo Olympics medal-winning wrestlers Ravi Kumar Dahiya and Bajrang Punia, fencer Bhavani Devi and goalkeeper of India's bronze-winning men's hockey team PR Sreejesh. Besides Lekhara, other Tokyo Paralympics medal-winners who feature in the video are high-jumper Praveen Kumar, archer Harvinder Singh, discus thrower Yogesh Kathuniya, shuttler Manoj Sarkar and club throw finalist Ekta Bhyan. "With the festival season beginning in India with aplomb, India's decorated Olympians and Paralympians have joined hands ... in a video that has been produced to support the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare's efforts to inspire and promote safe celebrations during the festival period to prevent a surge in Covid-19 cases," a release said. "The video titled #TyoharonKeRangCABKeSang demonstrates hope against all adversity and features India’s Olympic and Paralympic heroes reminding their fellow citizens to not let their guard down during their celebrations and to celebrate festivals responsibly." The ministry said the country's Olympians and Paralympians embodied the very spirit of India by rising up to the challenge, against all odds to win medals. "Through this video, the essence of their conquering spirit is captured, to encourage and inspire the 1.3 billion Indian citizens to similarly overcome Covid-19 by observing all Covid Appropriate protocols and urging others to celebrate #CovidSafeFestivities. "The inspiring video is a reminder to all Indians that nothing is impossible and that together we can overcome any of our adversities including the current pandemic." India won an unprecedented seven medals in the Tokyo Olympics, including the gold by Chopra in July-August. Later, the country's Paralympians scooped 19 medals, including five gold, in a record-breaking performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/olympians-paralympians-join-hands-to-promote-covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-during-festival-season-1035072.html
28-09-2021||National||Maharashtra Cabinet to meet on board Deccan Odyssey||In a bid to chalk out strategies and boost tourism, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced plans to hold a weekly Cabinet meeting on board Deccan Odyssey, a special luxury train based on the model of Palace on Wheels. This would perhaps be a first-of-its-kind of initiative by an Indian state government. “We will soon have a Cabinet meeting on board Deccan Odyssey,” said Thackeray. Thackeray’s statement came in presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, minister of state for tourism Aditi Tatkare, principal secretary (tourism) Valsa Nair-Singh besides Milind Borikar, director, Directorate of Tourism and Jayashree Bhoj, managing director, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation. Introduced with the aim of promoting tourism in Maharashtra, Deccan Odyssey is a joint collaboration between the Indian Railways and the Maharashtra government. This luxurious train covers the tourist spots of Maharashtra and allows travelers to get a glimpse of the rich cultural heritage of the state. There are 6 journeys of the Deccan Odyssey train; each with a unique name. The Deccan Odyssey offers accommodation in 40 deluxe cabins in 10 coaches. It also has 4 presidential suites in 2 cars, 1 conference car with a business centre, 2 restaurants, a well-stocked bar and a spa with steam, massage, a mini gym and a parlour. Other facilities include a library, 6 DVD channels at the lounges and 6 music channels in each cabin. “Maharashtra has everything from beautiful landscapes, beaches, valleys to pleasant meadows and there’s a lot of scope for us to grow. I am sure that post-Covid we will be able to show the world what Maharashtra truly is,” said Aaditya. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cabinet-to-meet-on-board-deccan-odyssey-1035073.html
28-09-2021||National||Rajnath Singh urges private sector defence firms to invest in R&D||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday urged private sector defence companies to invest in research and development, particularly in technologies relating to cyberspace. In an address at the annual session of the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers, he said the rapid changes in global security scenario are expected to increase demand for military equipment and the Indian industry must focus on boosting production. Singh said the Indian defence industry should take advantage of the policy reforms initiated by the government in the last few years to boost domestic defence manufacturing. "You are all aware that the global situation is changing very rapidly. There is no region in the world today that has not been affected by these changes," he said. "Its impact can be seen on trade, economy, communication, political equation and military power," Singh said, adding these changes are set to spur demand for military equipment. In this context, he urged the private sector to invest in research and development with a special focus on cyberspace. "We are providing a suitable growth environment to the private sector. Accordingly, we have opened up opportunities to build fighter jets, helicopters, submarines and tanks in India through the strategic partnership model," Singh said. The government has initiated a series of measures in the last couple of years to encourage the domestic defence industry. In August last year, Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued recently. In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector. The government has been focusing on reducing dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing. The defence ministry has set a goal of a turnover of $25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing by 2025 that included an export target of USD 5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-urges-private-sector-defence-firms-to-invest-in-rd-1035074.html
28-09-2021||National||Jaishankar meets Mexican counterpart; discusses cooperation in various fields||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held a "comprehensive discussion" with his Mexican counterpart Marcelo Ebrard Casaubón and reviewed cooperation in various fields, including trade, investment, and space, stressing that the two countries must collaborate more closely in international forums. Jaishankar is on a three-day visit to Mexico, his first to the North American country as the External Affairs Minister. "Concluded a comprehensive discussion with FM @m_ebrard of Mexico. Reviewed our political cooperation, trade and investment, space and scientific potential, cultural exchanges, and consular issues. Shared perspectives on governance challenges and global narratives," Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting on Monday. Jaishankar, the first External Affairs Minister to visit Mexico in 41 years, said that as independent powers committed to a multipolar world, "India and Mexico must collaborate more closely in international forums." "Glad to note our Mexican partners reciprocating this sentiment," he tweeted. As independent powers committed to a multipolar world, India and Mexico must collaborate more closely in international forums. Glad to note our Mexican partners reciprocating this sentiment. Jaishankar also paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi in Mexico City by offering floral tributes to the statue of the father of the nation. "Particularly appropriate on the occasion of the anniversary of Mexican independence," he tweeted. As part of his other engagements, Jaishankar also attended the Independence Day celebrations of Mexico in Mexico City. He met Serbia's First Lady Tamara Vucic and Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic. "Glad to learn that the First Lady is an enthusiastic and ardent practitioner of Yoga," he tweeted. Delighted to meet First Lady Tamara Vučić of Serbia and my good friend, Foreign Minister Nikola Selaković. Jaishankar also met Belize Prime Minister Johnny Briceno and Foreign Minister Eamon Courtenay. "Appreciated their warm words on our #vaccinemaitri," Jaishankar said. He also met Bangladeshi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Md. Shahriar Alam on the sidelines of the independence day celebrations in Mexico City. Earlier, Jaishankar was received by Minister of Finance and Public Credit Rogelio Ramírez de la O with whom he discussed Mexico’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Jaishankar reached Mexico at the invitation of his Mexican counterpart Casaubón after concluding his visit to the US for the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. Jaishankar will interact with the leading CEOs and the business community in Mexico, which is currently India’s second-largest trade partner in Latin America and is a member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) alongside India for the 2021-22 period, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The two-way trade in 2018 was $10.155 billion, comprising exports worth $5.231 billion and imports valued at $4.923 billion, according to official data. India's exports comprise mainly vehicles and auto parts, chemicals, aluminium products, electrical machinery and electronic equipment, steel, gems, and ceramic products. India imports crude oil, electrical goods, and machinery from Mexico. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-mexican-counterpart-discusses-cooperation-in-various-fields-1035076.html
28-09-2021||National||Need to step up efforts to tackle climate change impact on agriculture, entire ecosystem: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said climate change is a big challenge not only for agriculture but also for the entire ecosystem and stressed on the need to step up efforts to tackle the problem as he launched 35 crop varieties that are climate resilient and high in nutrition content. The new crop varieties were dedicated to the nation through a video conference organised at all ICAR institutes, state and central agricultural universities and Krishi Vighyan Kendra. During the virtual ceremony, Modi also inaugurated the newly constructed campus of the National Institute of Biotic Stress Tolerance, Raipur. He also distributed the 'Green Campus Award' to agricultural universities and interacted with farmers who use innovative methods, before addressing a gathering. Modi said: "Indian agriculture has remained scientific. The synergy between agriculture and science should continue as it is important for India in the 21st century." In the last 6-7 years, Modi said science and technology are being used on a priority basis to solve the challenges related to agriculture. "Our focus is very high on more nutritious seeds, adaptable to new conditions, especially in changing climate,'' he said, adding that 35 new crop varieties will address the problem of climate change and malnutrition in the country. Expressing concern over challenges of climate change, Modi said, "Not only agriculture, climate change is a big challenge to the entire ecosystem." Due to climate change, new types of pests, new diseases, epidemics are emerging. Because of this, there is a big threat to the health of humans and livestock and crops are also being affected, he said. Further, climate change has an impact on fish production and animal health and output. As a result, farmers and fishermen have to bear the losses, he added. Modi said, "Everyone's efforts are needed to protect agriculture from the impact of climate change. ...Intensive research on these aspects is necessary continuously." The joint effort of farmers and scientists will strengthen the country's fight against climate change, he said and added that the campaign launched to promote climate-resilient crop varieties is apt now as there is a need to go back to basics and march towards the future. Among 35 crop varieties, some include a drought-tolerant variety of chickpea, wilt and sterility mosaic resistant pigeonpea, early maturing variety of soybean, disease-resistant varieties of rice and biofortified varieties of wheat, pearl millet, maize and chickpea, quinoa, buckwheat, winged bean and faba bean. These special traits crop varieties also include those that address the anti-nutritional factors found in some crops that adversely affect human and animal health. Stating that modern technology and new farming tools are at the core of future farming, he said, "We need to keep modernising the ecosystem from seed to market currently being created by the government. ...Efforts to promote modern agricultural machines and equipment are showing results today." However, use of drones and sensors have to be enhanced to get high-quality farm data and real-time solutions, he said and added the new drone policy will help the agriculture sector, he said. Modi further said that there is a need to take modern agri-science to every village and every household. Agri-research should be part of the syllabus of middle school, for which steps have been taken in National Education Policy. He also spoke about the role of startups in taking technology to villages. Asserting that the government is making efforts to take farmers out of crop-based income and encourage them towards value-addition and other farming options, Modi stressed on the need to promote Indian millets at global level ahead of the International Year of Millets in 2023 declared by the UN. He urged states to set up a task force to take Indian millers to the international market. Stressing that the farm sector grows rapidly when farmers are given a safety net, the PM listed out several benefits given to the farmers in the last few years. The government has issued 11 crore Soil Health Cards to farmers to protect the farm land..., he said. That apart, the government not only has increased the minimum support price (MSP) of crops, but also improved the procurement process so that more farmers get the benefit. More than 430 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured in the 2020-21 Rabi marketing season and farmers have been paid more than Rs 85,000 crore, he said and added wheat procurement centres were increased more than three times during the pandemic. The PM further said it has become easy for farmers to do bank transactions after connecting them with technology. Farmers are now getting weather information in a better way. Modi also interacted with five farmers from different states. "The Government is trying to make every resource and infrastructure available to the farmers," Modi added. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Poultry Parshottam Rupala, Ministers of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje, and former-CM of Chhattisgarh Raman Singh were present in the event. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-step-up-efforts-to-tackle-climate-change-impact-on-agriculture-entire-ecosystem-pm-1035086.html
28-09-2021||National||Covid-19 virus expected to continue to transmit for a very long time: WHO||Stressing that the Covid virus may continue to transmit for a “very long time”, senior WHO official Poonam Khetrapal Singh says the level of immunity in a community, through vaccination and previous infection, will determine whether it will become endemic in the long run. WHO’s South-East Asia region regional director added that there is need to get to a situation where "we are fully in control of the virus, and not the virus in control of us". The endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus, very different from the epidemic stage when the virus overwhelms a population. Populations where more people were previously infected and where vaccination coverage is high are expected to be less impacted by the virus in the future than other populations, Singh told PTI in an interview. "The Covid-19 virus is expected to continue to transmit for a very long time. A multitude of factors will decide whether the virus will become endemic in the long run, chief among them is the level of immunity in a community, both through vaccination and previous infection,” she said. On the granting of emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the indigenously developed Covaxin, she said Bharat Biotech's dossier seeking WHO's Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is being reviewed by technical experts and "we can expect a decision when the process is complete". Discussing the role of booster doses to tackle waning immunity, Singh pointed out that cases and deaths in all countries are predominantly being driven by unvaccinated people. Using vaccines for booster doses constricts supply to countries where millions are still waiting for their first dose, she said. "Hence, WHO has called for a time-limited moratorium on Covid-19 booster doses until the end of 2021. This is to allow for at least 40 per cent of the population of each country - including those most at risk and health workers - to be vaccinated. We must remember that no one is safe till everyone is safe." She said there is currently no conclusive evidence that Covid-19 vaccine efficacy against severe disease and death wanes significantly over time. The vaccines, the expert emphasised, have remained effective in preventing severe disease and death. "However, WHO has not ruled out that boosters for some population groups may be warranted in future.  WHO's recommendations on boosters will be guided by the scientific evidence, which is still evolving," she said. "To make a recommendation on the use of booster doses for the general population, more data is needed on optimal timing, safety and dosage of booster doses, which may differ between vaccine products. More extensive research is needed to study the effect of booster doses in the body." According to Singh, eradication is unlikely but what we can do is to prevent or minimise deaths, hospitalisations, tragedy and social, economic and health loss due to this pandemic. Current evidence, she said, shows that protection levels around the world remain low and most people continue to be susceptible to the virus. "WHO continues to recommend a strong public health response based on risk assessment, and for people to continue to protect themselves by getting vaccinated, maintaining physical distance, wearing a mask, avoiding poorly ventilated spaces, cleaning hands and following respiratory hygiene." Referring to the probability of a third Covid wave, Singh said another surge and how intense it will be will depend on all of us. "If we together continue to adhere to public health and social measures and continue to vaccinate people as fast as possible, it will be hard for the virus to infect enough people to cause another wave," she said. "From experience globally, there is enough evidence that the public health and social measures work, even against the Variants of Concern that are spreading more rapidly, and these measures are critical to limiting transmission of Covid-19 and reducing deaths.  For the public health and social measures to be effective, they must be implemented well and timely and must be tailored to local settings and conditions." On India's decision to restart exporting Covid-19 vaccines, Singh said there is need for equity of vaccination administration globally to ensure that the most vulnerable such as frontline workers and the elderly are fully vaccinated. "At the moment, several low and lower-middle-income countries are lagging behind in vaccinating their vulnerable populations.  An equitable vaccine distribution will also help check the emergence of variants by halting the spread of the virus." Singh also noted that the pandemic has given "once-in-a-century opportunity" to strengthen the health system to build back better. "We must invest in strengthening health system resilience to ensure health security and achieve universal health coverage. It means allocation of more resources for health and its efficient governance," she said. Now is also the time for countries to take lessons from the pandemic to strengthen health systems in her view. "Strong health systems that are primary healthcare-oriented, and which leave no one behind, create populations that are healthier, more productive and financially secure. Resilient health systems are the bedrock of emergency preparedness and response, and ensure that when acute events occur, essential health services can be maintained," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-virus-expected-to-continue-to-transmit-for-a-very-long-time-who-1035090.html
28-09-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress President||Navjot Singh Sidhu threw the Congress into a political turmoil on Tuesday, resigning as party's Punjab president after 71 days of his appointment and targeting the top leadership with an inneundo that he was not willing for any compromise. Sidhu, who was appointed as Punjab Congress president on July 18 after Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi threw their weight behind the former cricketer against then Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi about his decision and posted the letter on his Twitter handle. Singh was quick to comment, "I told you so…he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of Punjab." In the terse letter, Sidhu said, "the collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress." Sidhu's surprise resignation comes 10 days after he managed the ouster of his party rival Amarinder Singh as Chief Minister and eight days after installing his nominee Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit, in the driver seat. Sidhu and Amarinder, who left for Delhi amid speculation that he may meet Home Minister and top BJP leader Amit Shah, were locked in an intense internal fight. Both the Gandhi siblings had supported the maverick leader, the former Amritsar MP who had left the BJP and joined Congress in 2017. The resignation also led to further speculation about his future plans, as AAP chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal are scheduled to visit Punjab on Wednesday. For the record, Sidhu in his letter to Sonia has said that he would continue to serve the Congress. A section has claimed that Sidhu is upset over the composition of the new Cabinet under Channi. Sources said Sidhu appeared to be upset with the inclusion of Rana Gurjeet Singh as a Minister as well as the appointment of A S Deol as Advocate General of Punjab. The trouble in Congress in Punjab comes just five-six months ahead of the Assembly polls. The change in leadership came as Sidhu managed to get the backing of Rahul and Priyanka arguing that going with Singh would be suicidal for the party. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-resigns-as-punjab-congress-president-1035094.html
28-09-2021||National||Bombay HC refuses bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor's wife, daughters in DHFL corruption case||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor's wife and two daughters in a corruption and cheating case involving private sector lender Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). A single bench of Justice Bharati Dangre rejected the bail applications filed by Kapoor's wife Bindu and daughters Roshini and Radha. The three had approached the HC last week, challenging a special CBI court order of September 18 which refused them bail while noting that they had, prima facie, caused a loss of Rs 4,000 crore to the Yes Bank through illegal acts. The lower court had remanded them in 14-day judicial custody and said they did not deserve any sympathy for being women. The three are currently lodged at the Byculla women's prison in Mumbai. In their bail pleas filed in the HC, they had said the special CBI court gravely erred in observing that the accusations against them prima facie show complicity in having co-fraudulently and dishonestly received loans as quid pro quo for favour shown by the Yes Bank to DHFL. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had opposed their pleas and said there was nothing wrong with the special court's order and that it was merely securing the presence of the accused for the purpose of trial. The CBI's case is that Rana Kapoor, who is currently in jail in connection with a related case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, had entered into a criminal conspiracy with DHFL's Kapil Wadhawan. The CBI stated that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL. In return, DHFL allegedly paid a kickback of Rs 900 crore to Kapoor in the form of loans to one DoIT Urban Ventures, a firm controlled by Kapoor's wife and daughters. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-yes-bank-founder-rana-kapoors-wife-daughters-in-dhfl-corruption-case-1035141.html
28-09-2021||National||Flight crew, air traffic controllers to be tested for drugs from Jan 31 next year: DGCA||Flight crew members and air traffic controllers will be tested by their employers for psychoactive substances such as cannabis and cocaine from January 31 next year, according to rules issued by aviation regulator DGCA. "The worldwide spread of use of psychoactive substances, their general availability and the ever-increasing number of addicted users is a serious concern to aviation safety," the rules, which were issued on Monday, mentioned. Airlines and air navigation service providers will have to carry out random drug-testing of at least 10 per cent of the flight crew members and air traffic controllers employed by them every year, according to the rules issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The rules mentioned that commercial aircraft operators, maintenance and repair organisations, flying training organisations and air navigation service providers will have to carry out drug tests before employing any person or admitting a trainee pilot. These organisations will also have to test all those aviation personnel -- at the first available opportunity -- who have refused a drug test to a foreign regulator during flight operations to that country, the rules said. All aforementioned aviation workers will be tested for the following psychoactive substances -- amphetamine, cannabis, cocaine, opiates, barbiturates and benzodiazepine. Whenever an aviation personnel is found positive in a drug test, the DGCA has to be informed within 24 hours. Companies in the aviation sector should encourage their employees for self-declaration regarding use of psychoactive substances, the rules mentioned. "Such employees shall be subjected to rehabilitation process by the organisation before return to active duty. Number of such cases shall be reported to DGCA on a six-month basis," the rules said. In case the report of a drug test is "non-negative", the employee will be immediately removed from duty till a confirmatory report is received, the rules mentioned. If the confirmatory test -- which is being done for the first time -- is also positive, then the employee will be referred to a de-addiction centre by the organisation for a de-addiction-and-rehabilitation programme. "Such an employee shall return to active duties after again having undergone the tests for the consumption of the psychoactive substance with a negative test report. In addition, fitness certificate by the medical in-charge of the concerned organisation shall be required," the rules stated. If a personnel is found positive in a drug test for the second time during work, his or her licence will be suspended for three years and it will be cancelled if a personnel tests positive for a third time. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flight-crew-air-traffic-controllers-to-be-tested-for-drugs-from-jan-31-next-year-dgca-1035152.html
28-09-2021||National||Kanhiaya joins Congress, Mevani to fight next Gujarat polls as Cong candidate||Young leader Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress after quitting the CPI on Tuesday while Gujarat independent MLA Jignesh Mevani promised to fight the next Gujarat Assembly elections under the party's symbol, on a day the main Opposition party stumbled into another political crisis after its Punjab state president resigned from the post. Just before officially joining the Congress, Kanhaiya along with Mevani accompanied former Congress president Rahul Gandhi to Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park in the national capital to celebrate the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter. Back at the Congress headquarters, Kanhaiya, who shot to limelight after a sedition case was registered against him when he was Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union President in 2016, filled in the form to join the party while Mevani did not officially join the party as law makes it clear that an independent MLA stands disqualified if he or she joins a political party. However, Mevani made it clear that he would fight the Gujarat elections as a Congress candidate. "I could not join the Congress formally due to technical reasons. I am an independent MLA and if I join a party, I cannot continue as an MLA...I am part of the Congress ideologically, and will fight the upcoming Gujarat polls from the Congress symbol," he said. At a press conference at the Congress headquarters, Kanhaiya said, "I am joining Congress because I feel that an (BJP-RSS) ideology is trying to ruin the values, culture, history and future of this country...if Congress is not saved, the country cannot be saved...Congress fights the BJP directly in 200 seats and it is a big party. If a big ship is not saved, we cannot save the smaller ones." The press meet was attended by Mevani, Congress General Secretaries K C Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala, Treasurer Pawan Bansal, Congress' Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das and Gujarat Working President Hardik Patel. CPI General Secretary D Raja described Kanhaiya's move as "sheer betrayal of the party and communist ideology" as he did not have the commitment to work for the downtrodden and said he was guided by "personal ambition and personal motive". He said Kanhaiya had recently attended the National Executive of the party in Delhi but never raised any ideological issues within the party or with leaders. "Kumar expelled himself from the party...I and some other leaders spoke to him but he told us that all talk about leaving the party was rumour. He was not straightforward and truthful to the party," Raja told reporters. Hours before quitting the party, Kanhaiya emailed Raja his resignation at 1:19 PM. "In the current circumstances, there is a need for a strong and active communist party in the country. I hope that our party will fulfill this. Sadly, but I want to be relieved from the organisational responsibilities of the party. I wish to fulfil the political and ideological responsibilities through other means. I request you to relieve me from all fora of the party," Kanhaiya said in the email in Hindi. Kanhaiya defended his decision of joining Congress saying that he believes in people's aspirations, Mahatma Gandhi's oneness, Bhagat Singh's courage and B R Ambedkar's idea of equality and the Congress will protect it. "I am joining Congress because it is not just a party, it is an idea. It is the country's oldest and most democratic party and I am emphasising on democratic...Not just me, many think that country cannot survive without Congress," he said. Mevani said to save democracy and the idea of India, he had to be with a party that led the Independence struggle and dragged the British out of the country. Venugopal said, "we look forward to working with these young leaders, Kumar & Mevani, to defeat the fascist forces ruling this country...Kanhaiya Kumar is a symbol of the fight for freedom of expression in this country. He fought against fundamentalism as a student leader. The joining of a dynamic personality will fill the entire cadre of Congress with enthusiasm." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanhiaya-joins-congress-mevani-to-fight-next-gujarat-polls-as-cong-candidate-1035155.html
28-09-2021||National||Data privacy should not be compromised while using fintech: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said there should be no compromise on data privacy and safeguard of client data with an increasing number of Indians now using digital mode of payment. Addressing the fintech industry, the minister said the value of digital transactions jumped to Rs 6 lakh crore in January-August 2021 from Rs 4 lakh crore and Rs 2 lakh crore in 2020 and 2019, respectively. "Data privacy is one of the things which is very important and it is an issue on which there can be a lot of contentious views. However, basic respect for privacy...as the guiding principle is well appreciated. "Safeguard of client data, is something which I think is the backbone to bringing trust. Unless my data is safeguarded well I wouldn't want to get into a scheme of things. So that is the guiding principle," Sitharaman said at the 'Global FinTech Fest 2021'. During the event, a report on 'UN principles for responsible digital payments' was launched which outlines guiding principles for the government, users and for industry and businesses. The report also emphasises on including women and their participation in fintech. "I am very impressed that today the UN principles for responsible digital payments are being launched. It is just the need of hour. We need ... all of us to understand that in our desire to bring in an interoperable system, a system which has to be pushed ahead because of the transparency virtues that it carries, we shouldn't be in a hurry to compromise on any one of these features," Sitharaman said. The minister said the fintech adoption rate is 87 per cent in India, as against the global average of 64 per cent. "I think India is the prime destination for digital activities, digital payments," she added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-privacy-should-not-be-compromised-while-using-fintech-fm-1035161.html
28-09-2021||National||30 Assembly seats to go for bypolls on Oct 30, announces Election Commission||The Election Commission on Tuesday announced the schedule of bypolls in 30 assembly constituencies in 14 states, as its earlier decision to conduct the voting only in Bhabanipur in West Bengal was questioned by the Calcutta High Court last week. The EC announced the schedule of the bye-elections to fill vacancies in the 30 assembly constituencies across the country on a day the Calcutta High Court observed that it was inappropriate for the Chief Secretary of the Government of West Bengal to write to the commission, appealing it to hold the bypoll in Bhabanipur in the state in order to avoid a constitutional crisis. The High Court, however, did not issue any order to stay the bypoll in Bhabanipur, which would go to polls on September 30 with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee being the candidate of her party Trinamool Congress. The poll panel announced that the voting for the bye-elections in 30 assembly constituencies in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Rajasthan, Assam, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana would be held on October 30. The polling for the bye-elections in Mandi and Khandwa parliamentary constituencies in Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh as well as in the lone parliamentary constituency in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu would also be held on the same day. The votes polled in all the assembly and parliamentary constituencies would be counted on November 2. The commission stated that it had decided to hold the bypolls after reviewing the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the states and factoring in flood, festivals, cold conditions in certain regions, apart from taking into account feedbacks it had received from the governments of the states and the Union Territories. The EC had on September 4 last announced the bye-elections in Bhabanipur, thus throwing a lifeline to Banerjee, who had been left with only a few weeks to get elected to the state Assembly in order to continue as the Chief Minister of the State. The commission however had not declared bypolls to fill four other vacancies in the state Assembly of West Bengal and 26 in 13 other States. The poll panel had then stated that the governments of other states had conveyed to it that it would not be advisable to hold the bypolls in view of the flood, festivals and the Covid-19 situation. The poll panel had quoted the Chief Secretary of West Bengal conveying to it that the Covid-19 situation had been under control in the State and the bye-election in Bhabanipur should be held immediately in view of the administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid a constitutional crisis and a vacuum in the top executive posts in the state government. Banerjee had led her party Trinamool Congress to a landslide victory in the assembly polls in West Bengal in March-April this year, but had lost to her protege-turned-foe Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in Nandigram. She had commenced her third term as the Chief Minister of West Bengal on May 5 last. Sovandeb Chattopadhyay of the Trinamool Congress had been elected to the legislative assembly from Bhabanipur during the elections in West Bengal. He, however, had resigned from the membership of the State Assembly, apparently to make way for the Trinamool Congress supremo to contest from the constituency. Check out DH'slatest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-assembly-seats-to-go-for-bypolls-on-oct-30-announces-election-commission-1035166.html
28-09-2021||National||Centre extends nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till Oct 31||The Centre on Tuesday extended the nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till October 31 in view of localised spread of the virus in a few states and the disease continuing to be a public health challenge in the country. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also cautioned against the possibility of Covid-appropriate behaviour not being adhered to strictly during the upcoming festival which may lead to a surge in cases again. Despite a decline in Covid-19 cases, it is critical to enforce guidelines that allow regular festivities in a cautious, safe and Covid-appropriate manner, he asserted. He said the daily Covid-19 cases and the overall number of Covid-19 patients in the country are decreasing steadily but there are still localised spreads of virus in a few states and Covid-19 continues to be a public health challenge in the country. "Utmost vigil has to be maintained in respect of mass gathering events, so as to avoid any possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases. "Consequently, large scale gatherings in fairs, festivals, and religious events and functions may lead to afresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country," the communication said. The home secretary said states and UTs, on a regular basis, should closely monitor case positivity, hospital, ICU beds occupancy of every district falling under their jurisdiction. "The state governments and UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take proactive containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission," he said. Bhalla said it is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. "This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare advisory dated September 21, 2021," he said. The home secretary said there should be a continued focus on the five-fold strategy i.e. Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, to safely navigate through the festive season and avoid the possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases. He said the state governments and UT administrations should continue with their vaccination programme with a focus to accelerate vaccination of eligible age groups and prioritisation of the second dose to eligible beneficiaries. The home secretary urged the chief secretaries to issue directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned to take necessary measures as advised in the union health ministry advisory for prompt and effective management of Covid-19. "I would also advise that orders issued by the respective state governments and UT administrations or district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries for their proper implementation," he said. The number of fresh coronavirus cases was recorded at below 20,000 (18,795) in India after 201 days on Tuesday, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 3,36,97,581, while the number of active cases declined to 2,92,206, the lowest in 192 days, according to the Union health ministry. A total of 18,795 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 4,47,373 with 179 more fatalities, the lowest in 193 days, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 AM. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-nationwide-covid-19-containment-measures-till-oct-31-1035174.html
28-09-2021||National||ISRO exploring possibility of developing next-generation astronomy satellite||The Indian Space Research Organisation is exploring the possibility of developing a next-generation astronomy satellite, an official indicated on Tuesday. ISRO's first mission dedicated for astronomy, AstroSat, launched on September 28, 2015 with its design life of five years, on Tuesday completed six years of its operation. "It (AstroSat) is expected to last some more years", A S Kiran Kumar who as the then Chairman of ISRO led the mission team, and is presently serving as the chair of the apex science committee at the space agency, told PTI. "We can expect some more results to come which will be path-breaking". Asked about the possibility of ISRO launching AstroSat-2, he said: "Not AstroSat-2. Next generation...thinking is going on...depending on how planning happens...follow-on to this (AstroSat) in a different manner are being looked at". According to ISRO officials, data from AstroSat is widely utilised for the study of various fields of astronomy, from galactic to extra-galactic and from users from all over the world. The multi-wavelength space observatory, which has five unique X-ray and ultraviolet telescopes working in tandem, had detected extreme-UV light from a galaxy, called AUDFs01, 9.3 billion light-years away from Earth. The discovery was made by an international team of astronomers led by Dr. Kanak Saha, at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Pune and reported in 'Nature Astronomy'. This team included scientists from India, Switzerland, France, the USA, Japan and the Netherlands. AstroSat has also observed for the very first time rapid variability of high energy (particularly >20keV) X-ray emission from a black hole system, officials noted. "AstroSat has been a very successful mission and it has produced results which are globally acclaimed...", Kiran Kumar said. "Large number of papers have also got published" Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-exploring-possibility-of-developing-next-generation-astronomy-satellite-1035178.html
28-09-2021||National||Chairman, MD, ED can’t be held vicariously liable for criminal acts of company: SC||The Supreme Court has said that senior officials like chairman and managing director cannot automatically be held liable, under criminal law, for offences committed by the company in the absence of specific allegations against them.  "Merely because they are the Chairman Managing Director/Executive Director/Deputy General Manager/Planner and Executor, automatically they cannot be held vicariously liable unless there are specific allegations and averments against them with respect to their individual role," a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said. The court said a judicial magistrate has to record his satisfaction about a prima facie case against the accused and the role played by them in their respective capacities, which is sine qua non for initiating criminal proceedings against them. The court dismissed an appeal filed by advocate Shailesh Madiyal on behalf of Ravindranatha Bajpe against the judgements of the Karnataka High Court judgment and the sessions court, which had set aside magistrate order, issuing summons against the accused, senior officials of Mangalore Special Economic Zone Ltd and others. The counsel claimed the accused had conspired with common intention to lay a water pipeline beneath the schedule properties belonging to the complainant, abutting Mangalore-Bajpe Old Airport Road without any lawful authority and right. He claimed they had trespassed over his properties and demolished the compound wall and destroyed 100 valuable trees. Advocates Nishanth Patil and P P Hegde, appearing for the accused officials, maintained that there are no specific allegations and attribution of role to them except the bald statement that all of them have connived with each other. Agreeing to their contention, the bench also noted that the chairman and executive director, at the time of demolition of the wall and cutting of trees, were stationed at Hyderabad and not present at the site. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chairman-md-ed-can-t-be-held-vicariously-liable-for-criminal-acts-of-company-sc-1035184.html
28-09-2021||National||Covaxin's WHO emergency use listing to be delayed? Bharat Biotech says 'won't speculate'||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech said that “it would not speculate on the WHO regulatory approval process and its timeline,” after it emerged that the international health body had sought more details to list Covaxin for global emergency use acceptance. WHO’s Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is a green light for a vaccine's roll-out globally. It also allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer Covid-19 or other vaccines. The Hyderabad-based firm had in May this year applied to the World Health Organization for Covaxin's EUL and expected to get approval by July-September. In mid-July, Bharat Biotech International Limited CMD Dr Krishna Ella announced that “all documents required for EUL of Covaxin have been submitted to WHO.” Around the same time, WHO's chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said that a decision on Covaxin's EUL is likely to be taken in four to six weeks. However, WHO has now reportedly asked Bharat Biotech for more data on its Covid-19 vaccine, which could further delay the global acceptance tag for the homegrown vaccine. “As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for our other vaccines, we do not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on the regulatory approval process and its timelines,” Bharat Biotech stated on Tuesday, adding that it is “diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest.” While not disclosing what sort of information was sought by WHO, Bharat Biotech said that it “will make announcements to indicate the availability of regulatory approvals, at appropriate times.” The EUL assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, as well as risk management plans and programmatic suitability, such as cold chain requirements. WHO says that its EUL is a risk-based procedure for “assessing and listing unlicensed vaccines, therapeutics and in vitro diagnostics with the ultimate aim of expediting the availability of these products to people affected by a public health emergency.” Serum Institute of India's Covishield, a version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford University Covid-19 vaccine, had received WHO emergency listing in February. Both Covishiled and Covaxin are part of the ongoing Covid-19 immunisation programme in the country. Covaxin, jointly developed by the ICMR, National Institute of Virology and Bharat Biotech last year was approved for emergency use in the country in January. The final Phase-3 trial results of the vaccine's safety and efficacy came out six months later. In July, the firm claimed that Covaxin was showing an overall efficiency of 77.8 per cent against the coronavirus and is 93.4 per cent effective in severe cases of Covid-19 infection. The indigenous Covid-19 vaccine is offering 63.6 per cent immunity in asymptomatic cases, and is also demonstrating 65.2 per cent protection against the Delta variant infection, Bharat Biotech had announced in a joint statement with Indian Council of Medical Research. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxins-who-emergency-use-listing-to-be-delayed-bharat-biotech-says-wont-speculate-1035192.html
28-09-2021||National||Hope tech firms won't give encryption as excuse to hold up investigations: Government||India expects that technology companies will not use encryption as an excuse to hold up investigations and will play their part in bringing criminals to justice, the top government official in India's technology ministry said on Tuesday. The Union government earlier this year introduced rules that require private messaging apps such as WhatsApp to divulge the originator of disinformation when asked, a move that the Facebook-owned company says will force it to break end-to-end encryption. "Encryption is a welcome thing most of the time... (but) when it is necessary to come to the assistance of law enforcement agencies to bring perpetrators of wrongdoing to justice then we expect that encryption will not be held up as a silly excuse to deny that," IT Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney said while speaking at the virtual Global Fintech Fest conference. The secretary did not name any messaging app. His comments come at a time WhatsApp has challenged India's new IT rules in court saying the regulations will lead to a "dangerous invasion of privacy" and are "unconstitutional". WhatsApp did not respond to a Reuters' request seeking comment on Sawhney's remarks. The outcome of the court case is key to WhatsApp's future in India, its biggest market with over 50 crore users and where it is betting big on payments and financial services to expand its business. WhatsApp launched payments in India last year and competes with the likes of Ant Group-backed Paytm and Walmart's PhonePe for a slice of the country's digital payments market that is expected to grow at an average 27 per cent annual rate over five years to reach $95.7 trillion by the fiscal year 2024-25. Separately, WhatsApp's India head Abhijit Bose also participated in the Global Fintech Fest event, where he showcased the company's financial inclusion push, such as pensions and insurance, in India. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-tech-firms-wont-give-encryption-as-excuse-to-hold-up-investigations-government-1035197.html
28-09-2021||National||Retrospective seniority can't be claimed from date when employee is not even borne in service, says Supreme Court||Retrospective seniority cannot be claimed from a date when an employee is not even borne in service, the Supreme Court Tuesday said while allowing an appeal by the Bihar government challenging retrospective seniority to a man. The apex court said it is also necessary to bear in mind that retrospective seniority unless directed by the court or expressly provided by the applicable Rules, should not be allowed, as in so doing, others who had earlier entered service will be impacted. "The jurisprudence in the field of service law would advise us that retrospective seniority cannot be claimed from a date when an employee is not even borne in service," a bench of Justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy said. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Bihar government challenging the order of the Patna High Court which allowed a plea by a state resident seeking retrospective seniority. The top court noted that his father was working as a Home guard and after he died in harness, the son applied for a compassionate appointment. The concerned Committee recommended his name along with others in 1985 as one of the persons shortlisted for appointment on a compassionate basis. After being found unfit on physical standards, he moved to the high court which allowed his appointment for Class IV post. As he was shortlisted for the post of Adhinayak Lipik, he challenged the High Court order which was allowed by the apex court and he was appointed on February 27, 1996, by the order issued by the Commandant of the Bihar Home Guard. Six years after joining service, an application was made in 2002 by him claiming seniority from December 5, 1985, but the authorities rejected the claim on the ground that he was appointed in 1996 and that he was not borne in service as of 1985. The rejection order was then challenged and the Patna High Court directed the authority to consider his seniority from December 5, 1985. The apex court noted that the compassionate appointment of the respondent is not being questioned here but importantly he is claiming seniority benefit for 10 years without working for a single day during that period. "In other words, precedence is being claimed over other regular employees who have entered service between 1985 to 1996. In this situation, the seniority balance cannot be tilted against those who entered service much before the respondent. Seniority benefits can accrue only after a person joins service and to say that benefits can be earned retrospectively would be erroneous," the bench said. The bench said that the present is not a case of recruitment by selection and is a compassionate appointment made on this court's order. The court's direction to the State was to appoint within one month without specifying that the appointment should have a retrospective effect, it said. The bench said that the respondent never raised any claim for relating his appointment to an earlier date. "Six years later, only on September 10, 2002, he made a representation, and the same was rejected with the observation that in 1985, the respondent was yet to enter service.  "Proceeding with these facts, it is clearly discernible that the respondent has slept over his rights, and never earlier pointedly addressed his present claim either to the Supreme Court (in the earlier round) or to the State, soon after his appointment," the bench said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retrospective-seniority-cant-be-claimed-from-date-when-employee-is-not-even-borne-in-service-says-supreme-court-1035205.html
28-09-2021||National||Sacking employees on grounds of terror links only to cause more problems, says Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday warned the government against sacking employees on the grounds that they had links to militants, saying the move will create more problems. "The government should stop it. The militancy will not reduce, it will only increase and create more problems for them (government)," Abdullah told reporters here. He was responding to questions about the sacking of government employees on various grounds, including links to militancy and separatism. Six government employees, including two policemen, were dismissed from service on September 22 for their alleged links to terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. Asked about the sacking of employees on the grounds that they were appointed without following the laid down procedure, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said the previous governments gave jobs to the people so that they could earn a living. "It is not as if we had taken money or there was corruption (in recruitment). We gave jobs to people so that they earn a living. Now, if they are sacking them, what will their children do? How will they meet everyday needs?" Abdullah said. In response to a question, the Lok Sabha member from Srinagar said he has not received any information about the next meeting of the delimitation commission for Jammu and Kashmir. "As a Member of Parliament, I have to sit in the delimitation commission but so far I have not received any information," he added. Asked about restoration of statehood and special constitutional status to Jammu and Kashmir, Abdullah said "We want to do it in a Gandhian way". "The case is before the Supreme Court. There has been no hearing. What can we do? We can't throw stones. We want to do it the Gandhian way," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sacking-employees-on-grounds-of-terror-links-only-to-cause-more-problems-says-farooq-abdullah-1035208.html
28-09-2021||National||Congress in knots in Punjab: After removing CM Amarinder, Sidhu resigns as PCC chief||In a dramatic turn of events, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday resigned from his post days after ensuring the exit of Captain Amarinder Singh from the Chief Minister’s post, pushing the Congress in a mess in poll-bound Punjab six months before the Assembly polls. “The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab," Sidhu wrote in the letter announcing his resignation 71 days after he was appointed the PPCC chief. He at the same time said that he “will continue to serve the Congress. Sidhu was made PCC chief in July this year, ignoring the opposition of Amarinder Singh with the strong backing of Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and the abrupt resignation will raise further questions on the handling of the situation by Gandhi siblings. Former Chief Minister Singh, who had earlier called Gandhi siblings “inexperienced” for having made Sidhu the PCC chief and vowed to fight tooth and nail any attempt to install the latter as Chief Minister on Tuesday reminded  "I told you so...he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of Punjab." The ripple effect of Sidhu’s resignation came immediately with two newly-sworn in Cabinet ministers Pargat Singh and Razia Sultana resigning from the Channi cabinet. In a letter to Channi, Sultana made it clear that her resignation was to express “solidarity” with Sidhu. If the implosion continues, Congress would be in a real crisis situation and could also be staring at a split, which will further compound the ruling party’s problems in the state. As a matter of fact, the Punjab potboiler is hot enough to burn the Congress fingers with its two most well-known faces of the party -- Amarinder Singh, who was forced to resign as CM 10 days ago, and Navjot Sidhu who quit on Tuesday  --  are sulking and simmering with anger while staying within the organization and the party is forced to totally bank on the new Dalit Chief Minister Channi. The high octane political drama surrounding Sidhu’s resignation happened on a day Singh was in Delhi amid speculation of his meetings with the top BJP leadership. Singh’s media advisor, however, rejected such speculation saying too much being read into Captain Amarinder’s visit to Delhi.  “He’s on a personal visit, during which he’ll meet some friends and also vacate Kapurthala house for the new CM. No need for any unnecessary speculation,” he said. While it is being speculated that Sidhu took the extreme decision with some recent appointments in the state government as well as allocation of portfolios to some newly-sworn in ministers, a section said Sidhu saw the end of road to his political career the day Congress appointed a Dalit Channi as Chief Minister and was pained to explain that the latter was not a stop-gap arrangement for Sidhu to take over after the polls.  Channi’s assertive style of functioning in the last few days also made it clear that he was not treating himself as a temporary CM and was keen to dispel the notion that he was a “rubber stamp” or will function in Sidhu’s shadow. The allocation of home affairs to deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was stated to be a point of discord. Sidhu had earlier stalled Randhawa’s appointment as CM. Both Randhawan and Sidhu belong to the Jat Sikh community. Sidhu was also unhappy with the induction of Rana Gurjit Singh into the Channi cabinet despite his objections. Gurjit Singh had resigned in 2017 from Amarinder Singh cabinet after corruption charges. On Tuesday when Channi allocated portfolios to the new ministers, he was given technical education and industrial training departments, which were held by Channi during Amarinder Singh's tenure. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj, however, said “This shows that Navjot Singh Sidhu is against Dalits. One poor son was made the chief minister... Sidhu could not bear this. It is very sad.” AAP leader Raghav Chadda tweeted, “Complete and absolute state of anarchy in Punjab Congress. How can the people of Punjab expect these selfish leaders to give a stable, progressive and inclusive administration? “ Akali leader Sukbhir Badal said Sidhu is a “misguided missile, who does not know whom it will hit. First he got Captain removed first. Now he will finish the Congress. Every child in Punjab knows Sidhu. Sidhu is all about himself.” As Punjab CM called an emergency meeting of Cabinet after Sidhu’s resignation after CM Channi said he had no knowledge about it, Akali Dal questioned,”why this emergency cabinet meeting after  's resignation? How does Sidhu's resignation become an official issue? It's a party affair. Gross MISUSE of the official platform.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-in-knots-in-punjab-after-removing-cm-amarinder-sidhu-resigns-as-pcc-chief-1035210.html
28-09-2021||National||Focus on cyberspace and AI: Rajnath Singh to industry||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday urged the industry to focus on emerging areas such as cyberspace and Artificial Intelligence by investing in Research and Development. He also called upon the industry to develop new technologies and products, taking advantage of the policies of the government. Singh was addressing the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) at its annual general meeting. He said that the government had created an atmosphere of jointness to ensure modernisation of the armed forces in the rapidly evolving global security scenario. The countries around the world are now focusing on the modernisation of their militaries and the demand for military equipment is rapidly increasing due to emerging security concerns, border disputes and maritime dominance, Defence Minister said. “India is capable of meeting these needs through a cost-effective and quality approach. By India, we mean public sector, private sector, academia, research & development. We believe in taking them all onboard together,” Singh said. He reiterated the Government’s resolve of ‘Make in India’ and ‘Make for the world’ through past learnings, present works, with focus on empowering the future. The Defence Minister said that the Government was providing a suitable growth environment to the private sector. “We have opened up opportunities to build a Mega Defence Programme, including fighter aircraft, helicopters, tanks and submarines through a strategic partnership model that will help our private companies become global giants in the years to come. The recent contract of 56 transport aircraft for Indian Air Force is one such example,” he said. Defence exports had crossed Rs 38,000 crore mark in the last seven years, more than 10,000 Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) have joined the defence sector and there has been an increase in research and development, start-ups, innovation and employment, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-cyberspace-and-ai-rajnath-singh-to-industry-1035219.html
28-09-2021||National||PM Modi chairs meeting of Union Council of Ministers to review implementation of projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a meeting of the Union Council of Ministers wherein presentations were made on the implementation and monitoring of various projects. Sources aware of the development said two ministers made presentations on the implementation of various projects. This was the fourth meeting of the Union Council of Ministers since its reshuffle and expansion on July 7. During the previous meeting on September 14, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan made presentations on efficiency and time management. After the September 14 meeting, sources had said it was kind of a 'chintan shivir' (brainstorming session) and that more such sessions would be held for further improving governance. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-chairs-meeting-of-union-council-of-ministers-to-review-implementation-of-projects-1035226.html
28-09-2021||National||Over 87.6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Government||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 87.6 crore on Tuesday, the health ministry said. It said over 49 lakh vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm and the tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports by late in the night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. Vaccination of frontline workers started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. Inoculation of all people aged over 45 years began on April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-876-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-government-1035272.html
28-09-2021||National||Implement order for quota in promotion for disabled: SC tells government||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Union government to grant reservation in promotions to persons with disabilities as per the 2016 law. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai and Sanjiv Khanna told the Centre to pass directions in this regard “at the earliest and not later than four months”. The top court was dealing with an application filed by the Centre for clarification on January 14, 2020 judgement passed in Siddaraju vs State of Karnataka which declared that persons with disabilities have the right to reservation in promotions under the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. After hearing arguments by Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, senior advocate Jayna Kothari and others, the court said that there were no ambiguities in the judgements of Siddaraju and others related to the proviso to Section 34 of the 2016 Act. The law officer contended that the government required clarification as widespread application of reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities across the board would cause several practical problems. She said the principles of merit, efficiency and adequacy of representation must be taken into account before extending the benefit of reservation in promotion across the board.  The counsel for the other side, however, claimed the plea by the government was intended to dilute the judgement. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/implement-order-for-quota-in-promotion-for-disabled-sc-tells-government-1035283.html
28-09-2021||National||Suspension of scheduled international passenger flights extended till Oct 31||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights due to the Covid-19 pandemic has been extended till October 31, India's aviation regulator DGCA said on Tuesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with approximately 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspension-of-scheduled-international-passenger-flights-extended-till-oct-31-1035287.html
28-09-2021||National Politics||PM Modi to chair meeting of Council of Ministers today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers today, according to ANI. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-to-chair-meeting-of-council-of-ministers-today-1034990.html
28-09-2021||National Politics||BJP's 'tukde tukde' echoes as young guns Kanhaiya Kumar, Jignesh Mevani set to join grand old party||Hours before former JNU student Union President and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar and young Dalit leader and Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani are to join Congress, BJP on Tuesday revived the 'tukde tukde' attack on the main Opposition party saying "joining hands with 'Breaking India' forces is now Congress’s raison d'être." "On the anniversary of surgical strike, Congress to admit Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani of “Bharat tere tukde honge” fame. This can’t be a mere coincidence," BJP's IT department head Amit Malviya said as indications emerged that both Kumar and Mevani will be joining the Congress on Tuesday evening in presence of Rahul Gandhi. On the anniversary of surgical strike, Congress to admit Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mewani of “Bharat tere tukde honge” fame. This can’t be a mere coincidence. Joining hands with “Breaking India” forces is now Congress’s raison d'être. Kumar and Mevani will also go to a memorial park in the city to garland the statue of Bhagat Singh, the iconic freedom fighter, whose legacy has been claimed with equal enthusiasm by the Congress, the BJP and the Left. Rahul Gandhi too will be attending the garlanding, followed by a briefing by KC Venugopal, Randeep S Surjewala and Bhakta Charan Das at the AICC HQ. Their joining is good news for Congress, which has seen a spate of desertions of its important leaders including three this month. While Sushmita Dev, Mahila Congress chief quit Congress and became a Rajya Sabha MP from Trinamool Congress, party veteran and former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro is also set to join  Mamata Banerjee's party after having resigned on Monday. Jitin Prasada, Congress' young Brahmin face in UP and once a close associate of Rahul Gandhi, became a minister in Yogi Adityanath government on Sunday, three months after he had resigned from Congress in June. The joining of Kumar and Mevani is expected to strengthen the party's organisation in in Bihar and poll-bound Gujarat. It will also sharpen the party's social outreach nationally as Mevani is prominent young Dalit face, who is joining Congress days after the party gave Punjab its first Dalit Chief Minister in Charanjit Singh Channi. Mevani, a first-time MLA from the Vadgam Assembly constituency in Banaskantha district of Gujarat, which he had won in 2017 with the backing of Congress, had shot to fame with educational politics after the Dalit flogging case of Una in 2016. Gujarat is the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. In 2017, Congress with the help of Patidar leader Hardik Patel, Dalit leader Mevani and OBC leader Alpesh Thakor had given a tough fight to the BJP, which could win just 99 in the 182-member state Assembly in 2017. Thakor later joined the BJP while Patel became Working President in Congress. Mevani could also be given a key role, keeping in mind the state polls months away. In Bihar's case, Kumar is expected to enthuse some fresh energy in the moribund veins of Congress, which even after piggy-riding Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD, has not been able to emerge as a force. Moreover, Congress has never been easy with RJD as an ally and the party was always divided on this. Youth face Kanhaiya could help the party's independent outreach to people. Kanhiaya Kumar got into political limelight after being booked in a sedition case when he was JNUSU President, which was alluded by BJP's Malviya in the tweet to attack Congress. BJP had in past targeted Rahul Gandhi for his visit to JNU to express solidarity with the students then. Kumar, who later contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from CPI against Union Minister Giriraj Singh of BJP from Begusarai was the runner-up, having got 2.68 lakh votes in his maiden Parliamentary election. RJD had declined to back his candidature and fielded its own candidate. These joinings are in sync with recent openness in Congress to the lateral entry of leaders from other streams, who are aggressive and not hesitant to take on the BJP and the RSS like  Nana Patole in Maharashtra and Revanth Reddy in Telangana. Addressing social media volunteers of the party, Rahul Gandhi had said, "There are many people who are not in Congress, but are very fearless in speaking the truth. Such people should be inducted into the party while those who are in the party but are scared to speak the truth should go away."   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-tukde-tukde-echoes-as-young-guns-kanhaiya-kumar-jignesh-mevani-set-to-join-grand-old-party-1035028.html
28-09-2021||National Politics||Success of Bharat Bandh has unnerved BJP: Akhilesh Yadav||Accusing the BJP of working in the interest of capitalists who had helped it come to power, Samajwadi Party President  Akhilesh Yadav has said the "success" of the farmers' Bharat Bandh has unnerved the ruling party. The Bharat Bandh was called on Monday by farmer unions to protest against the Centre's three agri laws. In a tweet in Hindi on Monday night, the SP chief also charged that the BJP was working for those who hold its reins in their hands. "The nationwide success of the Bharat Bandh has unnerved the ruling BJP. BJP leaders and supporters could not muster the courage to come out of the house today. The BJP is working only at the behest of capitalists to whom it was indebted to win the elections,” the SP president charged. ‘भारत बंद’ की राष्ट्रव्यापी सफलता ने सत्तारूढ़ भाजपा के हाथ-पैर फुला दिए हैं। भाजपा के नेता व समर्थक आज घर से निकलने का साहस नहीं जुटा पाए। भाजपा चुनाव जीतने के लिए जिन पूँजीपतियों की ऋणी रही है उनके इशारे पर ही काम कर रही है। The Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, and Congress had extended support to the bandh. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/success-of-bharat-bandh-has-unnerved-bjp-akhilesh-yadav-1035051.html
28-09-2021||National Politics||Forced religious conversion cannot be measure of spread of any religion: Naqvi||Forced religious conversions cannot be the measure of spread of any religion in a nation like India, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Tuesday and asserted that both believers and atheists co-exist with equal rights in this country. In his interaction with prominent people from the Christian community belonging to various parts of the country, Naqvi said India can never fall prey to religious bigotry and intolerance as it is the world's largest centre of spiritual-religious knowledge and also a source of inspiration for "Sarva Dharma Sama Bhav" (all religions lead to the destination) and "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam" (whole world is one family). He said both believers and atheists have equal constitutional and social rights and protection in India. While on one hand, Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis, Jews, Baha'is and believers of various other religions of the world live in India, on the other, crores of atheists exist in the country with equal constitutional and social rights, the minister said. Forced religious conversions cannot be the measure of spread of any religion in a country where both believers and atheists have equal rights, Naqvi was quoted as saying in a statement. India is the only country in the world where festivals and other joyous occasions of various religions are celebrated together, he said. "We need to keep this shared cultural heritage and legacy of co-existence strengthened. Any attempt to disturb this fabric of unity and harmony will hurt the soul of India," Naqvi asserted. Followers of almost all the religions of the world live in India and the constitutional and social guarantee and the safety of their religious, social, economic and educational rights is the beauty of the country's strength of "unity in diversity", he said. Naqvi asserted that it is "our collective national responsibility" to ensure that India's culture of tolerance and commitment of co-existence is not allowed to be weakened under any circumstances. Minister of State for Minority Affairs John Barla, National Commission for Minorities Chairman Iqbal Singh Lalpura, Ministry of Minority Affairs Secretary Renuka Kumar, Archbishop Anil Joseph, Bishop Subodh C Mandal, among others, were present on the occasion.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/forced-religious-conversion-cannot-be-measure-of-spread-of-any-religion-naqvi-1035080.html
28-09-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh heads to Delhi, adviser quells rumours of meeting Amit Shah||Days after his unceremonious exit from the government, former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will go to Delhi on Tuesday amid speculation about his future course of action. It will be his first visit to the national capital after he resigned on September 18. In a major development, Congress Punjab chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from his post in the party on Tuesday fuelling more speculations of what is to to come for his political future. Some media reports claimed Amarinder Singh may meet some BJP leaders in Delhi after which Singh's media advisor Raveen Thukral clarified the reason for his visit, tweeting Singh was on a 'personal visit' to the national capital. "Too much being read into @capt_amarinder's visit to Delhi. He's on a personal visit, during which he'll meet some friends and also vacate Kapurthala house for the new CM. No need for any unnecessary speculation,” Thukral said in the tweet. Amarinder had resigned amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. After resigning as Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh had said he felt “humiliated.” Later he had also called Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “inexperienced”. He had also dubbed Sidhu as "anti-national" and "dangerous", saying he would pit a strong candidate against the state party chief in the upcoming assembly polls. He had indicated he was still keeping his political options open, adding that he was talking to his friends before deciding on his future course of action. “You can be old at 40 and young at 80,” he had said, making it clear that he did not see his age as a hurdle. After Sidhu's resignation, Capt Amarinder Singh, in a sharp retort to his action said that "he (Sidhu) is not a stable man".  I told you so…he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-heads-to-delhi-adviser-quells-rumours-of-meeting-amit-shah-1035109.html
28-09-2021||National Politics||Kanhaiya, Mevani entry likely to boost Congress bets in Bihar, Gujarat||Rahul Gandhi has a complaint about many of his party colleagues that they are not anti-BJP/RSS as ought to be. If not for other attributes, one thing that young leaders Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani will not be wanting for will be their strident stand against the Hindutva brigade. Kumar, who rose to national limelight as Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union president arrested in a sedition case, left the CPI to join the Grand Old Party while Gujarat independent MLA Mevani, a prominent Dalit leader who comes from the activists' stable, has promised to fight the next Gujarat elections under the party symbol. Both are expected to add more firepower to the party in Bihar and Gujarat respectively where the party is looking at fresh faces to revamp the party, which has slipped politically. Kanhaiya's entry into Congress has not gone down well with a section in Congress, with a number of them questioning the rationale in bringing in Left-oriented young leaders into the party fold. However, Gujarat Congress Working President Hardik Patel said, “we, youngsters, want to work in Congress, under a leader who talks about development and prosperity. We have raised voices for people of the country in the past, and want to strengthen them and be their voice.” Along with Kanhaiya, Mevani and Alpesh Thakore, Hardik had been at the forefront of the fight against the BJP in the second half of last decade. Hardik and Thakore joined Congress but the latter left for the BJP later, upset over organisational issues. The idea behind their induction is that the entry of “committed” young leaders would rejuvenate the party and fill the gap created by the exit of several younger leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia, Jitin Prasada, Sushmita Dev and Priyanka Chaturvedi in the recent years. While Mevani's association has not triggered much heart-burns, Kanhaiya's entry comes at a time off-the-record conversations highlight his disenchantment and disagreements with the CPI leadership. Kanhaiya, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, is said to be demanding higher position in the party, an allegation refuted by his close aides. Elected to CPI's National Council in 2018 to be one of its youngest members, Kanhaiya is said to have demanded that he be made Bihar CPI Secretary to stay in the party. However, with less than a year left for the Party Congress when new office bearers would be elected, party leaders said the demand was "outrageous" and that a Left party does not work this way. While Kanhaiya's aides deny any such demands, sources said he had refused to hold a press conference in party headquarters in Delhi last week to quell speculation about him leaving the CPI. Kanhaiya's troubles with the CPI was nothing new as CPI leadership in Bihar had complaints about his "one-upmanship". He was also censured by the National Council earlier this year after his supporters manhandled CPI Bihar office secretary in December 2020 for not informing him about postponing a party meeting.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanhaiya-mevani-entry-likely-to-boost-congress-bets-in-bihar-gujarat-1035168.html
28-09-2021||National Politics||Obvious that those having anti-India ideology will join Congress: BJP on Kanhaiya induction||Hitting out at the Congress over former JNU student leader Kanhaiya Kumar's induction into the party, the BJP on Tuesday said it is obvious that all those who have anti-India ideology will join the opposition party as it is "synonymous with divisive and anti-India forces". Kumar, a CPI leader and former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union president, joined the Congress in the presence of Rahul Gandhi here, while independent Gujarat MLA and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani extended his support to the Congress ideology and said he would contest the next assembly polls on the party symbol. Targeting the Congress, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said, "It is natural and obvious that Congress will be the first choice of all those whose ideology is anti-India." He alleged that the Congress has a divisive and anti-India ideology and is, therefore, welcoming leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar. "The Congress party, its leadership and its ideology have become synonymous with anti-India and divisive forces. And that's why it is welcoming leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar," Bhatia said. In a tweet, BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya said, "On the anniversary of surgical strike, Congress to admit Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mewani of 'Bharat tere tukde honge' fame. This can't be a mere coincidence. Joining hands with 'Breaking India' forces is now Congress's raison d'être." On the anniversary of surgical strike, Congress to admit Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mewani of “Bharat tere tukde honge” fame. This can’t be a mere coincidence. Joining hands with “Breaking India” forces is now Congress’s raison d'être. Malviya was referring to the Indian Army's surgical strike against militant launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir following the terror attack in Uri in 2016. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/obvious-that-those-having-anti-india-ideology-will-join-congress-bjp-on-kanhaiya-induction-1035250.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Why farmers' protest receives more response in northwest India||Amid conflicting claims about Monday's Bharat Bandh being successful or not, a question that comes up repeatedly is why is that the farmers' agitation, including the latest agitation, gets more response from northwest India compared to other parts? Is it because the farmers in the states of Punjab, Haryana, or western Uttar Pradesh are rich? Is it because they have large land holdings? Or there are more reasons than what meets the eyes? Not the landholdings but it is the procurement under Minimum Support Price (MSP) that is the driving issue of the whole agitation and because farmers from Punjab, Haryana, parts of Maharashtra, and Madhya Pradesh benefit more from MSP, they are the most vocal, according to experts. "Landholdings is a misleading issue, a deliberately brought-in argument of rich or poor farmers. Official data shows that less than 0.4 per cent of farmers have land which is more than 10 hectare (Ha). This means all are small land-holding farmers. What are we fighting about?" asks Devinder Sharma, an agriculture expert. The latest dataset of the National Statistical Survey (NSS) Organisation released earlier this month has shown that more than 70 per cent of the agricultural households in rural India possessed land less than or equal to 1.0 Ha while in the case of non-agricultural households, more than 90 per cent possessed land less than or equal to 0.40 Ha. As many as 35.6 per cent of agricultural households possessed land between 0.40 and 1 hectares (Ha), followed by 34.2 per cent who possess 0.01-0.40 Ha, 17.7 per cent who possess between 1.01-2.0 Ha and 0.6 per cent possessing less than 0.01 Ha, the 77th round of survey by the National Statistical Office (NSO) conducted during the period between January 1, 2019, till December 31, 2019, had shown. On the other hand, 8.6 per cent of agricultural households possessed 2.01-4.0 Ha land and 2.8 per cent held 4.01-10 Ha land. Barely 0.4 per cent agricultural households possessed land that was more than 10 Ha, it said. The Agriculture Census of May 2015 data shows that the highest number of operational land holdings in India are in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar, Maharashtra, and Andhra Pradesh. The lowest land holdings in India are in Chandigarh. However, in terms of the operated area, the largest contribution comes from Rajasthan, followed by Maharashtra. Chandigarh constituted the lowest number of operational holdings as well as the operated area in the country in 2010-11. Echoing the sentiment about landholding size, Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS), Prof S Janakrajan, said: "Almost 80 per cent are small and marginal farmers in India and so in case of Punjab. The farmers in Punjab are facing big trouble, they are under huge debt, and they are the ones who have extracted large quantities of groundwater. They have to survive." "MSP for wheat is extremely necessary for these farmers because most of them are into subsistence farming. That makes a lot of difference for them. They have a huge fear that these three laws are going to take away the MSP, in which case, the markets, the cartels will fix the price which can be much lower than the MSP and their cost of production," Janakrajan said. "It will not happen in this year or next year. It will happen 10 years down the line. Once the market comes in, farmers will become labourers, and entire production and marketing, everything will be determined by the market," he said. Sharman stated that farmers from northwest India are closer to Delhi - the seat of power - can be one of the reasons, but more than that, "don't forget, only six per cent of the farmers get MSP and rest 94 per cent are dependent on the market. These large number of farmers have never had the benefit of MSP cushion. And roughly 80 per cent of this six per cent are farmers from Punjab and Haryana. Obviously, they are going to be more vocal about this issue". Citing Bihar as an example where the APMC Act was done away within 2006 and now in 15 years, people from that state are going to Punjab as labourers, he said: "Point is that the farmers in Bihar are not getting the right price because there is no APMC. Fifteen years is a good time to check how this has panned out." The problem of MSP is more for wheat crop compared to any other and Punjab and Haryana are amongst the states from where the largest wheat procurement under MSP happens. And therefore, unlike other states, it is the wheat-producing states that will be affected more due to the new farm laws. "There is 80 million tonnes of buffer stock of wheat and its prices are likely to fall (when market steps in), so the government needs to step in. This problem does not arise in case of other crops," Janakrajan said. In case of commercial crops such as pepper and cotton, it is the market that determines everything. But in that case, the demand is more, supply is less. It is reverse in the case of wheat. "Market forces are always unfavourable to foodgrains producing farmers," he added. The MIDS professor rubbished the "middlemen that benefitted earlier will not benefit now" argument, saying that it is a cover-up by the government. "Will middleman struggle for 300 days?" Sharma said: "Whether you say northwest India or other parts, the message from the farmers (on Monday through the Bharat Bandh) is very clear. More than 50 per cent of the population is living in misery and these farmers are becoming the voice of these people." Calculating the success of Bandh by what was closed and what was functional is incorrect, he said: "We look at everything only through the lens of living in a sustainable manner. It doesn't matter if 95 out of 100 shops were closed or all of them were shut. After all, they have conveyed the message, 'listen to our voices'." However, Swadeshi Jagran Manch's Ashwani Mahajan claimed the Bandh was not successful even in the states of Haryana or Punjab largely but was restricted to small pockets of influence of these agitating farmers. "This whole protest has become more of a political than farmers' issue what with even the Congress and AAP and other parties joining in." Mahajan echoed Janakrajan and Sharma's point about the larger protests from NW India owing to high procurement under MSP from these states but gave a 180-degree opposite reason. "They are worried that the MSP facility will be withdrawn under these farm laws. It is not possible. In fact, if we look at this year's data, there has been record procurement," he said. Political parties did make contrary claims about the Bandh. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said the Bandh will compel the Centre to listen to the voices of India's farmers; political activist and farm leader Yogender Yadav termed it as success and said farmers have given a befitting reply to the government's falsehood while the opposition parties such as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Left parties have claimed that the government will need to pay the price of this protest. On the other hand, the Bhartiya Janata Party has termed it as sheer political drama and said that the Bandh was ineffective. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-farmers-protest-receives-more-response-in-northwest-india-1034999.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Activists, NGOs oppose new Rajasthan Bill that 'legitimises child marriage'||Activists, non-government organisations and Opposition parties are protesting Rajasthan's new Marriages Amendment Bill 2021, questioning if it seeks to allow child marriages in the state, even as the Congress government dismissed the allegations.  The Bill was passed earlier this month through a voice vote and sought to amend the 2009 Act to make registration of all marriages within 30 days mandatory.  The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and members of the BJP opposed the amendment claiming that it will legalise child marriage in the state.  NCPCR Chairperson Priyank Kanoongo Saturday wrote to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, pointing out that the provisions of the Bill may have a serious impact on the “physical, psychological, social and education of minors in the state”. The apex child rights body said the bill provides for registration of child marriages through marriage registration officer of the place where they have been residing for more than 30 days. The Opposition termed it a "black law" and demanded that the Rajasthan Assembly Speaker should go for division of votes. They trooped into the well of the House shouting slogans but the bill was passed. On Sunday, hundreds of BJP youth wing activists staged protests and submitted a memorandum demanding the repeal of the Bill.  The ruling Congress maintains that the Bill is not meant for the validation of child marriages but to ensure that all marriages in the state, including child marriages, are registered as required by the Supreme Court. The Rajasthan government also claims that the Bill will ensure that child marriages are brought to light and, in such cases, the district administration will still be able to take action against the family members. The amendment changes the age limit to 21 for men and 18 for women to submit a memorandum on their marriage to the registrar which was earlier allowed for both men and women above the age of 21.  (With agency inputs) Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/activists-ngos-oppose-new-rajasthan-bill-that-legitimises-child-marriage-1035002.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Bypolls to three LS seats, 30 Assembly constituencies on October 30||Bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly constituencies spread across various states will be held on October 30, the Election Commission announced on Tuesday. The counting of votes will take place on November 2. "The Commission has reviewed the situation related to pandemic, flood, festivals, cold conditions in certain regions, feedback from concerned States/UT and taken into consideration all facts and circumstances and it has decided to hold by-elections to fill vacancies in three Parliamentary Constituencies of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and 30  vacancies in Assembly constituencies of various states," the EC said in a statement. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bypolls-to-three-ls-seats-30-assembly-constituencies-on-october-30-1035007.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Voting for bypolls in Rajasthan's Dhariyavad, Vallabhnagar Assembly seats to be held on Oct 30||Voting for the bypolls to Rajasthan's Dhariyavad and Vallabhnagar Assembly seats will be held on October 30.  The Election Commission (EC) announced the schedule for the bypolls on Tuesday. The election notification for both the seats will be issued on October 1. Nominations can be filed till October 8. Polling will be held on October 30, while the counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. Election was necessitated on the seats after Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat died due to Covid-19 on January 20 and BJP legislator from Dhariyavad Gautam Lal Meena died of the infection on May 19. The ruling Congress currently has 106 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 71, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) three, the CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) two each and 13 independents. Two seats are vacant. Earlier, bypolls were held for the Sahada, Sujangarh and Rajsamand Assembly seats in the state, with the Congress winning two of those and the BJP one. The EC announced in New Delhi on Tuesday that bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats and 30 Assembly seats in different states will be held on October 30.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-for-bypolls-in-rajasthans-dhariyavad-vallabhnagar-assembly-seats-to-be-held-on-oct-30-1035031.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand studying UP population Bill to make its own: Report||This comes after leaders of 35 RSS affiliates nudged the Dhami government to ensure a “demographic balance” in the state and introduce a population control law, similar to the ones in Assam and Uttar Pradesh. In his Independence Day speech, CM Dhami had said that a committee would be formed to help make a law on the population control of the state. Sources in the government told the publication that it is yet to be constituted. “But we are examining the population control Bill drafted by Uttar Pradesh. The draft Bill has been sent to the Law Department to study it and give an opinion considering Uttarakhand’s social and demographic conditions,” the report quoted an official as saying. The UP Law Commission had last month submitted the UP population Bill to the CM’s office for consideration.  The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021, official sources told IE, aims at ''revitalising efforts and providing for measures to control, stabilise and provide welfare to the population of the state implementation and promotion of two-child norm''. The Bill provides for making couples with more than two children ineligible for state government jobs and also bar them from contesting panchayat elections while those with two children would receive two additional increments, subsidy in the purchase of house and rebate in the utility bills. (With DHNS inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-studying-up-population-bill-to-make-its-own-report-1035036.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||2,000-year-old Meerut find may lead to ‘lost’ Ashoka pillar site: Report||Ashoka Pillars in India are structures erected by the Mauryan King Ashoka between  268 to 232 BC across the Indian subcontinent. While only 20 Ashoka pillars stand tall in India now, a new finding by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), may lead to a lost Ashoka Pillar site in Meerut. One among the 20 existing pillars, the pillar which is said to have been erected in Meerut, currently stands in Delhi. The Delhi-Meerut pillar was shifted from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi by Feruz Shah, ruler of the Tughlaq dynasty, according to several reports. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) claimed that remains dating back to the Mauryan-period have been identified. The ASI said that a brick platform going back over 2,000 years has been found, and it could hold the key to a “lost” Ashoka Pillar site from the 3rd century BCE. “We have also found pottery and ceramics belonging to those times. An ancient canal route here that, most likely, connects to the Kali river has also been found. The finding has rekindled hopes that it could lead historians to a pillar installed in Meerut around 3rd century BCE by Ashoka, the third emperor of the Mauryan dynasty”, Brajsundar added. The Ashoka pillars are a representation of Ashoka’s dynamic rule and conquests across India. While most of the pillars have either withered away or been destroyed by succeeding rulers, 20 pillars still stand in India. The pillars are the earliest known stone scriptures in India and demonstrate the culture of the advanced Mauryan civilisation. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2000-year-old-meerut-find-may-lead-to-lost-ashoka-pillar-site-report-1035048.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi court orders in-camera hearing in domestic violence case against Honey Singh||A Delhi court Tuesday ordered in-camera hearing of the domestic violence case filed against Punjabi singer Yo Yo Honey Singh by his wife. Metropolitan Magistrate Tania Singh passed the order after taking consent from Singh and his wife Shalini Talwar. “If there is even a slight possibility of reconciliation, that should not be ruled out,” the judge said. Hirdesh Singh, professionally known as Yo Yo Honey Singh, and Talwar tied the knot on January 23, 2011. Talwar has charted out in her plea how she was allegedly physically assaulted by Singh over the last ten years of their marriage. She also alleged that Honey Singh cheated on her. She has sought Rs 20 crore compensation from her singer-actor husband under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. Talwar was represented by advocate Sandeep Kapur, Senior Partner Karanjawala & Company, along with advocates Apoorva Pandey and GG Kashyap. Honey Singh was represented by advocate Rebecca John, while advocate Karan Govel appeared for singer's parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-orders-in-camera-hearing-in-domestic-violence-case-against-honey-singh-1035052.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Pakistani terrorist captured by Army along LoC in Kashmir; seven infiltrators killed in Uri in last 9 days||A 19-year-old Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist from Pakistan was captured by the army along the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district while seven militants were killed in a nine-day operation in the same area. The army said the infiltrators were planning a major strike and Ali Babar Patra, son of late Mohammad Lateef resident of Dipalpur district Okara of Punjab, Pakistan, had claimed that he had to “drop arms in Baramulla.” Addressing a presser at Uri, General Officer Commanding (GoC) of 19 Division, Lt General Virendra Vats, said the operation started on September 18 when alert troops detected the infiltration movement following which an encounter broke out and more reinforcement was mobilised. “The infiltrating group comprised of six terrorists and two of them managed to sneak into Indian side while four others went back, taking advantage of darkness. The duo was holed up in a nallah at Salamabad and the contact was established again on September 25 and one of them was killed next day, while another one (Ali Babar Patra) surrendered,” he said. Patra, the GOC said, has admitted that he was a member of the LeT and he underwent a three-week course in 2019 at Khyber camp in Muzaffarabad. “Subsequently after training, he was sent home and thereafter he was recalled for some important task this year,” he said. “The false and fake narratives of ‘Islam being in danger’ and perceived killing including the atrocities being committed against the Muslims in Kashmir was the main theme of indoctrination during the training. Possibly, the Pakistan national who surrendered was coerced and lured into joining the terrorists' ranks due to his poor financial condition,” Lt General Vats said. The arrested terrorist has revealed to the army that he was supposed to drop weapons in Pattan area. “But when we saw the recoveries that were made, it is quite possible that these infiltrators had come here for some kind of strike, which went beyond the supply drop. This infiltration attempt was made in the area of Salamabad nallah, this is the same area through which we have had a history of infiltration in 2016 that is when a suicide attack on Uri Garrison took place,” Lt General Vats said. The GOC added that in the last nine days seven militants have been neutralised and one has been apprehended and five of these neutralizations have taken place near the LoC. “The major recoveries that have taken place include seven AK rifles, nine pistols and revolvers and more than 80 different kinds of grenades and some Pakistani and Indian currency,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-terrorist-captured-by-army-along-loc-in-kashmir-seven-infiltrators-killed-in-uri-in-last-9-days-1035057.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Rohini court shootout: HC asks police to file status report on plea to enhance security in district courts||The Delhi High Court Tuesday asked the police to file a status report on a plea seeking to ensure adequate security in district courts in the national capital in the wake of recent shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom here which left three people dead. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to Delhi Police and Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on a petition filed by a woman advocate and said the report be filed within five days. The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 11. The police informed the court that it was taking steps to ensure that the security in district courts is geared up adequately. The advocate said in her plea that she has been practising in various Delhi courts which have become unsafe and an easy terrain for gangsters to settle scores with each other, making courts unsafe for thousands of lawyers. The plea sought direction to Delhi Police and BCD to consider instructing all the police personnel at court entrances to ensure that they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the court premises. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-shootout-hc-asks-police-to-file-status-report-on-plea-to-enhance-security-in-district-courts-1035081.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Sukhbir Badal urges PM Modi to invite farmers for talks||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers for talks and also demanded a special session of Parliament to revoke the three "black" agri laws. The statement comes a day after farmers under the aegis of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) held a Bharat Bandh to demand repeal of the three laws. The SKM is an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the agitation. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president urged Modi to “intervene personally, immediately and effectively,” and invite farmers for talks without preconditions to revoke the three “Black Acts” on agri-marketing. Felicitating farmers of the country, especially those from Punjab and Haryana, for the “complete success” of the peaceful Bandh, Badal said this should show the government that the people of the entire country stood solidly behind their 'annadata' (food provider). In a statement here, Badal also urged the PM to convene a special session of Parliament to revoke the three Acts on agricultural marketing that have led the country to this “impasse”. “If the government had heeded the SAD advice on the issue when the party not only voted against the Bills in Parliament but even quit the cabinet and broke the SAD-BJP alliance to protest against the three Acts, the situation today would have been different,” he said. He said, “As a first step, the government must invite farmer organisations for talks without any precondition and without any further loss of time.” The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest.  Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws — The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbir-badal-urges-pm-modi-to-invite-farmers-for-talks-1035095.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||'Not a stable man': Amarinder Singh hits back as Navjot Singh Sidhu quits as Punjab Congress chief||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh took a dig at Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu who resigned as Punjab Congress chief earlier today, saying "I told you so". In a tweet, Singh said, "Told you so. He is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of Punjab." I told you so…he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, he said, "the collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-a-stable-man-amarinder-singh-hits-back-as-navjot-singh-sidhu-quits-as-punjab-congress-chief-1035103.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Will provide rehabilitation, legal support to woman alleging sexual assault by father, DCW tells SC||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that it will ensure “holistic rehabilitation” and legal support to a 19-year-old woman who has alleged that she was sexually assaulted by her father when she was a minor. The commission told a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar that there is no specific policy in place for the rehabilitation of rape and incest survivors in Delhi but the DCW on its own takes up rehabilitation of certain survivors who are in dire need for the same. In an affidavit filed before the apex court, which is hearing the woman plea for transfer of the case lodged on her complaint from Ambala to Delhi, the DCW said rehabilitation provided by them to such survivors entails providing financial help, access to education, skill development and facilitating job opportunities. The bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, told the counsel appearing for the petitioner to interact with the officials of the commission in this regard and said it would hear the matter on Wednesday. The petitioner’s counsel told the bench that the accused has not been apprehended yet and he is sending threatening messages and calls to the woman. The bench said they can interact with the DCW officials and mention all these things so that they can take appropriate steps. The top court observed that the first issue is of providing immediate comfort and security to the woman and the commission is willing to provide help to her. The woman, in her petition drawn by advocate Akshita Goyal, has claimed that her father had sexually assaulted her when she was a minor and as her mother had passed away in 2016, there is no one to look after her in the family. The DCW affidavit said the woman had approached it on July 23 with a complaint of alleged sexual assault by her father which took place when she was a minor and a senior member of the commission interacted with her and held a detailed counselling. It said a support team of the commission had visited the police station with the woman and later, a zero FIR was lodged here and it was transferred to Ambala in view of jurisdictional issue. A zero FIR can be filed in any police station and it is then forwarded to the concerned police station under whose jurisdiction the alleged offence has been committed for necessary action. “The commission is keen to facilitate the best possible opportunities for the applicant (woman) and ensure her holistic rehabilitation,” the DCW said in its affidavit. It said in all cases, especially in sexual assault, the commission strives to provide the best possible counselling, psychological support, access to proper medical facilities as well as legal support to the survivor. “While there is no specific policy for rehabilitation of rape and incest survivors in place in the state of Delhi, the commission on its own accord takes up rehabilitation of certain survivors who are in dire need for the same. The rehabilitation provided by the commission thus far to survivors has entailed providing financial help, access to education, skill development and facilitating job opportunities,” it said. The commission has said it has contacted the woman for a detailed interaction so that a plan can be chalked out for her rehabilitation as per her aspirations. It said that based on her interest, the commission can facilitate placing her in a shelter home and arrange for her further education and enrol her in probable skill development courses so that she can become self-independent and lead a normal life. The DCW said if the woman wishes to stay with her relatives or independently and want to pursue further education or get herself enrolled in skill development courses, the commission shall ensure full support for her rehabilitation. It said so far as safety, security and protection of the woman is concerned, it comes within the ambit of the Delhi Police. The commission said if the case is transferred from Ambala to Delhi, it would provide all legal assistance and possible support during investigation and trial in the case. The affidavit said the DCW would also provide assistance to her in seeking compensation under the victim compensation scheme to meet out her basic needs which may help in her rehabilitation. On September 24, the apex court had asked the DCW to apprise what steps would it take to provide relief to the woman. It had also asked the Delhi Police to inform whether it has any objection in taking over the investigation in the case. In her petition, filed through advocate Abhinav Agrawal, the woman has said that she had left her home on July 22 and went to one of her relatives house and the next day, she had approached the DCW. She has sought a direction that upon transfer of the case to Delhi, it be investigated as per the procedure prescribed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and also the standing order issued by Delhi Police for response and probe into cases of a sexual offence. It has also sought a direction to the DCW to look after the protection and basic necessities of the woman as she fears for her safety.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-provide-rehabilitation-legal-support-to-woman-alleging-sexual-assault-by-father-dcw-tells-sc-1035114.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Voluntarily offered bribes can be taken but don't make villagers cough up big money: BSP MLA tells MP officials||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Madhya Pradesh, Rambai Singh, has stoked a controversy by allegedly telling officials that they can accept "voluntarily offered" bribes like a "pinch of salt in flour" but it is not permissible "if you snatch the entire Thali (food plate)" from people. A video of the conversation between Singh and some villagers from her constituency Patharia in the Damoh district in the presence of state Panchayat officials has gone viral on social media. Singh told the officials to return the money they had allegedly taken from some villagers, who alleged they had to pay the bribe of varying amounts to get the funds released under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. This video was shot on Sunday at Sataua village which falls under the Patharia assembly segment. The viral video clip shows Singh, sitting in a room, asking who paid the money to get the funds released under the PM Awas Yojana, when at least six villagers sitting on the floor stand up, saying they had paid between Rs 5,000 to Rs 9,000 each. The MLA then asks whom they paid the money to which the villagers pointed fingers towards two men (Panchayat Secretary and Rojgar Sahayak) sitting on chairs in the room. Later, she was heard telling both the officials that "there would have been no problem if you took Rs 500 or Rs 1,000. See, it works like salt in the flour. But, it is not permissible if you snatch the entire Thali (food plate) from them (villagers)". Singh told the officials that these villagers work hard to earn Rs 6,000 per month and go far away in other states to earn a livelihood, which they (officials) took away. Singh later asked the officials to return the money to villagers. When asked about the incident, Damoh district collector S Krishna Chaitanya said he had not received any complaint so far. Krishna Chaitanya said he had directed Patharia janpad CEO to inquire into the allegations levelled by villagers after the video surfaced. When contacted, the BSP MLA told PTI on Tuesday that a "similar situation" prevails in the government system across Madhya Pradesh and India. “I have got the money (paid by people as a bribe) returned on several occasions. I don't need to raise a complaint but sort out the matter on the spot. If I complain, senior officials will take money from these employees to settle the issue. I don't want to create problems for them and sort it out on the spot,” she said. Claiming that a complaint (against bribery) doesn't yield any results, the BSP leader said several officials and employees get suspended in such incidents but they are reinstated after some time. “The Panchayat secretary and the Rojgar Sahayak earn meagre salaries while inflation is high. If they are coming from a distance to villages, they can accept the money if someone gives them voluntarily but they can't force the villagers to cough up Rs 9,000 or Rs 10,000. This is what I said,” she added.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voluntarily-offered-bribes-can-be-taken-but-dont-make-villagers-cough-up-big-money-bsp-mla-tells-mp-officials-1035120.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij admitted to AIIMS due to breathing difficulties||Haryana minister Anil Vij was admitted to the AIIMS here after he complained of breathing difficulties, sources said on Tuesday. Vij, who holds the home and health portfolios in the Haryana cabinet, was admitted to a private ward of the hospital under AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria for investigations on Monday night, they said. A team of doctors is monitoring his conditions. "He has complaints of breathlessness, which could be part of post-Covid complications," a doctor said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-admitted-to-aiims-due-to-breathing-difficulties-1035125.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Mihir Bhoj caste row: UP CM Adityanath's name on plaque smeared with black paint, probe on||Tension prevailed in Greater Noida on Tuesday after the name of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was allegedly smeared with black paint on a plaque fixed below a statue of King Mihir Bhoj that he had unveiled last week. Besides Adityanath, the names of Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Singh Nagar and Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, both from the BJP, were also smeared with black paint on the plaque, according to purported visuals that surfaced on social media. Police have launched an investigation into the act which has been allegedly committed by some members of the Gurjar community, who have been at loggerhead with the Rajput community, with both claiming that the ninth-century king belonged to their caste, officials said. The chief minister had unveiled the 15-foot-tall statue of the king in Greater Noida's Dadri area in Gautam Buddh Nagar district on September 22. A conflict had ensued over addition of prefix “Gurjar” to the name of King Mihir Bhoj on the plaque. Prior to the event also, tension had been brewing in the region due to the conflict between the two dominant Rajput and Gurjar communities over the issue while CM Adityanath had remarked that “great icons cannot be confined to one caste, they belong to everyone” after unveiling the statue. The smearing of black paint over the names on the plaque allegedly took place after Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Singh Nagar visited the statue and paid tributes to King Mihir Bhoj on Tuesday morning. “Satyamev Jayate,” Nagar, a Gurjar leader, captioned a picture of him standing next to the statue in a Twitter post in the morning. Meanwhile, an official said the local Dadri police have been instructed to lodge an FIR into Tuesday's incident and take action against the culprits.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mihir-bhoj-caste-row-up-cm-adityanaths-name-on-plaque-smeared-with-black-paint-probe-on-1035130.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||AUKUS submarine deal 'very tricky' for nuclear inspectors: IAEA chief||The head of the United Nations atomic agency has said the AUKUS deal in which Australia will obtain nuclear submarine technology from the United States is a "very tricky" issue in terms of inspections but in can be managed. The submarine deal is part of a three-way defence agreement announced by Washington, London and Canberra last month which infuriated France because Australia said it would cancel an existing order for French diesel-powered submarines. It would also be the first time that a party to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty obtains nuclear submarines, apart from the five nuclear weapons states recognised by the NPT - the United States, Russia, China, France and Britain. India, which has not signed the NPT, also has nuclear submarines. "It is a technically very tricky question and it will be the first time that a country that does not have nuclear weapons has a nuclear sub," IAEA chief Rafael Grossi, whose agency polices the NPT, told the BBC's HardTalk programme in comments broadcast on Tuesday. Grossi confirmed that an NPT signatory can exclude nuclear material from IAEA supervision, also known as safeguards, while that material is fuelling a submarine. It is a rare exception to the IAEA's constant supervision of all nuclear material to ensure it is not used to make atom bombs. "In other words, a country ... is taking material away from the inspectors for some time, and we are talking about highly, very highly enriched uranium," he said. "What this means is that we, with Australia, with the United States and with the United Kingdom, we have to enter into a very complex, technical negotiation to see to it that as a result of this there is no weakening of the nuclear non-proliferation regime." He did not indicate how long those negotiations would last. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aukus-submarine-deal-very-tricky-for-nuclear-inspectors-iaea-chief-1035131.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu couldn't stand a Dalit was made Punjab CM, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday claimed that Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu quit from his post as he 'could not bear" that a Dalit has been made the chief minister of the state. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu, however, said he will continue to serve the party. He had taken over as the state party chief in July this year. "This shows that Navjot Singh Sidhu is against Dalits. One poor son was made the chief minister... this, Sidhu could not bear. It is very sad," AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj told reporters. The AAP is the main opposition in Punjab. In his letter to Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu wrote, "The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab," he wrote in the letter. "Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress," he further wrote. It is immediately not known what prompted Sidhu to leave the post of the Punjab Congress chief.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-couldnt-stand-a-dalit-was-made-punjab-cm-alleges-aap-1035135.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots 2020 'pre-meditated' conspiracy, not in spur of the moment: HC||The Delhi High Court has said that Delhi riots last year, did not occur in a spur of the moment, rather it was “pre-planned” and “pre-meditated” conspiracy to disturb law and order in the national capital. The three-day violence in February 2020, after protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 claimed 50 lives and left hundreds others injured. Declining bail to accused Mohd Ibrahim in a case of the murder of Delhi police head constable Ratan Lal, Justice Subramonium Prasad on Monday pointed out that there was systematic disconnection and destruction of the CCTV cameras in the areas near the place of the incident. It said the riots which shook the capital of the country evidently did not take place in a spur of the moment, rather it was a result of planned and executed conspiracy. With regard to role of the accused, the bench said the available video footage of the petitioner with the sword was "quite egregious" and sufficient to keep him in custody. Ibrahim was arrested in December 2020 and has been in judicial custody since then. The court further pointed out, “innumerable rioters ruthlessly descended with sticks, dandas, bats etc upon a hopelessly outnumbered cohort of police officials”. It noted the conduct of the protestors visibly portrayed through video footage that it was a calculated attempt to dislocate the functioning of the government, and also disrupt the normal life of the people. While acknowledging the importance of personal liberty in a democratic polity, the court clarified that "individual liberty cannot be misused in a manner that threatens the very fabric of civilised society by attempting to destabilise it and cause hurt to other persons". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-2020-pre-meditated-conspiracy-not-in-spur-of-the-moment-hc-1035153.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Issue of security in Delhi's district courts urgent: HC says in wake of Rohini court shootout||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said the issue of security in district courts of the national capital is “urgent” as lawyers too may become victims of incidents such as the Rohini court shootout which left three people dead. The high court asked the police to file a status report on a plea seeking to ensure adequate security in district courts here in the wake of recent shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to Delhi Police and Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on the petition filed by a woman advocate and said the report be filed within five days. “This is something urgent. We don’t want to lose lives. Lawyers could also become victims of incidents like this one. We don’t want that,” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on October 11. The police informed the court that it was taking steps to ensure that the security in district courts is geared up adequately. Advocate Robin Raju, appearing for petitioner Deepa Joseph, said the woman advocate was relatively new to the profession and soon after the firing incident, videos and photos were circulated on social media which had a jolting impact. Advocate Ajayinder Sangwan, representing the BCD, informed the court that they had a detailed meeting with senior police officers and it was agreed that the security at district courts would be upgraded to be at par with that at the Supreme Court. Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi assured the court that the police has been taking steps to ensure adequate security at district courts. The petitioner-advocate said in her plea that she has been practising in various Delhi courts which have become unsafe and an easy terrain for gangsters to settle scores with each other, making courts unsafe for thousands of lawyers. “It is also painful that a young legal professional has also got severely injured in the scary incident. This shootout inside the court again puts a big question mark on the safety and security of judges, lawyers and litigants inside the district courts in Delhi,” the plea said. It sought direction to Delhi Police and BCD to consider instructing all police personnel at court entrances to ensure that they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the premises. It also sought that Delhi Police make the level of security and frisking of lawyers at par with the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court and to take disciplinary action against the officers who fail to implement this direction with utmost diligence and seriousness. The plea, moved through lawyer Blessan Mathews, said the BCD be asked to issue an advisory to all the District Bar Associations in Delhi to recommend members of their bar to cooperate with police personnel at the main entrance of courts. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On September 24, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. Witnesses had said a law intern has also sustained bullet injury in her leg and some also claimed that the gang members pumped 10 bullets into Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals. Sources had said Gogi received about seven bullet injuries, even as there was no official confirmation from police on this. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/issue-of-security-in-delhis-district-courts-urgent-hc-says-in-wake-of-rohini-court-shootout-1035164.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Muslim artists receive death threats for playing roles in 'Ramlila' in UP||Two Muslims artists, who had been playing leading roles in the 'Ramlila' (dramatic presentation of the life and deeds of Lord Rama) in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly town, for several years, allegedly received death threats from unidentified people and were asked to stop playing the roles. According to the police sources here, Dainish, who played the role of Lord Rama and another Muslim girl, who played the role of 'Kaikeyi' (the wife of King Dasratha, Lord Rama's father), were threatened with dire consequences and also ex-communication from the community if they continued to play the roles. "We were asked to quit the Ramlila or be ready to face the consequences," Danish said adding that they had lodged a complaint with the police in this regard and had sought security.  The organisers of the 'Ramlila' said that they would be forced to stop its the shows if the two main artists quit the play. Police said that a case was registered and the matter was being investigated. "We are trying to identify the people, who have threatened the two artists," said a senior police official in Bareilly. The police suspected a personal enmity also and the role of an acquaintance of the artists was being investigated. 'Ramlilas' are organised across the UP during these months and at many places Muslim artists also take part in the dramatic presentation. In fact in several districts the Muslims have been playing key roles in the 'Ramlilas' for decades without any problem. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-artists-receive-death-threats-for-playing-roles-in-ramlila-in-up-1035177.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Big events planned to revive Covid-hit tourism sector in Jammu, say officials||Director of Tourism, Jammu, Vivekanand Rai on Tuesday said his department is planning major events in the coming months to boost the tourism sector, which was hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. Sky is the limit as far as the tourism potential of Jammu region is concerned, and the department has intensified its activities to bring unexplored destinations on the tourism map of the country, he said. "The outbreak of Covid-19 hampered tourism-related activities, but since the situation has improved, restrictions are being eased, and accordingly, we are planning our activities to promote the tourism sector," Rai told reporters after flagging off a three-day trekking expedition to Shankhpal here. He said the tourism department has planned major events during the next four months. "We had a two-day monsoon festival at Patnitop and a bike rally from Sidhra to Basohli (Kathua) over the past few days. A series of big events are planned like iconic week, Navratra festival, Christmas and winter festival in the coming months which will be projected at national level," he said. Some more events are also in the pipeline, Rai added. He said the department has decided to focus on offbeat destinations in addition to the regular attractions. The picturesque Bani-Basohli in Kathua district will be given its due focus through tourism promotion events. "The place was not developed as per its potential. The infrastructure development is time-consuming but will be done in a phased manner," officials said. Rai said the department is also coming up with a plan to welcome tourists at the airport, railway stations and bus stands. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/big-events-planned-to-revive-covid-hit-tourism-sector-in-jammu-say-officials-1035179.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: After Jat anger, BJP embroiled in row over King Mihir Bhoj's caste||Already facing the wrath of the 'jats' who have been at the forefront of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the farm laws, a controversy over the 9th century Hindu king 'Mihir Bhoja' threatens to add to the BJP's woes in Western Uttar Pradesh region ahead of the next Assembly polls in the state due in six months' time. The controversy erupted soon after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled a statue of 'Mihir Bhoja' at a degree college in Dadri in Gautam Budh Nagar district last week, sparking a debate over the king's caste. While the 'Gujjar' community claims that 'Mihir Bhoja' hailed from their community, the powerful 'Rajput' community claims that he was a member of their community. According to history books, 'Mihir Bhoja' hailed from the 'Gurjar-Pratihar' dynasty. The 'Rajput' community had warned of an agitation if Adityanath went ahead with the unveiling ceremony. On Tuesday, the plaque carrying the name of Adityanath, which was fixed below the statue of the King, was smeared with black paint by unidentified people. The plaque earlier mentioned the word 'Gurjar', much to the anger of the community, but the words 'Gurjar Pratihar Samrat Mihir Bhoja' were added later. The addition however did little to pacify the 'Rajput' community as its members have threatened to launch an agitation to register their protest, according to sources. Mihir Bhoja is widely respected in the Gujjar community and there are many educational institutions after him in several western UP districts, including Baghpat, Shamli, Ghaziabad and others. The matter appeared to have made it on the agenda of the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BSP, which slammed the saffron party over the controversy. ''BJP is playing with history,'' SP president Akhilesh Yadav said on Tuesday. BSP supremo Mayawati also joined the issue and demanded an apology from the BJP government. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-after-jat-anger-bjp-embroiled-in-row-over-king-mihir-bhojs-caste-1035186.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court orders Rs 5,000 salary cut of errant cop for casually seeking adjournment of case||Irked over Delhi Police seeking adjournment in a “very casual manner” in a riots case, a court here directed the police commissioner to conduct an inquiry and deduct Rs 5,000 from the salary of the responsible officer.   Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg imposed the fine after the police failed to comply with a previous order in which he had directed the investigating officer (IO) to supply a copy of an e-challan to one of the accused and sought an adjournment to supply it. The judge said, “Under the circumstances, request for an adjournment for compliance of order dated April 12, 2021, is hereby allowed subject to cost of Rs. 5,000 to be deposited by Delhi Police in the Prime Minister National Relief Fund.” In his September 25 order, the judge added “this court is not oblivious of the fact that burden of this cost shall fall on public exchequer and hence I deem it appropriate to direct Commissioner of Police Delhi to conduct an inquiry and to order deduction of aforesaid cost from the salary of the responsible officer.” The judge noted that the special public prosecutors (SPPs) and IOs do not appear in the cases on the dates fixed and when they appear after prodding, it is without inspection of the file and then seeks adjournment in a “very casual manner”.  He said that the conduct of the police, as well as the prosecutor, has already been brought to the notice of senior police officers including, the Commissioner of Police, however, they have "failed to ensure that such incidents do not take place anymore." The court was dealing with a case wherein the IO was directed to supply a copy of the e-challan to the accused named Komal Mishra in compliance with an order dated April 12, 2021. However, the IO informed the court that the copy of the e-challan has not yet been supplied to the accused as he was not aware of the court order. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-orders-rs-5000-salary-cut-of-errant-cop-for-casually-seeking-adjournment-of-case-1035189.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||SIT to probe 'religious conversion' complaint against senior IAS officer in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday ordered an inquiry by a special investigation team after a senior IAS officer was seen in some video clips at a gathering at his home where religious conversion was being allegedly discussed. In one of the purported videos, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) chairman Mohammed Iftikharuddin is seen sitting with a group of men, apparently clerics, and is heard saying that it is their duty to spread Islam to every home. In a related video, the 1985-batch IAS officer is seen sitting at a gathering where another man is talking allegedly in a provocative manner about the merits of converting to Islam. The videos were said to be taken at the camp office-cum-official residence of the official when he was the Kanpur divisional commissioner in between 2014 to 2017.      Iftikharuddin, who is currently posted in state capital Lucknow, when confronted by a TV channel scribe first denied being present at the gathering but later admitted that he was present there. "What did I say wrong? I have been misinterpreted," he told the reporter in Hindi. Taking a serious note of the matter, the government has ordered a probe by the SIT, an official said. The team will be headed by DG CB-CID G L Meena and ADG Bhanu Bhaskar will be its member. It will send its report to the government in seven days, the official said.      National Vice President of 'Math Mandir Samanvai Samiti' Bhupesh Awasthi has made a written complaint with the state government against the IAS officer and submitted copies of the videos. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was on a visit to the district and neighbouring Unnao on Monday, said the inquiry was instituted into the matter when his attention was drawn to the videos. Meanwhile, Kanpur police Commissioner Asim Arun told PTI that the investigation to verify the authenticity of the videos has been handed to ADCP East, Somedra Meena. "It is being investigated whether the video is authentic," he said. A few months back, UP enacted a law to curb conversion through force or deceit. In recent days, the state police have made several arrests, including in Delhi, in connection with an alleged conversion racket. The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) had on Sunday arrested three men in connection with alleged religious conversions. The ATS had said while two were residents of Muzaffarnagar in UP, the third  one hailed from Nashik in Maharashtra. Regarding the controversial videos being shared on social media platforms, Minister of Law and Justice Brajesh Pathak said the government has taken cognizance of the videos and given instructions for investigation. The place where the IAS officer is sitting and preaching seems to be a government property which is not at all appropriate legally or constitutionally, Pathak said. The state government is particularly strict on the matter of religious conversion, Pathak said, adding: “We have even made a strict law regarding that. We will take strict action against anyone who tries to convert people using  force or any kind of lure”. Bithoor BJP MLA Abhijeet Singh Sanga termed the incident as a matter of serious concern and went on to call the IAS officer a "literate Aurangzeb". "I would ask Kanpur divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar to purify the commissioner camp office compound with 'gangajal' obtained from Bithoor,"  Sanga told PTI.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-to-probe-religious-conversion-complaint-against-senior-ias-officer-in-up-1035194.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Sonai murder case: SC stays execution of convict's death sentence||The Supreme Court Tuesday stayed the execution of death penalty of a convict for murdering three Dalit men in Sonai village in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district in 2013 over an inter-caste love affair. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna admitted the appeal filed by convict Sandip Madhav Kurhe for hearing and said it is staying his execution. The bench tagged the appeal along with other pending appeals of other convicts. On December 2, 2019, the Bombay High Court had upheld the death penalty to four people for murdering three Dalit men. One accused was acquitted. In January 2018, a sessions court in Nashik had awarded the death sentence in the case to six people -- Raghunath Darandale, Ramesh Darandale, Prakash Darandale, Ganesh alias Pravin Darandale, Ashok Navgire and Sandip Madhav Kurhe. They were convicted on various charges, including murder and criminal conspiracy. The Dalit victims were identified as Sachin Gharu (24), Sandeep Thanvar (25) and Rahul Kandare (20) and all of them worked as sweepers. All six had moved the the high court challenging their conviction and the capital punishment awarded by the Nashik court. One of the convicts, Raghunath Darandale, died during the pendency of the case. The high court had confirmed the death penalty awarded to four of the convicts -- Ramesh Darandale, Prakash Darandale, Ganesh alias Pravin Darandale and Sandip Madhav Kurhe. The court, however, acquitted Ashok Navgire (32) for lack of evidence against him. The three Dalit men were brutally killed in Sonai village of the western Maharashtra district on January 1, 2013, and their mutilated body parts found in a septic tank and a nearby well. According to police, the killings were prompted by an inter-caste love affair between Gharu and a girl from the Maratha community to which the convicts belong to. Gharu and his colleagues were summoned by the girl's family to their home on January 1, 2013 on the pretext of cleaning the septic tank, they had said. The next evening, the police found Gharu's decapitated body, with his limbs severed, from the tank. The mutilated bodies of Thanvar and Kandare were found from a well in the village on January 3, 2013, the police had said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sonai-murder-case-sc-stays-execution-of-convicts-death-sentence-1035204.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Centre eyes to win Kashmiri hearts through tourist infrastructure push||The Centre is giving a big push to tourism-related infrastructure projects in Jammu & Kashmir, making access to the Himalayan region easier all year round in a bid to win hearts of the locals ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari, on a two-day visit to the union territory, on Tuesday announced a slew of projects – from building bus terminals, improving roadside amenities, developing ropeways and funicular railways to make scenic locations in the high Himalayas accessible to tourists. Gadkari said projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore were expected to be completed in J&K and Ladakh by 2024. Gadkari drove through the ‘Z-Morh’ tunnel near here that grants all-weather access to Sonamarg, which otherwise remains cut-off from the rest of the country for five to six months due to heavy snowfall during winters. The excavation work on the 6.5 km long ‘Z-Morh’ tunnel and the escape has been completed. It is expected to be opened for use by June next year. Reviewing the work on the 14.15 km long Zoji La Tunnel here, Gadkari also set a target of December 2023 for the completion of the ambitious project from the 2026 deadline set earlier. He said the Zoji La Tunnel could be thrown open for use on January 26, 2024. “We have Lok Sabha elections in 2024 and have to showcase our achievements in J&K across the country,” the minister said, adding that there would be no compromise on the quality of the work to achieve the stiff targets. The Zoji La tunnel is expected to cut the travel time from Baltal in Jammu & Kashmir to Minamarg near Drass in Ladakh from the present three-and-a-half hours to just 15 minutes, Gadkari said. He said the government was doing every effort to attract more tourists to Jammu & Kashmir, which he said was more scenic and beautiful than Switzerland. The minister said he was exploring the use of ropeways and funicular railways to make the high mountain regions accessible to tourists. “The next three years could see a five-time increase in tourism in J&K,” Gadkari said, adding that new highways would reduce the travel time from Jammu to Srinagar from the present nine hours to just three hours. He said he had asked the J&K administration to start hotel management institutes in the region to train the workforce required for the hospitality sector. Elections to the legislative assembly of the union territory of J&K are expected to be held after the completion of the delimitation exercise.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-eyes-to-win-kashmiri-hearts-through-tourist-infrastructure-push-1035213.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab minister Razia Sultana quits in 'solidarity' with Sidhu||Razia Sultana resigned as the Punjab Cabinet minister on Tuesday, just hours after Navjot Singh Sidhu quit as the state Congress chief. In her resignation letter to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Sultana said she is resigning "in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu". Sultana is considered close to Sidhu. Her husband Mohd Mustafa, who is a former IPS officer, is a principal strategic adviser to Sidhu. Earlier in the day, Sultana was given the charge of the water supply and sanitation, social security, women and child development, printing and stationery departments. She used to hold the transport department in the Amarinder Singh-led government.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-minister-razia-sultana-quits-in-solidarity-with-sidhu-1035216.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Yogi to be UP CM face in 2022 Assembly polls, says state BJP chief||UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh on Tuesday reiterated that UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be the party's face for the top post during the 2022 UP assembly elections. Making the remark during a door-to-door contact programme here, Singh said they are going to the people with the work done by the UP government in the past four and half years. "In the 2022 assembly election, Yogi (Adityanath) will be the CM face once again in UP. We want development. We want a crime and 'gunda'-free state. UP is treading on the path of development with an aim to become an Uttam Pradesh," Singh said addressing people during the programme. Singh's statement came barely days after UP Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said the issue of the state's next CM is already “settled”. "This is a settled issue as the BJP’s central leadership has already made it clear that the party will contest the UP assembly elections under Yogi Adityanath Ji to return to power," Sharma, who himself was a strong contender for the CM’s post in 2017, had said in a recent interview to PTI. Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had on Thursday said UP under Chief Minister Adityanath is scaling new heights and stressed that the state needs the BJP government again in 2022. "Under the leadership of CM Yogi, the state is scaling new heights. CM Yogi has changed the picture of Uttar Pradesh. In 2022, the state needs BJP government again," the Union Minister for Education and Skill Development had said while speaking at a public meeting in Siddharth Nagar. Pradhan, who is the BJP's in-charge for the coming assembly elections in the state, also said there is no one like Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the country and no one like CM Adityanath in the state. The CM is the only leader who has made Uttar Pradesh number one in every sphere, he had said. Check out latest DH videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-to-be-up-cm-face-in-2022-assembly-polls-says-state-bjp-chief-1035240.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi man kills self by jumping in front of moving metro train coach||A 27-year-old man allegedly killed himself by jumping in the gap between two coaches of a moving Delhi Metro train at a station on the Blue Line on Tuesday, leading to a brief delay in services, officials said. The Delhi Metro's Blue Line connects Dwarka Sector 21 in the national capital and the Noida City Centre. The deceased, Nihal Singh, was a resident of Najafgarh, police said. Services between Yamuna Bank and Vaishali were briefly delayed due to the incident which took place at the Anand Vihar ISBT station, DMRC officials said. "Blue Line Update Delay in services between Yamuna Bank and Vaishali due to a passenger on track at Anand Vihar ISBT. Normal service on all other lines," the transporter had tweeted around 4:10 pm. The police said the man jumped in the gap between two coaches of a train going towards Dwarka from Vaishali around 3.30 pm on platform no. 2 at the station. A mobile phone and an Aadhaar card was found on him, but no suicide note was recovered from the spot, a senior police official said. Services on the section were resumed after a while. Around 4:20 pm, the Delhi Metro tweeted: "Blue Line Update Normal services have resumed." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-kills-self-by-jumping-in-front-of-moving-metro-train-coach-1035242.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Navjot Sidhu: 'Born Congressman' who stumped party with shock resignation||Nearly five years ago when he joined the Congress, ex-cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu had said he is a "born Congressman" now coming back to his roots. But on Tuesday, he bowled a googly at his party by resigning as its Punjab unit chief. The maverick-triggered political developments saw one of the party's tallest leaders Amarinder Singh forced to quit as chief minister just over a week ago. Barely days after Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the Punjab CM and on a day portfolios were given to members of the new state Cabinet, 57-year-old Sidhu's resignation came as a jolt to the party, with the Assembly elections just less than five months away. At the time he switched over to the Congress from the BJP before the 2017 Punjab Assembly polls, Sidhu had said he is a "born Congressman", who came back to his roots. Sidhu had said he would be ready to work under anybody appointed by the high command and contest from where the party wants him to. It is premature to talk about the issue, Sidhu had then said when asked whether he would like to be the chief ministerial candidate of the party. Four-and-a-half years later, the rift between Sidhu and party leader Amarinder Singh escalated to such a level, resulting in 79-year-old Congress veteran stepping down as chief minister, who said he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. Amarinder Singh, who had called Sidhu "dangerous" and "anti-national", while reacting over his resignation, again took a dig at him and said, "I told you so, he is not a stable man, not fit for the border state of Punjab." Donning many hats from cricketer, commentator, TV show host, Sidhu, who also remained a four-time MP, has always maintained that for him Punjab comes first. Sidhu's father Bhagwant Singh was the district president of the Congress in Patiala and it was his wish to see him play cricket at the international level. Sidhu made his debut in first class cricket in 1981-82 and later went on to earn the sobriquet of "sixer Sidhu" for his powerful stroke play. In 2004, Sidhu began his political innings contesting the Lok Sabha elections on a BJP ticket from Amritsar, where he shifted his base from Patiala, and in his first election defeated Congress heavyweight R L Bhatia. When he was in the BJP, Sidhu had sour relations with the Badal family despite the SAD then being an ally of the BJP. Later his ties with BJP also turned cold when the party fielded senior leader Arun Jaitley from Amritsar in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Though he was accommodated in the Rajya Sabha later, he quit the party to join the Congress. Sidhu's wife Navjot Kaur, who was sitting MLA from Amritsar (East), made way for him to contest the seat in 2017. Just before his joining the Congress, Sidhu had floated a front “Awaaz-e-Punjab” but it was soon shelved. When the Congress returned to power with an overwhelming majority in 2017, it was being speculated that Sidhu would be made the deputy chief minister, but he was made a cabinet minister. As Sidhu and Amarinder Singh's relations never remained cordial, the latter changed his portfolio from the local bodies to Power, but the cricketer-turned-politician resigned in protest. From the time he quit his Cabinet in 2019 till early 2021, Sidhu maintained a low profile. However, once he was back in thick of things a few months ago, he not only took on the opposition but repeatedly kept on making veiled attacks on the chief minister over host of issues. In July, Sidhu was appointed as the new president of the party's Punjab unit, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Amarinder Singh. The appointment of Sidhu and four other leaders as working presidents of the state unit came after days of internal squabbling and public bickering that divided the state unit between two factions owing allegiance to Singh and Sidhu. With his elevation as the state Congress chief, the party leadership clearly signalled to put its weight behind Sidhu while ignoring Amarinder Singh's opposition. The support of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also helped in Sidhu clinching the post despite strong resistance. Sidhu's ability to pull crowd and launch a vigorous campaign appeared to have worked in his favour. Sidhu can win an election even in Pakistan, Prime Minister Imran Khan had once said when the Congress leader went to that country to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Khan. Sidhu was later criticised for hugging Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa at the high-profile event. Though Sidhu earned the wrath for his visit to Pakistan, the Amritsar legislator was hailed by many for his role in the opening of the Kartarpur corridor, enabling devotees especially Sikhs to offer prayers at the historic gurdwara in the neighbouring nation. The corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab's Gurdaspur district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-sidhu-born-congressman-who-stumped-party-with-shock-resignation-1035264.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||JCCI meets Union minister; bats for setting up of new PSUs in railway, defence in Jammu region||The Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) on Tuesday met Union Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Choudhary here and batted for establishing new public sector undertakings in railway and defence sectors in the Jammu region. A delegation of JCCI met Choudhary here and submitted a memorandum, which, among other things, demanded setting up of new public sector undertakings by the government to generate employment and give fillip to the economy of the Union territory. Led by JCCI President Arun Gupta, the delegation also sought refund of SGST to industrial units and benefits of new industrial policy to existing unit holders while opposing any move by big companies to open stores in the retail sector in the Jammu region. "There is a dire need for establishing new public sector undertakings in the Jammu province; and in this regard, the industries of railway and defence sectors are the best options. "Such units should be established by the central government as it will undoubtedly generate huge employment opportunities for the youth besides giving a fillip to the UT's economy," Gupta told the minister. The Union minister reached Jammu on Monday as part of the central government's public outreach programme and held a series of meetings with government officials besides interacting with BJP leaders and various delegations. On September 22, the JCCI sponsored a strike in the Jammu region against alleged "directionless policies" of the government detrimental to the interests of the business community. Among other things, the chamber expressed its resentment against the decision of the lieutenant governor administration to stop the 'Darbar move' under which the government used to rotate its seat between the twin capitals for six months each. The Gupta-led delegation sought refund of SGST to industrial units of UT of J&K and also demanded the benefits of the recently announced New Industrial Policy to the existing industrial units of the Jammu region, the JCCI said in a statement here. Expressing resentment over the opening of retail stores by big companies in Jammu, the JCCI said "if this happens then the small shopkeepers of Jammu will be ruined and their shops will be closed". The delegation also pitched for tapping of the huge tourism potential in Jammu province, the statement said. The JCCI said the delegation also discussed various other issues, including stopping of darbar move, clarity on land and labour policy, completion of pending projects, delay in payment to contractors, issues of wine traders, sand mining and crushers and brick kiln trade.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jcci-meets-union-minister-bats-for-setting-up-of-new-psus-in-railway-defence-in-jammu-region-1035269.html
28-09-2021||North and Central||Complete ban on bursting, sale of firecrackers up to Jan 1 in Delhi||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Tuesday ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a ban on firecrackers on September 15, saying it was "essential to save lives". According to the DPCC order, several experts have indicated a possibility of another surge of Covid-19 and largescale celebrations by bursting of firecrackers will result not only in agglomeration of people in violation of social distancing norms but also a high level of air pollution leading to serious health issues in Delhi. The bursting of firecrackers under the prevalent pandemic crisis is not favourable for the cause of larger community health given the significant relationship between air pollution and respiratory infections, it said. "There will be a 'complete ban on bursting and sale of all kinds of firecrackers up to 1.1.2022 in the territory of NCT of Delhi," the DPCC's order stated. The pollution control body has asked district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to implement the directions and submit daily action-taken reports to it.  A few days ago, Delhi suggested its surrounding states to shift their public transport vehicles in the National Capital Region to CNG and adopt a policy to promote electric vehicles. It had also urged the neighbouring states to emulate Delhi and ban firecrackers to tackle pollution. Last year, the National Green Tribunal had imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". However, the city had recorded an overall air quality index of 414, which falls in the severe category, the day after Diwali, with people flouting the ban with impunity. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/complete-ban-on-bursting-sale-of-firecrackers-up-to-jan-1-in-delhi-1035315.html
28-09-2021||Oasis||Honour your memories||One of the best things we do is make memories. Memories become the monuments of our past, they become a sanctuary, they become diamonds; once nothing special, but with enough force and time something remarkable. Memories warm you up from the inside and a sojourn into the past might help you reason with yourself when reason seems lost. There is a story of a war elephant who was a king’s favourite. He accompanied the king in several battles where he brought victory and glory to his king. The king loved him dearly and treated him with utmost care. Time passed and with old age came limitations for both the king and the elephant. In meeting the demands of everyday life the elephant’s glorious past was easily forgotten. Once this elephant got stuck in a bog. He tried but could not pull himself out of this quagmire. As the king began to lose all hope, a minister advised that war drums be played around the quicksand with immediate effect. The beat of the war drums revived the memory of a golden time. This memory reminded the elephant that he was brave, tenacious and victorious before and that he could be like that once again. To everyone’s surprise, the elephant actually pulled himself out of the bog and all but ran towards his king. Memory had given new life to both man and the beast. We’re so caught up in the immediate happenings that memories are often left the way they are; we forget who we were and what we are capable of. My mother, a multifaceted dynamic woman, had fallen into the clutches of her demanding yet quotidian existence. Once while talking to us about the good old days she was suddenly reintroduced to her charismatic self. Some memories can never be dispatched to oblivion no matter how much time passes or what takes place in the interim. Despite the tight hold of her present, she planned an impromptu trip with her friends to relive the wonderful moments of the past and perhaps revive her former self.  People leave fragments of themselves where they feel most cherished, most worthwhile. Remembering those places, those accomplishments, those journeys, can help us triumph over the listlessness of the mundane.  "What you remember saves you." ― W. S. Merwin||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/honour-your-memories-1035301.html
28-09-2021||Opinion||In Mevani and Kanhaiya joining Congress, Rahul's Dalit outreach and left turn||The Dalit politics in the Hindi heartland is in ferment. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Mayawati is a shadow of her former astute and feisty self, and neither is an able successor in sight. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in Bihar has imploded over a succession battle within a year of the passing away of its founder Ram Vilas Paswan. And in this chasm, Rahul Gandhi has pulled a groaning Congress to reclaim the party's traditional support base among the Dalits community. The Congress's recent decisions, including the entry of leaders Jignesh Mevani and Kanhaiya Kumar, indicate that Rahul Gandhi believes this to be an inflexion point to persuade Dalits across India, particularly in the north, to return to the Congress's fold. In February, the Congress picked Mallikarjun Kharge, its Dalit leader from Karnataka, as the opposition leader in the Rajya Sabha. Come September, Rahul Gandhi coaxed his party to appoint Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit, the chief minister of Punjab. Subsequently, Congress leader Harish Rawat said that Uttarakhand, which has only had upper caste chief ministers, could have a Dalit chief minister if the Congress comes to power in the forthcoming Assembly polls. Uttarakhand has 18.5 per cent Dalits, UP has 21 per cent and Punjab 32 per cent. The Gandhi siblings, Rahul Gandhi and sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, have raised their voices against atrocities on Dalits, including the Hathras and Delhi Cantt rape and murder cases. While the Congress has burnished its pro-Dalit credentials, the BSP is busy wooing Brahmins in UP. For instance, the BSP has Ritesh Pandey and Satish Chandra Mishra as its leaders in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. It has also launched a sustained Brahmin outreach in the run-up to the UP polls. Upcoming Dalit leader, Azad Samaj Party's Chandrashekhar Azad, has questioned the BSP's commitment to the ideology of its founder Kanshi Ram, who had given the slogan "jiski jitni sankhya bhaari, uski utni hissedari". He has also accused the BSP of being BJP's "B team". Azad has been in contact with the Congress leadership. In this context, the entry of Mevani and Kanhaiya Kumar could buttress the Congress Dalit outreach and signals Rahul Gandhi's determined turn towards a centre-left politics with more robust ideological moorings. Mevani's is a strident young Dalit voice, and he has campaigned across India on issues of Dalit identity. In the 2017 Gujarat Assembly polls, the Congress party backed him to win the Vadagam Assembly seat as an independent. Dalits comprise barely seven per cent of the electorate in Gujarat, but they do potentially influence outcomes in several seats as part of a coalition of castes and communities. In 1985, Congress leader Madhavsinh Solanki accomplished an unprecedented majority with his KHAM (Kshatriya, Harijan, Adivasi, Muslim) alliance. Moreover, Mevani has a following among younger Dalits across the country and could help with the Congress campaigns in the upcoming Assembly polls in Punjab, Uttarakhand and UP. The entry of Kanhaiya Kumar in the Congress, however, is more interesting. The former student leader has spoken consistently of an entente of Ambedkarites and leftists. His espousal of Dalit cause and campaign during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests earned him a following among Dalits and Muslims, two significant electoral groups in Bihar. Along with the upper castes, Dalits and Muslims were the traditional support base of the Congress in Bihar. The Congress think tank believes Kanhaiya Kumar, an upper-caste himself, would be an ideal leader to reknit this alliance for the Congress.   Kanhaiya Kumar's entry could unsettle Congress ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad. It would be interesting to see how Prasad and Kanhaiya Kumar develop a functional equation for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Prasad, however, could soon have the Chirag Paswan faction of the LJP as its ally. Can the Congress party do to the BSP in the upcoming UP polls what the latter did to the Congress from the 1980s onwards, enfeebled eat by eating into its Dalit vote share? A classic example of the BSP strategy was the 1988 Allahabad Lok Sabha bypoll after superstar Amitabh Bachchan vacated the seat. BSP founder Kanshi Ram contested that by-poll. His opponents were the joint opposition candidate Vishwanath Pratap Singh and Congress's Sunil Shastri, son of former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri. VP Singh, the future prime minister, defeated Shastri comfortably. Singh secured over 200,000 votes, and Shastri failed to get even 100,000 as Kanshi Ram bagged almost 70,000 votes, most of which would have gone to the Congress. The BSP model continued to succeed as it gradually supplanted the Congress party among the Dalits in UP. Soon, Mulayam Singh Yadav's Samajwadi Party took away Congress's Muslim support base, and its Brahmin support shifted to the BJP. However, Dalits have also turned to the BJP in recent years. In the 2019 Lok Sabha, the Congress got 26 per cent Dalit votes countrywide to the BJP's 43 per cent. The Congress party's think tank believes the BJP's Dalit support base would dissipate soon. The BJP, it feels, will find it challenging to manage the contradictions of wooing the OBCs in UP, keeping its upper caste support intact, and continue to do so with its aggressive Hindutva politics. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-mevani-and-kanhaiya-joining-congress-rahuls-dalit-outreach-and-left-turn-1035158.html
28-09-2021||Panorama||America’s need to pay its bills has spawned a political game||By Jim Tankersley, For nearly two decades, lawmakers in Washington have waged an escalating display of brinkmanship over the federal government’s ability to borrow money to pay its bills. They have forced administrations of both parties to take evasive actions, pushing the nation dangerously close to economic calamity. But they have never actually tipped the United States into default. The dance is repeating this fall, but this time the dynamics are different — and the threat of default is greater than ever. Republicans in Congress have refused to help raise the nation’s debt limit, even though the need to borrow stems from the bipartisan practice of running large budget deficits. Republicans agree the United States must pay its bills, but on Monday they are expected to block a measure in the Senate that would enable the government to do so. Democrats, insistent that Republicans help pay for past decisions to boost spending and cut taxes, have so far refused to use a special process to raise the limit on their own. Observers inside and outside Washington are worried neither side will budge in time, roiling financial markets and capsizing the economy’s nascent recovery from the pandemic downturn. If the limit is not raised or suspended, officials at the Treasury Department warn, the government will soon exhaust its ability to borrow money, forcing officials to choose between missing payments on military salaries, Social Security benefits and the interest it owes to investors who have financed America’s spending spree. Yet Republicans have threatened to filibuster any attempt by Senate Democrats to pass a simple bill to increase borrowing. Party leaders like Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky want to force Democrats to raise the limit on their own, through a fast-track congressional process that bypasses a Republican filibuster. That could take weeks to come to fruition, raising the stakes every day that Democratic leaders decline to pursue that option. The problem is further compounded by the fact that no one is quite sure when the government will run out of money. The Covid-19 pandemic continues to ravage the United States in waves, frequently disrupting economic activity and the taxes the government collects, complicating Treasury’s ability to gauge its cash flow. Estimates for what is known as the “X-date” range from as early as Oct. 15 to mid-November. Amid that uncertainty, congressional leaders and President Joe Biden are not even attempting to negotiate a resolution. Instead, they are sparring over who should be saddled with a vote that could be used against them, raising the odds that partisan stubbornness will propel the country into a fiscal unknown. It all adds up to an impasse rooted in political messaging, midterm campaign advertising and a desire by Republican leaders to do whatever they can to protest Biden’s economic agenda, including the $3.5 trillion spending bill that Democrats hope to pass along party lines using a fast-track budget process. Republicans say they will not supply any votes to lift the debt cap, despite having run up trillions in new debt to pay for the 2017 tax cuts, additional government spending and pandemic aid during the Trump administration. Democrats, in contrast, helped President Donald Trump increase borrowing in 2017 and 2019. “If they want to tax, borrow, and spend historic sums of money without our input,” McConnell said on the Senate floor this week, “they will have to raise the debt limit without our help.” Thus far, Biden and Democratic leaders in Congress have declined to do so, even though employing that process would end the threat of default. Jon Lieber, a former aide to McConnell who is now with the Eurasia Group, a political-risk consultancy in Washington, wrote in a warning to clients this week that there is a 1-in-5 chance the standoff will push the country into at least a technical debt default — forcing the government to choose between paying bondholders and honouring all its spending commitments — this fall. “That’s crazy high for an event like this,” Lieber said in an interview, noting that the odds are significantly higher than in past standoffs. “But I feel really confident that’s the level of panic we should be having.” Leaders of both parties have, at times, made a version of the core argument in favour of raising the limit: that it is simply a way to allow the government to pay bills it has already incurred. Both parties also have shown no sign of slowing the nation’s borrowing spree, which accelerated last year as lawmakers approved trillions of dollars of aid for people and businesses struggling through the pandemic recession. Each party has recently occupied the White House and controlled Congress, but neither has come close in recent years to approving a budget that would balance — which is to say, not require additional borrowing and a debt-limit increase — within a decade. Biden administration officials, former Treasury secretaries from both parties and business executives from around the country have all urged lawmakers to raise the borrowing limit as soon as possible. “I think it’s scary for consumer confidence and for confidence in US businesses and potential credit ratings if we don’t make sure that we raise that debt ceiling,” Andy Jassy, CEO of Amazon, said on CNBC earlier this month. Democrats say Republicans have a responsibility to help raise the limit, noting that they helped when Trump needed to do it. White House officials called McConnell’s position hypocritical. “Republicans in Congress have spent a decade ushering in a new era where the prospect of default and a global economic meltdown has become a dangerous political football,” Michael Gwin, a White House spokesperson, said in an email. “As we rebound from the deep recession caused by the pandemic, it’s more important now than ever to put partisanship aside, remove this cloud from over our economy, and responsibly address the debt limit — just like Democrats did three times under the previous administration.” Lieber and other analysts worry party leaders are talking past each other. Experts suggest it would take a week or two for Democratic leaders to steer a debt limit increase through the fast-track budget process. That could leave the government vulnerable to a sudden crisis. On Friday, the independent Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington think tank, said the government could run out of cash to pay its bills by mid-October. Lieber said he is worried about “the risk of miscalculation of both sides,” in part because this standoff is not the same as the ones under Obama. “The Republicans aren’t asking for anything,” he said. “So their position is, there’s nothing you can do to get us to vote for a debt ceiling increase. That’s a dangerous situation.” Goldman Sachs researchers warned in a note to clients this month that the volatile nature of tax receipts this year, a product of the pandemic, makes the debt limit “riskier than usual” for the economy and markets. They said the standoff was at least as risky as in 2011, when brinkmanship disrupted bond yields and the stock market. Other financial analysts continue to believe that, as they have in the past, the sides will eventually find an agreement — largely because of the consequences of failure. “We believe Congress will raise or suspend the debt ceiling,” Beth Ann Bovino, S&P US chief economist, wrote this week. “A default by the US government would be substantially worse than the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, devastating global markets and the economy.” In the meantime, Republicans are awaiting a vote by Democrats to raise the limit. Sen. Rick Scott of Florida, who heads Republicans’ campaign arm in the Senate, told an NBC reporter he was eager to highlight Democratic support for raising the limit in midterm advertisements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/america-s-need-to-pay-its-bills-has-spawned-a-political-game-1034960.html
28-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Lessons taught by dad||Once I read an article that had a quote that many teenage girls can relate to. A mother says, “A daughter will always love her father for she knows that he is the only man who will never hurt her and whose love for her is absolutely unconditional.” Yes, a father protects his offspring and makes huge commitments and sacrifices.  Indeed, my own father was a pillar of strength to me. When he was abroad, he used to write well-researched notes on topics from history and literature. He then used to go to the post office and send it to me by snail mail, as was done in those days. Not once did he complain nor were there any complaints from me! He regarded this huge bout of sacrifice as his parental duty and did it though it was not incumbent for him to do so.  When my father discerned that I was showing a lot of keen interest in writing, he encouraged me to no end. When my middle articles were published in Deccan Herald, he would cut them out, xerox them, and proudly send them to his lawyer friends. His words of advice were like pearls of wisdom that spoke to me. He said, “Write to express and never to impress. Be simple and do not unnecessarily use bombastic language. Write what you mean, and mean what you write. And, finally, even if your article does not get published, keep going. Do NOT quit and never give up." With these wise nuggets of advice, my writing improved and in course of time, I inferred that it perhaps was my life’s calling.  Years passed. My father retired from his job abroad and returned to Bengaluru where he joined the National Law School of India. However, due to the vagaries of age, his health slowly deteriorated. Then came New Year Eve on 31st December 1998 when after being admitted to a hospital, he began vomiting thick red blood.  My mother called me and my siblings to the hospital where we spoke to my father. He said to me, “Beti, it doesn’t matter that you didn’t become a doctor or architect. You followed your dreams and became a unique writer who writes from the heart. You are my very own diamond.” Later that evening, one hour before midnight, he breathed his last. I cried uncontrollably.  I asked God, “God, you knew that my father was the only man who ever loved me and who never rejected me. Why did You take him away from me?”  My mother hugged me and said, “Heera, your father is gone forever, but we all are here for you. Don’t grieve too much, for now, your father is in a place where he is not in pain. And every time you feel overwhelmed and ask God, "Why?", think of the following beautiful quotation, “Don’t cry because he is over. Smile because he happened.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/lessons-taught-by-dad-1035300.html
28-09-2021||Second Edit||PM Modi's incongruous speech at the UN||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech at the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly covered an array of subjects, ranging from India’s achievements in vaccine development to the Afghan crisis, the effectiveness of the UN, the need for a rules-based order on the seas, and extremism. In contrast to Pakistani PM Imran Khan naming India over a dozen times in his speech to the UNGA, Modi did not mention Pakistan or China by name. However, he did target the two countries. Modi spoke about countries using “regressive thinking as a political tool,” a reference to Pakistan’s use of terror groups to further its foreign policy interests, and of countries using the crisis in Afghanistan to further their own selfish interests. Modi targeted China, too. For the UN to remain relevant, it must act as a reliable body, Modi said, referring to the WHO’s failure to act swiftly to contain Covid-19 before it became a pandemic and its reluctance to hold China to account for its role in the origin and spread of the pandemic. Modi’s speech at the UNGA was, however, filled with ironies. His sermonising on Pakistan’s support to extremism could well have applied to his own party, the BJP, also. Not only has his party, and ministers in his government and in BJP-ruled states fanned religious extremism and violence in India but also, they have repeatedly displayed an anti-scientific temper in their policies and actions. It is ironic that while he called on the world “to make science-based rational and progressive thinking the basis for progress,” he presides over a government that has encouraged “regressive thinking” at home. So also, his reference to India as “the mother of all democracies” and his trumpeting of India’s diversity, perhaps a response to what he had to hear at the White House the previous day. The reality at home is that his government has been systematically acting to undermine democratic institutions, silence dissent and erase its pluralism. What his government has practised at home is quite at odds with what he preached to the world. Modi’s speech may have impressed his die-hard followers at home but his rhetoric is unlikely to cut much ice with critics at home and the international community by and large. The aggressive manner and body language of Modi’s speech – the finger-wagging, the lecturing tone, for instance – and the trumpeting of his government’s achievements were incongruous for the occasion, as if he were addressing an election rally in UP, rather than standing at the UN podium. Sadly, his speech drew little interest; most seats in the UNGA room were empty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pm-modis-incongruous-speech-at-the-un-1035298.html
28-09-2021||South||CWMA directs Karnataka to release balance water to Tamil Nadu; drops discussion on Mekedatu||The Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) on Monday directed Karnataka to immediately release the balance quantum of water due for Tamil Nadu while it dropped discussion on Mekedatu reservoir project following "strong protest" from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, the State government said. The 14th meeting of the CWMA held in the national capital, avoided discussion on Karnataka's Mekedatu project proposal after Tamil Nadu contended that the issue was sub judice. Kerala and Puducherry, too, opposed. A release from the State government quoting CWMA chairman S K Halder said Karnataka was directed to immediately release the water due for Tamil Nadu. "The meet discussed various issues concerning the four States. Discussion on Mekedatu dam project was not taken up as Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry opposed it. This can be discussed only when all the four States co-operate," he told reporters. The release further said that it was made known that the decision taken at today's meeting will be reviewed at the 15th meeting of the CWMA on October 7. At today’s meeting, Tamil Nadu said the neighbouring State had not released the entire quantum of water as directed by the Supreme Court. "Instead of releasing 119.5 TMC water till September 26, Karnataka had released only 85.8 TMC water. Karnataka should be directed to immediately release the balance and also the quota for the month of October so that the paddy cultivation in the Delta region could be saved," Tamil Nadu argued, the release said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cwma-directs-karnataka-to-release-balance-water-to-tamil-nadu-drops-discussion-on-mekedatu-1034945.html
28-09-2021||South||Rains lash several parts of Telangana; IMD issues red alert in 14 districts||Rains pounded several parts of Telangana on Monday, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that heavy rains are expected at isolated places in different districts of the state over the next 48 hours. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao took stock of the situation with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. Rao directed the Chief Secretary to take necessary precautions against any loss of life or property due to heavy rains forecast across the State for another two days due to the impact of cyclone 'Gulab', an official press release said. The Chief Minister said all government offices, including schools, colleges and educational institutions in the State, would remain closed on Tuesday due to heavy rains. Examinations of engineering and degree courses scheduled for September 28 and 29 were also postponed in view of the heavy rains. The Chief Secretary said the departments of Revenue, Police, Fire Services, Municipal, Panchayati Raj, Irrigation, Roads and Buildings should be on emergency duty to ensure that no property or lives are lost due to heavy rains, the release added. The IMD, which issued a red alert to 14 districts of the State, warned of heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rain that are very likely to occur at isolated places in Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Karimnagar, Peddapally, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Khammam, Mahabubabad, Warangal (Rural), Warangal (Urban), Janagaon, Siddipet, Kamareddy districts today. The rains would result in massive water-pooling on roads and low-lying areas in most places and agriculture land submerge/crop damage, it said, adding, thunderstorm accompanied by lightning with wind speed 30-40 kmph is very likely to occur at isolated places in all the districts. Bachodu in Khammam district received highest rainfall of 151.5 mm followed by Wyra (141.5 mm) till 3 PM today. Similarly, several parts of Hyderabad also witnessed rains since this morning. The downpour caused waterlogging on some roads and low-lying areas. The IMD further warned of heavy rain that is very likely to occur at isolated places in Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak and Kamareddy districts of Telangana between 0830 hours of September 28 and 0830 hours of September 29. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is very likely to occur at places in all the districts of Telangana. Meanwhile, Somesh Kumar once again held a teleconference with District Collectors in the wake of heavy rains. Kumar said Collectors have been directed to remain vigilant in the wake of warnings from the Meteorological Department that there will be heavy rains for another two days across the State. He said the Revenue, Police, Panchayati Raj, Irrigation and Fire departments in the district should work in tandem. If necessary, services of NDRF teams in Hyderabad, Kothagudem and Warangal should be utilised, he said, adding separate control room should be set up in each District Collectorate office and information should be provided to the control room set up in the Secretariat. The Chief Secretary further said the situation should be reviewed by appointing Special Officers at problematic areas such as inland areas, ponds, ditches and bridges. Telangana Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy said he had directed the Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to work in coordination with the District Collectors. The police advised citizens to stay indoors unless needed. "Do not cross overflowing streams. Remain indoors in view of heavy rainfall. Dial 100 in case of emergency," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-lash-several-parts-of-telangana-imd-issues-red-alert-in-14-districts-1034950.html
28-09-2021||South||HC asks Kerala government about steps proposed to prevent elephant incursions in Palakkad||The incursion of wild elephants into human settlements in Palakkad district, including at an under-construction IIT campus there, has been taken note of the Kerala High Court, which has sought a report from the state government on steps proposed to be taken for preventing such incidents in future. The direction was issued by a bench of Justices A K Jayasankaran Nambiar and P Gopinath during the hearing of a PIL initiated by it on its own in the wake of the gruesome killing of a dog named Bruno which was tied up and beaten to death by some people on the Adimalathura beach on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram. The court said that the amici curiae, appointed by it in the matter, gave a report pointing out an incident of a herd of elephants entering the under-construction IIT campus at Palakkad. The bench said the government's response to the report "shall indicate the steps that are proposed to be taken by the State and its agencies for preventing such incidents in future". As part of the PIL, the court was also examining other incidents of cruelty to animals, including the killing of hundreds of stray dogs by poisoning in the Thrikkakara municipality area of Ernakulam district. In the dog poisoning matter, the bench directed the local body to indicate the steps taken by it to put in place the necessary infrastructure for carrying out Animal Birth Control Programmes for animals in their area. During the hearing of the matter, the bench was informed by the Kerala government that the State Animal Welfare Board has already commenced functioning and its website has become operational and ready for access by the citizenry. The government had also told the bench that the Animal Welfare Board of India, however, was yet to communicate its nominees to the state board, and on receiving information from them, those nominees will also be inducted. "Taking note of the above, we direct the Animal Welfare Board of India to immediately nominate two members to the State Animal Welfare Board. The nomination shall be effected within two weeks from today (September 24)," the high court said and listed the PIL for further hearing on October 1. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-asks-kerala-government-about-steps-proposed-to-prevent-elephant-incursions-in-palakkad-1035069.html
28-09-2021||South||Households in southern states more indebted than rest of India: Report||Household indebtedness is higher in the southern states as compared to the other parts of the country, a report said on Tuesday. Citing the All India Debt and Investment Survey (AIDIS) data from 2013-2019, domestic agency India Ratings said household indebtedness both in rural and urban areas was higher in southern states than rest of India. In 2019, Telangana with 67.2 per cent had the highest proportion of its rural households indebted and Nagaland with 6.6 per cent had the lowest proportion of its rural households indebted. Kerala with 47.8 per cent of urban households indebted had the highest incidence of indebtedness among the urban households and Meghalaya with 5.1 per cent the lowest, it said. Among the major states, the lowest proportion of indebted households in rural areas were in Uttarakhand, and in urban areas in Chhattisgarh. Per capita income in southern states was higher than other states of the country, yet a higher indebtedness in both rural and urban households in these states may appear counterintuitive. “Ind-Ra believes that one of the ways to understand this dichotomy is to look into the average amount of household debt, the average value of household assets and the debt-asset ratio as quite often the quantum of debt is linked to the assets one holds and/or can pledge,” the report said. Except for Kerala, although a higher incidence of indebtedness in both rural and urban households in southern states did not find a reflection in either a high average amount of debt per indebted household or a high average value of assets per rural household, these states had a high debt to asset ratio in 2019, according to the report. Four southern states – Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana – figured among the five states having the highest debt to asset ratio both for rural and urban households, while the fifth – Karnataka – has a debt to asset ratio higher than all India average both for rural and urban households. “This indicates that not only a higher proportion of households in southern states are indebted, but they were also more leveraged,” it pointed out. Generally, higher leverage is often interpreted as a sign of financial vulnerability, but the rating agency said it believes the ability to take higher debt and service the same is also linked to the asset/income profile of the households and added that the per capita income is higher than the national average for all the southern states. “It appears that the higher per capita income and higher per capita income growth in combination with higher financial penetration/ inclusion perhaps has resulted in the higher incidence of indebtedness as well as higher leverage among the households in these states,” it said. Household indebtedness has aggravated lately due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it said, adding that RBI data is already indicating that the household debt to GDP ratio rose to 37.9 per cent in Q3FY21 from 33.8 per cent Q4FY20. In the absence of income growth possibilities, a meaningful switch to discretionary spending from essentials only is unlikely to take place, the agency said, adding that the government will have to keep supporting the economy through spending. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/households-in-southern-states-more-indebted-than-rest-of-india-report-1035134.html
28-09-2021||South||Police and judiciary need gender sensitivity training: Kerala women's panel new chief||At a time when the state police have been facing flak over atrocities against women, Kerala State Women's Commission chairperson designate P Satheedevi on Tuesday said not just the police but even judiciary needs effective gender sensitisation training to deal with women issues. Police seemed to be discouraging women from going ahead with complaints and advised them for settlement in several cases while many court observations in connection with women issues were not found to be in accordance with the changing society and the mindset of the young generation, she noted. "This shows that gender sensitivity training is inevitable. We have to impart our police force an effective training for gender sensitisation. Not just police, our judiciary also needs such training to address women's issues," she told PTI in an interview. Suggestions would be drawn up through coordinated consultation with all concerned persons and outfits and submitted before the government to make changes in this regard and impart necessary training for everyone dealing with the women related issues, the CPI-M leader said. Satheedevi would take charge as the seventh chairperson of the state Women's Commission on October 1. The former Lok Sabha MP said there is no point in lamenting after a woman has suffered harassment. "What we need is to prevent such incidents in the society. We have to change the mindset of the society and instill confidence among women to make that a reality. I believe that a grassroot level mission, involving local self government bodies, can make effective changes in this regard," she said. Detailing her plan, Satheedevi said vigilant committees would be strengthened at the ward level to make effective interventions at the micro level and a house-centered interference in each locality would be possible through this. Whenever a case of molestation or harassment is reported in the locality, the vigilant committee can come to know of it and the service of a lawyer, medical expert and a public servant can be made available to the victim at the earliest, she said. "A great change can be possible through the vigilant committees under the LSGD institutions, especially in cases like dowry harassment. The ward members and such grassroot level workers can come across such issues in their locality easily," the leader explained. Noting that a vigilant society and a confident women community are essential to weed out all kinds of atrocities against women, Satheedevi said effective interventions can be made through the educational institutions to instill confidence among women and create awareness among them about their rights. The practice of viewing girl students as second grade persons inside classrooms should end, she said, adding that not the absence of stringent laws but the lack of it's effective implementation is the core reason for the recurring incidents of violence against women. "Laws are always strong. But, a system with a strong resolve to implement it is the need of the hour. If we could implement the laws in a stringent way, atrocities would not have recurred," Satheedevi, also the state secretary of the CPI(M)'s women wing, All India Democratic Women's Association, said. Unfortunately our women do not make use of the strength of such laws, she pointed out. Women are forced not to go ahead with the complaint due to the lack of support from the family, society and even law enforcers. "Here comes the significance of gender sensitivity training. Our police force should get necessary training to address women's issues in a gender sensitive manner, she said. The approach of the judiciary should also be changed according to the changes in the mindset of the society, especially the young generation. "Some comments coming from the judiciary are not acceptable to the young generation. So, the judiciary also needs to get gender sensitivity training," the Marxist leader added. Asked about the recent criticism by CPI leader Annie Raja against Kerala police regarding atrocities against women, Satheedevi said her concerns were relevant as a "pro-women" approach was lacking from the side of the law enforcers on many occasions. "But, we cannot generalise this.. these are isolated incidents only," she added. Putting the Left government in a fix, Raja, who is also general secretary of the National Federation of Indian Women, had alleged that inaction of police was the reason for the increased incidents of atrocities against women in the southern state. Satheedevi also stressed the need for all women outfits to stand united, setting aside their political differences to protest denial of rights to women. "I would like to take together all those striving for the cause of women above politics. An effective change can be made in the society through this," she added. Satheedevi succeeded M C Josephine as the new chief of Kerala State Women's Commission. The post had remained vacant for the last three months since Josephine had resigned on June 25. Josephine, a central committee member of the ruling CPI(M), had to quit the post after a controversy erupted in the state after she spoke harshly to a woman complainant of domestic violence during a live television programme of a Malayalam channel, causing embarrassment to the Marxist party.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-and-judiciary-need-gender-sensitivity-training-kerala-womens-panel-new-chief-1035136.html
28-09-2021||South||Kerala HC refuses to interfere with Karnataka govt travel restrictions on people coming from Kerala||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed two pleas challenging Karnataka government's decision to restrict entry from here at borders of Kasaragod and Mangalore only to those having a negative RT-PCR report, saying the neighbouring state was well within its powers to issue such directions. The high court said it was an admitted fact there was no blockade of the roads from Kerala to Karnataka and the restrictions, like a negative RT-PCR certificate, were imposed within that state in view of the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 pandemic prevalent in Kerala. "Therefore, going by the guidelines issued by the central government, it is clear that under any such circumstances, the states are given the power and responsibility to impose reasonable restrictions, so as to combat the disease. "Therefore, state of Karnataka was well within its powers to issue circulars, orders or guidelines under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in consonance with various guidelines issued by the central government," a bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly said and dismissed the two PILs, one by A K M Ashraf, the IUML MLA from Manjeshwar and the other by Jayananda K R, the Secretary of Rastrakavi Manjeshwara Govinda Pai Smaraka Samithi. The bench further said that the Karnataka government has the necessary leverage to issue circulars, taking into account the situations prevailing in the neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra. "Viewed from that angle, it can never be said that a part of cause of action for the writ petitions has arisen within the state of Kerala. This is more so when there is no absolute prohibition for the citizens of Kerala to travel to Karnataka by any means, but we can only view it as restrictions imposed by the state of Karnataka. "Whether the restrictions imposed within the State of Karnataka are reasonable or not, is a matter to be considered and decided by the jurisdictional High Court," the bench said in its 100-page judgement. It further said that a "wholesome appreciation of the facts and circumstances" would show that no part of the cause of action, as regards the circulars issued by Karnataka government or its officials, would arise in Kerala. "Therefore, we have no hesitation to hold that the petitioners have failed to establish territorial jurisdiction of this court in interfering with the circulars issued by the state of Karnataka dated July 31 and accordingly, we decline the reliefs sought for by the petitioners in the background of the circulars so issued. In the result, the writ petitions are dismissed for want of territorial jurisdiction," the bench said. The petitioners had contended that the travel restrictions had resulted in people from Kerala being unable to enter Karnataka for any emergent situations and therefore, it was totally illegal and violative of the fundamental rights of citizens. The blockade was also causing disruption in trade, supply of food and other essential items and interfering with the rights of the citizens to move freely throughout the territory of India, the two PILs -- one of them filed by advocate P V Anoop -- had claimed. The pleas had also claimed that people of Manjeshwar rely entirely upon the medical facilities at Dakshin Kannada district/Mangalore city and its adjacent areas, since it is the nearest medical hub available. The Karnataka government had opposed the two pleas on the ground that the entire cause of action arises within that state, and the petitioners should challenge the circulars before the High Court of Karnataka. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-karnataka-govt-travel-restrictions-on-people-coming-from-kerala-1035138.html
28-09-2021||South||Padma Shri awardee Bala V Balachandran no more||Chairman and Dean (emeritus) of Great Lakes Institute of Management, professor Bala V Balachandran died following brief illness. He was 84 years old and survived by his wife, two sons and grand children, a press release from the institute said on Tuesday. He was not keeping well for some time and died in his sleep at 4 am (local time) on September 27 in Chicago, United States. "With profound grief, we inform you of the passing of Dr Bala V Balachandran, who was an inspiration to many. Although we will miss him dearly, we shall carry him in our hearts and live by the value system that he built for us", GLIM said. Born in Pudukottai district, Balachandran completed his studies at the Annamalai University in Chidambaram. He had served in the Army briefly before moving to the United States to pursue his doctoral programme. Balachandran had played an instrumental role in establishing many management institutes in the country. He was honoured with the 'Padma Shri' award by the Centre for his contribution to education. In 2004, he set up the Great Lakes Institute of Management at Manamai, about 45 kms from here, which is one of the popular business schools in the country now. An eminent scholar, Bala's life was filled with accomplishments and accolades of the finest kind, the release added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/padma-shri-awardee-bala-v-balachandran-no-more-1035151.html
28-09-2021||South||Telangana gets respite from rains brought on by Cyclone Gulab||Telangana received respite from rains on Tuesday, after a day of incessant downpour due to Cyclone Gulab. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government had announced a statewide holiday for offices, schools and colleges anticipating rain related troubles for the public. However, only light to moderate rainfall has occurred that too in a few places, an IMD official told DH. The capital city Hyderabad, where the civic body machinery was put on high alert, too was largely spared from rains. But people living along the Musi in low lying areas of Hyderabad were cautioned as water from the two upstream reservoirs was released into the river. India Meteorological Department said that the depression (remnant of cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’) spread over north Telangana on Monday had moved further westwards and weakened into a well marked low pressure area over western parts of Vidarbha and surroundings. “It is likely to move northwestwards and weaken gradually during the next 24 hours. The system is likely to emerge into northeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Gujarat coast around 30 September and there is likelihood of it further intensifying into a depression over northeast Arabian Sea during the subsequent 24 hours,” IMD Tuesday afternoon bulletin said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-gets-respite-from-rains-brought-on-by-cyclone-gulab-1035227.html
28-09-2021||South||Congress in Kerala may witness repercussions of party president's links with cheating case accused||The acquaintance of Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran with a fake antique merchant seems to have come as a shot in the arm for the Congress leaders opposed to him. While a section in the Congress started taking up the issue, the party is also unable to attack the left-front government in Kerala over the nexus of many police officers with the fraudster. Congress MP from Kerala Benny Behnan said on Tuesday that political party leaders should be more cautions while dealing with such person. The links of Sudhakaran with fake antique seller Monson Chacko alias Monson Mavingal came out at a time when the Congress party in Kerala is witnessing resentment against Sudhakaran's leadership. Incidentally, AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar was also in the state when the links of Sudhakaran with the cheating case accused came out. Many senior Congress leaders had openly expressed their resentment against the style of function of the party's new state leadership comprising Sudhakaran and leader of opposition V D Satheesan. But the main resentment was learnt to be against Sudhakaran. Sudhakaran not only denied allegation of a cheated person that Mavungal collected money from him in the presence of Sudhakaran, but also put up a political defensive by alleging that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan could be playing a role in the allegations against him. With the picture of Sudhakaran with Mavungal coming out, he had to admit his acquaintance with the fraudster, but maintained that he was unaware of his shady dealings. Congress sources said that the party was now in a dilemma as it could not raise the Mavungal issue against the government even as his nexus with many senior police officers and the picture of a minister with Mavungal came out. There were also allegations of nexus of some other ministers with Mavungal. With Congress leader Rahul Gandhi coming down to Wayanad for a one-day visit to his constituency Wayanad on Wednesday the chances of the anti-Sudhakaran camps raising the issue overtly and covertly was very high. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-in-kerala-may-witness-repercussions-of-party-presidents-links-with-cheating-case-accused-1035235.html
28-09-2021||South||Election Commission sounds by-poll bugle in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana||Political parties in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are readying for another electoral battle as the Election Commission of India on Tuesday sounded the poll bugle for Badvel and Huzurabad by-elections. The two assembly constituencies would vote on October 30, along with three Lok Sabha and 28 other assembly constituencies across the country. Polled votes would be counted and results declared on November 2. The ECI schedule was released even as the parties were expecting the by-polls to be held after the festive season's end i.e., in November. Badvel, an SC reserved constituency, in chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy's home-turf Kadapa fell vacant after the sitting YSRCP MLA Dr Venkata Subbaiah died in March due to illness. While the opposition TDP has earlier confirmed Obulapuram Rajasekhar as its candidate, the ruling YSRCP is yet to announce its nominee. Dr Subbaiah's widow could be offered the candidature. The Huzurabad seat in Telangana, held by former health minister Eatala Rajender fell vacant in June after he resigned from the ruling TRS party and also the Telangana assembly membership. Eatala, who was accused of land grabbing, has later joined the BJP and is expected to be the saffron party's candidate, challenging chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's might. While Eatala set out on a padayatra in the constituency, CM Rao, who is taking special interest in the polls, has announced the launch of a Dalit empowerment programme from Huzurabad, which has a considerable number of Scheduled Caste voters. Each selected Dalit family would be provided Rs 10 lakh financial assistance by the government to aid their growth. CM Rao has decided to nominate Gellu Srinivas Yadav, state president of the TRS student wing, as the party’s candidate for the Huzurabad by-poll. The ruling YSRCP and TRS have emerged victorious in the Tirupati Lok Sabha and Nagarjuna Sagar assembly by-elections respectively, conducted earlier this year. The ECI had earlier this month, while announcing the schedule for Bhabanipur (where West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is contesting) and three other assembly seats, stated that it is deferring polls in the 33 constituencies as the respective states had asked for polls postponement citing possibility of Covid-19 third wave, flood situations, and the festive season. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/election-commission-sounds-by-poll-bugle-in-andhra-pradesh-and-telangana-1035244.html
28-09-2021||State||Bypolls to 2 Assembly constituencies in Karnataka on October 30||Bypolls to two Assembly constituencies in Karnataka -- Sindgi and Hangal -- will be held on October 30, the Election Commission announced on Tuesday. The by-elections have been necessitated as they fell vacant following the death of JD(S) legislator M C Manguli in Sindgi and BJP's C M Udasi in Hangal. The election notification will be issued on October 1, which also marks the commencement of filing of nominations. October 8 is the last day for filing of nominations. Scrutiny will take place on October 1, and October 13 is the last day for withdrawal. Counting of votes will be taken up on November two. The Election Commission on Tuesday announced that bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly constituencies will be held on October 30. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the process of selection of candidates will begin soon, as he expressed confidence about the BJP winning both the seats. He said in the recently held BJP core committee meeting, discussions took place on appointing observers to both the segments and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel would take a call on it. Senior leader Udasi, who had represented Hangal, was a six time MLA, and under his leadership, there was a lot of developmental work in the constituency, while BJP had won Sindgi thrice before losing it to late Manguli of JD(S) in 2018, he pointed out. To a question about this being the first election under his leadership as the Chief Minister, Bommai said, "All leaders have faced by-election. We will face it under the leadership of the party." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bypolls-to-2-assembly-constituencies-in-karnataka-on-october-30-1035154.html
28-09-2021||State||'Caste census report awaiting clearance of legal hurdles'||The report of the social and economic survey (caste census) of Backward Classes will be submitted to the government after resolving the legal hurdles, Backward Classes Commission chairperson K Jayaprakash Hegde has said. “We cannot sit on the report nor the effort should go waste. A report by any commission should bear the signatures of the chairperson, members and the member-secretary. The then member-secretary of the commission has not signed on the final report. The question is whether the present member-secretary can sign the report and it is valid in the eyes of law. These issues are being deliberated on,” Hegde said. He was speaking to reporters in Chikkaballapur on Tuesday. Hegde said that the commission had received representations for and against including Lingayat Panchamasali community in Category 2A. A public hearing on this issue is scheduled for October 11 and 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/caste-census-report-awaiting-clearance-of-legal-hurdles-1035234.html
28-09-2021||State||Saumitra Kumar Haldar first full-time chief of Cauvery Authority||The Centre has appointed Saumitra Kumar Haldar as the full-time chairman of the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA). The government has appointed a full-time chairman, more than three years after the establishment of the CWMA. Presently, Haldar is serving as the chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC). The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved his appointment for a period of five years from the date he takes charge. He will serve in the position from November 30, once he retires as the CWC chairman. Since the setting up of the authority in June 2018, the Centre has been giving the post as additional charge to the CWC chairman. Tamil Nadu had earlier approached the Supreme Court, urging for the appointment of a full-time chairman. A degree holder in engineering from the government engineering college, Jabalpur, Haldar held various positions in the CWC. He handled various inter-state matters such as coordination and management of resources of the Narmada river. As the head of the CWMA, Haldar will have a casting vote in the event of a tie when a river water dispute arises. The CWMA will meet frequently to monitor the release of water from upper riparian states to lower riparian states. The authority will also have power to give approval when river basin states want to take up major water resources projects. The main task of the authority is to monitor the implementation of the final award of the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal, modified by the Supreme Court. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/saumitra-kumar-haldar-first-full-time-chief-of-cauvery-authority-1035236.html
28-09-2021||State||Nursing student killed in accident||A 27-year-old nursing student was killed in an accident near Nanthoor on Tuesday. The student was identified as Manas Ughale from Pune. Manas who was proceeding towards Mahaveer (pumpwell) circle was knocked down by an unidentified vehicle. Kadri traffic police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nursing-student-killed-in-accident-1035254.html
28-09-2021||State||Karnataka education dept to sign 3 MoUs with Infosys||The Karnataka higher education department is signing three different memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with Infosys in the coming days. In a press statement, the department said it is signing the MoUs to give priority to skill-based learning as per the National Education Policy (NEP) guidelines. Higher Education Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan had convened a meeting with Infosys representatives in Bengaluru on Tuesday. “The MoUs will be mainly to utilise the Infosys Springboard programme, under which over 3,000 skill-based programmes beneficial to students are available,” Ashwath Narayan said. Another MoU pertains to Campus Connect for digital learning of both students and faculty, under which Infosys will donate over 15,000 computers to colleges. Gesture computing and biometrics will be introduced under smart classrooms, utilising virtual reality for linking data with performance outcome, said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-education-dept-to-sign-3-mous-with-infosys-1035265.html
28-09-2021||State||Karnataka HC bins 2 appointments to selection panel of juvenile committee||The Karnataka High Court has set aside the appointment of two members to the Karnataka State Selection Committee under the Juvenile Justice Model Rules. A division bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, said that the persons appointed lacked experience as well eligibility. The PIL was filed by city-based advocate Sudha Katwa. The appointment of Latha Jagadishnarayan from Bagalkot and S N Badaskar from Hubballi has been quashed. The bench noted that they were appointed under the orders of a minister. The bench further observed that the subsequent order sheet recommending their names was not signed by the principal secretary of the department. The bench noted that the experience mentioned by the persons appointed as members is not in terms with the provisions under the Act and Rules. Latha’s appointment order mentioned the experience of seven years, which is the appointment order under Jala Samvardhane. With regard to Badaskar, the bench noted that he is a lawyer by profession and the application submitted nowhere reflects that he has experience in the area of child development or child protection. The court said that the entire object of the Act will be defeated because of such actions and advised the state government to appoint experts in the subject. The government is free to appoint persons having prescribed qualifications as per the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection Act of 2015, the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-bins-2-appointments-to-selection-panel-of-juvenile-committee-1035266.html
28-09-2021||State||KSRTC Ambari service to Shirdi||The KSRTC will resume Ambaari Dream Class Service between Bengaluru and Shirdi starting from October 6. The multi-axle sleeper bus will depart at 1 pm from Bengaluru and arrive at Shirdi at 8.15 am. Resumption of Hampi tourist package||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-ambari-service-to-shirdi-1035267.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Arkavathy Layout redo: Karnataka HC forms committee||The Karnataka High Court on Monday constituted a three-member committee to look into the redo exercise as well as denotification done after the Supreme Court order in the Arkavathy Layout case. Justice Aravind Kumar passed this order while disposing of 446 petitions filed by land and building owners. The court upheld the second final notification issued in June 2014 for the acquisition of lands for the layout in 16 villages. The committee, comprising retired high court judge Justice K N Keshavanarayana, retired IAS officer Sandeep Dave and retired IPS officer N S Megharikh, will verify whether the redo exercise and denotification complied with the orders of the Supreme Court and the high court. The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has been directed to act upon the report to be submitted by the committee. The BDA had left out 285 acres of land from acquisition in 2013 on the orders of the Supreme Court in 2010. The apex court had ordered denotification after observing that acquisition had been done inclusive of horticulture land, developed residential areas, factories and educational institutions. Accordingly, BDA published a modified scheme in 2014. The Arkavathy issue dates back to 2004 when the government issued a gazette notification declaring the acquisition of 2,750 acres. The BDA took possession of 1,919.13 acres, including 1,459.37 acres of private and 459.16 acres of government land. After a single-judge bench of the Karnataka High Court quashed the entire acquisition, the BDA succeeded in salvaging the layout plan after a division bench upheld the acquisition with some conditions. The Supreme Court upheld the verdict with additional conditions on land acquisition. Cautioning against ‘arbitrary deletions’, the apex court had directed BDA to consider whether, in view of deletions, the development of the balance of the acquired lands has become illogical and, if so, whether the balance area also should be deleted. However, in the years since, subsequent governments and the BDA have faced allegations of ‘pick and choose’ deletions, leading to discrimination and irregularities. Such accusations had forced the then chief minister Siddaramaiah to set up the Justice H S Kempanna commission, whose report is yet to be tabled in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/arkavathy-layout-redo-karnataka-hc-forms-committee-1034919.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy showers cut off road connectivity to several villages in Kalaburagi; houses collapse in Bidar||Heavy rains wreaked havoc in Kalaburagi and Bidar districts late on Monday night. The showers brought down several houses while swollen rivers snapped road connectivity to many villages in both the districts. The connectivity between Kalaburagi and Sedam was snapped as a bridge near Malkhed in Sedam taluk was submerged under the swollen Kagina river. Kamalavati river is back alive following the good showers.  Tahsildar Basavaraj Benneshirur warned the people against going near Kagina river. Water is being released from Nagaral Reservoir of the Lower Mullamari Project as it is receiving good inflow following heavy downpour in its catchment area.  Bridges near Chimanchud, Garampalli and Tajalapur and low-lying bridges near Kanakapur, Chandapur and Garagapalli have submerged as about 4,500 cusec of water was released into the river. A bridge near Dandoti village in Chittapur taluk has submerged in the flood water of Kagina river, cutting off traffic from Chittapur to Dandoti from Tuesday morning. Normal life was affected as road connectivity to Kalaburagi and Kalagi was snapped. Raudravatri river is in spate following good showers. Allapur tank has filled. Bennetora reservoir is receiving heavy inflow following rains in Basavakalyana, Mahagaon and Aland taluk. As water level in Manjara river is increasing, the villages located along the bank of the river are facing the threat of submergence. Flood water has gushed into farm lands.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-showers-cut-off-road-connectivity-to-several-villages-in-kalaburagi-houses-collapse-in-bidar-1035096.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, Karnataka CM Bommai bats for anti-conversion law||In the wake of alleged forced conversions, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said that the state was seriously considering a law to prevent religious conversions either by force or inducement. Responding to media queries, he said that conversions via force or by inducements were illegal. "I have directed district administrations to not allow such conversions as it was against the law," he said. As several such incidents are reported, the government is seriously considering a law against religious conversions by force or by luring people through various means, he said. Bypolls Commenting on bypolls announced for Hanagal constituency in Haveri district and Sindhgi in Vijayapur district, Bommai said that BJP was confident of securing wins in both the constituencies. Elections are being held for the two constituencies, due to the demise of Hanagal MLA CM Udasi of BJP and Sindhgi MLA MC Managuli of the JD(S). Bommai said that the recent meeting of the BJP core committee has discussed appointing observers for the elections scheduled on October 20. "State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel will dispatch observers soon to assess the ground situation and start the process of candidate selection. We are confident that BJP will secure wins in both the constituencies," he said. The CM noted that while Udasi had represented Hanagal six times, Sindhgi had elected a BJP MLA twice before JD(S) secured a win. "As people of the constituencies are with us, and due to strong organisation and party workers, we will win in both the constituencies," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-karnataka-cm-bommai-bats-for-anti-conversion-law-1035100.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SM Krishna to inaugurate Dasara festivities this year||Former Karnataka Chief Minister SM Krishna will inaugurate the Mysuru Dasara festivities this year. The decision was following a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Bengaluru, on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that Krishna was a senior leader and will inaugurate Dasara celebrations, which start on October 7. "He was not only CM, but is also a senior leader who has contributed immensely for the development of this (old Mysuru) region. Therefore, we have decided to invite him to inaugurate Dasara," he said. Krishna had served as Union External Affairs Minister in the UPA regime from 2009 to 2012 and was Governor of Maharastra from 2004 to 2008. He was also Union Minister of State for Industry and Finance in the past. He had joined the BJP in 2017. Co-operation and Mysuru district-in-charge minister ST Somashekar, in a statement, welcomed the decision and hailed Krishna's contributions for transforming Bengaluru as an IT hub. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sm-krishna-to-inaugurate-dasara-festivities-this-year-1035218.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 629 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka logged 629 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infection cases to 29,74,528 and the toll to 37,763. The day also saw 782 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state, so far, to 29,24,102. Out of the 629 new cases reported on Tuesday, 229 were from Bengaluru Urban. Bengaluru Urban saw 199 discharges and six deaths. The total number of active cases in the state are 12,634. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.67% and the case fatality rate was 2.7%. Dakshina Kannada reported two deaths, followed by Belagavi (3) and a few other districts reporting one death each. Among new cases, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 96 cases, Mysuru 58, Udupi 39, and Kodagu 30, followed by others. A total of 4,73,92,952 samples have been tested for Covid in the state so far, out of which 93,014 tests were done on Tuesday alone. 5.5 cr jab milestone The state administered 2,03,327 doses on Tuesday taking the total doses administered so far to 5,51,32,150. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-629-new-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-1035237.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Upper Krishna Project: Karnataka govt to allocate Rs 2,500 crore for land acquisition||In a bid to expedite the works of the Upper Krishna Project (UKP), the Karnataka government will allocate an additional Rs 2,500 crore for the works, according to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.  He was speaking to media persons after a review meeting with Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol and senior officials concerned.  In the meeting, it was decided to allocate additional funds this year to expedite the land acquisition process. In the 20 villages that are expected to submerge owing to the project, the government must prepare for rehabilitation of the people, officials were told. Further, the government has decided to resolve various pending cases pertaining to land acquisition, by appointing special legal counsels. Filling up vacant posts and shifting the Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam to Almatti, were among the other decisions taken to fast-track the project, Bommai said.  Meanwhile, the government will also ensure that farmers living in the tail-end areas of canals coming under phases 1 and 2 of the projects are getting water. There have been several complaints that the tail-end farmers are not getting water supply, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/upper-krishna-project-karnataka-govt-to-allocate-rs-2500-crore-for-land-acquisition-1035245.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bababudangiri: Karnataka HC asks govt to reconsider decision on religious practices||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to reconsider its decision on religious practices in the controversial cave shrine of Bababudangiri in Chikkamagaluru district. The court quashed the March 19, 2018, order of the government permitting only a Mujawar, appointed by Shah Khadri, to enter the sanctum of the cave and to distribute 'teertha' to both Hindus and Muslims. The then government had accepted the report submitted by the high-level committee, headed by retired judge of the high court Justice H N Nagamohan Das. Justice P S Dinesh Kumar directed the government to reconsider the matter afresh in accordance with law without reference to the report of the committee. The court said that directing only a Mujawar to perform the rituals violates the constitutional rights of both Hindus and Muslims. Shri Guru Dattatreya Peetha Samvardhana Samithi had challenged the 2018 government order and also sought directions to implement the second report of the Endowment Commissioner dated March 10, 2010. The high-level committee had submitted its report in 2017, recommending continuation of religious practices prevailing as of 1947, which is based on the first report of the Endowment Commissioner in 1989. This report had been quashed by the high court in a previous litigation. Senior counsel Ashok Haranahalli, appearing for the petitioners, contended that the high-level committee report is biased as one of the members of the committee, Prof Rahmath Tarikere, had deposed before the Endowment Commissioner, who submitted the report in 2010. “By the impugned order, firstly, the State have infringed upon the right of Hindu Community to have the pooja and archana done in the manner as per their faith. Secondly, State have imposed upon the Mujawar to perform 'paduka pooja' and to light 'nanda deepa' contrary to his faith. Both these acts amount to flagrant violation of rights of both communities guaranteed by Article 25 of the Constitution of India,” the court said. The court referred to the deposition of one M N Bhasha before the Endowment Commissioner. Bhasha, who was the Mujawar between 1969 and 1975, said that Hindus were allowed to worship the 'padukas' through Brahmin or Lingayat priests as per their custom. The court cited the Apex Court order on the Ram Janmabhoomi temple and said that faith is a matter for the individual believer. Once the court has intrinsic material to accept that the faith or belief is genuine, it must defer to the belief of the worshipper, the high court said.  Civil court decree The civil court had decreed Shri Guru Dattatreya Swami Peetha as a religious institution being a holy place of worship belonging to both the Hindus and Mohammadans and not as a Wakf property. This judgment and decree in 1980 has been confirmed by the High Court and the Apex Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bababudangiri-karnataka-hc-asks-govt-to-reconsider-decision-on-religious-practices-1035249.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid relief: Karnataka govt modifies guidelines||Following the Centre’s announcement of Rs 50,000 relief for every Covid victim, the Karnataka government issued a revised order detailing the process of disbursing relief. The order detailed the process of disbursing Rs 1 lakh relief announced by the state for BPL families - which is restricted to one person per family, and the Rs 50,000 assured by the Centre. For instance, if a person from a BPL family perished due to Covid, relatives of the victim will get Rs 1 lakh from the state and Rs 50,000 from the Centre. In the case of two or more victims, immediate family members will receive Rs 1 lakh from the state and Rs 50,000 for each of the victims from the Centre. For APL families, each victim will receive a compensation of Rs 50,000 from the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-relief-karnataka-govt-modifies-guidelines-1035263.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NEP at school level likely to be rolled out next year in Karnataka||Successful in countering the stiff opposition to the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) at the higher education level, the Karnataka government has now set its eyes on the school education sector. At a meeting of the NEP core committee on Tuesday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai instructed the primary and secondary education department to give priority to framing of the curriculum during the implementation of NEP.  Focussing on child-centric curriculum while implementing NEP, Bommai asked the members of the committee and officials of the department to frame guidelines and submit recommendations soon. “The chief minister was clear and particular about the curriculum. He has instructed us to concentrate on a child-centric curriculum,” one of the members of the core committee present at the meeting told DH.   “Protecting the innocence and inquisitiveness of children will be the priority of the committee while submitting recommendations and framing guidelines. CM has assured of extending all support and convening meetings as and when needed to address issues that may arise while framing guidelines,” the member said. While the state government has not yet officially set any deadline for implementation of the NEP at the school level, the aim, according to officials, is to implement the programme from the 2022-23 academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nep-at-school-level-likely-to-be-rolled-out-next-year-in-karnataka-1035268.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka higher education dept seeks more funds for implementing NEP||The Karnataka higher education department has sought more funds for the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) during the current academic year and also in the coming years. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan brought this to the notice of the chief minister during a review meeting of the department here on Tuesday. According to department sources, the minister has requested the chief minister for allocation of additional funds for the implementation of various programmes under NEP, which includes training of teachers, digitalisation of classrooms and distribution of tabs for students. "Last year, we distributed tabs to 1.5 lakh students. This year, the number of students seeking admissions to undergraduate courses is increasing at least by 50,000. Considering this, we have requested Rs 220 crore for distribution of tabs for first year undergraduate students," the sources said. The higher education department needs Rs 67 crore to train teachers under NEP. "The training for teachers will be provided at the Higher Education Academy in Dharwad. Without training the teachers, implementation of NEP is difficult," an official said. "We have informed the chief minister about the need for Rs 98 crore to convert 6,000 classrooms into smart classrooms. Currently, around 2,500 classrooms have been upgraded as smart classrooms," he said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is said to have responded positively to all the demands placed by the higher education department and directed the officials to take all necessary measures for the effective implementation of NEP.  Also, Ashwath Narayan has sought Rs 2 crore each for the newly set-up universities, including Maharani Cluster University, Nrupatunga University, Bengaluru North University and Bengaluru Central University.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-higher-education-dept-seeks-more-funds-for-implementing-nep-1035270.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||S M Krishna to inaugurate Dasara this time||Former chief minister S M Krishna will inaugurate the Mysuru Dasara festivities this year. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that Krishna was a senior leader and will inaugurate Dasara celebrations which start on October 7. “He is not only CM, but is also a senior leader who has contributed immensely to the development of this (Old Mysuru) region. Therefore, we have decided to invite him to inaugurate Dasara,” he said. Krishna had served as Union external affairs minister in the UPA regime from 2009 to 2012 and was governor of Maharastra from 2004 to 2008. He was also Union minister of state for industry and finance in the past. He had joined the BJP in 2017. Cooperation and Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, in a statement, welcomed the decision and hailed Krishna’s contributions for transforming Bengaluru into an IT-hub.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/s-m-krishna-to-inaugurate-dasara-this-time-1035271.html
28-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fin dept nod must for upgrading PHCs, says Sudhakar||Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Tuesday that 250 PHCs had been identified for upgrading, but the work can begin only when the finance department approves it. This comes three days after the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) brought to light the crumbling infrastructure at the state’s primary health centres (PHCs), Health Commissioner Dr K V Trilok Chandra said, Rs 1,875 crore was required for the project, at a cost of Rs 7.5 crore per PHC. On the point raised by KSLSA that only 60 PHCs among those surveyed were able to provide Covid treatment, he said, only hospitals at the district and taluk level were identified as treatment centres for Covid.  “PHCs are not meant to treat Covid. They were supposed to do basic screening of patients, including testing and triaging, and refer patients to designated Covid care centres and Covid hospitals,” Trilok Chandra said. As an interim measure, 25 PHCs per district are being upgraded at a cost of Rs 20 lakh per unit under the Amruth scheme. “We’ve data on 50% of the PHCs that need to be upgraded,” the official said.  Sudhakar said PHCs which have more OPD/IPD arrivals and where more deliveries take place have been selected for providing additional services and facilities. PHCs will be selected for upgrading, based on the availability of minimum of two acres of land under the health department. “The provision of additional equipment for conducting 63 diagnostic investigations, tele-consultation facilities, improving infection control practices, referral protocols for tertiary care, geriatric and palliative healthcare services, training of staff to provide quality services and general maintenance and housekeeping will also be done,” he said.  “Targets have been set for improvement of patient satisfaction score. As on September 27, as many as 101 PHCs have been identified. Once we get approval from the finance department, work will begin,” the minister said.  On the state’s capacity to do basic blood investigations at PHCs, Chandra said, “Three-part and five-part haematology analysers are being distributed to PHCs. These machines cover a majority of the tests.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fin-dept-nod-must-for-upgrading-phcs-says-sudhakar-1035273.html
28-09-2021||West||Panju Island to become tourism destination||Panju Island, a tiny island off the Arabian Sea, which has nearly zero pollution and is visited by a host of native and migratory birds have one of the best statistics with regard to sex ratio, cent per cent literacy and a unique piece of history, is being transformed into a tourism destination. The village - with a population of 1,500 - is spread over 600 acres and has huge patches of salt pans and fishing boats dotting the elliptical coast. Villagers own around 100 plus boats – mainly used for sand dredging or fishing. Though in the outskirts of Mumbai - tap water came here in 1983, power in 1989. It has its own crematorium, primary health centre and a primary and secondary school. When one travels in a Western Railway train and passes over the bridge on the creek between Bhayander and Naigaon stations - while on the way from Mumbai to Palghar - one can see the picturesque island below. The bridge, in fact, connects Salsette Island to Vasai. Panju Island is among the 26 islands in India—the only one in Maharashtra—that will be turned into tourist hotspots. The rest islands are in Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep Islands. The public policy think tank, NITI Aayog has already started working on it. “We are sure that the Panju Island would be transformed and it would bring in opportunities for youths,” said Kiran Bhoir, the founder-director of KMC Holidays and Offshore Pvt Ltd, who hails from this island. The only way to reach the village is to take a ferry - though locals often use the railway bridge and go to the island. Predominantly inhabited by the agriculture community, this place has a rich history. A majority of people here have the surname Bhoir and a few of them are Patils as well. Legendary Maratha commander Chimaji Appa, the son of Balaji Vishwanath Bhat, the first Peshwa, and younger brother of Bajirao Peshwa, the second Peshwa, used to carry out monetary transactions from this island. He had wrested control of the Vasai fort from the Portuguese rulers. From the southern shores of this island, one can see the ramparts of the Vasai fort. During the Independence movement - the place then had a population of 300 - had given 21 freedom fighters - and a monument in their memory could be seen when one steps into the jetty from the Naigaon side. Almost every home has an idol or photo of Lord Hanuman, the presiding deity of the village and the Hanuman Jayanti and Ganesh Chaturthi are the biggest festivals here, which even draws crowds from the mainland. “There is a lot of potential in the land and the people and this needs to be explored,” said Bhoir, who had been working with the state government and the state tourism development corporation for several years.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/panju-island-to-become-tourism-destination-1034997.html
28-09-2021||West||Cyclone Gulab: Bus with 10 aboard swept away due to rain in Yavatmal; 2 rescued so far||In a shocking incident, a state-transport bus was washed away in floodwaters in Umerkhed tehsil in the Yavatmal district of Maharashtra on Tuesday.  With Cyclone Gulab hitting, parts of the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions are experiencing heavy rainfall over the last couple of days.  According to reports, the bus driver seems to have ignored the warnings and drove ahead and got trapped in floodwaters near a culvert.  “Search and rescue operations have started,” according to employment guarantee minister Sandipanrao Bhumre, who is the guardian minister of Yavatmal district.  Top district administration and police officials are rushing to the spot, Bhumre told TV channels.  At least 10 persons are suspected to be onboard the vessel. Two persons have been rescued so far.  Further details are awaited. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-gulab-bus-with-10-aboard-swept-away-due-to-rain-in-yavatmal-2-rescued-so-far-1035004.html
28-09-2021||West||8-year-old girl hacked to death in Palghar; hunt on for culprit||An eight-year-old tribal girl was hacked to death allegedly by a man believed to be her relative in Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place around 1.30 pm on Monday near a zilla parishad school in Dahanu taluka following which the 46-year-old accused ran away, an official from the district rural police control room said, adding efforts were on to nab him. It was not yet known whether the child was sexually abused and what was the motive behind the killing, he said, adding that the postmortem report was awaited. The accused allegedly attacked the girl with a sickle, injuring her seriously, the official said. A passerby saw the child being attacked and tried to save her, but the accused hit him also with the sickle and then fled from the spot, he said. After being alerted, police reached the spot and rushed the girl to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead, the official said. The body was subsequently sent for postmortem. The man who had tried to save the girl was injured in the attack by the accused and was admitted to a hospital, the official said. The Dahanu police registered a case against the accused under Indian Penal Code Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder), he said. Efforts were on to trace him, he added. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-year-old-girl-hacked-to-death-in-palghar-hunt-on-for-culprit-1035006.html
28-09-2021||West||ED arrests aide of Shiv Sena MP in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday arrested an alleged aide of Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali in connection with a money laundering investigation, officials said. Saeed Khan was placed under arrest under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and will be produced before a local court here for further custody by the agency. The arrest pertains to a case of money laundering related to alleged financial irregularities in certain trusts linked to Gawali, a Member of Parliament from the Yavatmal-Washim Lok Sabha seat. The agency had last month conducted searches at multiple premises in Yavatmal, Washim and Mumbai in this case. The ED case is based on a Maharashtra police FIR against some accused related to a Rs 18 alleged crore fraud and some linked irregularities.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-arrests-aide-of-shiv-sena-mp-in-money-laundering-case-1035023.html
28-09-2021||West||Ex-CJI Sharad Bobde's mother passes away||Former Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde's mother Mukta Bobde died of old age in Maharashtra's Nagpur city on Tuesday, an aide of the ex-CJI said. She was 96. Mukta Bobde died at her residence at 3.30 am. The funeral will take place here at 4 pm on Tuesday, the aide said in a brief statement. Sharad Bobde, who belongs to Nagpur, became the chief justice in November 2019 and retired in April 2021. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-cji-sharad-bobdes-mother-passes-away-1035026.html
28-09-2021||West||Maharashtra: BJP, MNS reach 'seat adjustment' for Palghar ZP, panchayat samiti bypolls||The BJP and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) have decided on "seat adjustment" for the upcoming bypolls to the Palghar zilla parishad and its panchayat samitis, Union minister Kapil Patil has said. The Maharashtra State Election Commission recently announced that by-elections to six zilla parishads (ZPs), including Palghar, and panchayat samitis under them, for seats which have fallen vacant after the OBC quota was quashed by the Supreme Court, will be held on October 5. Union minister and BJP leader Patil told reporters on Monday that there was "no alliance" between his party and the Raj Thackeray-led MNS, but they have decided on "seat adjustment". The party which is stronger in the area concerned will contest the seat, and the other party will not field its candidate there, he said. "When it comes to development and doing good work, what is the harm in joining hands with the MNS?" he asked. The exact number of seats on which the adjustment is done will be known in due course, he said. MNS Palghar and Thane unit chief Avinash Jadhav said as per the adjustment, wherever one party contests, the other party will withdraw its candidate. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-mns-reach-seat-adjustment-for-palghar-zp-panchayat-samiti-bypolls-1035077.html
28-09-2021||West||Four Congress MLAs rush into well of Gujarat Assembly over Covid-19 deaths; briefly suspended||Gujarat Assembly Speaker Nimaben Acharya on Tuesday suspended four Congress MLAs for a brief period after they rushed into the well of the House while shouting slogans against the state government over the issue of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state. The MLAs were initially suspended for the entire day, but Acharya, showing a lenient approach, revoked their suspension when the House met after a 15-minute adjournment. During the Question Hour on the second and last day of the monsoon session, members of both the opposition Congress and the ruling BJP engaged in a heated debate over the issue of deaths due to the coronavirus infection in the state. Citing Gujarat Congress's own survey, Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani claimed that over three lakh people have died due to Covid-19 in the state as against the government's toll statistics of 10,082. "There is a huge discrepancy in the actual figures and the official death toll. As per the figures provided by 106 municipalities in response to RTIs, over 37,600 people have died due to Covid-19 in these cities and towns," Dhanani claimed. When the Congress leader sought to know if the BJP government would pay a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each Covid-19 victim, Gujarat Health Minister Rushikesh Patel challenged Dhanani to ask his party to first implement it in the Congress-ruled states of Rajasthan and Punjab. After a heated debate, all the Congress MLAs stood up from their seats and started raising slogans against the BJP, alleging "criminal negligence" on part of the ruling party in handling the pandemic. Later, Congress MLAs Virji Thummar, Baldevji Thakor, Kirit Patel and Vikram Madam rushed into the well of the House with banners and raised slogans against the state government, following which Speaker Acharya suspended them for the entire day and adjourned the House till the end of the Question Hour. However, when the House met again after 15 minutes, Acharya revoked the suspension of the four legislators. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-congress-mlas-rush-into-well-of-gujarat-assembly-over-covid-19-deaths-briefly-suspended-1035106.html
28-09-2021||West||Maharashtra mountaineer scales world's 8th tallest peak||Jitendra Gaware, a member of Pune-based adventure club Giripremi, successfully climbed Mt. Manaslu, an 8,163-metre tall mountain and the eighth tallest mountain in the world on Tuesday. In the process, Gaware set a new record of climbing three 8,000 metre mountains in just six months. He had previously sclaed Mt. Annapurna-1 in April and Mt. Everest in May. Pune-based Umesh Zirpe, a veteran mountaineer and Shri Shiv Chhatrapati awardee, has been mentoring Gaware since his early days of mountaineering. Mount Manaslu is located in the Gorkha region in Nepal and is close to the Tibet border. The peak is surrounded by more than ten 6,500-metre tall mountains and a few mountains that are taller than 7,000 metres. Another 8,000-er metre peak ‘Mount Annapurna’ is located near Manaslu and can be seen after reaching the summit. The journey to the top of Manaslu consists of several long ridges and valleys of glaciers. Mount Manaslu is often called as ‘Mountain of Spirit’ and the name Manaslu is derived from the Sanskrit word Manasa which means intellect or soul. “Girirpemi has been climbing several mountains in the Himalayas and unfurling the Indian flag to celebrate the 75th year of Indian Independence. Jitendra makes the journey bigger by unfurling the Indian tricolour on the 8,000-er metre mountain located in Nepal,” said Zirpe, a veteran expedition leader and president of Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh, the apex body of mountaineering in the state.  “Jitendra is mentally and physically prepared to take on 8,000-er metre challenges. We were confident that he could climb three mountains in the span of six months. I am glad he achieved success in style,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mountaineer-scales-worlds-8th-tallest-peak-1035110.html
28-09-2021||West||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrives in Gujarat on three-day visit||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat reached Gujarat's Surat city on Tuesday on a three-day visit during which he will address a group of intellectuals and meet prominent people. Bhagwat, who arrived in Surat in the morning, is scheduled to address a group of intellectuals on the subject of 'Hindutva' in the evening, an RSS spokesperson said. During the next two days, Bhagwat will hold meetings in Surat with some prominent people, including doctors and businessmen, he said. There will be no public programme during Bhagwat's Gujarat visit, the spokesperson said. "The visits of national-level RSS leaders take place every year on a regular basis. As part of the same, RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat will be on a three-day visit to Gujarat on September 28, 29 and 30. During these three days, he will address a meeting of intellectuals in Surat and thereafter, will meet a number of prominent people," an RSS release said. This is Bhagwat's first visit to Gujarat after the change in leadership of the state BJP government, where Bhupendra Patel recently took over as the chief minister, replacing Vijay Rupani. Check out DH's latest videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-arrives-in-gujarat-on-three-day-visit-1035121.html
28-09-2021||West||Kin of Maharashtra government's class A, B employees who die while on duty to get jobs||The Maharashtra government has decided to provide jobs on compassionate ground to eligible family members of class A and B employees in case of their death during service. The policy is aimed at providing financial support to the family after the primary earning member's death, the state government said in an order issued on Monday. Earlier, there was such a policy for family members of class C and D employees and the Maharashtra government was deliberating on extending it to class A and B officials also in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, said the order issued by the state General Administration Department. The decision to offer jobs to the eligible kin of state government employees from class A and B on compassionate ground was taken during the state cabinet meeting on August 26 this year. Based on it, the state government on Monday took the decision to extend the policy to class A and B officers, the order said. As per the order, the policy will be applicable retrospectively with effect from January 1, 2020. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kin-of-maharashtra-governments-class-a-b-employees-who-die-while-on-duty-to-get-jobs-1035150.html
28-09-2021||West||Dr Rukmini Banerji awarded the 2021 Yidan Prize, the world’s highest education accolade||In an achievement for India, founder of Pratham Education Foundation Dr Rukmini Banerji was awarded the coveted 2021 Yidan Prize, the world’s highest education accolade. This year, Dr Banerji and Prof Eric A. Hanushek were awarded the prize to recognise their ground-breaking work addressing a crucial piece of the education puzzle: improving the quality of education and outcomes for learners at scale. Each laureate will be awarded HK$30 million (approximately US$3.9 million), half of which is a project fund, enabling a series of innovative and progressive education projects to scale up and support millions of learners globally. Following a rigorous judging process, conducted by an independent judging committee of recognized education experts, Dr Banerji and Prof  Hanushek were selected as the recipients of the 2021 Yidan Prize for Education Research and Yidan Prize for Education Development.  They will join nine laureates who have been awarded the Yidan Prize since its inception in 2016, established by the Yidan Prize Foundation, a philanthropic education foundation. Dr Banerji is known for her work in improving learning outcomes. The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) assessment approach, pioneered by Dr Banerji and her team in India, revealed literacy and numeracy gaps among children who had already spent several years at school.  To close these gaps, her team’s “Teaching at the Right Level” (TaRL) program works with schools and local communities to provide basic reading and arithmetic skills.  This systematic, replicable model reaches millions of children annually across the country and is spreading around the globe. “Dr Rukmini Banerji and the Pratham team have a clear mission: ‘Every child in school and learning well’. A reminder that we need to focus on education quality and not just school enrolments. The solutions that they have deployed towards this goal have proven to be cost-effective and scalable with a demonstrated potential to impact globally—disruptive education innovation with transformative results”, said Dorothy K. Gordon, head of Yidan Prize for Education Development judging panel, and Board Member of the UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education. With the support of the Yidan Prize, Dr Banerji plans to strengthen and expand Pratham’s work with young children so that strong foundations can be built early in a child’s life. Dr Banerji believes this will contribute significantly towards the goal of seeing “every child in school and learning well”. "The quality and diversity of this year’s nominations reflect the drive and passion around the world to unlock new approaches to education. Our nominees are working on projects that span over 130 countries and territories. They are rethinking education systems from top to bottom, tackling inequities and empowering learners,” Dr Koichiro Matsuura, Chairman of the Yidan Prize Judging Committee and the former Director-General of UNESCO said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dr-rukmini-banerji-awarded-the-2021-yidan-prize-the-world-s-highest-education-accolade-1035157.html
28-09-2021||West||Heavy rains, lightning kill 13 in Maharashtra; over 560 people rescued||Over 12 to 14 people have died in the last days as the Cyclone Gulab-triggered flash-floods swept parts of the Marathwada region and its neighbouring areas in Maharashtra. The adjacent Vidarbha region too received heavy rainfall - resulting in inundation at several places. In Umarkhed tehsil, Yavatmal district of Vidarbha, a state-transport bus was swept away as it passed over a flooded culvert - as it was plying on the Nanded-Nagpur route. Three bodies including that of the driver, conductor and a passenger have been recovered, while two persons have been rescued, reports reaching here said. Onlookers have captured the incident on mobile phones and the videos have gone viral on social media. The Marathwada region comprising eight districts of Aurangabad, Beed, Hingoli, Jalna, Latur, Nanded, Osmanabad and Parbhani - spread over a vast 64,590 sq km - bore the brunt of monsoon-fury. Excessive rainfall over 65 mm was recorded in over 180 circles falling under these eight districts, according to the Aurangabad-based Divisional Commissioner’s office. At least 10 persons have died in Marathwada, which also saw extensive damage to crops, poultry and cattle. Heavy rains were reported in catchment areas of Manjara and Majalgaon dams. The Terna river was overflowing at several palaces. NDRF teams have been dispatched to several locations even as an IAF helicopter was pressed into action to rescue four stranded persons in Osmanabad district. The weathermen have made similar forecasts for the next couple of days. “The Cyclone Gulab would continue to have its impact in Marathwada, Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan,” said KS Hosalikar, Head SID, Climate & Research Services, Pune. The financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region comprising North Konkan districts of Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri too received intermittent showers, however, there has not been any disruption of the road and rail traffic. With this, 434 people have been killed in rain-related incidents in the state since June 1, the disaster management department official said in Mumbai. A total of 205 animals, including 60 large milch animals, were washed away or perished in the heavy rains over the last two days. "With this, the total loss of livestock, including cows, buffaloes and goats, has increased up to 1,632. As many as 91,510 poultry birds are also estimated to be died in heavy rains (both figures since June 1),” the official said. The heavy rain and flood have damaged crops on several acres of agricultural land in the region, he said. "Since yesterday (Monday), the Water Resources Department has been monitoring the situation closely. We are trying to minimise the damage," Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil told reporters in Beed. The administration will provide all possible relief to people, the minister said. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams and choppers were deployed in parts of Marathwada to rescue stranded people. One team of the State Disaster Response Force has also been deployed in Jalgaon district in North Maharashtra, the official said. A total of 564 people were rescued from rain and flood-hit areas in different districts. As many as 459 people were rescued from flood-affected areas in the last 48 hours across Osmanabad district and the NDRF deployed a helicopter to reach those stranded in floodwaters, officials said on Tuesday evening. Six persons, including two children, were rescued by the NDRF by deploying a helicopter at Dautpur village in Osmanabad tehsil, while ten persons were evacuated from Saundane Amba village in Kalamb tehsil. The Osmanabad-Ausa road was blocked as water was flowing over the Kamegaon-Samudrawani bridge. The Manjara dam was filled to the capacity which necessitated opening of 18 gates of the dam, an official said. Twenty persons were rescued from a house in Wakadwadi village of Kalamb tehsil. Some 125 persons were rescued in Ramwadi, 114 in Irla, 35 each in Ter and Borkheda and 90 in Dautpur, the official said. Two teams of NDRF participated in the rescue operations. The collector of neighbouring Latur district, Prithviraj B P, told PTI that a family of three, including a child, was reportedly stranded at Pohregaon in Renapur tehsil of the district, but rescue teams could not reach the spot due to the bad weather and low visibility. "We are trying other ways to rescue them. The helicopter (used by the NDRF) has halted in Latur. It will fly tomorrow morning (Wednesday) to rescue them," he said. A total of 77 people trapped in two villages in Beed district amid heavy rains were rescued, officials said. "Nineteen people in Aapegaon village and 58 people in Devla trapped in farms and homes were rescued on Tuesday," Umesh Shirke, District Disaster Management Officer said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra minister Dhananjay Munde reviewed the situation in the region and interacted with farmers in Amabajogai taluka. An NDRF team, a helicopter and boats were deployed to rescue people stranded in barrages, villages and on the banks of a river in Latur district, which was lashed by heavy rains through the day. While 25 out of 40 people stranded on the banks of Manjara river at Sarsa village have been rescued using boats, efforts were on to get the rest 15 to safety, an official said. He added that three people stranded on a river basin in Digol Deshmukh area in Renapur tehsil have been also rescued. Three employees of the state Irrigation Department were stuck in the Ghansargaon village barrage, and an NDRF team as well as a helicopter have been brought in help local personnel with the rescue effort, said District Disaster Management Officer Sakeb Usmani. Heavy rains also lashed Mumbai and suburbs, but no major water-logging is reported so far and public transport services, including suburban trains, also remained unaffected, officials said. A civic official said no incident of a major water-logging was reported despite heavy showers in Mumbai. Public transport services are also running normally, he added. "Local and long-distance trains from Mumbai are running as per time table," Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway said. Meanwhile, Water Resources Minister Patil said it is the government's duty to provide relief to farmers and it will do so. He made the comments at Ambajogai in Beed district while consoling a farmer, whose crops have been damaged in rains. Patil is on a Marathwada tour as part of his party NCP's "Ratrashwadi Parivar Samvad Yatra" and during the tour, he reviewed the flood situation in Beed district and interacted with farmers. While Patil was holding a meeting with party activists at Ambajogai, an elderly farmer along with his grandson came to see him. The farmer was carrying a bunch of damaged soybean crop that was damaged due to heavy rains in Marathwada. After listening to his plight, Patil consoled him. "Don't worry, the government is with you," Patil told the farmer and added an assessment of crop damage has been ordered. "Extremely heavy rains" are expected at a few places in Marathwada, Mumbai and other parts of Konkan in the next 24 hours, the IMD said in Mumbai on Tuesday evening. K S Hosalikar, senior scientist at IMD Mumbai, said, “The remnants of Gulab cyclone will continue to have its impact on Marathwada, Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan with few places receiving extremely heavy rainfall. "The northern parts of Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra will receive more showers on Wednesday as well," he said. "Extremely heavy rainfall" means precipitation of more than 204.5 mm in 24 hours. “There is low pressure area of Gulab cyclone now. As it is moving towards Arabian sea, its effect on Maharashtra will decrease from Thursday,” he said.  (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-lightning-kill-13-in-maharashtra-over-560-people-rescued-1035165.html
28-09-2021||West||ED grills Maharashtra minister Anil Parab, arrest Bhavana Gawali's aide in separate case||On a day of hectic developments, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday grilled Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and state transport minister Anil Parab even as the federal agency separately arrested a close associate of five-time MP Bhavana Gawali. Before leaving for the ED’s office in Mumbai, Parab told reporters that will fully cooperate with the ED in its probe into the money laundering case. "I am appearing before ED officials today, though I am still unaware for what purpose they have called me,” he said. Parab swore by his daughters and late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray asserting that he has not done anything wrong. ”I will cooperate in the inquiry and answer the questions of ED officials," he added. It may be mentioned that Parab holds the crucial portfolios of transport and Parliamentary affairs in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. In fact, he is among those who had played a key role in establishing the MVA dispensation. Dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who is arrested in the Mansukh Hiren murder case, had levelled allegations of corruption against the minister. Meanwhile, the ED arrested Saeed Khan, the director of Mahila Utkarsh Pratishthan – an organisation linked to the Gawali family. Khan was arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Last month, the agency had conducted searches at multiple premises in Yavatmal, Washim and Mumbai in places linked to Gawali, the MP from Yavatmal-Washim constituency.  The arrest pertains to a case of money laundering related to alleged financial irregularities in certain trusts linked to Gawali. The ED is probing the case as per an earlier FIR of Maharashtra police. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-grills-maharashtra-minister-anil-parab-arrest-bhavana-gawalis-aide-in-separate-case-1035172.html
28-09-2021||West||SC rejects Adani's claims for gas distribution in Ahmedabad||In a setback to Adani Gas, the Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected its plea for authorised distribution for supply of natural gas to commercial and industrial units in the areas of Sanand, Bavla and Dholka of Ahmedabad district of Gujarat. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Hrishikesh Roy  upheld the Gujarat High Court’s September 2018 judgment allowing supply of natural gas as a clean and green fuel in the three areas of outer Ahmedabad region by state-run gas distributor Gujarat Gas. The state company had complained to the regulator accusing Adani of unauthorised expansion of its gas distribution network in these locations. The top court said that the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board is entrusted with the power to frame appropriate regulations and also bring about fairness in the marketplace.  For it, the central government alone was competent under Article 73 of the Constitution to issue such licenses or authorisations, it added. The court also said the role of the state in granting NoC is only supportive or collaborative, in terms of the central government’s policy of 2006, and cannot confer any advantage to any entity, which has to seek and be granted specific authorisation in terms of the PNGRB Act on the merits of its application. Rejecting a contention by Adani, the court held that Regulation 18 of the PNGRB (Authorising Entities To Lay, Build, Operate or Expand City or Local Natural gas Distribution Networks) Regulations, 2008 is “neither arbitrary, nor ultra vires” Article 14, 19 (i)(g) of the Constitution of India and Section 16 of the PNGRB Act.  While imposing a cost of Rs 10 lakh on Adani, payable to the central government, the bench also held that Adani’s claim was precluded by the principle of approbate-reprobate, as it accepted authorisation granted by PNGRB (including exclusion of disputed areas), furnished the performance bond and even participated in the auction for the excluded areas, and only thereafter challenged authorisation when its bid was unsuccessful.   Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-rejects-adanis-claims-for-gas-distribution-in-ahmedabad-1035230.html
28-09-2021||West||Luizinho Faleiro heads for Kolkata, TMC entry likely; Congress inducts ex-CM's arch rival||On a day of quick developments in Goa, former Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro, who quit the Congress on Monday left for Kolkata, where he is likely to be inducted into the Trinamool Congress soon. Faleiro, who resigned as a Congress MLA from Navelim and his primary membership of the Congress on Monday, left for Kolkata with two now-former office bearers of the state Congress, and some other supporters, who were welcomed by the members of the West Bengal unit of the Mamata Banerjee-led party. Asked whether he was offered the position of the head of TMC Goa, Faleiro said: "I have not decided. I have just resigned yesterday. I am working out my fight against the BJP". Asked if he was scheduled to join the TMC in Kolkata, Faleiro said told reporters at Goa's Dabolim international airport: "I will let you know". Meanwhile, a day after Faleiro's resignation from the Congress, the party on Tuesday inducted Faleiro's arch political rival in the Navelim assembly constituency, Avertano Furtado.  "Navelim will never forgive him for this. People realise that supporting him for four and a half years was useless. They now say, that if he (Faleiro) thinks of coming back, we will teach him a lesson," Furtado said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/luizinho-faleiro-heads-for-kolkata-tmc-entry-likely-congress-inducts-ex-cms-arch-rival-1035232.html
28-09-2021||West||Commission criticises Gujarat govt's thrust on privatisation in public health sector||The inquiry commission, which probed fatal fire incidents at two private Covid-19 designated hospitals in Ahmedabad and Rajkot last year, has criticised the state government's impetus on outsourcing works related to public health to private hands. In its recommendation, the commission has remarked that "the concept of privatisation has to be restricted and made applicable only in sectors, which may be properly described as commercial." The recommendation, attached with the finding of retired justice D A Mehta commission, was tabled in Gujarat Assembly on Tuesday.  "The provisions of The Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2013 as well as the rule framed thereunder, and the regulations, are primarily supposed to be implemented through the mode of outsourcing. The concept of privatization has to be restricted and made applicable only in sectors, which may be properly described as commercial. One can understand that it is not the business of the government to be in business and commerce. A government is not meant for conducting business or trading in goods," reads the recommendation, while adding "However, this concept of not being in business cannot be stretched to shirk its responsibility of governing the state by ensuring the health and wellbeing of the public at large." The commission has stated that there are "serious discrepancies/defects in so far as the functioning of the state government is concerned." It says that a holistic approach is required to avoid fire incidents which occurred in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Bharuch. The recommendation notes that major concern lies with the state government's policy of outsourcing works as serious safety of people. Last year, eight Covid-19 patients were killed at Shrey Hospital fire while five died at Rajkot's Uday Shivanand hospital in a similar incident. Both were Covid-19 designated hospitals. "The state government needs to understand that in every sphere of governance outsourcing of employees is not only detrimental to an effective and efficient government, but it creates a situation, a culture which yields negative results by way of outright poor performance," reads the report. It says that public health being primarily a state subject, the government should deal with it "conscientiously and not on the basis of revenue impact." "The state government needs to appreciate that every decision cannot be formed and arrived at by applying the touchstone of revenue. Only the cost aspect cannot be the sole consideration before arriving at a decision, formulating a policy. The finance department cannot be permitted to assume a larger-than-life role in a government. The cardinal principle that a government is nothing else but a decision making body which acts collectively, cannot be lost sight of," the report says.   The report recommends that "The state government has to realize that it is required to govern the state, i.e govern the state effectively, and not make a show of governing. The welfare of the entire population of the state has to be paramount consideration. The approach cannot be contrary to first of all considering the revenue impact and then modulating the requirement of the people of the state." It also highlights how the fire department is suffering from severe staff crunch due to "faulty and defective policy of recruitment adopted by the state government."  It says, "since at least 15 years or more, the state government, in its misguided zeal to save revenue, has virtually put a full stop to recruit people despite the posts falling vacant due to superannuation or other reasons. As a result the vacancies have kept on increasing year after year."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/commission-criticises-gujarat-govts-thrust-on-privatisation-in-public-health-sector-1035252.html
28-09-2021||West||Chargesheet filed in Saki Naka rape-murder case||Nearly a fortnight after the shocking rape-murder case in the Saki Naka area of Mumbai, the accused has been charge-sheeted on Tuesday. The accused, Mohit Chauhan (45), who hails from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, had confessed to the crime and is currently in custody.  On 10 September, the woman, aged between 32-36, was raped in a tempo parked off the Chandivali Studio. The accused brutalised her with an iron rod and left her bleeding before he fled the scene. A police team rushed the woman to the Rajawadi Hospital, where she passed away because of a ruptured intestine among other injuries. Amid severe criticism of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government by the opposition BJP, Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale had formed a Special Investigation Team headed by assistant commissioner of police Jyotsna Rasam, an experienced lady officer, assured completion of investigation by 15 days and chargesheet by 30 days. The investigation was supervised by the deputy commissioner of police (zone X) Maheshwar Reddy and Nagrale himself monitored the process. "Yes, the chargesheet has been filed," Reddy said. Sharing details, deputy commissioner of police (operations) Chaitanya S said that statements of 77 witnesses have been included in the chargesheet, which runs into 346 pages. The chargesheet was filed in the Sessions Court in Dindoshi. "We have filed the chargesheet in 18 days," he said. After the incident, teams of the National Commission for Women (NCW) and the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) had visited Mumbai. Thackeray had announced a compensation/ex-gratia of Rs 20 lakh for the three daughters of the victim.  The accused has been booked under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) 323 (intentional hurt), 504 (intentional assault) and of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chargesheet-filed-in-saki-naka-rape-murder-case-1035290.html
