29-09-2021||In Perspective||Angela Merkel: A remarkable but contested legacy||In an image that can be said to define the soon-to-retire German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s style, she was photographed in March this year walking a step behind two scientists who had come up with a vaccine against Covid-19. It spoke volumes for her respect for science and for scientists, having herself trained as a physicist and holding a doctorate in quantum chemistry. That the scientists, Ozlem Tureci and Ugur Sahin, were of Turkish immigrant parentage did not go unnoticed around the world. President Frank-Walter Steinmeier honoured Tureci and her husband Sahin with the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany during a ceremony attended by Merkel. “We are incredibly proud to have such researchers in our country,” Merkel had said in December 2020. In 2015, she had taken a bold decision to let hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees into Germany, unlike leaders in most other European nations who preferred to push them back to their uncertain fates. Although Merkel met with racist backlash for her move and it became one of the election issues in Germany in 2017, she weathered it. Partly because the German economy, chronically suffering from labour shortages, soaked up the immigrants and welcomed the increased effective demand for goods and services they represented. Moreover, as Germany’s population growth rate has fallen below the “replacement rate,” as demographers would put it, the country can be grateful for the infusion of those who will, down the years and decades, contribute to the generous health and insurance coverages of its ageing citizens. During last Sunday’s general elections in Germany, immigration was not a major issue. While being rather shy of media exposure, Merkel has gotten coverage for visits to sweaty changing rooms of Germany’s Football World Cup winning team -- which has included Poland-born Lukas Podolski and Miroslav Klose and ethnic Turkish Mesut Ozil. That said, Merkel did eventually bow to the stop-the-immigrants clamour reverberating in her own and other European countries by offering Turkey, through which vast numbers of refugees passed, billions of dollars to keep them out of Europe. Merkel has visited China numerous times over the years. If she uttered the words “human rights” in exchanges with her interlocutors, we will just have to take her spokespersons’ version of it. She has also bowed to Russia, an energy source, by going along with the latter’s stranglehold on Ukraine. Arguably a pragmatic move, given Russian President Vladimir Putin’s relentless control over what remains of the peripheries of the former Soviet Union. Witness also her abject acquiescence with Hungary’s proto-fascist Victor Orban regime: Her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party continues to be associated in the European Parliament with Orban’s Fidesz. Writing in the online Jacobin magazine, former Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis said: “She casually engineered a humanitarian crisis in my country to camouflage the bailout of quasi-criminal German bankers, while turning proud European nations against one another. She intentionally sabotaged every opportunity to bring Europeans together. She skillfully connived to undermine any genuine green transition in Germany or across Europe. She worked tirelessly to emasculate democracy and to prevent the democratisation of a hopelessly anti-democratic Europe,” and yet, he concluded, “I very much fear that I shall miss Angela Merkel…I suspect that, before too long, I shall be thinking of her tenure more fondly.” While she could be stern in her dealings with former US president Donald Trump, critics say she failed to provide effective leadership for Europe in its dealings with him and other powers around the world. Domestically, she’s credited with having adopted plans to phase out nuclear power in favour of renewable sources, though initially she had been staunchly pro-nuclear. Similarly, she is credited with ushering in same-sex marriage, though she had herself voted against it in the Bundestag in 2017. She nevertheless said, “I hope that the vote today not only promotes respect between different opinions but also brings more social cohesion and peace,” after the 393-266 votes in favour of an amendment legalising same-sex marriage. There is no whiff of corruption about her, and she is known for her staid sartorial style. Merkel will remain caretaker Chancellor for weeks, or even months, while the Social Democratic Party, which won 25.7% of the votes, as against 24.1% for her CDU-led coalition, tries to form a government with backing from the left-leaning Greens and the right-liberal Free Democratic Party. If she stays in office beyond mid-December, she will become Germany’s longest-serving Chancellor, beating Helmut Kohl’s record. Among world leaders, her approval ratings have been the highest in recent years, though her CDU’s showing last Sunday was disappointing: her image having gotten unhinged from that of her party. In sum, Merkel will go down as having held together a country of 83 million without blotting her copybook majorly for more than a decade and a half. By contrast, neighbouring France, 67 million, has witnessed a series of agitations and race riots. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/angela-merkel-a-remarkable-but-contested-legacy-1035348.html
29-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||FDA targets IAS Officer in suicide note, goes missing||A First Division Assistant Giriraj (39) serving in the deputy commissioner's office in Shivamogga city has reportedly gone missing after forwarding a detailed suicide note on WhatsApp to various groups on Tuesday, triggering panic among officials including the deputy commissioner.  Sources in his family stated that he left home in the morning for a walk and did not return. The last location of his phone number was shown at Karehalli in Bhadravathi taluk. Later, his phone was switched off. Following the complaint by the district administration, police have initiated a search operation. He has a spouse, father, mother and daughter.  In the message, he accused Additional Chief Secretary to Government Shalini Rajneesh of not releasing funds in time and her apathy instigated him to take the extreme step. He said, "Without releasing the complete funds, the officer used to ask me to utilise the existing funds. Despite writing a letter to the officer seeking directions on how I have to utilise the inadequate funds for the implementation of development works, I did not receive any response from the higher official. This had disrupted the development works. "Besides, contractors used to ask me to clear the pending bills for completing the works. But where shall I bring money? There was work pressure and the higher officials failed to understand it. My work pressure harmed my family life. Dejected over this, I am taking this extreme step and nobody should search for me," he wrote. Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar told DH that he was slightly disturbed by some work-related issues some months back. "It might have made him take such a decision. In fact, I have to worry about funds and not him. Police are searching for him. We are hopeful that he would be back to work soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fda-targets-ias-officer-in-suicide-note-goes-missing-1035328.html
29-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||JJM medical college students denied stipend again||The tug of war between JJM Medical College Management and the state government over the payment of stipend to medical interns serving in District Chigateri General Hospital in the city has emerged again. Following the denial of stipend by the management, 104 medical interns have decided to launch agitation from October if the issue is not resolved.  Speaking to DH, Hemanth, one of the medical interns, said "We have already submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai during his visit to the city recently and also to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar urging them to resolve the issue at the earliest. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi promised to hold talks with the officials concerned to resolve the issue within five days. So, we would wait for five days. If the issue is not resolved, we would launch agitation without fail." He said as many as 104 students selected under government quota did MBBS in JJM medical college run by Bapuji Educational Association. As per the norms, medical interns must be paid stipend of Rs 20,000 per month as they are serving in district Chigateri general hospital. But the management is asking the government to pay and the government is directing the management to pay it. "We are in a fix now. So, the government must find a permanent solution to it and ensure that such incidents are not repeated." It may be mentioned here that the management paid stipend to postgraduate students and medical interns last year after the government intervened into the issue following a series of protests by students. This year, the management has denied to pay and asked the government to pay it.   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jjm-medical-college-students-denied-stipend-again-1035527.html
29-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP's first Assembly bypoll under Bommai on October 30||Karnataka BJP will face its first Assembly polls under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai when Hangal and Sindagi constituencies go to the polls on October 30. Results will be out on November 2. Elections for the two constituencies were necessitated following the demise of MLAs C M Udasi of BJP from Hangal in June and M C Managuli of JD(S) from Sindagi in January. Bommai exuded confidence of winning both seats. “More than my leadership (to fight the elections), we will face it under the party’s leadership,” he said. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel will dispatch observers to assess the situation and start the process of candidate selection.  KPCC president D K Shivakumar told reporters in Delhi that Ashok Managuli, son of M C Managuli, will contest from Sindagi while Mane Srinivas may be fielded from Hangal. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said, “We will field Nayaz from Hangal constituency. At Sindagi, there are five hopefuls.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjps-first-assembly-bypoll-under-bommai-on-october-30-1035336.html
29-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress district units' restructure before Dasara: Shivakumar||The Congress district units’ new office-bearers' appointments will be made before the Dasara festival, Congress state unit president D K Shivakumar said on Tuesday. "There are no differences among leaders on appointing new office-bearers and both party national leaders and state leaders were on the same page on the issue," Shivakumar told reporters here. "New office-bearers will be appointed by mid next month, mostly before Dasara," he said. While appointing office bearers, priority will be given to those loyal to the party and working for strengthening the organisation, he said. Shivakumar, who came to the national capital on Monday, said he met Karnataka in-charge General Secretary Randeep Surjewala and discussed the party affairs. Appointing new office-bearers will be crucial for the selection of party candidates for the next elections. Earlier, there were differences between former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar on restructuring the state unit. While Siddaramaiah wanted to continue with existing office-bearers, Shivakumar was appointing new faces. Since both are Chief Ministerial aspirants of the party, they wanted to control district units by putting their own men. To resolve these differences, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also held meetings with both the leaders. On several leaders from Janata Dal (S) joining Congress, Shivakumar said those who believe in Congress principles were free to join the party. He also said no leaders from Congress will join BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-district-units-restructure-before-dasara-shivakumar-1035363.html
29-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Two women die of gastroenteritis in Kalaburagi village, 42 others fall sick||Two women died of gastroenteritis and 42 others fell sick on Tuesday night at Dastapur village in Kamalapur taluk of the district. The deceased have been identified as Draupadi Shivaraya (60) and Kamalabai (56). GIMS doctors said Draupadi was admitted to the district hospital in Kalaburagi for further treatment but she breathed her last as she failed to respond to the treatment. Her daughter Pavitra Vidyasagar and grandson Vedanta Vidyasagar, who are also suffering from gastroenteritis, are being treated at the district hospital. Health department staff said Kamalabai was taken to the hospital in an ambulance on Wednesday but she was declared as brought dead. The 42 others are being treated at different hospitals. Prakash Khobre, a resident of the village said that the people have been suffering from gastroenteritis in the village for the past one week as drinking water was contaminated. "Taluk health officer did not respond to our appeal that cholera is likely to spread in the village", he alleged. Taluk Health Officer Maruti Kamble said this problem has cropped up due to consumption of contaminated water and the patients are being treated by deploying two doctors and medical staff in the village. Gulbarga rural MLA Basavaraj Mattimud announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each personally to the kin of the deceased. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/two-women-die-of-gastroenteritis-in-kalaburagi-village-42-others-fall-sick-1035611.html
29-09-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru Airport will not go to IAF: Pratap Simha||Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha has said that Mysuru Airport will not be handed over to the Indian Air Force (IAF) for setting up its Helicopter Training Centre. The MP, who represents Mysore-Kodagu, clarified that the MoU signed during the previous coalition government with the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) stands cancelled for the time being. Holding a meeting with AAI representatives on Monday in Kolkata, Simha raised objections against using the airport as a military airbase, saying it will cripple the city’s future growth.  “The discussions were in follow up to my previous talks about the matter with former civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri. During Monday’s discussion, the ramifications of a handover were discussed with AAI officials. The AAI has agreed [to cancel the handover],” Simha said. The MP pointed out that giving the airport to the military will not only hobble domestic and future international flights into the cultural capital of the state but also have a debilitating effect on a city’s standing as a tourism hub. “Mysuru accommodates large numbers of tourists every year, plus it is a junction for traffic from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. It is also an entry point for tourism into Kodagu. I am confident that it will become the go-to-destination in Karnataka. Any conversion of the airport for military activities will hinder attempts to bring international services to the airport,” he explained. “For one, conversion of the airport into a military airbase means it will come under the MoD. This will result in all sorts of permissions being required to operate civilian flights from the airport,” he added. He stated that other airports handed over to the MoD in other parts of the country such as Bagdogra and Guwahati had affected the growth of these airports. While the IAF did not respond to a request for comment on the matter, sources said that the air force is keen to move its helicopter training facility from Yelahanka owing to difficulties arising from the second runway at Bengaluru International Airport (BIAL). The Mysuru airport is currently situated on 507 acres of land. Simha said the state government is in the process of giving an additional 114 acres for expansion but a further 126 acres is needed to expand the runway.  “Over Rs 1,500 cr is required from the Centre for expansion, including Rs 435 cr to build an underpass for NH 766, allowing us to expand the runway to accommodate Boeing 737s and Airbus A320s,” Simha said. He added that expansion plans also include a cargo terminal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-airport-will-not-go-to-iaf-pratap-simha-1035339.html
29-09-2021||National||DH Toon | Rahul Gandhi's experiments with reality!||Expressing support for protesting farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the farmers' non-violent 'satyagraha' is still resolute but the "exploitative" government does not like this and that is why a 'Bharat Bandh' has been called.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rahul-gandhis-experiments-with-reality-1035371.html
29-09-2021||National||India reports 18,870 new Covid-19 cases, 378 deaths: Daily cases below 20K for second day||The daily rise in coronavirus infections remained below 20,000 for the second consecutive day with 18,870 fresh cases recorded in a single day, while the active cases declined to 2,82,520, the lowest in 194 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,37,16,451.  The death toll climbed to 4,47,751 with 378 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.84 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.83 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 9,686 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,04,713 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 56,74,50,185. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.25 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 30 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.82 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 96 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,86,180, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 87.66 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 378 new fatalities include 149 from Kerala, 64 from Haryana and 60 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,47,751 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,38,962 from Maharashtra, 37,763 from Karnataka, 35,526 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 from Delhi, 24,810 from Kerala, 22,891 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,764 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-18870-new-covid-19-cases-378-deaths-daily-cases-below-20k-for-second-day-1035420.html
29-09-2021||National||Supertech moves SC to save twin towers from being razed in entirety, suggests plan||Supertech Ltd has moved the Supreme Court seeking modification in its direction to raze the realty firm's twin 40-storey towers in Noida, saying it would partially demolish 224 flats of one tower along with its community area on the ground floor to conform with the building norms. Due to the proximity of Tower-17 (Ceyane) with the other residential towers, it cannot demolish the building by blowing through explosives and it would have to be done brick by brick, Supertech said. “The underlying basis of the proposed modifications is that if the same are allowed, it would save crores of resources from going to waste inasmuch as the applicant has already put materials worth crores of rupees in the construction of the Towers T-16 (Apex) and T-17 (Ceyane),” it said. The firm said it was not seeking review of August 31 order. It said the construction of the towers has consumed steel and cement in huge quantities apart from various other materials including human labour amounting to several crores of rupees which shall be rendered to complete waste in the form of scrap. “The proposed modification will also be beneficial for the environment inasmuch as the scrap will have no beneficial use except from disposal inasmuch as most of the debris from the demolition will have to be only dumped at landfill sites which are already overburdened. The same will add to the existing environmental issues which are already being faced by the said landfill sites thus further increasing the existing carbon footprint,” it said. The firm sought modification of directions given on August 31 by the top court in its verdict for part demolition of Tower-17 and a status quo with respect to twin towers at Emerald Court project in sector 93A of Noida, Uttar Pradesh, till final orders are passed on its application. “The minimum distance between any part of T-1 and any part of T-17 after the partial demolition will be at least 16 metres. Tower T-16 is any case at about a distance of 43 metres from T-1,” it said. The company further said that it would provide a landscape green area on the demolished portion of T-17 which would be larger than the garden in front of T-1 originally contemplated in the 2006 sanctioned plan. “The flat owners who opted to keep their apartments will be allotted apartments in the revised building T-17,” it said, adding that the finding rendered by the top court qua compliance of fire safety norms; violations of Noida Building Regulations-2006, 2010 and National Building Code, 2005 will stand complied with. Supertech said it has approached both architects and structural engineers who have suggested that a part of the T-17 towers which falls in front of T-1 (224 flats and the community area at the ground floor) can be demolished in a manner which will achieve the minimum of 16 metres and maximum of 40 metres between T-1 and T-17. “It is submitted that the proposed modification if allowed shall have the effect of complying with not only the statutory scheme but also the findings of this court. In these circumstances, it would be most equitable and just to protect such part of the buildings which do not violate the building norms,” it said, adding that if a part of illegality can be severed so as to protect and preserve the legal part, the same would be allowed in order balance all the competing equities. The company said that proposed modification shall cater to the requirements of the residents of T-1 as well as the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) inasmuch as the same will allow a larger landscape area in the plot part from complying the legal requirements of maintaining a minimum distance of 16 metres distance between the two towers at all the points. On August 31, the top court had ordered the demolition of Supertech Ltd's twin 40-storey towers under construction within three months for violation of building norms in "collusion” with NOIDA officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law. The Noida authority had received a rap on its knuckles as the top court pointed out multiple incidents of collusion of its officials with the Supertech Ltd in the Emerald Court project and violations of norms by the realty major in construction of the twin towers. The top court had directed that the entire amount of home buyers be refunded with 12 per cent interest from the time of the booking and the RWA of Emerald Court project be paid Rs 2 crore for the harassment caused due to the construction of the twin towers, which would have blocked sunlight and fresh air to the existing residents of the housing project adjoining the national capital. The top court noted that the two towers together have 915 apartments and 21 shops. According to Supertech data given to the court earlier, of the 633 people who booked the flats initially, 133 have moved out to other projects, 248 have taken refunds and 252 home buyers still have bookings with the company in the project.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supertech-moves-sc-to-save-twin-towers-from-being-razed-in-entirety-suggests-plan-1035439.html
29-09-2021||National||Kerala man held for smuggling gold paste worth Rs 42 lakh inside rectum: Report||Four packets of gold paste, weighing about 909.68 gm, were recovered by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) from the passenger, Mohammed Shereef. Mohammed Shereef was scheduled to fly from Imphal to Delhi on an Air India flight at 2:40 pm.  According to the report, CISF Sub-Inspector B Dilli noticed the presence of metal inside the rectal cavity of a passenger while frisking him. At first, he was taken from the Security Hold Area for questioning but officials did not find his answer satisfactory. Officials then took him to the Medical Examination Room for an X-Ray of his lower body. The report showed concealed metallic items inside his body cavity.  Senior officers of the CISF and Customs were informed and the passenger was handed over to them for further action, said the report. Similarly, two people were arrested by the customs officials at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in October last year. The two were held for smuggling gold, worth nearly Rs 52 lakh, by concealing it in their rectums at the airport in New Delhi. The accused, a man and a woman, residents of Madurai, were intercepted after their arrival from Dubai.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-man-held-for-smuggling-gold-paste-worth-rs-42-lakh-inside-rectum-report-1035444.html
29-09-2021||National||India vaccinates nearly 25% of target population with two Covid-19 vaccine doses||India has fully vaccinated nearly 25 per cent of the estimated adult population, eight months after it kickstarted its nationwide vaccination drive.  The nation administered more than 54 lakh vaccine doses on Tuesday, taking the cumulative number to 87.66 crore. With Tuesday’s vaccinations, nearly 68 per cent of the target adult population of 95 crore has received their first dose and 24.44 per cent are fully vaccinated, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  In the vaccination race, Uttar Pradesh is leading by administering over 10 crore vaccine doses so far. It is followed by Maharashtra, which has administered over 8 lakh vaccine doses. Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat are in the third and the fourth spot respectively, as both the states have administered over 6 lakh vaccine doses.  India reported a spike of less than 20,000 new Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. With 18,870 fresh coronavirus infections, the country's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,37,16,451, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 4,47,751 with 378 more fatalities in the past 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed. Check DH latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-vaccinates-nearly-25-of-target-population-with-two-covid-19-vaccine-doses-1035457.html
29-09-2021||National||Greater economic cooperation should drive privileged partnership between India and Mexico: Jaishankar||Greater economic cooperation should drive the privileged partnership between India and Mexico, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said, as he made a case for attracting Mexican businesses to invest in the country and addressed issues faced by sectors like information technology and pharma. Jaishankar, who is on a three-day visit to Mexico and his first to the Latin American country as the External Affairs Minister, on Tuesday held a productive engagement with Mexican business representatives and Indian companies operating in Mexico. "Made a case to Mexican business on the attractions of investing in India. Encouraged Indian business to enhance our exports, in line with PM @narendramodi’s directive," he tweeted. A productive engagement with Mexican business representatives and Indian companies operating in Mexico. Made a case to Mexican business on the attractions of investing in India. "Specific issues faced by ICT (Computers and Information Technology), pharma, agro, auto and food industries were addressed. Greater economic cooperation should drive our privileged partnership," he said. Jaishankar, the first External Affairs Minister to visit Mexico in 41 years, arrived here at the invitation of his Mexican counterpart Casaubon after concluding his visit to the US for the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. Mexico is currently India’s second-largest trade partner in Latin America and is a member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) alongside India for the 2021-22 period, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The two-way trade in 2018 was $10.155 billion, comprising exports worth $5.231 billion and imports valued at $4.923 billion, according to official data. India's exports comprise mainly vehicles and auto parts, chemicals, aluminum products, electrical machinery and electronic equipment, steel, gems and ceramic products. India imports crude oil, electrical goods and machinery from Mexico. Jaishankar also visited the pyramids of the Sun and the Moon at Teotihuacan. It is believed to have been constructed about 200 AD. "Respecting the heritage of another ancient civilisation. At the pyramids of the sun and the moon at Teotihuacan," Jaishankar tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/greater-economic-cooperation-should-drive-privileged-partnership-between-india-and-mexico-jaishankar-1035469.html
29-09-2021||National||Court's power of contempt can't be taken away even by legislative enactment: SC||Observing that the court's power of contempt can't be taken away even by a legislative enactment, the Supreme Court on Wednesday held the chairperson of an NGO guilty of contempt for not depositing Rs 25 lakh for "scandalising and browbeating" the court. "We are of the view that the contemnor is clearly guilty of contempt of court and his action to scandalise the court cannot be countenanced," the top court said. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said the chairperson of NGO, Suraz India Trust, Rajiv Daiya has been "throwing mud" at all and sundry including the court, administrative staff and the state government. "The power to punish for contempt is a constitutional power vested with this court which cannot be taken away even by a legislative enactment," the court said. The top court issued notice to Daiya and directed him to be present on October 7 for hearing of the sentence. With regard to recovery of money, the bench said it can take place as arrears of land revenue. The top court had issued contempt notice to Daiya as to why he should not be proceeded against and sentenced for his endeavour to scandalise the court. Daiya had told the bench that he did not have the resources to pay the costs imposed by the apex court and would approach the President of India with a mercy plea. The apex court was hearing an application filed by Daiya seeking recall of the apex court's 2017 judgement by which it had imposed costs of Rs 25 lakh on it for filing 64 PILs over the years without any success and "repeatedly misusing" the jurisdiction of the top court.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-power-of-contempt-cant-be-taken-away-even-by-legislative-enactment-sc-1035471.html
29-09-2021||National||Court's power of contempt can't be taken away even by legislative enactment: SC||Observing that the court's power of contempt can't be taken away even by a legislative enactment, the Supreme Court on Wednesday held the chairperson of an NGO guilty of contempt for not depositing Rs 25 lakh for "scandalising and browbeating" the court. "We are of the view that the contemnor is clearly guilty of contempt of court and his action to scandalise the court cannot be countenanced," the top court said. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said the chairperson of NGO, Suraz India Trust, Rajiv Daiya has been "throwing mud" at all and sundry including the court, administrative staff and the state government. "The power to punish for contempt is a constitutional power vested with this court which cannot be taken away even by a legislative enactment," the court said. The top court issued notice to Daiya and directed him to be present on October 7 for hearing of the sentence. With regard to recovery of money, the bench said it can take place as arrears of land revenue. The top court had issued contempt notice to Daiya as to why he should not be proceeded against and sentenced for his endeavour to scandalise the court. Daiya had told the bench that he did not have the resources to pay the costs imposed by the apex court and would approach the President of India with a mercy plea. The apex court was hearing an application filed by Daiya seeking recall of the apex court's 2017 judgement by which it had imposed costs of Rs 25 lakh on it for filing 64 PILs over the years without any success and "repeatedly misusing" the jurisdiction of the top court.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-power-of-contempt-cant-be-taken-away-even-by-legislative-enactment-sc-1035472.html
29-09-2021||National||Court's power of contempt can't be taken away even by legislative enactment: SC||Observing that the court's power of contempt can't be taken away even by a legislative enactment, the Supreme Court on Wednesday held the chairperson of an NGO guilty of contempt for not depositing Rs 25 lakh for "scandalising and browbeating" the court. "We are of the view that the contemnor is clearly guilty of contempt of court and his action to scandalise the court cannot be countenanced," the top court said. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said the chairperson of NGO, Suraz India Trust, Rajiv Daiya has been "throwing mud" at all and sundry including the court, administrative staff and the state government. "The power to punish for contempt is a constitutional power vested with this court which cannot be taken away even by a legislative enactment," the court said. The top court issued notice to Daiya and directed him to be present on October 7 for hearing of the sentence. With regard to recovery of money, the bench said it can take place as arrears of land revenue. The top court had issued contempt notice to Daiya as to why he should not be proceeded against and sentenced for his endeavour to scandalise the court. Daiya had told the bench that he did not have the resources to pay the costs imposed by the apex court and would approach the President of India with a mercy plea. The apex court was hearing an application filed by Daiya seeking recall of the apex court's 2017 judgement by which it had imposed costs of Rs 25 lakh on it for filing 64 PILs over the years without any success and "repeatedly misusing" the jurisdiction of the top court.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-power-of-contempt-cant-be-taken-away-even-by-legislative-enactment-sc-1035473.html
29-09-2021||National||Floundering private sales of vaccine in India deal blow to Russia's Sputnik V||Some of India's private hospitals have cancelled orders for Russia's Sputnik V vaccine as they struggle to sell Covid-19 shots amid surging supplies of free doses of other vaccines offered by the government. Some industry officials said low demand and the extremely cold storage temperatures required have spurred at least three big hospitals to cancel orders for Sputnik V, sold only on the private market in the world's biggest producer of vaccines. "With storage and everything, we have cancelled our order for 2,500 doses," said Jitendra Oswal, a senior medical official at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital in the western city of Pune. "Demand is also not great. There is a class of people, barely 1 per cent, that wanted to go for Sputnik. For the rest, anything would do." From May until last week, private hospitals doled out just about 6 per cent of all vaccines administered in India, although the government had freed them to buy up to a quarter of domestic output, health ministry data show. India is a major production centre of Sputnik V, with planned capacity of about 850 million shots a year, and low domestic uptake could mean higher exports instead, a step backers are already pushing for.  The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Since a June launch event by Indian distributor Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd only 943,000 doses of Sputnik V have been administered by hospitals, a fraction of the national total of more than 876 million. Dr. Reddy's declined to comment. The mainstay of India's inoculation drive is the AstraZeneca vaccine, which can be stored in regular refrigerators, unlike Sputnik V, which needs temperatures of -18 degrees Celsius (-0.4°F), impossible to guarantee in most of India. The vaccine is also as much as 47 per cent more expensive than AstraZeneca on the private market. Avis Hospitals, which runs eight vaccination centres in the southern city of Hyderabad, has also cancelled an order for 10,000 Sputnik V doses, said a source with direct knowledge of the matter who sought anonymity in discussing business matters. Avis did not respond to an email seeking comment. Another Pune hospital, which declined to be identified in order to keep intact its ties to Dr. Reddy's, which is also a major drug supplier, said it had also cancelled its Sputnik V orders. Sputnik V is just one of the vaccines suffering from a sharp fall in private sales. Pune's Bharati hospital will end its Covid-19 vaccination programme when it runs out of AstraZeneca doses, as daily inoculations have fallen about 90% to 100, since private sales picked up in May and June, Oswal said. Just 9,000 doses remain of stocks of 62,000 it ordered. Avis's Covid-19 vaccine sales have shrunk 40 per cent with existing stocks expected to last until December, instead of October, said the source. India's monthly production of vaccine, mainly of the AstraZeneca shot known domestically as Covishield, has quadrupled to 300 million doses from April, when a dramatic surge in infections and deaths prompted a halt in exports. Overseas sales are to resume in October. Covishield accounts for 88 per cent of India's inoculations, followed by Bharat Biotech's domestically developed Covaxin, both administered free, mainly at government centres, since mid-January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/floundering-private-sales-of-vaccine-in-india-deal-blow-to-russias-sputnik-v-1035481.html
29-09-2021||National||Most Indian millennials prefer international destinations with fewer Covid cases, easy protocols: Report||Most Indian millennials are keen on taking an international holiday but are cautious about Covid restrictions and better connectivity during the process of selecting these overseas destinations, says a report. According to Business of Travel Trade (BOTT) Travel Sentiment Tracker, around 73 per cent of millennial travellers would prefer overseas destinations with fewer Covid cases. Millennials, also known as Generation Y, are generally considered to be those born during the 1980s to mid-1990s. About 67 per cent of respondents said they would want to go to places that are with easy Covid policies and defined protocols to avoid unnecessary hassles while planning their holiday in the ensuing holiday season, the report said. The report by BOTT Travel Sentiment Tracker is based on a survey done with over 7,800 millennial travellers across the country for over a period of five weeks during August and September 2021. The report further revealed that 61 per cent of millennials would look for better connectivity while selecting international travel destinations and 27 per cent would prefer short-haul destinations. "The findings reflect the pent up travel demand among the Indian millennial travellers. We have started receiving queries for international holidays for the upcoming holiday season but travellers are cautious about Covid restrictions and better connectivity during the process of selecting these overseas destinations," Outbound Tour Operators Association of India (OTOAI) president Riaz Munshi said. According to the report, 83 per cent of millennials would prefer beach destinations for their next holidays followed by wellness and spa destinations and staycation at hotels and resorts at 65 per cent and 53 per cent, respectively. It further found that 48 per cent of millennial respondents opted for golf destinations and 43 per cent of them said they will go for shopping destinations. Travellers are still looking for destinations with less crowd and minimum exposure, the report added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-indian-millennials-prefer-international-destinations-with-fewer-covid-cases-easy-protocols-report-1035487.html
29-09-2021||National||Planned coal expansion will cause 60% jump in premature deaths in Indian metro cities: Study||People living in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Chennai are experiencing some of the worst health and economic impacts from coal pollution compared to those living in other major cities around the world, according to a study. A new research released on Wednesday by C40 Cities examined India’s existing coal power plants and plans to expand India’s coal fleet in the years ahead.  C40 Cities connects 97 of the world’s greatest cities to take climate action, leading the way towards a healthier and more sustainable future. According to the study, major Indian cities under the current plans would witness 52,700 premature deaths, 31,300 preterm births, 46,800 asthma emergency hospital visits and 25.8 million days of sick-leave over the next decade.  India is the second largest coal user in the world.  Around 55 per cent of India’s coal-generated electricity is generated within 500 km of these five megacities.  Air pollution from coal-fired power plants travels long distances and all of the coal plants within a wider geographical area (here defined as 500 km) put urban residents’ health at risk, especially of children, the elderly and pregnant women. The report suggests that state and national governments' air quality plans should incorporate an early retirement of coal, starting with the oldest and most polluting units, alongside investing in clean energy instead of building new coal plants. C40’s research shows that retiring 20 per cent of existing coal plants (approximately 46.5 GW of old coal) and stopping the construction of new coal plant near Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore and Chennai would have significant benefits between 2020-2030. According to a C40 Cities press statement, air pollution impacts urban economies through a reduction in labour productivity and an increase in employee absence, leading to economic losses and increasing health costs. In India, business leaders estimate that employee productivity decreases by 8-10 per cent on high pollution days. “By continuing to support coal-fired power plants, national and state governments are threatening the health and well-being of all those living in major Indian cities while undermining India’s air quality targets. India’s current national coal policies fall dramatically short given that current plans would expand the coal fleet by 28 per cent between 2020 and 2030, not reduce it by 20 per cent, which global 1.5-degree C-compliant climate targets require. Current coal plans could increase the number of annual premature deaths from coal-related air pollution in major Indian cities by 60 per cent.” Dr Rachel Huxley, Head of knowledge and research at C40 said. “A transition to clean energy is not only critical for Indian cities to reduce air pollution, improve their residents’ health and deliver their climate targets, aligned to Paris Agreements but also to create jobs.” Shruti Narayan, Regional Director, C40, South and West Asia added. “Solar and wind energy are already cheaper than new and operating coal power plants in India. Investing in clean energy rather than new coal plants will impact household savings as well as reduce costs for businesses and government operations that are major electricity consumers,” the statement said. Check DH latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/planned-coal-expansion-will-cause-60-jump-in-premature-deaths-in-indian-metro-cities-study-1035491.html
29-09-2021||National||Nearly half of rural households OBC, most in Tamil Nadu: Data||The data is part of the 'Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019' by the National Statistical Office of the Ministry of Programme Implementation and Statistics. Of the estimated 17.24 crore rural households, 44.4 per cent were OBCs; 21.6 per cent Scheduled Castes (SC); 12.3 per cent Scheduled Tribes (ST) and 21.7 per cent other social groups. Tamil Nadu has the most number of OBC households in rural areas, 67.7 per cent. The others among the seven are Bihar (58.1 per cent), Telangana (57.4 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (56.3 per cent), Kerala (55.2 per cent), Karnataka (51.6 per cent) and Chhattisgarh (51.4 per cent). The all-India number is 44.4 per cent. These seven states elect 235 members to the Lok Sabha.   About 54 per cent or over 9 crore households were agricultural.  Agricultural households The break up in the 9.3 crore agricultural households is 45.8 per cent OBCs; 15.9 per cent SCs; 14.2 per cent STs and 24.1 per cent from other social groups. The survey also revealed the average income of the agricultural households in the year. The national average income stands at Rs 10,218 during the agricultural year of 2018-19(July to June). The figure is lower for OBC households, Rs 9,977, and Rs 8,142 and Rs 8,979 for SC and ST households respectively. On the OBC category, the northern state of Uttrakhand topped the table with an average income up to Rs 22,384 and Odisha was the lowest with Rs 5,009.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-half-of-rural-households-obc-most-in-tamil-nadu-data-1035504.html
29-09-2021||National||Cyclone damages Indian crops just before harvesting||Heavy rains brought by cyclone Gulab damaged India's summer-sown crops such as soybeans, cotton, pulses and vegetables just before harvesting in key growing regions, which could reduce production and lift prices, industry officials told Reuters. Lower production could force India, the world's biggest importer of edible oils and pulses, to increase overseas purchases of these commodities, and it could also reduce cotton exports from the world's top producer. Cyclone Gulab, which originated in the Bay of Bengal, made landfall on the east coast on Sunday and then weakened to a deep depression that brought heavy rainfall to the southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. "I was hoping for a bumper soybean crop and good returns since soybean prices were attractive," said 35-year old farmer Anand Mane from Latur in Maharashtra. "But just before harvesting, rainfall hit and destroyed everything," said Mane, whose soybean and sugar cane crops on eight acres were damaged, leading to a loss of more than 250,000 rupees ($18.5 million). Maharashtra, the country's second biggest producer of soybeans, cotton and sugar cane and top producer of summer-sown pulses, received 381% more rainfall than usual on Tuesday. Farmers have expanded areas under soybean, but rainfall is limiting the rise in production, said Davish Jain, chairman of the Soybean Processors Association of India. Industry official were expecting India to produce more than 10 million tonnes of soybean in 2021, up from last year 8.9 million tonnes. But the rainfall damage could limit the rise to 9.5 million tonnes, said a dealer with a global trading firm. Leading cotton producing states have received excessive rainfall in the past four days, which badly affected plucking, said Chirag Patel, chief executive at Jaydeep Cotton Fibers Pvt Ltd, a leading exporter. "Within a week the cotton production outlook changed. We were expecting higher yields, but now yields will go down and even the quality of harvested crop would be inferior at the beginning," Patel said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-damages-indian-crops-just-before-harvesting-1035506.html
29-09-2021||National||SC issues show cause notice to firecrackers manufacturers for use of Barium salt||Maintaining that it has to take a balanced view of the matter, the Supreme Court on Wednesday said despite there being a celebration and bursting of firecrackers in the country every day, it cannot allow people to suffer and die due to air pollution. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna also said it cannot let manufacturers use green crackers as a label only to conceal harmful and banned substances. "Only those suffering from Asthma can feel it...we cannot allow them to suffer and die," the bench said. The top court issued a show-cause notice to firecracker manufacturers asking why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against them, and also why their licences should not be cancelled, as CBI’s preliminary report indicted some of them for violating the top court’s ban on the use of barium and its salts. The court noted CBI’s report on the use of toxic chemicals in the manufacturing of firecrackers was very serious and there was also "prima facie" violation of the court's orders on the use of barium and labelling of fireworks. “Why these companies cannot be punished and why their licences cannot be cancelled? They have purchased banned substance from market to manufacture crackers,” the bench asked. The top court noted that CBI’s preliminary enquiry report has come out with a finding that banned harmful chemicals have been used by manufacturers such as Standard Fireworks, Vinavacia Fireworks Industries under the brand names of Sony, Shree Mariamman Fireworks and Amorces Industries and Selva Vinavaciar Fireworks. The report also claimed that firecracker manufacturers were not disclosing the correct ingredients on the labels of the product.  The court allowed the firecracker manufacturers to go through the CBI report and file a response to the same and fixed the matter for further hearing on October 6. As a counsel representing a firecracker manufacturer asked the court to hear her client, the bench remarked, "Yes we will hear you, before sending you to jail.” The report of the CBI's Joint Director, Chennai on Standard Fireworks claimed chemical analysis revealed that finished firecrackers and some samples of raw material contained barium salt. Some finished firecrackers which tested positive for barium were manufactured in the year 2020. The top court had on October 23, 2018 imposed the ban on use of barium salt due to its deleterious effect. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-firecrackers-manufacturers-for-use-of-barium-salt-1035508.html
29-09-2021||National||PM is breaking relationships between Indian people, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress MP from Wayanad Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of breaking the relationships and "bridges" between the people and claimed that this was leading to "shattering" of the idea of India. Rahul Gandhi, in Kerala for a day, also alleged that it was "arrogance" on the part of the Prime Minister to claim that only he knows or understands India and no one else, especially when he was making the claims without finding out about the culture, language, way of life and problems of the people of the various states and religions. The Congress leader, while speaking at the inauguration of a dialysis centre in Malappuram district of Kerala, said that India was not just a geographical territory, it was the people living here and the relationships they have with each other. "My problem with the Prime Minister is that he is breaking these relationships. If he is breaking the relationships between people of India, then he is shattering the idea of India. That is why I oppose him," he said. "When he (PM) breaks the relationships between Indians, it is my duty, my job, my commitment to repair the bridges between the people. Every time he uses hatred to break bridges, it is my duty to repair them with love and compassion," he added. The Congress MP further said that he cannot build the bridges without understanding the different traditions, ideas, religions and cultures in the country and for that one needs to visit the various states and religious places in the country with humility and the willingness to understand. "If I go to these places with arrogance, then I am a fool. How can I go to people of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, who have a history of thousands of years, and claim to know them. I have to go there with humility. Otherwise, how can I define what India is?" "Imagine the arrogance of that person who claims -- 'I know what India is. I know what people of Kerala need. I know what people of Tamil Nadu need'. Imagine the arrogance of such a person who claims that only he knows what India is and what people of India need. This is another problem that I have with Prime Minister Modi. He is convinced nobody understands this land like he does," the Congress leader said. Therefore, the fight here is between humility and arrogance, between temper and compassion, between self interest and welfare of others, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-is-breaking-relationships-between-indian-people-says-rahul-gandhi-1035539.html
29-09-2021||National||If you are Lord Balaji's devotee, be patient, CJI tells man alleging irregularities at TTD||"If you are Lord Balaji's devotee, you must be patient," Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday told in Telugu to a man alleging irregularities in conducting rituals at the Tirupati Balaji temple. Srivari Dadda, a devotee of Lord Venkateshwara Swamy, alleged irregularities in conduct of 'sevas' and rituals at the Tirupati Temple.  "I, my brother and sister are also devotees of Balaji. You can't be impatient. Every day you cannot threaten the registry to list the petition or I will do this or that. This is not done," the CJI told the petitioner. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, asked the petitioner, who was continuously pressing his prayers alleging irregularities in the conduct of rituals at the temple, to be patient and listen to the court.  Justice Ramana queried Dadda, how the court could interfere in conducting of puja. He pointed out this is a constitutional court and not a local court, where the petitioner could say whatever he intended to.  Dadda replied that it is about fundamental right. The Chief Justice asked him if how to conduct pooja is a fundamental right. The bench emphasised it also expected that all rituals will be conducted according to the traditions.  The court finally granted one week time to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to clarify the allegations. The bench also asked the standing counsel appearing for the respondent TTD as to what happened to Dadda’s representation. The court asked the counsel to take instructions in the matter and fixed it for hearing on October 6.   Earlier, the Andhra Pradesh High Court had dismissed the PIL filed by Daadaa by holding that the procedure of conducting rituals is the exclusive domain of the Devasthanams and it cannot become a matter of adjudication, unless it affected secular or civil rights of others.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-you-are-lord-balajis-devotee-be-patient-cji-tells-man-alleging-irregularities-at-ttd-1035542.html
29-09-2021||National||Cops arrest two men from Bengaluru 3 years after Kerala biker’s death in Jaisalmer||Three years after a 34-year-old biker died mysteriously during a practice run in a desert here in Jaisalmer before the India-Baja Motorsports Rally, the police have arrested two of his friends for meticulously executing the murder in collusion with his wife. Biker Asbak Mon's friends Sanjay and Vishwas were arrested from Bengaluru on September 22 and brought here, police said, adding other accused persons, including Mon’s wife Sumera Parvez and some other friends, will be arrested soon. Mon had died on August 16, 2018 during a practice run in the desert before the motorsports event, police said, adding he was initially said to have lost his way in the desert and suspected to have died of dehydration. His wife too had not suspected any foul play and the police had closed the case after registering the incident under CrPC provisions. The case was reopened last year after Jaisalmer Superintendent of Police Ajay Singh while examining old cases, found several discrepancies in the incident involving the biker's death. The discrepancies included insufficient efforts of Mom’s wife and his friends, with whom he had gone on the practice run in the desert, to search him, besides some photographs showing injury marks on the deceased body and his properly-parked motorcycle, Jaisalmer’s Additional Superintendent of Police Narendra Choudhary said. Call records of Mon’s wife and friends and their behaviour too raised suspicions, he said, adding Mon’s family members from Kunnur in Kerala too had been crying foul in the incident following which a murder case was registered in December 2020 and two of his friends were arrested now. The police are also on the lookout for some other friends of Mon, who had come to Jaisalmer to participate in the rally along with his wife and three other friends Sabik, Neeraj and Santosh.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cops-arrest-two-men-from-bengaluru-3-years-after-kerala-biker-s-death-in-jaisalmer-1035546.html
29-09-2021||National||India's external debt rises 2.1% to $570 billion||India's external debt rose modestly by 2.1 per cent year-on-year to $570 billion as of March-end 2021, notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the finance ministry. External debt to GDP ratio rose marginally to 21.1 per cent from 20.6 per cent as of end-March 2020. Reserves to external debt ratio, however, increased to 101.2 per cent from 85.6 per cent during the same period, thereby consolidating the country's position as a net creditor to the world, as per the status report on India's external debt released by the ministry. The sovereign debt at $107.2 billion rose higher by 6.2 per cent over its level a year ago, mainly because of an increase in external assistance more than compensating the fall in FPI investment in government securities (G-Secs), it said. The augmented external assistance reflected larger disbursement of Covid-19 loans from multilateral agencies during 2020-21. The non-sovereign debt, on the other hand, grew 1.2 per cent on a yearly basis to $462.8 billion. Commercial borrowings, NRI deposits and short-term trade credit account for 95 per cent of the non-sovereign debt. While NRI deposits grew 8.7 per cent to $141.9 billion, commercial borrowings at $197.0 billion and short-term trade credit at $97.3 billion shrank by 0.4 per cent and 4.1 per cent, respectively. At March-end 2021, long-term debt (with original maturity of above one year) was at $468.9 billion, recording an increase of $17.3 billion over the year-ago level. US dollar-denominated debt remained the largest component of India's external debt, with a share of 52.1 per cent as of March-end 2021, followed by Indian rupee (33.3 per cent), yen (5.8 per cent), SDR (4.4 per cent) and the euro (3.5 per cent). "Over the years, policy on external debt has enabled the private sector to access foreign debt in a calibrated manner. As at end-March 2021, the level of non-sovereign debt was more than four times that of sovereign debt, compared to half as at end-March 1991," it said. Given its relative size, typically in a normal year, it is the relative rise in non-sovereign debt that influences the dynamics of India's external debt, thereby supplementing domestic savings to fund larger investments as the economy expands, it said. On the contrary, in the pandemic year, it was the relative rise in sovereign debt that accounted for a larger share in the overall growth of foreign debt (2.1 per cent), it said, adding this increase was due to the Covid-19 loans. On the other hand, within the non-sovereign debt, the growth-sensitive commercial borrowings and import-sensitive short-term trade credit shrank. Therefore, the pandemic disrupted growth-dependent constituents, though overall external debt level rose, it added.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-external-debt-rises-21-to-570-billion-1035561.html
29-09-2021||National||NRI Yusuffali, 22 other businessmen granted Oman long-term residence visa||The government of Oman has granted a long-term residence visa to NRI businessman Yusuffali MA and 21 other prominent investors from different countries as part of its efforts to enhance investment quality, job creation and offering foreign investors the right to long-term stay in the Gulf nation. Yusuffali, Chairman and Managing Director of Abu Dhabi-based Lulu Group International, was among those who were accorded the long-term residence visa by Qais bin Mohammed Al Yousaf, Oman’s Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Investment Promotion (MOCIIP) at the launch event held in Muscat on Wednesday. Aimed at enhancing the investment quality in Oman and creating more job opportunities, the “Investor Residence” programme offers foreign investors the right to long term stay in the Sultanate of Oman. "This programme will enhance the quality of investments, contribute to the growth of the GDP, create more job opportunities and support the national economy in line with the capabilities and objectives of the “Oman 2040” vision," said Khalid bin Saeed Al Shuaibi, Advisor to the Minister of Commerce, Industry and Investment Promotion. "Honoured and humbled...this is a great honour and I sincerely thank His Majesty Haitham Bin Tariq Al-Said, Sultan of Oman and the Government of Oman,” Yusuffali, the Kerala-born business magnate said. “As one of the leading retailers in the Sultanate of Oman, we have no doubt that this long-term-residency scheme which is in line with Oman Vision 2040 will boost the economy and create more employment opportunities in this country. We are also sure that this visionary step will attract more international investors and will develop new opportunities to attract foreign investments,” the 65-year-old was quoted as saying in a press release by the Lulu Group. Yusuffali, who is also the second Vice-Chairman of Abu Dhabi Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was earlier awarded UAE’s Golden Visa, Saudi Arabia’s Premium Residency Permit, for his contribution to the emirate nation's trade and commerce, and for extending support to numerous philanthropic initiatives. Ali's Lulu Group International has 215 Hypermarkets in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, Egypt, Indonesia and Malaysia, out of which 27 are in Oman. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nri-yusuffali-22-other-businessmen-granted-oman-long-term-residence-visa-1035576.html
29-09-2021||National||Defence Ministry approves procurement of military hardware worth Rs 13,165 crore||With India’s national security environment turning more challenging with the military stand-off with China and Pakistan gaining a strategic edge with Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan, the government moved to add impetus to its military preparedness. The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) on Wednesday approved procurement of military hardware, including helicopters, guided munitions and rocket ammunition, worth approximately Rs 13,165 crore. The Government approved procurement of 25 ALH Mark III choppers for the Indian Army from the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) headquartered in Bengaluru at an approximate cost of Rs 3,850 crore. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh chaired the meeting of the DAC, which accorded the Acceptance of Necessity (AoN) for several capital acquisition proposals for modernisation and meeting the operational needs of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force. The capital acquisitions approved by the DAC included 75 Medium Range Surface to Air Missiles (MRSAMs) from the Bharat Dynamics Limited based in Hyderabad. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) stated that the acquisitions worth Rs 11,486 crore – 87 per cent of the total cost of the of the proposed procurement approved by the DAC – would come from domestic sources, in keeping with the “continued thrust” on implementing the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the “Make in India” programme of the government. The 25 ALH Mark III helicopters the DAC cleared for procurement from the HAL under the “Buy Indian-IDDM (Indigenously Designed, Developed and Manufactured)” programme will meet the Indian Army’s need to raise a squadron of the Advanced Light Helicopters to improve its integral lift capability and to enhance its operational preparedness to respond to aggressive moves by China and Pakistan. The DAC also approved procurement of Terminally Guided Munition and HEPF/RHE Rocket Ammunition under Buy Indian-IDDM category at an approximate cost of Rs 4,962 crore from domestic sources. Other proposals worth Rs 4,353 cr were also accorded Approval of Necessity by the DAC on Wednesday. The council also approved a few amendments to the Defence Acquisition Policy 2020 as a part of Business Process Re-engineering to ensure further ease of doing business for the industry as well as measures to enhance procurement efficiency and reduce timelines, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of Defence. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-approves-procurement-of-military-hardware-worth-rs-13165-crore-1035577.html
29-09-2021||National||With attacks on Congress, TMC keen on leading Opposition alliance||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) seems to be in no mood to let the Congress lead the proposed anti-BJP alliance of opposition parties for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Riding high on its success of defeating the saffron party in the last Assembly election in West Bengal, the TMC is keen on putting party supremo Mamata Banerjee in the driver’s seat of the alliance. The blistering attacks on the Congress in TMC’s mouthpiece Jago Bangla focusing on its leadership crisis and electoral failure made it evident. First, in a front-page article in its mouthpiece on September 17, the TMC questioned Rahul Gandhi’s leadership credentials and accused him of failing to become a credible alternative to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It indicated that Mamata was way ahead in both terms of electoral success and leadership ability. The article quoted Leader of the TMC in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhay stating that, “Mamata Banerjee has to lead the country.” It clearly shows that the party wants her to be the Prime Ministerial candidate. It stated that with Mamata as “a strong, credible face” the acceptability of the opposition alliance will increase and the results of the last two Lok Sabha election will not be repeated. A more scathing attack from the TMC came in an editorial of Jago Bangla on September 25 where the party made it clear that it no longer considers the Congress as the main challenger against the BJP. Dubbing the Congress as a “rotting irrelevant puddle,” the TMC said that if the Congress fails to understand its shortcoming through introspection then it will take up the grand old party’s role in national politics. By claiming that it is the “real Congress” in Bengal and can be so at the national level too, the TMC gave clear indication that it wants to lead the proposed opposition alliance against the BJP. Speaking to DH, political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty said “There are two possibilities in this scenario. First, the TMC is trying to take over the declining Congress and establish itself as the ‘real Congress’. There is another question. Is the TMC like Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati in the past trying to disrupt opposition unity as the CBI and ED have become proactive? Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-attacks-on-congress-tmc-keen-on-leading-opposition-alliance-1035579.html
29-09-2021||National||After much weakening, Cyclone Gulab to intensify into another cyclone by October 1: IMD||The remnants of Cyclone Gulab are likely to enter the Arabian Sea on September 30 and intensify into a cyclonic storm a day later and then move towards Pakistan, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Many areas in Gujarat are likely to receive rainfall due to the remnants of Cyclone Gulab. The IMD said a low pressure area -- a remnant of Cyclone Gulab -- was formed over south Gujarat region and adjoining Gulf of Khambhat on Wednesday morning. "It is very likely to move west-northwestwards, emerge into northeast Arabian Sea and intensify into a depression by tomorrow (September 30). "Then it is very likely to move further west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours (October 1). Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards towards Pakistan Makran coasts, moving away from the Indian coast," the IMD said. The IMD said light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few places and extremely heavy falls at isolated places are very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat. Heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy falls at isolated places are likely over Gujarat region, Daman, Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over north Konkan. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places are very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch and heavy falls at isolated places over Gujarat region and north Konkan, the IMD added.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-much-weakening-cyclone-gulab-to-intensify-into-another-cyclone-by-october-1-imd-1035589.html
29-09-2021||National||Handing out punishment is not the sole form of delivering justice: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said handing out punishment was not the sole form of delivering justice as the societal method of applying laws evenly is always subject to exceptions. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant said that criminal proceedings involving non-heinous offences or where the offences are predominantly of a private nature can be annulled irrespective of the fact that trial has already been concluded or appeal stands dismissed against conviction. The top court declared that the High Court, after noting the nature of the offence and the fact that parties have amicably settled their dispute and the victim has willingly consented to the nullification of criminal proceedings, can quash such proceedings in exercise of its inherent powers under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code even if the offences are non-compoundable.  The bench pointed out that the touchstone for exercising the extraordinary power under Section 482 would be to secure the ends of justice. However, in the case of grave offences, the bench said offences that involve moral turpitude or have a harmful effect on the social and moral fabric of the society, cannot be construed between two individuals or groups only, as they have the potential to impact the society at large. The top court said the High Court can “adopt a pragmatic approach, to ensure that the felony, even if goes unpunished, does not tinker with or paralyse the very object of the administration of criminal justice system”.  Effacing abominable offences through quashing process would not only send a wrong signal to the community but may also accord an undue benefit to unscrupulous habitual or professional offenders, who can secure a ‘settlement’ through duress, threats, social boycotts, bribes or other dubious means, it added.  Maintaining that it is well said that “let no guilty man escape, if it can be avoided", the top court said powers of the High Court under Section 482 of CrPC and the Supreme Court under Article 142 of the Constitution, ought to be exercised carefully in the context of quashing criminal proceedings.  The court dealt with the provisions of the law while setting aside convictions in two appeals against the Madhya Pradesh and the Karnataka High Court judgements, which declined to compound offences though the parties had arrived at compromise. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/handing-out-punishment-is-not-the-sole-form-of-delivering-justice-sc-1035594.html
29-09-2021||National||Centre extends emergency loan scheme to MSMEs till March 31, 2022||Extending further support to Covid-hit MSMEs, the Centre on Wednesday enlarged the scope of its Rs 4.5 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till 31 March, 2022. ECLGS, since its launch, has extended relief to over 1.15 crore micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and businesses. It has provided support to eligible borrowers in meeting their operational liabilities and restarting their businesses in the wake of disruptions caused by the pandemic. As of September 24, loans sanctioned crossed Rs 2.86 lakh crore under the scheme and out of total guarantees issued, about 95% of the guarantees issued are for loans sanctioned to MSMEs, according to official data. “Government has been receiving demands from various Industry bodies and other stakeholders to extend the scheme to ensure continued support to eligible sectors/businesses. With a view to support various businesses impacted by the second wave of the pandemic, it has been has decided to extend the timeline of Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till 31.03.2022 or till guarantees for an amount of Rs 4.5 lakh crore are issued under the scheme, whichever is earlier,” said a finance ministry statement. Further, the last date of disbursement under the scheme has also been extended to June 30, 2022. The modification introduced would ensure that businesses adversely impacted by the second wave of Covid-19 get enhanced collateral-free liquidity. This provides much-needed support to all the ECLGS borrowers (which mainly consist of MSME units) in time for the busy festival season, the ministry said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-emergency-loan-scheme-to-msmes-till-march-31-2022-1035596.html
29-09-2021||National||Power of contempt can’t be taken away by a legislative enactment: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that it has been vested with the power to punish for contempt under the Constitution and this jurisdiction cannot be taken away even by a legislative enactment. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh held Rajiv Dahiya, the chairperson of an NGO, 'Suraz India Trust' guilty of contempt for not depositing Rs 25 lakh for "scandalising and browbeating" the apex court. Rejecting his apology as "charade" to get out of consequences, the court said Dahiya has been "throwing mud" at all, including the court, administrative staff and the state government.  Dealing with its power, the top court said the founding fathers felt that the powers under clause (2) of Article 142 (for doing complete justice) of the Constitution could be subject to any law made by Parliament. However, there is no such restriction as far as Article 129 (for contempt) is concerned, it pointed out. "The power to punish for contempt is a constitutional power vested in this court which cannot be abridged or taken away even by legislative enactment," it said. The court issued notice to Dahiya and directed him to be present on October 7, for hearing him on the point of sentence. "The contemnor has apparently made a profession of filing public interest petitions of subjects of which he may not know much and then seeking to scandalise the court to grant him relief failing which he will continue to scandalise the court," the bench said. Dahiya claimed inability to pay the cost imposed due to lack of resources. He had also submitted before the bench that he would approach the President of India with a mercy plea. The court had in its 2017 judgement imposed Rs 25 lakh cost on him for filing 64 PILs over the years. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-of-contempt-can-t-be-taken-away-by-a-legislative-enactment-sc-1035599.html
29-09-2021||National||Concerned about involvement of external actors in Syria and its impact on terrorism: India at UN||Designated terrorist groups such as ISIS and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham have continued to gain in strength in Syria, India has said, reiterating that there can be no military solution to the longstanding conflict in the country. In his remarks to the UN Security Council briefing on Syria (Political) on Tuesday, Joint Secretary (UN Economic and Social) Srinivas Gotru said the long-term security and stability in West Asia can only be achieved by preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the war-ravaged country. "We have been referring to the involvement of external actors in Syria and its impact on the growth of terrorism both in Syria and in the region. The designated terrorist groups such as ISIS and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham have continued to gain in strength in Syria and their activities have been mentioned in the Secretary General's recent report,” he said. Gotru said ISIS has also targeted energy infrastructure in some instances while Hayat Tahrir al-Sham continues to have a dominating influence in Idlib. He cited the latest report of UN Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh (UNITAD) which also referred to the repeated deployments of chemical weapons by ISIS against civilian populations between 2014-16. "This is a cause for serious concern and needs to be fully recognised and acted upon given that the core area of operations of ISIS include Syria as well,” Gotru said. He stressed that long-term security and stability in West Asia can only be achieved by preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria. “We remain convinced that there can be no military solution to the Syrian conflict and reaffirm our commitment to advancing a Syrian-led, Syrian-owned, UN-facilitated political process” in line with the UN Security Council Resolution, he said. Gotru said the last few weeks have seen developments of interest on the Syria political track. The “important countries” having influence on Syria have also held discussions informally. There have been high level engagements between Syria and Russia. “The Constitutional Committee was set up nearly two years back, and the process of drafting the Constitution needs to begin. The efforts of the last two years have made it clear that the external influence remains the major impeding factor, hampering the progress on the political track,” he said. India called on all external actors to desist from adversely influencing the parties concerned and hoped that these ongoing efforts will reenergise the political track. India takes note of the convening of the sixth meeting of the small body of the Constitutional Committee in Geneva on 18th of October, Gotru said, adding that this is a "positive development” and all sides “need to engage constructively” with the UN Special Envoy Geir Pedersen on his bridging proposals. “The process has to remain a Syrian-led and Syrian-driven process, and facilitated by the UN,” he said, adding that on the security front, the ceasefire agreement in Daraa is a welcome development. “However, we remain concerned with the overall situation in Syria, including in the northeast and the northwest.” The Secretary-General's recent report mentioned that military activities and hostilities have increased in recent months, seriously affecting the civilian population. “We believe that the nationwide comprehensive ceasefire is paramount to the interest of the Syrian people and will help in ensuring that positive developments like the first crossline humanitarian aid operation from Aleppo to Idlib can take firm roots and not remain a one-off occurrence,” he said. Gotru said India has extended developmental assistance, and human resource development support to Syria through grants, lines of credit for development projects, supply of food and medicine, artificial limb fitment camps, capacity building and training programmes. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/concerned-about-involvement-of-external-actors-in-syria-and-its-impact-on-terrorism-india-at-un-1035601.html
29-09-2021||National||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat lands in Washington, to meet US Army top brass||Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, has arrived in Washington D.C. for a visit – just days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi returned from a tour to the United States. Gen. Rawat visited Joint Base Lewis-McChord – home to the I Corps of the US Army and the 62nd Airlift Wing of the US Air Force – in Washington D.C. on Wednesday. He discussed issues of bilateral defence cooperation with Major General Xavier T. Brunson, the Commanding General of the I Corps of the US Army, according to a tweet by the spokesperson of the Indian Army. The I Corps is a formation of the United States Army Pacific (USARPAC) – the army component unit of the United States Indo-Pacific Command. His visit comes just days after the Prime Minister had bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris in Washington D.C. Modi and Biden reviewed the bilateral defence cooperation during the meeting. The Prime Minister also last week joined the US President, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japan’s outgoing Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga for the first in-person summit of the Quad, a coalition forged by the four nations to counter China in the Indo-Pacific region. Gen Rawat is likely to meet the top brass of the US Army during his stay in Washington D.C. His visit will also set the stage for Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s stateside visit for a meeting with his counterpart Secretary of Defence, Lloyd Austin, later this year. Singh and Austin will join External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart American Secretary of State Antony Blinken for the India-US 2+2 dialogue in Washington D.C. The Chief of Defence Staff had visited Russia last week. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chief-of-defence-staff-bipin-rawat-lands-in-washington-to-meet-us-army-top-brass-1035603.html
29-09-2021||National||BJP spokesman sends legal notice to Digvijaya Singh over comments about RSS School||Madhya Pradesh BJP spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi on Wednesday sent a legal notice to senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh over his controversial comments against RSS-run Saraswati Shishu Mandir schools. He asked the Rajya Sabha MP to withdraw his comments and tender an apology to students and teachers of the school or face legal action. “Singh should take back his controversial statement regarding Shishu Mandir and seek apology from students and teachers of the school spread across India within seven days failing which I will take legal action against him in a competent court,” Chaturvedi said. Chaturvedi sent the legal notice to Singh through his lawyer Pramod Saxena. Singh blamed RSS-run Saraswati Shishu Mandir, a private network of schools, for alleged communal bitterness in the country, saying these institutions "are sowing seeds of hatred in young minds". The former CM made the remarks in Bhopal on Saturday. BJP leaders had slammed Singh for his remarks. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-spokesman-sends-legal-notice-to-digvijaya-singh-over-comments-about-rss-school-1035606.html
29-09-2021||National||Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission to ensure equitable, accessible healthcare delivery, says Bill Gates||Billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Wednesday congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the launch of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, and said this will help ensure equitable, accessible healthcare delivery and accelerate progress on India's health goals. Thanking him, Modi said there is immense scope in leveraging technology for betterment of health infrastructure and India is working hard in this direction. Modi had launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, under which a digital health ID will be provided to people that will contain their health records, on Monday and asserted that it has the potential to bring revolutionary changes in healthcare. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayushman-bharat-digital-mission-to-ensure-equitable-accessible-healthcare-delivery-says-bill-gates-1035610.html
29-09-2021||National||Mid-Day Meal scheme to be now called PM POSHAN, to cover students of pre-primary classes also||The national Mid-Day Meal Scheme in government and aided schools will now be known as PM POSHAN Scheme and will also cover students of balvatikas or pre primary classes, the government announced Wednesday. Encouraging "Tithi Bhojan" to allow people from community to provide special food to children on occasions and festivals, using harvest from "school nutrition gardens" for cooking mid-day meals, cooking competitions to promote ethnic cuisine and innovative menus and involvement of Farmers Producer Organizations (FPO) and Women Self Help Groups in implementation of the scheme, are among the features which have been added in the new scheme. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the roll-out of the 'PM POSHAN in Schools' scheme that will provide hot cooked meal to students of elementary classes in government and government-aided schools across the country. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Today the CCEA cleared the PM POSHAN (POshan SHakti Nirman) Scheme for providing one hot cooked meal in government and government-aided schools from 2021-22 to 2025-26, earlier known as 'National Programme for Mid-Day Meal in Schools popularly known as Mid-Day Meal Scheme. This is a centrally-sponsored scheme which covers all school children studying in classes 1 to 8 in government, government-aided schools," Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told reporters. "Under the new scheme, mid-day meals have been extended to students studying in pre-primary or Balvatikas in addition to children studying in class 1 to 8 in government and government-aided schools across India. This will benefit about 11.80 crore children studying in 11.20 lakh schools," he added. The CCEA has approved the continuation of the national scheme of PM POSHAN in schools for the five-year period 2021-22 to 2025-26 with the financial outlay of Rs 254061.73 crores from the central government and 31733.17 crore from state governments and union territory administrations. "Central government will also bear additional cost of about Rs 45000 crore on food grains. Therefore, the total scheme budget will amount to Rs 130794.90 crore. The concept of Tithi Bhojan will be encouraged extensively. Tithi Bhojan is a community participation programme in which people provide special food to children on special occasions and festivals. "Government is also promoting development of 'School Nutrition Gardens' in schools to give children first-hand experience with nature and gardening. The harvest of these gardens is used in the scheme providing additional micro nutrients. School Nutrition Gardens have already been developed in more than 3 lakh schools," he said. While social audit of the scheme is made mandatory in all the districts, special provision is made for providing supplementary nutrition items to children in aspirational districts and districts with high prevalence of Anemia. "Cooking competitions will be encouraged at all levels right from village level to national level to promote ethnic cuisine and innovative menus based on locally available ingredients and vegetables. Involvement of Farmers Producer Organizations (FPO) and Women Self Help Groups in implementation of the scheme will be encouraged. Use of locally grown traditional food items for a fillip to local economic growth will be encouraged," Pradhan said. "Field visits for progress monitoring and inspections will be facilitated for students of eminent universities and institutions and also trainee teachers of Regional Institutes of Educations (RIE) and District Institutes of Education and Training (DIET). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mid-day-meal-scheme-to-be-now-called-pm-poshan-to-cover-students-of-pre-primary-classes-also-1035624.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Youth should join politics, not 'politricks': Naidu bats for value-based politics||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday said there is nothing wrong in changing parties but it should not be done just for the sake of power. In an interaction with students of the IIT here, Naidu also stressed on the need for value-based politics while citing declining standards in Parliament and state legislatures. The youth should join politics but not "politricks", Naidu said. Join a party of your choice, work as a team, inculcate a spirit of competitiveness and do value-based politics, he said. "We see people frequently changing parties like children change their clothes. Nothing wrong in changing parties but you should not change the parties for the sake of power. This is what is happening and this is a matter of concern," he said. For politics, 4Cs -- character, capacity, conduct, and caliber -- are required, he said. Unfortunately, in our political system, some people have replaced these 4Cs with caste, community cash, and criminality, he said. He called upon the youth to select a candidate on his character, caliber, capability and conduct and not simply because he belongs to a certain community. "No leader can serve one community. There are so many communities and you should aspire to become a leader of the people not a community," he said. Describing nationalism, the Vice President said it is not a mere slogan. We must develop a national outlook, which means people’s welfare irrespective of caste, creed, sex and religion, he said. Later in the day, Naidu laid the foundation stone of an "artificial intelligence of things laboratory" at the IIT and also inaugurated the Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC) there. "The objective of science and technology is to improve the lifestyle of people and this should also be the sole objective of the AI," he said. Terming the AI as the most important necessity of the future, Naidu said such transitional technologies should be employed in public welfare and improving the life of the common man. While talking about the JCKIC, he said educational institutions should become centres for innovation and called upon the IIT administration to share their experiences and best practices with other institutions. Earlier in the day, Naidu unveiled Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra's book “Sanvidhan, Sanskriti aur Rashtra”. Naidu called upon everyone to abide by the Constitution and create awareness among the masses about it, according to a release. Terming the Constitution supreme, the Vice President said it gives the people rights and also teaches about duty. He described the Constitution as sacred as the scriptures and stressed upon all to be loyal to it. He said the Indian culture is diverse with no distinction based on caste, creed, language and religion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/youth-should-join-politics-not-politricks-naidu-bats-for-value-based-politics-1035387.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Day after resignation, Navjot Singh Sidhu says, 'will keep fighting for truth till my last breath'||A day after resigning as Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday questioned the appointments of the Director General of Police and the state's Advocate General, claiming his fight is "issue-based" for which he will "keep fighting for truth till my last breath" and that he could not compromise with his ethics and morality. In a video posted on Twitter, Sidhu said his objective had always been to improve the lives of people and "to make a difference" and his "fight is for the issues and an agenda of Punjab”. "My fight is issue-based and I have stood by it for a long time. I cannot compromise with my ethics, my moral authority. What I witnessed is a compromise with issues, agenda in Punjab. I cannot misguide the high command nor can I let them be misguided," Sidhu said in the over four-minute video in Punjabi. He said he has "no personal rivalry with anyone" and "17 years of my political career has been for a purpose, to make a difference, to take a stand and to make people's lives better. This is my only religion". "I will make any sacrifice to stand by principles. I don't need to think much for it. I broke the system where tainted ministers and officers were accommodated. Now tainted ministers and officers can't be appointed again. I oppose such appointments," he added. In an apparent reference to giving additional charge of DGP to senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, he said, "when I see those who gave clean chit to Badals six years ago…such persons have been given the responsibility for delivering justice." Sahota headed the Special Investigation Team formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe the sacrilege incidents. He also questioned the appointment of APS Deol as the new advocate general and said, "those who secured blanket bails, he is Advocate General." Deol had been a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in various cases. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/day-after-resignation-navjot-singh-sidhu-says-will-keep-fighting-for-truth-till-my-last-breath-1035443.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Understanding anti-defection law for independent MLAs||As Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress on Tuesday, many expected Jignesh Mevani, an independent MLA from Gujarat, to also join the grand old party.  Mevani, who was beside Kanhaiya when he addressed the press as a party member, said that he has joined the Congress 'in spirit'. He added that he could not join the Congress formally due to "technical reasons." Mevani, however, made it clear that he would fight the Gujarat elections as a Congress candidate.  Mevani explained that he could not enter the party ranks due to the anti-defection law. "I could not join the Congress formally due to technical reasons. I am an independent MLA and if I join a party, I cannot continue as an MLA... I am part of the Congress ideologically, and will fight the upcoming Gujarat polls from the Congress symbol," he said. So, what is the anti-defection law and how does it affect independent legislators? Under the anti-defection law, an independent MLA would have to give up their seat if he or she chooses to join a political party after being elected. Even if a member elected on the ticket of a political party “voluntarily gives up” membership of the party and joins another party, he or she is subjected to anti-defection law where they lose their elected seat. The law has gathered prominence over the years as instances of legislators contesting an election on a party ticket and then switching boats after winning the seat have risen.  However, the law was amended in 1985 to extend the ambit of the law to independent and nominated legislators. Independent legislators are those who contest elections by themselves, without being affiliated with a certain party, whereas nominated members are those who are picked by the party in majority to fill up a certain number of seats reserved for nominated members.  After the changes to the anti-defection law in 1985, independent legislators were disallowed from joining a party, and a period of six months was allotted to nominated legislators to join one. What are the scenarios covered by the anti-defection law? 1. If an MLA/MP voluntarily gives up the membership of a party after winning the election on that party's ticket, or votes in the House against the wishes of the party, he or she would need to give up their seat.  2. If an independent legislator wins a seat and then decides to join a party, then too he or she would have to give up their seat.  3. Nominated MPs are given six months to join a party after being nominated. They can lose their seat in the House if they fail to join a party during the six months' time. Who has the power to disqualify defectors? The Speaker has the power to disqualify a member of the House under the anti-defection law. The Speaker should take the decision to disqualify an MP or MLA within three months based on the Supreme Court's 2020 observation. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/understanding-anti-defection-law-for-independent-mlas-1035445.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Miffed Sidhu raises questions over DGP, AG appointments||Breaking his silence a day after abruptly resigning as the Punjab Congress chief, Navot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday raised questions over the appointments of the director general of police, advocate general and "tainted" leaders. He said he was ready to make “any sacrifice” but would always stand by his principles. Plunging the Congress into a fresh crisis months ahead of the assembly elections in the state, Sidhu put in his papers on Tuesday shortly after the allocation of portfolios to the members of the new state Cabinet led by Charanjit Singh Channi. Several party leaders, including ministers Pargat Singh and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Punjab Congress working president Pawan Goel, went to his residence in Patiala on Wednesday to meet him. Taking to Twitter, Sidhu said his objective had always been to improve the lives of people and “to make a difference”. “My dear Punjabis, my 17 years of political journey has been for a purpose – to improve the lives of the people of Punjab, to make a difference and to take a stand on politics of issues. This has been my 'dharma' and my duty. “Till today, I have no personal grudge against anyone, nor have I fought personal battles,” Sidhu said in an over four-minute video clip shared on his Twitter handle.   “My fight has been on issues and a pro-Punjab agenda, for which I have stood for a long time,” he said. “My father once told me that wherever there is any confusion, always walk on the path of truth with moral authority and without compromising on moral values,” Sidhu added. Apparently referring to senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who has been given the additional charge of the director general of Punjab Police, Sidhu said, “Today, I see there is a compromise on those issues." In an apparent reference to the 2015 desecration of Guru Granth Sahib incidents in Faridkot, he said his first priority was to fight for justice the people have been eagerly waiting for. "I see those who had given clean chits to the Badals six years ago ... have been given the responsibility of delivering justice," he added. Sahota was the head of a special investigation team formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe the sacrilege incidents. Sidhu also apparently questioned the appointment of A P S Deol as the state's new advocate general. "My soul jitters when I see those who secured blanket bails, they are advocate general. What is the agenda here," he asked. Deol is a senior advocate of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and has been a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. He had been representing the ex-top cop in various cases against him. "Those who used to talk about issues, where are those issues now? Where are the means? Will we reach our destination with these means," Sidhu apparently asked the current state leadership. "To fight for justice of 'Guru Sahib' and to improve the lives of people of Punjab and for the means, I will make any sacrifice but will always stand by principles," he said. A system which included “tainted” leaders and officials is being brought back after being dismantled, he said, adding, "I oppose it." He was obliquely referring to the induction of Rana Gurjit Singh as a minister in the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Cabinet. Singh was included in the ministry despite protests by some party leaders over his past. He had to resign from the Amarinder Singh ministry over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand-mining contracts. Sidhu said he could neither mislead the party high command nor allow them to be misled. He added that he has always fought what is right and the truth. "Main te aru, te laru. Jaanda sab kuch jave (I will take a stand and fight)," the Congress leader said. There was a speculation in political circles that Sidhu was not pleased over certain key appointments. Sidhu was appointed the party's state unit president on July 18 amid a bitter power tussle with Amarinder Singh, who stepped down as the chief minister 10 days back while accusing the party high command of humiliating him.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/miffed-sidhu-raises-questions-over-dgp-ag-appointments-1035458.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Sidhu remains defiant, CM Channi reminds him party is supreme||As Navjot Singh Sidhu remained defiant, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday reached out to the cricketer-turned-politician but with a subtle warning that the "party is supreme" while the central leadership made it known that it could bring in a fresh face at the helm at the earliest if there is no compromise. Hectic parleys were held to resolve the crisis as Sidhu, who had managed to get his rival Amarinder Singh out of Chief Minister's post on September 18, pushed the Congress into turmoil and the Gandhi siblings who backed him to a corner by resigning from the post of Punjab Congress president, just 71 days after his appointment. The Congress central leadership was keen for an early resolution but was not willing to give too much into Sidhu's demands and gave ample hints to fall in line by making it clear that it has a back-up plan to install a new party chief in the state while hinting at possible candidates like Kuljeet Singh Nagra and Ravneet Bittu, both considered close to Rahul. Channi, who was entrusted to break the stalemate by the leadership, spoke to Sidhu, who was upset over a variety of issues, including the choice of some ministers and appointments to key administrative posts by the new Chief Minister. In a day that saw fast-paced developments, Sidhu fired the first shot by releasing a video on Twitter in which he claimed that his fight was "issue-based" and that he will "keep fighting for truth till my last breath" as he cannot compromise with "my ethics and my moral authority". The Chief Minister indicated that there is "no ego tussle", as he reached out to Sidhu but made it clear to the "party is supreme". "Whoever is party president, is head of the family. I had called him (Sidhu) and told him that the party is supreme...I have spoken to him on phone and told him let's sit, talk it out and resolve the issue," Channi told reporters in Chandigarh after a Cabinet meeting. Unfazed by the tension within the party following Sidhu's resignation, Channi appeared to show that he meant business by holding a meeting of his Cabinet in which several decisions were taken, including waiver of electricity bills for consumers using up to 2 KW of power that could cost Rs 1,200 crore to the exchequer but benefit 53 lakh families. While top Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, who were instrumental in Sidhu's appointment on July 18, did not publicly comment on the developments, the Congress High Command sent AICC General Secretary and Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat to the state. Channi is also said to have deputed two leaders, including Pargat Singh who is close to Sidhu, to hold talks. Pargat Singh said issues would be resolved soon. Sidhu is said to be miffed at Channi, who has the backing of the party High Command, for not acceding to his demands on portfolio distribution. Also with Channi's elevation, he feels that he may not stand a chance for the Chief Minister's post as the Congress may not be in no mood to give an impression that Punjab's first Dalit Chief Minister is just a stop gap arrangement who is keeping the seat warm for Sidhu. The Congress top leadership has given Channi a free hand while indicating to Sidhu to keep a low profile, which the maverick politician is unlikely to heed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhu-remains-defiant-cm-channi-reminds-him-party-is-supreme-1035495.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro joins TMC||Former Chief Minister of Goa and senior Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Kolkata on Wednesday. The development comes two days after he resigned from the Congress. He joined the TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and senior leaders Subrata Mukherjee and Sougata Roy. Speaking to reporters Falerio described himself as a “Congress man” and said that he joined the TMC to unite the “Congress family” which was now divided into several parties. “I am a Congress man with the same ideology and principles. I am joining the TMC today with the dream of uniting the Congress family. I want to ensure that the Congress family is once again united and the BJP is defeated,” said Falerio. He also said that under the BJP rule, the administration and economy in Goa have collapsed. “I have been in Congress for 40 years. I can tell from that experience that Mamata Banerjee can defeat the BJP as a member of the extended Congress family,” said Felario. Asked about the TMC’s unsuccessful attempts to expand in Goa in the 2012 Assembly elections and the 2014 Lok Sabha elections Felario said, “The situation in Goa has changed a lot. The Congress came close to coming to power in Goa in 2017 but failed to form the government. It was due to the failure of the top leadership. But this time the TMC will come to power in Goa.” A two-time Chief Minister, Falerio was the organizational in charge of the party in seven north-eastern states. Along with Falerio, 10 other Congress leaders joined the TMC during the day. Roy said that several other Congress leaders will join the TMC in Goa on Thursday. Earlier. the TMC tried to expand its organization twice in Goa but failed. Former Goa Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Wilfred D’Souza joined the TMC in 2012. D’Souza and his followers unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election in the same year with the TMC ticket. Another former Goa Chief Minister Chirchill Alemao joined the TMC ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. He unsuccessfully contested the election on a TMC ticket. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-goa-chief-minister-luizinho-faleiro-joins-tmc-1035530.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Ghulam Nabi Azad demands CWC meeting; Kapil Sibal slams Congress leadership||The 'G-23' leaders in the Congress on Wednesday targeted the top leadership as the party plunged into a crisis in Punjab with senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad seeking a meeting of the Congress Working Committee and Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal saying that nobody knows who takes decisions in the party in the absence of an elected president. Azad wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking a meeting of the CWC, party's highest decision-making body, which Sibal said would give them an opportunity to talk about issues that they cannot raise outside and discuss why the party is "in such a state". Addressing a press conference here, Sibal took a dig at the Gandhis without taking names and said it was "ironic" that those who were considered close to them have left the party while those who they do not consider close are still standing with the party. "We are not the ones who will leave the ideology of the party and go anywhere else." However, he said questions have to be raised as to why people like Sushmita Dev, Jitin Prasada, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Luizinho Faleiro among others have left the party. "In our party, at the moment, there is no president. So we don't know who is taking these decisions. We know and yet we don't know," Sibal said, adding that efforts should be taken to bring back all those who have left the party as Congress is the only organisation that can take on the Narendra Modi government that is "destroying the very foundation" of the country. Sibal's remarks did not go down well with a section in the party as a number of party workers held a protest near his house with 'Get Well Soon' posters.   Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken said, "Sonia- ji had ensured that Sibal becomes Union Minister despite not having organisational background. Everyone in the party is being heard. I want to tell Sibal and others that they should not degrade the organisation that gave them an identity." Sibal said he was speaking on behalf of like-minded Congmen, who wrote a letter and are still awaiting action with regard to elections to the office of Congress president. "We are not 'Jee Huzoor-23' (Yes Men G-23). It is very clear. We will keep talking. We will continue to reiterate our demands," he said as he reiterated the demand for an elected party president, CWC and Central Election Committee. The G-23 is a group of leaders, including Azad, Sibal, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari among others, who had written to interim party chief Sonia seeking an early election to the party presidentship and CWC. On the developments in Punjab Congress, he said the happenings in Punjab would mean that it is an "advantage" to the ISI and Pakistan. He said Congress should take efforts to ensure that the party remains united and in that case, it should discuss among themselves if somebody has an issue. Calling for an "open dialogue and consultation", he said there is a need to understand each other's points of view. "The organisational structure should be strengthened," he said. He said they could not see a diminishing Congress and several people are leaving the party. "Every Congressman of the country should think as to how the party can be strengthened. Those who have left should come back because Congress alone can save this republic," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ghulam-nabi-azad-demands-cwc-meeting-kapil-sibal-slams-congress-leadership-1035538.html
29-09-2021||National Politics||Congress needs to shed 'armchair politics', hit the streets against BJP, says Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday advised the Congress to hit the streets against the BJP, instead of indulging in "armchair politics". The advice comes days after the young TMC Turk criticised the Congress for allegedly failing to put up a credible fight against the saffron camp. If the Congress cannot fight the BJP, the TMC will do it and defeat the saffron party, Banerjee said. "The Congress has to leave its armchair politics and social media politics and hit the streets," he said. The bonhomie between the Congress and the TMC was strained recently after the latter's mouthpiece "Jago Bangla" claimed that party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-needs-to-shed-armchair-politics-hit-the-streets-against-bjp-says-abhishek-banerjee-1035560.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Expect higher cut-offs this year, college principals tell DU aspirants||Delhi University aspirants can expect higher cut-offs than last year as over 70,000 students have scored more than 95 per cent in CBSE class 12 board exams this time, college principals said on Tuesday. The university will release the first cut-off list on October 1 and in the meantime, colleges are holding meetings to analyse registration data. A college principal, requesting anonymity, said he is analysing the data and the cut-offs are going to be higher than last year. Miranda House principal Dr Bijaylaxmi Nanda said she has spoken to the principals of CBSE schools and they told her that the number of students scoring 95 per cent and above is slightly higher this year. However, she said there will not be a cent per cent cut-off for any course in the college. "We won't have 100 per cent cut-offs. The cut-offs will be slightly calibrated than last time. The cut-offs will be close to 100 but we will be realistic with them," Nanda added. She said the increase would be 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent in popular courses like Political Science (Hons), some combinations of BA Programme, Physics (Hons), etc. Last year, Lady Shri Ram College had a 100 per cent cut-off for three courses. Rajdhani College principal Dr Rajesh Giri said there will be a two per cent increase in cut-offs in the college than last year across all courses. The college's admission committee took the decision during a meeting held on Tuesday. Giri said most of the colleges will peg the scores higher than last year. St Stephen's cut-offs, which were released, were more or less on similar lines, on the scores of last year. "St Stephen's has a different admission process. They also have an interview so students are shortlisted but we don't have that," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/expect-higher-cut-offs-this-year-college-principals-tell-du-aspirants-1035327.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Wrong time to visit UP, should a ticket for Punjab be arranged: BJP taunts Priyanka||The BJP on Tuesday took a swipe at Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over her visit to Uttar Pradesh at a time her party faced a fresh crisis in Punjab, and mockingly asked whether it should arrange a ticket to Punjab for her. "Priyanka Vadra ji, you have come to UP at a wrong time. It was time to go to Punjab. Should a ticket to Punjab be arranged?" the Uttar Pradesh unit of the BJP tweeted in Hindi. The tweet came hours after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, plunging the party into a fresh crisis just months ahead of the assembly elections in the state. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu, however, said he will continue to serve the party. Hours later, Razia Sultana, a part of the new 18-member ministry led by Charanjit Singh Channi, too put in her papers, expressing solidarity with the former cricketer. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi arrived in Lucknow on Monday on a five-day visit to review and discuss the party's preparedness for next year's assembly elections in the state. This is her second visit to the state this month. Uttar Pradesh goes to assembly polls early next year, along with Punjab and some other states. Reacting to the BJP tweet, Uttar Pradesh Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI, "The tweet made by the BJP shows its mentality. Priyanka Gandhi ji is the party's in-charge of UP, and the language used by the BJP does not go well in a democracy." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wrong-time-to-visit-up-should-a-ticket-for-punjab-be-arranged-bjp-taunts-priyanka-1035329.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||NHRC notice to Delhi govt over increasing incidents of violence among Tihar jail inmates||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a notice to the Delhi government over a reported increase in incidents of violence among inmates of Tihar Jail, officials said on Tuesday. The Commission has observed that such incidents inside the jail indicate towards "negligence by the prison authorities" resulting in "gross violation" of human rights of the inmates in custody of the state, it said in a statement. "The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of a media report alleging increasing incidents of violence among inmates in Tihar Jail of Delhi," it said. Reportedly, in yet another incident of inmate clash inside the prison, a 25-year-old prisoner was allegedly beaten up by another on September 22, which is the sixth incident in this month alone, the rights panel said. The Commission has observed that the contents of media reports, if true, raise a serious issue of human rights violations of the prisoners in custody of state. Accordingly, it has issued notices to the chief secretary and the director general of prisons of the government of Delhi, seeking a detailed report within four weeks, including steps taken or proposed to be taken to address the issue of violence at Tihar jail, the statement said. According to the media report, carried on September 24, the latest victim of violence in the Tihar jail told during investigation that he was first abused and beaten up by another inmate. The same day a head matron was injured during a scuffle with an inmate. Reportedly, about 30 inmates have been injured during September this year due to clashes in the jail, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-notice-to-delhi-govt-over-increasing-incidents-of-violence-among-tihar-jail-inmates-1035330.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal launches 'Deshbhakti curriculum', says every child in Delhi will be patriot in true sense||Every child in Delhi will be a patriot in the true sense, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal exuded as he launched the AAP government's ambitious 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' on Tuesday. At the launch event held at Chhatrasal Stadium on the birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, the chief minister remarked that nowadays people feel patriotic only while raising the Tricolour or singing the national anthem. But patriotism has to be a continually evolving feeling within everyone, he said. "In the last 74 years, we taught physics, chemistry and maths in our schools but did not teach 'deshbhakti' to the children. Patriotism is within all of us but it needs a push. Every child in Delhi will be a patriot in the truest sense. The 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' will prove to be instrumental in the country's development and will take India forward rapidly." "Today we only feel patriotic while raising the Tricolour or singing the national anthem. The problem is it only props up when we do something of this sort," Kejriwal said. Raising the slogans 'Bharat Mata ki Jai', 'Inquilab Zindabad' and 'Vande Matram', the chief minister said, "We need to develop an environment wherein we all and our children constantly feel patriotic at every step we take. Patriotism has to be a continually evolving feeling within all of us." Kejriwal said all kinds of professionals are coming up 'deshbhakt professionals' are not being developed. "It doesn't mean we won't promote professions. We will continue to support all kinds of education but we will add a touch of patriotic values to them. We will develop 'deshbhakt' doctors, lawyers, engineers, actors, singers, artists, journalists and so on. "A 'deshbhakt' doctor would look to help maximum people and not just collect the highest fees. 'Deshbhakt' professionals would return from work thinking how they can further contribute to society and not how to rake in more money from under the table. A patriotic officer won't think about bribes but about clearing the most number of files to help the people," he said. The 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' will be rolled out from nursery to Class 12 as and when schools reopen for the respective grades. The curriculum won't have any textbooks. Facilitator's handbooks have been designed for three cohorts -- nursery to class five; classes six to eight and classes nine to 12 -- and these will be used to inculcate patriotism among the students through simple activities. The facilitator's handbooks for two cohorts -- classes 6 to 8 and 9-12 -- and 100 stories of freedom fighters and patriots were also unveiled at the launch event. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said, "We talk about Bhagat Singh, Hemu Kalani, Jhansi Ki Rani and Tantia Tope's battles but we never discuss what led them onto the battles, how they fought those battles. The 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' will bridge this knowledge gap, he said, while underlining that the students will not be asked to memorise historical facts and the curriculum will not preach moral values. "It will not just talk about patriotism, but inculcate a passion for it. It will not preach moral values. We will not expect students to memorise historical facts, but will expect them to retrospect about their patriotism," Sisodia said. Knowing that Bhagat Singh sacrificed his life at 23 years and comparing themselves at that age, students will introspect about that level of commitment, passion, and embody it, he said. "We should learn how Babasaheb (Ambedkar) surpassed the definitions of political independence and vowed for social and mental independence and how he laid a strong constitution for us. "We will teach the children the importance of this struggle and make sure they realize what it was like to experience such disparities. We will include 100 stories every year in this curriculum," he said. According to officials, the topics include taking responsibility towards the country and its progress, constructive criticism, respect for and harmonious coexistence with others, critically thinking about issues confronting the country, comprehensive conception of patriotism, linking patriotism to the lived realities and everyday actions of students and working for the country's development with pride and honesty. Some of the chapters are: 'My India is glorious but why not developed', 'Deshbhakti: My country my pride', 'Who is a Deshbhakt' and 'India of my dreams. The teaching method would be activities-based such as maintaining a 'Deshbhakti diary', participating in 'Deshbhakti dhyan', 'Flag day' activity and group discussion, among others. Sisodia said that every class would begin with a 'Deshbhakti Dhyan' of five minutes where students will talk about five new patriots each day. "Since this is the first year (of the curriculum) and we are celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence, we are including 100 patriots. "Next year onwards, we will include 100 more and then another hundred after that. This would go on and on. Right from nursery to class 12, a child will be able to witness at least 700-800 stories and 500-600 patriotic songs and poems," he said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced the plan for Deshbhakti Curriculum on the 73rd Independence Day celebrations in 2019. The curriculum has been prepared by the Delhi Government school teachers, with inputs from NGO partners and experts.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-launches-deshbhakti-curriculum-says-every-child-in-delhi-will-be-patriot-in-true-sense-1035372.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||'Chinese army transgressed LAC in Uttarakhand's Barahoti sector last month'||Close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Barahoti sector in Uttarakhand last month, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The transgression took place on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending few hours, they said. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel are deployed in the area. The people cited above said as part of a tit-for-tat strategy, Indian troops carried out patrolling. There was no official comment on the Chinese transgression. The incident comes amid a continuing stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in a number of areas in eastern Ladakh though both sides completed disengagement in two sensitive locations. The people cited above said minor transgressions have been taking place in Barahoti because of differing perceptions about the LAC by both sides. However, what surprised the Indian officials was the number of PLA personnel who transgressed on August 30. The Chinese side has also significantly ramped up infrastructure development along the LAC in the sector. India has been maintaining a strict vigil along the nearly 3,500-km LAC following the eastern Ladakh standoff. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year in eastern Ladakh following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chinese-army-transgressed-lac-in-uttarakhands-barahoti-sector-last-month-1035375.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Security tightened in Delhi prisons after intel input about jailbreak plan||Security has been tightened in jails across Delhi after an intelligence input was received that five inmates were planning to flee from custody, sources said on Tuesday. However, Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel refused to comment on this. Jail officials and police have also been asked to remain alert to avoid any kind of gang war in the national capital following the murder of gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi in a dramatic shootout last week, they said. The alert was sounded after some "threat messages" appeared on social media accounts allegedly being handled by associates of gangster Gogi, the sources said. The messages posted allegedly by the associates of Gogi hinted at taking revenge from their rivals. According to the sources, the five criminals, suspected to be gangsters, were planning to escape from custody with the help of their associates. Following the input, the surveillance on the five prisoners has been increased, they said. The jail officials and security officials have been directed to stay alert on the movement of the inmates in case they need to be produced for court hearings, taken to hospital or out of their wards, the sources added. After the shootout in a Rohini courtroom, the prison officials on Saturday had said that the security was beefed up in jails where Gogi and Tillu gang members were lodged. Gogi was shot dead by two men, who were dressed as lawyers, inside the crowded courtroom on Friday, with police in retaliatory fire killing the assailants, who are suspected to be from the slain gangster's rival Tillu gang. The Delhi Prisons Department had issued an order in which it was mentioned that members of rival gangs should be identified. It stated that members of the gangs would be escorted with precaution to any place outside the jail premises, including courts and hospitals. The cells of the rival gang members would not be opened at the same time if they were lodged in the same jail, the order had said. “Proper security should be provided whenever these inmates are allowed to move inside jails and efforts should be made to develop an intelligence network for collecting information from among inmates to prevent any untoward incidents,” the order had said. Maximum staff should be deployed inside a prison and all security equipment need to be in working condition, it stated. The order had said that all superintendents should maintain maximum presence in prisons and inspect jails at odd hours. “Security has been raised and officials are keeping a tight vigil on jails where Gogi and Tillu gang members have been lodged,” a senior jail official had said on Saturday. The Gogi and Tillu gangs are reportedly at war for years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-tightened-in-delhi-prisons-after-intel-input-about-jailbreak-plan-1035377.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Congress makes last-ditch efforts to placate Sidhu||The Congress is in a firefighting mode in Punjab. According to sources in the party, the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief has not been accepted yet, and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and senior leaders have been asked to sort out the differences. Congress' Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat and senior leader KC Venugopal have been asked to help resolve the issue as the party does not want to open two fronts in the state which goes to the polls next year. The Congress understands that the Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are closely following the developments in Punjab, while the BJP is seeking an appropriate time to cease the opportunity in the state. The Congress was anticipating a gala Tuesday with the joining of Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani in the party, but it turned out to be damp squib with Sidhu's resignation. The Congress downplayed the whole episode and did not respond to the question on Sidhu during the joining of the Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani. Unhappy over the first expansion of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's Cabinet, allocation of portfolios and appointments to crucial posts, Sidhu resigned from his post on Tuesday afternoon. Sidhu, however, maintained that he would not be leaving the party. After his resignation, Cabinet minister Razia Sultana too stepped down in solidarity of Sidhu. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-makes-last-ditch-efforts-to-placate-sidhu-1035423.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Six UP policemen suspended after businessman dies during raid||Six cops, including a station house office (SHO), have been suspended following the death of a real estate dealer during a raid in Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's hometown of Gorakhpur. Sourced informed DH that a case of murder has been registered against three policemen. Manish Gupta, a Kanpur-based real estate dealer, suffered serious injuries after around six cops barged into a hotel room — where he was staying along with two friends late on Monday night — and allegedly assaulted him. The police claimed that Gupta was 'drunk' and fell from his bed during the raid and suffered injuries to his head. He was rushed to the hospital but was declared brought dead by the doctors. ''The police were checking hotels after getting information that some suspicious people were staying at one of the hotels....during the raid, Gupta fell from his bed and was hit on the head by some object....he died later,'' said a senior police official in Gorakhpur. Gupta's friends, however, contested the police's claims and said the cops hit Gupta several times even after showing their IDs and other papers. ''We are not terrorists....why are you (police) treating us like this?", Gupta's friend quoted him as having told the cops. The friend said that the Gupta's remarks enraged the cops and in response allegedly thrashed the real estate agent, brutally inflicting serious injuries on his head after which he soon succumbed to injuries. As the issue snowballed after the local media reported about the incident, the government suspended six police personnel and a case of murder was lodged against three cops. An ex-gratia compensation of Rs 10 lakh was also announced for the next of kin of the deceased. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav condemned the incident and said that the ''encounter culture'' in the state was responsible for it. ''It is the result of the encounter culture, which is a gift from the BJP government in the state,'' he said. Akhilesh also demanded Chief Minister Adityanath's for ''pushing'' the state into such a situation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-up-policemen-suspended-after-businessman-dies-during-raid-1035433.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Maharashtra man given anti-rabies shot instead of Covid-19 vaccine; doctor, nurse suspended||A man was administered an anti-rabies medicine instead of Covid-19 vaccine at a medical centre in Maharashtra's Thane district, following which a doctor and a nurse of the facility were suspended, a civic official said. Local resident Rajkumar Yadav went to the civic-run medical centre in Kalwa area here on Monday to get a jab against the coronavirus infection. He stood in a wrong queue and after being vaccinated, he was informed that he was administered the vaccine against rabies, a spokesperson of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) told reporters on Tuesday. The man panicked, but he is fine and has no complications, the official said. He later complained to authorities and based on a preliminary enquiry, a woman doctor, who was in-charge of the medical centre, and a nurse were placed under suspension for the goof-up, the official said. The medical centre, located in a slum colony of Kalwa, provides vaccination against various diseases to people in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-man-given-anti-rabies-shot-instead-of-covid-19-vaccine-doctor-nurse-suspended-1035435.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti claims she is 'locked up' in her house yet again||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday claimed that she has been put under house arrest again as she had planned to visit Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir. The former chief minister had on Tuesday said that Army personnel had thrashed a family in Tral town of Pulwama and injured a female member. Mufti said she was going to meet the family on Wednesday. "Locked up in my house today yet again for attempting to visit the village in Tral allegedly ransacked by army. This is the real picture of Kashmir that visiting dignitaries must be shown instead of GOIs sanitised & guided picnic tours," Mufti tweeted. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief also posted a picture of a security forces vehicle allegedly blocking the main gate of her residence on Gupkar road. On Tuesday, Mufti had tweeted: "Army from Yagwani camp in Tral ransacked homes & ruthlessly thrashed a family last night. The daughter owing to her serious injuries was admitted to hospital. Not the first time that civilians from this village have been beaten up by army in this area.”  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-claims-she-is-locked-up-in-her-house-yet-again-1035446.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Constable deployed at Delhi High Court shoots self||A 30-year-old constable of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary deployed at the Delhi High Court allegedly shot himself dead with his service weapon on Wednesday, police said. The deceased identified as Tinku Ram belonged to Kotkasim in Rajasthan's Alwar, they said, adding no suicide note has been recovered from the spot. "An information was received that a constable of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary deployed in High Court security has reportedly committed suicide by his service weapon," Deepak Yadav, Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi), said. He was taken to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, he added. According to police, the constable had joined duty at 9.30 am on Wednesday at gate no.3 of the court complex after returning from leave. The reason behind the constable taking the extreme step is being ascertained, police said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/constable-deployed-at-delhi-high-court-shoots-self-1035480.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi to reopen schools for junior classes after festive season: DDMA||The DDMA in its meeting on Wednesday decided to reopen schools for junior classes after the festival season, official sources said. The DDMA maintained that the Covid situation in the city is "good" but precautions must be maintained, sources present in the meeting chaired by Lt Governor Anil Baijal said. It was decided during the meeting that "schools for remaining classes will be reopened after Diwali”, they said. All government and private schools in Delhi for classes nine to 12 were allowed to reopen on September 1 by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. Ramleela, Dussehra and Durga Puja festivals were also allowed with proper standard operating procedures (SOPs) like social distancing and wearing masks in place, they said. The officials of Delhi Police and district administration have been directed to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, sources said. They were also directed to ensure that gatherings that take place during the festive season are strictly in compliance with the laid down SOPs, including no standing crowds, separate entry and exit points, appropriate social distancing for seating, and no activities (fares, stalls, swings) that attract crowds, they added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-reopen-schools-for-junior-classes-after-festive-season-ddma-1035533.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Teenage Pakistani terrorist captured alive by Army urges handlers across LoC to take him back home||A Pakistani terrorist, who was captured alive by the Indian Army during a live encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri sector, has asked his handlers in the neighbouring country to take him back to his mother. "I appeal to the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) area commander, the ISI and the Pakistan Army to take me back to my mother just like they sent me here (India)," Ali Babar Patra, the teenage terrorist from Pakistan, said in a video message released by the Army here on Wednesday. Patra was nabbed by the Army during a live encounter in the Uri sector on September 26, when he asked for his life to be spared. Another Pakistani infiltrator was killed in the nine-day operation that began on September 18. In the video message, Patra said the Pakistan Army, the ISI and the LeT were spreading lies about the situation in Kashmir. "We were told that the Indian Army is carrying out a bloodbath, but everything is peaceful here. I want to tell my mother that the Indian Army has taken good care of me," he said. He also said the behaviour of the officers and jawans of the Indian Army with the locals who visit the camp where he was lodged was extremely good. "I can hear the azaan (call for prayers) on the loudspeakers five times a day. The behaviour of the Indian Army is completely opposite to that of the Pakistan Army. This makes me feel that there is peace in Kashmir," Patra said. "On the contrary, they take advantage of our helplessness in Pakistani Kashmir to send us here," he added. Giving details of his initiation into terror ranks, Patra said he lost his father seven years ago and had to drop out of school due to financial constraints. "I took a job in a garment factory in Sialkot where I met Anas who used to recruit people for the LeT. Due to my situation, I went with him. He paid me Rs 20,000 and promised to pay another Rs 30,000 later on," he added. Patra also shared the details of the weapons training he underwent with the Pakistan Army and the ISI at Camp Khyber Delihabibullah. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-pakistani-terrorist-captured-alive-by-army-urges-handlers-across-loc-to-take-him-back-home-1035535.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Mamata BJP's Trojan Horse, must be kept out of Opposition platform: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was the Trojan Horse of the BJP and should be kept out of all efforts to cobble up an opposition platform ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged on Wednesday. In an interview to PTI, Chowdhury said Banerjee was an "untrustworthy ally", trying to grow nationally at the cost of the Congress. "Mamata Banerjee has always tried to bite the hand that fed her. She should be kept out of the efforts to form opposition unity. She is the Trojan Horse of the BJP, who can never be trusted in the fight against the BJP," he said. "She is desperately trying to please Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP to protect her family and party leaders from the clutches of the CBI and ED. In return, she is helping the BJP achieve its target of Congress-mukt Bharat (Congress-free India). The TMC is trying to sabotage the opposition unity," claimed Chowdhury, the state president of the Congress. He said that TMC has always grown at the cost of Congress. "First, they did it in Bengal, and now they are trying to do it nationally. The TMC is known for backstabbing its allies," he claimed. His comments came as the Trinamool Congress has been inducting Congress leaders to bolster its national presence. Among the heavyweight Congress leaders who joined the TMC are Sushmita Dev and former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro. "Mamata Banerjee is dreaming of becoming the next prime minister of the country, and Congress seems to be their biggest roadblock. As long as the Congress is there, she can never be the leader of the opposition front, and that is why she is trying to tarnish the image of the Congress and undermine its leadership," Chowdhury said. On an article in the TMC's mouthpiece that claimed Banerjee and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is the opposition face against Modi, he said the party's leadership was living in a "fool's paradise". "Rahul Gandhi has been the most consistent opposition voice against the BJP and the RSS. Congress still commands a 20 per cent vote share in the country. Apart from BJP, can you name any other party with such a vote share? The answer is no," he said. Lauding Gandhi's leadership, Chowdhury said the BJP and certain opposition parties deliberately try to discredit him as they were "afraid of him". He said the Congress has never claimed to be the leader of the opposition front as it was the "natural leader". "Without Congress, there can never be any anti-BJP front in the country. The opposition unity is based on shared ideas and policies, and should not be at the cost of the Congress," he said. On the crisis in the party's Punjab unit, Chowdhury said that he hoped it would be resolved soon. "Congress is a liberal party, and we allow everybody to place their opinions. Amarinder Singh is a respected leader and no one has ever doubted his administrative capabilities. But, the change of guard was necessary due to growing incumbency in Punjab and a large section of MLAs wanted the change," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mamata-bjps-trojan-horse-must-be-kept-out-of-opposition-platform-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1035540.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Government in Punjab reduced to 'tamasha', says Kejriwal; urges Channi to remove tainted ministers||AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Punjab government has been reduced to a "tamasha" and urged new CM Charanjit Singh Channi to immediately remove "tainted" ministers from his cabinet. The Delhi CM said this at the Chandigarh airport, a day after the Congress was pushed into a fresh crisis by the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu from the post of the state party. Sidhu on Wednesday in a video message flagged the issue of appointment of "tainted" officials and ministers. Kejriwal, who is the Delhi CM, also asked the Punjab CM to act on the promises made by his predecessor, including the action in the Bargari desecration case. During the previous SAD-BJP regime, torn pages of a religious text were found at Bargari in Faridkot. Later, in police firing incidents protesters, two people were killed at Behbal Kalan and many injured in Kotkapura. "We are seeing what kind of political atmosphere is prevailing in the state. Political instability is there, which is unfortunate," said Kejriwal, who arrived on a two-day visit to Punjab. "A dirty fight for power is going on. People are not able to understand whom they should approach for their problems," he said. "They have reduced the government to a 'tamasha'," alleged Kejriwal. He said accusations have been made that Channi has inducted "tainted" people in his Cabinet. "I request that they should be removed forthwith, cases be registered against them and they be dealt with strictly," he said. While he congratulated Channi on his elevation as the Punjab CM, Kejriwal said people of the state want him to act on five issues, including the Bargari desecration case. "The mastermind in the sacrilege incidents have not been punished till now. I don't need to tell who the mastermind are. Their names are there in the report of Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and Channi can go through that. The culprits can be arrested within 24 hours," he said. Kejriwal said the promises made by former chief minister Amarinder Singh to the people of Punjab should be fulfilled by the Channi-led government. "Amarinder had promised to give jobs to the youth and till the time they got one, he had promised to give unemployment allowance. That allowance should be given. He had promised loan waiver to farmers," he said. Kejriwal also said the Congress government should scrap the power purchase agreements. The Delhi CM reminded Channi that despite being in power for 49 days in the first term, his government did many works and the Punjab CM still has four months left before the state goes to polls. "I had 49 days when I first came in power. During that short period, I had halved power rates, made water free and eliminated corruption. If I could do so many works in 49 day period, then Channi too can fulfil pending works," he said. The AAP leader said only his party can give a stable and honest government in Punjab. "Four months remain to the polls and after the elections, AAP will give an honest and a stable government," said Kejriwal, who was accompanied by state unit chief Bhagwant Mann and senior party leader Raghav Chadha. Asked about who will be the chief ministerial face of AAP, Kejriwal said, "I have repeatedly said we will give such a face on which you and the entire Punjab will be proud of." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-in-punjab-reduced-to-tamasha-says-kejriwal-urges-channi-to-remove-tainted-ministers-1035543.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi restaurant that denied entry to saree-clad woman shut for lack of licence||A south Delhi restaurant that allegedly denied entry to a saree-clad woman last week has been shut after civic authorities issued it a closure notice for operating without a trade licence, officials said Wednesday. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Mukesh Suryan confirmed that the restaurant has been closed. "The Aquila restaurant was operating without a proper licence. It has now been shut after we issued a closure notice. We are also exploring other actions including imposing a penalty in accordance with the DMC (Delhi Municipal Corporation) Act against the eatery as it was functioning without approval from the civic body," Suryan told PTI. SDMC officials said Wednesday a closure notice was issued to the Aquila Restaurant located at Ansal Plaza in Andrews Ganj on September 24 for operating without a valid licence. The closure notice said the area public health inspector found during a check on September 21 that the facility is running without a health trade licence and under unhygienic conditions. It also flagged alleged encroachment on public land. "The public health inspector again inspected the site on September 24 and found that the trade is running under the same condition. You are directed to close the trade within 48 hours of the receipt of this notice failing which suitable action including sealing will be taken without assigning further notice," the SDMC notice issued to the restaurant-owner said. In his response on September 27, the owner said, "I have closed-down the above said trade immediately and I shall not run the same trade without SDMC Trade Licence under insanitary condition from health point of view and create nuisance." In a social media post last week a woman had alleged she was refused entry in the south Delhi restaurant because she was wearing a saree. The woman had also posted a short video of her argument with the restaurant staff, alongside a couple of pictures of herself in the saree. Later, the restaurant claimed that the incident was "misrepresented". In the SDMC House meeting Wednesday, Congress councillor from Andrews Ganj Abhishek Dutt raised the issue and moved a proposal demanding a fine of Rs 5 lakh be imposed against any restaurant, bar or hotel that denies entry to any person wearing traditional Indian attire. "The Aquila restaurant was running illegally without licence. The notice was issued to the eatery only after I raised the issue. Now, the authorities have informed that the restaurant has been shut. It is a matter of probe that how the restaurant was running without a licence," he told PTI Taking cognisance of the case, the National Commission for Women (NCW) had on September 23 had asked the Delhi Police to probe the incident. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-restaurant-that-denied-entry-to-saree-clad-woman-shut-for-lack-of-licence-1035564.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi greenest city for real estate in India; ranks 63rd globally: Report||Delhi is the greenest city for real estate in India but ranks 63rd globally, according to a study by property consultant Knight Frank. London, Shanghai, New York, Paris and Washington DC are the world's top five green cities for real estate. "Globally ranked 63rd, Delhi is the greenest city for real estate in India. Followed by Chennai with a global rank of 224, Mumbai with a global rank of 240, Hyderabad with a global rank of 245, Bengaluru with a global rank of 259 and Pune with a global rank of 260," Knight Frank said in a statement. In its research, the consultant measured 286 cities on a range of factors, such as well-developed public transport networks, urban green space, and a high number of green-rated buildings. Knight Frank also stated that India is projected to receive cross border real estate investment of $2.5 billion in 2022. US, UK, Germany, France, and the Netherlands are set to be the top destinations for cross border real estate investment in 2022. Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India, said: "A series of structural reforms in recent past has put the country's real estate sector on high trajectory attracting global attention." He noted that the improving pandemic scenario in the country coupled with policy interventions to support growth in realty sector would help in attracting global capital. "The country's commercial real estate sector has evinced strong global investor interest in segments led by office and warehouse. With best-in-class global participation on capital as well as development front, we expect that the volume and quality of product offerings will see a marked scale-up in near future," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-greenest-city-for-real-estate-in-india-ranks-63rd-globally-report-1035578.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||Punjab political crisis: Amarinder Singh meets Union Home Minister Amit Shah||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday met Home Minister Amit Shah 11 days after he resigned as CM saying he was “humiliated” and later snubbed Gandhi siblings as “inexperienced”. After having an hour-long meeting with the Home Minister, Singh drove to an undisclosed location in a different car from the one in which he had come to Shah’s residence. “Met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers’ agitation against farms laws and urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification,” the former CM’s media advisor tweeted quoting Singh along with pictures of his meeting with Shah. Singh is also likely to meet some of the senior leaders from the G-23 from Congress in the national capital. Former Union Minister and a prominent leader of the group Kapil Sibal on Wednesday stressed that the Congress should have a full fledged president and expressed anguish that the current developments in Punjab could be advantageous to ISI and Pakistan. Singh’s media advisor tweeted the video clip of Sibal’s press conference saying “that’s exactly the point Captain Amarinder has been making". Singh had come to Delhi on Tuesday, a day which saw the dramatic resignation of Punjab Congress Navjot Sidhu, prompting the former CM to needle the party leadership saying he had already said that Sidhu was “not stable, not fit” for Congress”. Singh, who earlier used to say that he will abide by all the decisions of Sonia Gandhi, did not meet any of the Gandhis in the last two days. The former Chief Minister’s meeting with Shah happened on Wednesday after speculations emerged that Sidhu’s resignation row could be heading for a resolution with the Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi reaching out to him while Sidhu does not have many options after having quit the BJP in the past, slamming the Akalis till now and AAP having launched an attack on him. The former CM had on Tuesday alleged that Sidhu’s resignation as Punjab Congress chief within two months of appointment suggests he is preparing ground to leave Congress and join another party ahead of Punjab Assembly polls Adding fire to the fuel, On Wednesday morning, Amarinder's advisor had tweeted a news headline - “Punjab: Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns and Congress finds itself in a royal mess.” On Tuesday, Singh’s media advisor had also said that too much was being read into Captain’s visit to Delhi and that he was on a personal visit, during which he would meet some friends and also vacate Kapurthala house for the new CM. Amarinder, himself had said that he had to go for some work and that the media was unnecessarily indulging in speculation. However, the very nature of the meeting after speculations about Amarinder cosying up to BJP leaves enough room for future alignments even as this cannot be ruled out completely that Captain is leveraging this meeting to send a message to the Congress leadership. This was Captain’s first visit to the national capital after his resignation on September 18. Singh on the day of putting down his papers asserted that “politics is not a static game but a moving game” and that "there are options in. When the options come, I will see. One task has been completed. There could be other tasks. In politics options are never closed. I am 80-year-old and can work for 10 more years. I am not the one to leave this way.” Days later, he made his first direct attack on Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi saying, “Fact is the Gandhi siblings are inexperienced and their advisors are clearly misguiding them. I was prepared to leave politics after victory but never after a loss.” Making it clear that he is not ready to hang his boots yet and still sees an active political role for him, Singh had dismissed the age-theory saying “you can be old at 40 and young at 80.” The option being speculated is Captain forming his own party that could work out its role after elections depending upon its performance, rather than straightway joining the BJP and giving it a face. BJP is not a strong force in Punjab and is limited to a few seats and hence, finds itself hunting for candidates in large number of seats where its erstwhile decades-long ally Akali fought from. Akali Dal walked out from NDA last year opposing the three contentious farm laws and had later announced an alliance with Mayawati’s BSP this year. Farmer protest is also an issue on which the former Punjab Chief Minister and the BJP are on different pages. It remains to be seen if Captain chooses to hitch his wagon to the BJP and what formulae the central government works out. Meanwhile, former Union Minister Manish Tewari, who is close to Captain, said that there must be a “very valid and cogent” reason if the former chief minister is meeting the Home Minister and highlighted the security challenges in a border state like Punjab. Without taking any names, he, however, said the Punjab issue was “completely mishandled” and cited how there was no such problem related to Punjab affairs when party leader Asha Kumari was the AICC in-charge for the state. This was an indirect attack on the incumbent AICC-in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat. Former Congress spokesperson Sanjay Jha, who was sacked last year, tweeted, “A short story on Punjab: Congress under Captain Amarinder Singh looks solid, in pole position. Sidhu revolts. Delhi encourages him. Sidhu becomes State chief. Delhi humiliates Captain. Captain resigns. Channi becomes CM. Sidhu resigns. Someone in Delhi needs to be sacked.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-political-crisis-amarinder-singh-meets-union-home-minister-amit-shah-1035583.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||CCIJ threatens to intensify movement for Jammu's rights||The Chamber of Commerce and Industry Jammu (CCIJ) on Wednesday said it will continue its fight for cause of the Jammu province with intensification of movement till it reaches the final conclusion. This was conveyed by stakeholders during a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry held here under the chairmanship of Arun Gupta, president of CCI Jammu. "Chamber will continue to fight for cause of Jammu province till this significant battle for genuine rights reaches a logical conclusion," Gupta said while warning the government not to test patience of the business community. He vowed that the Jammu Chamber will continue to work relentlessly for ensuring that justice is secured for the people of this province especially the traders and industrialists fraternity. "We will further intensify its movement by even resorting to long term agitation in case the government fails to accept their demands at the earliest," Gupta said. He urged the government to consider the demands raised by it at the earliest. "All the demands raised by the Chamber pertaining to various sections of the society across the Jammu province are quite genuine and there is no reason for the government to turn blind eye to the aspirations of people of this province," he said. The meeting was held in connection with the multifarious demands of the people of the Jammu province for which a complete Jammu bandh supported by various organisations was observed on September 22 on the call of CCI. Today's meeting was attended by members of various traders' and other associations to discuss the future course of action after the aforesaid successful Jammu Bandh, a JCCI spokesman said. During the meeting, various burning issues currently confronted by the business fraternity were deliberated at length besides discussing the means to be adopted in order to get these issues resolved, he added. CCIJ has put forth various demands in front of the government, including special relief package for various trade and industry sectors, and continuation of "darbar move", an age-old practice under which the J&K government functions six months each in the twin capital cities. It also discussed the possibility of Wagah-type parade at Suchetgarh and revoking of the notification regarding re-registration of vehicles purchased by local residents from outside the UT, and the issue of reliance shops, among others. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ccij-threatens-to-intensify-movement-for-jammus-rights-1035593.html
29-09-2021||North and Central||J&K's Sonamarg pins hopes on Himalayan 'all-weather' tunnels for tourism boost||Ashiq Shaikh, a local resident hopes he will not have to travel to Gagangir, about 15 kilometres from here, when heavy snowfall cuts off access to this tourist town. The excavation work on the 6.5 kilometre ‘Z-Morh’ tunnel near here has been completed and it could be thrown open for selective use during winter months this year allowing access to Sonamarg Valley. “If tourists are allowed to visit this winter, we may not have to migrate to Gagangir,” said Shaikh, who works in one of the fast mushrooming hotels here. National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) Executive Director G S Kambo said the 'Z-Morh' tunnel will be opened "selectively" this winter. NHIDCL is developing highways in the Himalayan region. Amit Kumar, a bell boy in a hotel, travels all the way from Jharkhand every April since 2010, to earn his livelihood. He is wary of the extreme cold conditions but won’t mind staying back to earn the extra buck if tourists visit this picturesque destination to enjoy the snow. “I hope the tunnel opens soon and we can have more tourists here,” Kumar said when asked about all weather connectivity to Sonamarg. Fayed Khan, a senior police officer in Ganderbal district, said the avalanche-prone Hung Park area between Gagangir and Sonamarg is buried under six meters of snow during winters. “All residents of Sonamarg migrate to Gagangir and adjoining villages as there is no connectivity during winter months,” Khan told DH. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said the government was building 20 tunnels in Jammu and Kashmir, and 11 tunnels in Ladakh to provide all-weather access to regions that remain cut off from the rest of the country during harsh winters. The 14.15 km long Zoji La tunnel under construction about 15 kilometres away from here at Baltal would provide all-weather connectivity from Sonamarg to Drass in Ladakh. However, hotelier Nazir Ahmed is skeptical of the “high talk” of development of the region by the government. “We have Pakistan on one side and China on the other. Kashmir is a tinderbox and the region could be up in flames at the slightest provocation,” Ahmed said. In anticipation of all-weather access to Sonamarg, a number of hotels and resorts have come up in the region over the past few years. The government also plans to promote the region as a business convention destination on the lines of Davos in Switzerland. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jks-sonamarg-pins-hopes-on-himalayan-all-weather-tunnels-for-tourism-boost-1035602.html
29-09-2021||Opinion||Instagram is adult entertainment; tame the internet for kids||By Ross Douthat, The rise of  big tech and social media presents a series of difficult, perhaps intractable problems for Western societies. Our internet behemoths are effectively immense media companies pretending to be neutral platforms, feasting on the revenue that once sustained the old media ecosystem while disclaiming normal forms of editorial responsibility. Their key products are agents of decentralised suspicion, generating information overload and feeding both populist paranoia and centrist hysteria. Meanwhile, their leaders run transnational pseudo-governments, exerting traditional political powers — cultural censorship, political banishment, the structuring of vast marketplaces — without clear lines of political accountability. Figuring out how to cope with these challenges is a generational political project, and there’s a reasonably strong possibility that the Khanate of Facebook and the Most Serene Republic of Amazon will defeat the efforts of merely real-world republics to restrain their power. But still, there’s a place to start that’s relatively free of the policy dilemmas that shadow most plans to regulate the internet: We can try to seal off more of childhood and adolescence from social media’s reach.  Two weeks ago The Wall Street Journal reported on what Facebook’s own internal research shows about how Instagram, its photo-based social network, affects the mental state of the roughly 22 million teenagers who log on in the US every day. The revelations will be unsurprising to anyone who has glanced at social trends since the social media era dawned, or for that matter anyone who knows anyone with teenage kids: The internal documents suggested that the app contributed to depression and anxiety, to suicidal ideation, and to body-image issues for teen girls. These are hardly the first findings to link social media use and the unhappiness of young people, and whenever information like this enters the public conversation, there are two main reactions. On the one hand, from sceptics who fear a runaway moral panic and are inclined to give new technology the benefit of the doubt, there are attempts to pick apart the data, to argue that correlation isn’t causation (maybe kids who are already prone to unhappiness are more likely to spend extra time online, etc.) or to point out problems and issues with the studies (the approach that Facebook took in this case, effectively throwing shade on its own internal research). These responses assume that arguing for restraints on a product that people clearly like to use is inherently dangerous or illiberal — and thus the burden is on the restrainers to establish ironclad proof of the danger that they fear. Alternatively, from people primed to believe the evidence that social media is bad for you, there is a surge of familiar anger at the tech companies themselves, which are accused of caring only about their numbers (“expanding its base of young users is vital to the company’s more than $100 billion in annual revenue,” the Journal story notes of Facebook, “and it doesn’t want to jeopardize their engagement with the platform”) instead of being socially responsible and recognising that they’re a bunch of nerds getting rich while ruining the world. My own feeling is that when you’re dealing with kids, neither of these reactions is quite right. Many of the problems created by internet companies involve the aggregation of decisions made, for want of a better phrase, by consenting adults. Amazon has helped hollow out the American heartland, in part, because millions of people love convenience and low prices. Misinformation, rumour and fake news spread on Facebook, in part, because there’s a strong human predisposition to share things that confirm our own biases and, in this country, First Amendment protections for doing so. And while it may be that the common good requires that some adult decisions be overridden or restrained, in a free society we understandably hesitate before making that kind of judgment. Restraining the decisions of minors, however, is a different matter. A 14-year-old has no more constitutional right to use Instagram than she has a constitutional right to purchase a fifth of Hennessy, and strong limits on teenage access to various substances and products are a normal feature of liberal society — opposed primarily by the kind of libertarian who identifies forever with his 13-year-old self. That libertarian’s argument, in this case, boils down to the idea that if you have a novel, obviously addictive technology that might well be associated with depression, narcissism and self-harm, you need to wait for absolute certainty in that association before you start thinking about limits on how kids use it, because once upon a time there was a moral panic about comic books and wasn’t that embarrassing. Perhaps I’ve buried my own 13-year-old self too deeply, but I am not convinced. But if we are willing to think about imposing limits on the teenage Instagram experience, then we probably need something more than a general rage at Silicon Valley’s reckless nerds. Yes, it would be ideal if social media companies would self-regulate in their relationship to teenagers, and it’s swell that in the wake of the bad Wall Street Journal publicity Facebook is temporarily putting a hold on its plans to start a version of Instagram explicitly for kids. But real, sustained self-regulation generally happens only under threat of external action, or with the establishment of a new consensus around what’s acceptable to sell to kids. So for people who read the Journal article and come away irate at Facebook, the question should be, what exact consensus do you want? What norms do you expect Instagram or any other company to follow? In the light of the data, what rules should they obey? And if your answer is that they should be forced to invent an algorithm that doesn’t feed depression or anxiety, then I’m not sure I take your anger seriously. You’re setting us up for a future of endless public promises to tweak the algorithm joined to constant behind-the-scenes pressure to get the biggest numbers possible, mental health effects be damned. (A future much like our own present.) No, if you actually want to take precautionary steps that might really limit whatever damage social media is doing, you need those steps to be much simpler and blunter: You need to create a world where social media is understood to be for adults and the biggest networks are expected to police their membership and try to keep kids under 16 or 18 out. What would be lost in such a world? Arguably social media supplies essential forms of connection and belonging for kids who are isolated and unhappy in their flesh-and-blood environments. (Though if that’s really the case, you would expect the previous decade to be an inflection point toward improved mental health for teenagers, which it definitely wasn’t.) Arguably it provides outlets for kids to experiment creatively and develop themselves as artists and innovators. (Though the belief that TikTok is nurturing aesthetic genius sometimes feels a Philistine’s delusion, nurtured by an adult establishment that lacks the self-confidence to actually educate its kids into the distinction between quality and rubbish.) In both cases, though, in a world where Instagram couldn’t rely on 15-year-olds to juice its stats, some of those alleged benefits of social media would still be available via the wider internet, which offered all manner of forms of community, all kinds of outlets for creativity, before Twitter and Facebook came along. A key problem with social media, from this perspective, isn’t just its online-ness but its scale. As Chris Hayes puts it in a recent essay for The New Yorker, the contemporary internet universalises “the psychological experience of fame” and takes “all of the mechanisms for human relations and puts them to work” seeking more of it. But that happens in a much more profound way on a network like Instagram, with all its teeming millions of users, than it would in a message board or chat room for some specific niche identity or interest. So the point of preventing teenagers from using the major social networks wouldn’t be to achieve perfect compliance (obviously kids would still slip on) or to prevent some version of teenage Facebook or teenage TikTok from taking shape at a smaller scale. It would be to allow for an experience of adolescence liberated from an automatic pressure to congregate on platforms built to be panopticons, to host performances geared to audiences in the tens of millions and to create addictive pressures that clearly drive fully mature adults a little bit insane.   Saving those adults may not be possible. But taming the internet enough to preserve a childhood free of its worst derangements — well, if we can’t accomplish even that, we deserve whatever grim future the algorithms have prepared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/instagram-is-adult-entertainment-tame-the-internet-for-kids-1035369.html
29-09-2021||Opinion||SC-ST atrocities law: Maharashtra's apathy, Tamil Nadu's political will||Not a single accused was convicted last year in Mumbai under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989, according to the National Crime Research Bureau.  One did not associate the country's financial capital with caste crimes, but the abuse meted out to MD student Dr Payal Tadvi by her seniors in a municipal medical college, which allegedly drove the 26-year-old tribal to suicide in 2019, put paid to that belief.  In January this year, 21-year-old Mumbaikar Akash Jadhav was fatally assaulted by four drunks, who then ensured that the Dalit delivery boy's family was not allowed to use the common tap in their neighbourhood. In neither of these cases did the police apply the Atrocities Act till forced to by activists or the State SC-ST Commission. They didn't apply it even when two Dalit families were tied to wooden poles and beaten in Chandrapur last month on the suspicion that they practised "black magic".  It was hardly surprising then that the state's conviction rate was only 11 per cent for crimes against SCs and 12.5 per cent for crimes against STs in 2020, though crimes against these sections increased by 19 per cent and 18 per cent, respectively.  Urban Dalit families returning to their villages during the lockdown became the new victims as they found themselves subject to traditional caste barriers restricting them from common amenities. In 2010, a Planning Commission Report found that Maharashtra had notified 31 of its 35 districts as atrocity prone but had not thought fit to have a single police station dealing exclusively with SCs and STs. Not much has changed in the intervening decade.  Till 2018, i.e., almost 30 years after the Atrocities Act was passed, only four Special Courts to deal with cases under the Act had been set up. That year, Maharashtra ranked fourth in the country in crimes against STs and fifth in crimes against SCs. From 2010 to 2018, the state had seen governments of both the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Shiv Sena.  That there is no difference between the two when it comes to concern for the most deprived communities is obvious from just one example: the Bhima Koregaon violence of January 1, 2018.  Then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, not surprisingly, protected Hindutvawadis Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote, who were initially charged under the IPC and the Atrocities Act for the violence. Instead, his government shifted the blame to Leftist intellectuals, 15 of whom are still under arrest, while one Jesuit priest, 84-year-old Fr Stan Swamy, died in custody. Even though victims' testimonies before the judicial commission set up to investigate the Bhima Koregaon violence indicate that Dalits were the main target, and point to the role of followers of Ekbote and Bhide, the Sena-NCP-Congress coalition that assumed power in November 2019 has not revived the initial investigation against these two. Indeed, government apathy towards the commission continues unchanged. To be fair, it is not Maharashtra alone that does not deal with the Atrocities Act with the seriousness it deserves. Parliament was told last year that 25 states and union territories had held not a single monitoring committee meeting between 2016-2018; the Act stipulates such meetings be held twice a year.  At the heart of this indifference lies this finding of the 2010 Planning Commission Report: across the six states it surveyed, it found that officials, policemen and even the judiciary believed that SCs and STs were misusing the Act against their ("high caste") opponents. Hence "judges were sceptical and wary of convicting the accused."  Significantly, both the trial court and the High Court ruled out any caste angle in the 2006 Khairlanji lynching of three members of a Dalit family by an "upper caste" mob. It is hardly surprising then that the country's conviction rate under the Atrocities Act between 2017-2019 was just around 27 per cent, compared to 50 per cent for other crimes. This dark scenario can change if there is political will. Last year, Tamil Nadu held its state monitoring committee meeting after a gap of seven years, that too under court pressure.  The latest report of the Citizens' Vigilance Committee in Tamil Nadu found that though atrocities against SCs and STs increased 12 per cent during the pandemic, the conviction rate was just 25 per cent, with 12 out of 38 districts recording zero convictions.  However, noted the Citizens' Committee, within 100 days of M K Stalin's DMK government taking over in May this year, it reconstituted the state monitoring committee and held its first meeting, "a record not only in the state, but also in the country." One wonders when Maharashtra, home to B R Ambedkar and the Dalit Panthers, will set similar records. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sc-st-atrocities-law-maharashtras-apathy-tamil-nadus-political-will-1035441.html
29-09-2021||South||Strange sounds coming from house in Kerala, experts yet to ascertain cause||Mysterious sounds were heard from a house in Kozhikode, in Kerala over the last couple of weeks. A slight vibration was also being felt. While geologists and Fire and Rescue Service personnel were yet to determine the reason behind the sound, the State Disaster Management Authority officials will be examining the house soon. The house of one Biju near Vellimadukunnu close to the city has been witnessing strange sounds. The residents of the house are now keeping off from the house even as geologists have ruled out the chances of any major disaster. An official who examined the house told DH that the chances of tremor was being ruled out as no other houses in the neighbourhood were experiencing it. Speculations doing the rounds were the vibrations in underground water pipes passing through nearby areas or the presence of any hollow space beneath the house may be the reason behind sounds. Local fire station officer K P Baburaj said that a mild thumping sound could be heard inside the house. There was no definite interval for it. The vibration was recognised as the water kept in pots spills when the sound comes. Kerala Forest Minister A K Saseendran, who is also the local MLA, visited the house on Tuesday also assured that the disaster management officials would inspect the house at the earliest and address the concern of the family. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/strange-sounds-coming-from-house-in-kerala-experts-yet-to-ascertain-cause-1035325.html
29-09-2021||South||Kerala minister, others deny connection with fake antiques seller Mavunkal as fresh allegations emerge||While various enforcement agencies have launched investigations against a fake antique seller in Kerala, the state also witnessed many prominent persons denying any alleged nexus with the accused. The Kerala government's Forest Department officials carried out a search at the house of accused Monson Chacko alias Monson Mavunkal in Kochi to determine whether elephant trunks found in the house were genuine or not. It is learnt that Customs and Enforcement Directorate officials also initiated probes against him. Meanwhile, prominent personalities, including Kerala ports minister Ahmed Devarkovil, Congress MP Hibi Eden and actor Bala came out with statements denying their connection with Mavunkal. Pictures of many more prominent persons with Mavunkal had gone viral. A person identified as Tyagarajan, a Bengaluru-based businessman, came up with an allegation that Mavunkal cheated him of Rs 2 crore as he did not make any payment for eight luxury cars purchased from him. A woman alleged that Mavunkal tried to threaten a sexual assault victim to help the person who allegedly assaulted her. This person was a friend of Mavunkal's. Government sources said that a high-level probe might be announced by the government as the alleged nexus of many prominent persons has come out. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-others-deny-connection-with-fake-antiques-seller-mavunkal-as-fresh-allegations-emerge-1035326.html
29-09-2021||South||Kerala to conduct socio-economic survey among forward communities||The Left government in Kerala will soon conduct a socio-economic survey to identify the economically backward persons among the forward community members in the state, a long pending demand of the latter. A cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Wednesday gave its nod to conduct the survey of the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities, through Kudumbashree, the state's all-women poverty eradication mission, a official statement said here. Five most economically backward families, belonging to forward caste communities, would be identified in each ward of the local bodies including village, municipality and corporation across the state as part of the survey. Sanction was accorded to allot a total of Rs 75.67 lakh for collecting information for the same, it added. The meeting also decided to make police verification mandatory for the appointments in aided educational institutions, public sector undertakings welfare boards, development authorities, co-operative institutions and devaswom boards in the state. The cabinet directed concerned agencies to complete the the procedure within one month after the employee joining the office and the relevant institutions should make necessary amendments in this regard within three months, the statement added.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-conduct-socio-economic-survey-among-forward-communities-1035498.html
29-09-2021||South||Nipah antibodies detected in two varieties of bats, says Kerala Health Minister Veena George||Putting an end to the mystery over the source of Nipah infection in Kerala, antibodies against Nipah were found in specimen collected from some fruit bats from the Chathamangalam region of Kozhikode in Kerala where one child died due to the infection. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Wednesday that antibodies against Nipah virus were detected in the samples of two varieties of bats tested at the National Institute of Virology in Pune. After a 12-year-old boy died of Nipah at Kozhikode on September 5, a team from NIV as well as various other agencies had come down to Chathamangalam panchayat on the outskirts of the city and collected specimen from various types of fruit bats, apart from some other animals and birds. Presence of IgG antibodies against Nipah were found in some bats from two varieties. Though several persons in the contact list of the boy had shown some symptoms, none tested positive for Nipah. Even as there was a Nipah outbreak in Kerala in 2018 claiming 17 lives and one case was reported in 2019, the exact source of the infection could not be ascertained then. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nipah-antibodies-detected-in-two-varieties-of-bats-says-kerala-health-minister-veena-george-1035541.html
29-09-2021||South||Former AIADMK minister gets 5-year jail term for misappropriation of govt funds||Former AIADMK minister R Indira Kumari was on Wednesday sentenced to five years imprisonment after she was found guilty of misappropriating Rs 15 lakh while she was the Social Welfare Minister from 1991 to 1996. Indira Kumari, who is a DMK member now, and her husband Babu were sentenced to five years in jail, while a former bureaucrat has been awarded three years in jail. Indira Kumari was accused of diverting funds to an organisation run by her husband when she was a minister in the J Jayalalithaa cabinet which was subsequently siphoned off.  After the judge of the special court for the trial of criminal cases related to lawmakers delivered the verdict, Indira Kumari, who was present in the court, complained of uneasiness and is now being treated at a hospital here.  Indira Kumari was accused of allotting Rs 15 lakh from government funds to a trust run by her husband for various activities. However, it was found that the trust siphoned off the allotted money and the schools that it said were benefitted never existed.  The case was registered in 1997, a year after the AIADMK lost the assembly elections. Though the charge sheet was filed in the 2000s, the judgement has taken over two decades. Indira Kumari quit AIADMK and joined the DMK in 2006 in the presence of then party president M Karunanidhi. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-aiadmk-minister-gets-5-year-jail-term-for-misappropriation-of-govt-funds-1035586.html
29-09-2021||South||Tamil actor Vijay’s fans contest local body elections||Popular Tamil actor Vijay may still be undecided on taking the political plunge, but his fans have taken the first step by contesting the local body elections as independent candidates.  As many as 169 die-hard fans of Vijay who are active members of Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam are in the fray in the elections scheduled for local bodies in nine districts on October 6 and 9. The Iyakkam’s general secretary Bussy Anand said the candidates have been allowed to use photographs of actor Vijay and the organisation’s flag during the campaign. “The candidates who are contesting the elections wanted to use the flag and photos of Vijay. When we took this request to Vijay, he gave the green signal. Only after the nod from Vijay, the candidates have been allowed to use the pictures and flag,” Anand said.  The decision by the actor’s fans to jump into electoral politics surprised many with Vijay resisting temptations from his supporters to float a party. His fans had demanded that Vijay enter politics and contest the 2021 elections, but the actor never paid heed to their request. Sources said 169 members of the Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam are contesting the elections for various posts like panchayat chief, ward councillor and union councillor. The sources said Vijay allowed his fans to contest the election only to “respect their sentiments” and that one should not “read too much” into the move.  The move by the actor’s fans comes amid Vijay’s father S A Chandrasekar informing a local court that he was dissolving Vijay Makkal Iyakkam (VMI) after admitting in public that he and his son do not enjoy the best of the relations. Chandrasekar, a film director and producer, launched VMI in the run-up to the 2021 elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly and even tried to register the organisation with the Election Commission of India (ECI). However, it is said, Vijay asked his father not to go ahead with the move as he was not interested in politics for now.  The incidents had then brought to the fore the differences between Vijay and Chandrasekar on the former’s political entry. Vijay is one of the top-ranking actors in Tamil cinema and has a huge fan following in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-actor-vijay-s-fans-contest-local-body-elections-1035588.html
29-09-2021||South||First uniform sign language alphabet in Malayalam released||The first uniform sign language alphabet in Malayalam, developed by deaf Indian Sign Language (ISL) experts, was released here on Wednesday by Minister for Higher Education Dr R Bindu, who said it would help bring about a qualitative change in the lives of those who are hearing impaired. The minister, speaking at the event held for release of the alphabet, promised to consider implementing it in special schools. "Discussions will be initiated with the General Education Department regarding the use of Malayalam alphabet in sign language in special schools across the state,” Dr Bindu said while releasing the sign language alphabet developed by the National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH), in collaboration with All Kerala Association of the Deaf. The minister said the development of the sign language alphabet in Malayalam was a proud achievement of the Social Justice Department and NISH and the result of the dedicated effort of NISH. "Currently, English and Hindi have alphabets in sign language. The newly developed alphabet in Malayalam will open up immense possibilities for the hearing impaired community," she said. The minister also said that the government will also make use of technology to ensure physical and mental support to the hearing-impaired and extend all support to NISH to help it become a global institution. The Malayalam alphabet, consisting of vowels and consonants, is finger-spelled in sign language and its primary phase has been designed exclusively for the deaf schools across Kerala, a release issued by the Social Justice department said. "The new sign language alphabet in Malayalam will eliminate the challenge of teachers in conveying messages through lip movement," it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-uniform-sign-language-alphabet-in-malayalam-released-1035590.html
29-09-2021||South||Kerala police moots ban on 15th-century book being used for radicalisation||A 15th-century religious book is being reviewed by the Kerala government after it was found to be widely used to attract youths to extremism. The state police's special branch mooted a ban on the book tilted 'Mashari al-Ashwaq ila Masari al Ushaaq’ written by Islamic scholar Ahmed Ibrahim Muhammed al Dimashqi al Dumyati, known as Ibn Nuhass. The state special branch that carries out cyber patrolling to check radicalisation of youths came across the widespread circulation of this book, among many other materials, to lure youths to extremist outfits. Last year itself the special branch sought a government ban on the book so that its circulation online could be curbed. Following repeated requests highlighting the necessity to ban, the state government now decided to appoint a committee to review the book and give report. The committee would comprise of legal expert Dr. N K Jayakumar, state Information and Public Relations Department director and IG (Internal Security). Based on the committee's recommendation the government would take a decision on the matter. The book written in 1411 was found to be widely circulated among those interested in Islamic fundamentalism. It makes references to destruction of non-believers and was also referred to as a book of jihad. Kerala police had been carrying out cyber patrolling against radicalisation attempts after several instances of Malayali youths being recruited to outfits like ISIS were reported. Around 100 Malayalis had so far joined various extremist outfits. The state special branch wing is also carry out de-radicalisation measures among youths who were found to be getting attracted to the radicalisation efforts. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-moots-ban-on-15th-century-book-being-used-for-radicalisation-1035592.html
29-09-2021||South||Kerala Police in quandary as top brass trolled for links with fake antique seller||The cyber wing of the Kerala Police, known for its high alertness against unlawful social media trolling and cyberbullying, is now caught in a quandary as their bosses have become subject of troll over their nexus with fake antique merchant Monson Mavunkal. Memes ridiculing the police and pictures of senior officers with the accused at his "house-turned-antique museum" are being widely circulated by trollers. Apart from ridiculing comments, serious ones raising concern over the credibility of the state police force have also gone viral. Incidentally, the widely circulated pictures are of former state police chief Loknath Behera and ADGP (Headquarters) Manoj Abraham, who had played key roles in enhancing the cyber wings of the Kerala Police by setting up new wings like Cyberdome. While Behera is seen sitting on an 'antique' throne, Abraham is posing with an 'antique' sword. Mavunkal had misused the pictures of prominent personalities at his museum for endorsing his so-called genuine artefacts. A former DIG and family celebrating Vishu at Mavunkal's house and the accused posing with many senior police officers, including present state police chief Anil Kant, are some of the pictures being widely circulated. The help extended by senior police officers to probe beat police patrolling surveillance to Mavunkal's "museum" in Kochi and attempts to sabotage the investigation against him were the other serious charges levelled against the police. A senior police officer of the cyber unit told DH that the police could act against the trolls only if there are any offensive comments or manipulations in pictures. So far no such instance has been noticed. According to sources, the senior police officers were reportedly taken for a ride by Mavunkal and were carried away by his fake antique collection. Despite the police facing widespread criticism in the social media, the state's main opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front, is yet to launch an aggressive attack against the Left Front government over the issue as Congress state president K Sudhakaran himself is caught up in links with the accused. The BJP state leadership demanded a probe against the police officers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-in-quandary-as-top-brass-trolled-for-links-with-fake-antique-seller-1035598.html
29-09-2021||South||Kerala fake antique merchant made claims over Sabarimala too||The arrest of a fake antique merchant in Kerala has triggered fresh discussions over Sabarimala Ayyappa temple women's entry issue also as the accused Monson Mavunkal had earlier claimed to be having archeological documents regarding the temple's traditions. A section of media had earlier reported that Mavunkal was in possession of palm leaf manuscript documents of Pandalam Palace in Kerala, the erstwhile custodians of the Ayyappa temple. The manuscripts stated that the Ayyappa temple was a worship centre of Dravidians and the present customs being followed by the temple were not there then. The BJP camps are now highlighting it by alleging that the left front depended upon Mavukal to back its then stand on allowing women at Sabarimala as CPM's mouthpiece in Kerala had also carried reports about the said manuscripts. CPM sources said that the BJP were making futile attempts to link Mavunkal with CPM. The Congress in Kerala is already in the defensive as the party state chief K Sudhakaran's link with him came out. Sudhakaran maintained that he only consulted Mavunkal as he was claimed to be a cosmetologist. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-fake-antique-merchant-made-claims-over-sabarimala-too-1035608.html
29-09-2021||State||No bar on giving seer post to a minor: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court dismissed the PIL challenging the appointment of a minor as peetadhipathi or seer of Shri Shiroor Mutt, one of the eight mutts of Shri Udupi Shri Krishna Mutt. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma said that there is no legal/constitutional bar on giving sanyasa deeksha to a person below 18 years of age. The petition had questioned sanyasa deeksha given to 16-year-old Anirudha Saralathaya (now named as Vedavardhana Theertha) as the seer of Shri Shiroor Mutt. The court also noted that in other religions like Buddhism, children of tender age have become monks. The court said there is no rule as to which age sanyasa/bhiksha can be given.   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-bar-on-giving-seer-post-to-a-minor-karnataka-hc-1035523.html
29-09-2021||State||Shivram Karanth layout: SC asks Karnataka govt, BDA to inform on steps taken for acquisition of land||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Karnataka government and the Bangalore Development Authority to inform it within two weeks on steps taken to acquire lands meant for formation of Dr Shivram Karanth layout in the city. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna noted that the layout plan produced by the BDA on August 30, 2021 pointed out that several pockets of land have not been notified for acquisition, "which will hamper the planned development and the connectivity within it". The court directed the Commissioner, BDA, personally present during virtual hearing to send a proposal for acquisition of these lands to the state government within two weeks and submit complete details of the lands left out from acquisition for the formation of Dr Shivaram Karanth Layout in its next status peport.  It also ordered the state government to issue preliminary notification proposing to acquire these lands for the formation of the layout within four weeks from the date of receipt of the details of the lands left out from acquisition from the BDA. The court also told the Commissioner, BDA, to file a complete status report in respect of the Peripheral Ring Road right from its inception. The owner of certain extent of land, notified for acquisition for formation of the layout, filed an application stating some portion of his land has been notified for acquisition for the formation of Peripheral Ring Road which has yet not been developed though the implementation of this project was approved by the state government on September 20, 2013. He claimed non-implementation of the scheme has adversely affected his right to claim compensation. "The formation of the layout and construction of Peripheral Ring Road has huge financial implications and needs to be discussed in the Board meeting. Therefore, BDA is directed to hold the board meetings from time to time to discuss all these issues along with other subjects," the court directed. It also noted it was clear from the layout plan produced by the BDA on August 30, 2021 that the proposed ring road passed through the said layout at two places. Some portion of the road passed through the boundary of the layout and also provided for the connectivity to it and was also within the layout. Meanwhile, Prabhuling K.Navadgi, Advocate General appearing for the Karnataka government, assured the top court that Dr H R Shantharajanna would be re-transferred to his original position of Engineer Member, Engineering Section of the Bangalore Development Authority within a day.  The top court has been examining compliance of its judgement passed on August 3, 2018, directing the Bangalore Development Authority not to drop the land acquisition from the proposed layout in 2008. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivram-karanth-layout-sc-asks-karnataka-govt-bda-to-inform-on-steps-taken-for-acquisition-of-land-1035600.html
29-09-2021||State||PIL against anointment of minor as Shiroor Mutt seer dismissed||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday dismissed the PIL challenging the appointment of a minor as peetadhipathi/seer of Shri Shiroor Mutt, one of the eight mutts of Udupi Shri KrishnaMutt. A division bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, said that there was no legal/constitutional bar on giving sanyasa deeksha to a person below 18 years ofage. The petition was filed by P Lathavya Acharya and others contending that forcing a minor to do material abandonment violates the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. The petition had questioned sanyasa deeksha given to 16-year-old Anirudha Saralathaya (now named as Vedavardhana Theertha) as the seer of Shri Shiroor Mutt. The petitioner, by way of an amendment to the petition, had also prayed for declaration that imposition of sanyasa (renunciation) on a minor amounts to violation of Articles 39 (e) and (f) of the Constitution. The bench said that the petitioner has not been able to point out violation of any statutory provisions or any violation of constitutional rights. The court also noted that the religious practice has been going on since last 800 years and the appointment of pontiff is a practice which is in existence for the last 800 years indicative of the philosophy and teaching of Sri Madhvacharya, the founder of Dvaita philosophy and Ashta Mutts in Udupi. In his submissions, senior advocate S S Naganand, who was appointed as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter, had stated that there is no statutory, much less constitutional, bar on a person who is less than 18 years of age being initiated into Sanyasa and it is not a pernicious practice. He had also submitted that as per the practice of dvandva mutt or paired mutt system, the head of the paired mutt has the authority to appoint the successor in the event the head of the other paired mutt passes away without nominating his successor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pil-against-anointment-of-minor-as-shiroor-mutt-seer-dismissed-1035641.html
29-09-2021||State||HC bins rapist-killer Umesh Reddy’s plea for commutation of death penalty||The High Court has rejected serial rapist B A Umesh Reddy’s plea for commutation of death sentence imposed on him. Umesh was convicted for rape and murder of a widow in Peenya police station limits in 1998. In his petition, he claimed that there was an inordinate delay in considering his mercy application. A division bench comprising Justices Aravind Kumar and Pradeep Singh Yerur perused the records and noted that there was no delay by either the Governor of Karnataka or the President of India in considering his mercy pleas. The bench, however, granted time of six weeks to challenge the order before the Supreme Court since the matter involved death penalty and execution. Umesh Reddy had filed the petition in 2016 citing 'compelling supervening circumstances'. The court stayed his execution by way of an interim order on October 20, 2016. In his petition, Umesh had claimed that there is an avoidable and excessive delay of two years and three months (830 days) in disposal of his mercy petition, filed by his mother. Umesh had also claimed that he had suffered solitary confinement of 10 years. The mercy plea before the president was filed in February 2011. The Supreme Court had rejected his review petition in 2016. Umesh Reddy was convicted by the trial court in 2006 in the case of rape and murder of a widow on February 28, 1998. The conviction was confirmed by the Karnataka high court as well as the apex court. Umesh Reddy, a native of Chitradurga, was a police constable and is accused in several cases of rape, murder and robbery in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-bins-rapist-killer-umesh-reddy-s-plea-for-commutation-of-death-penalty-1035642.html
29-09-2021||State||Physical classes for grade 1 to 5: Decision after Dasara vacation||The state government will arrive at a decision on reopening physical classes for grades 1 to 5, after Dasara vacation. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said that the schools would be closed for the Dasara holidays from October 10 to 20. “At a recent meeting of Technical Advisory Committee on Covid, the experts have asked us to wait and watch the situation in view of the rise in viral fever and dengue cases. After the Dasara holidays, we have a meeting with the committee to decide about reopening,” he said. The minister, who met the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) chairman Dr K Sivan, said that revised school syllabus under the National Education Policy will include information on India’s space projects. The minister met Isro chief and other scientists seeking their suggestion on including achievements and projects of the premier space agency in the textbooks. Speaking to the media after the meeting, Nagesh said it was important to teach children about India’s achievements in space research. “Including the achievements of Isro in the textbooks will help students develop interest towards science,” he added. Nagesh said the Isro chairman assured him of constituting a committee and submitting recommendations to the government on theproposal. The ‘Space on Wheels’ vehicle, which is moving in and around Bengaluru, will also travel to schools located in other districts and rural parts. This vehicle provides information about achievements of ISRO, space and solar system, he said. Engg lessons in Kannada Four engineering colleges in the state will offer courses in Kannada medium from this academic year. Following a decision by the All India Council for Technical Education to start courses in regional medium, four colleges have applied and these colleges have opted to teach Civil and Mechanical Engineering streams in Kannada medium. The colleges are Bheemanna Khandre Institute of Technology in Bhalki (Civil), SJC Institute of Technology, Chikkaballapur (Civil), Maharaja Institute of Technology, Mysuru (Mechanical) and Dr V P Halakatti Engineering College in Vijayapura (Mechanical). All these institutions have been allowed to admit 30 students. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/physical-classes-for-grade-1-to-5-decision-after-dasara-vacation-1035644.html
29-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NHAI expects Rs 5,000 crore from monetisation of 11 Karnataka projects||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) expects to generate over Rs 5,000 crore revenue from the monetisation of highway assets spanning 849 kilometres over the next three years in Karnataka. The NHAI has identified 11 key projects in the state, to begin with, as part of the national monetisation pipeline (NMP) announced recently. They include Hyderabad-Bengaluru (six sections), Hadadi-Devagiri, and Maharashtra/Karnataka border to Belgaum to name a few, rating agency ICRA said. The NHAI is "expediting work" identified within the NMP across Karnataka, which is roughly about 3% of the total road network envisaged under the framework, sources told DH. It has so far spent Rs 3,514 crore on developing eight out of 11 key road projects. The Rs 6-lakh-crore NMP launched by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month had identified roughly 26,700 km of national highways for monetisation. The source further said that "high-level officers" of the state government and the NHAI are monitoring the development, of which the asset pipeline has been phased out from FY22 till FY25. "The move will have a positive impact from the viewpoint of private players in the state," Uma Reddy, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s (FICCI) Karnataka State Council Co-Chair, said. However, she was wary that the lifecycle of the infrastructure could be a probable hurdle. Credit rating agency CARE has a word of caution in its recent report on the pipeline, stating that investors have been watchful of BOT (Build-Operate-Transfer) & TOT (Toll-Operate-Transfer) models largely on account of regulatory risks. It observed that investors see risk in the application of terms of concession and reimbursement from toll receivables, with the timeline for the resolution being long-drawn. The Niti Aayog has earmarked Rs 1,60,200 crore as an indicative monetisation value over FY 2022-2025 for roads that are up for grabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nhai-expects-rs-5000-crore-from-monetisation-of-11-karnataka-projects-1035334.html
29-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai promises Rs 100 crore to form Karnataka Milk Federation bank||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday told Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) to start a bank and promised to provide Rs 100 crore seed money to build a system that will stop the dependency of the system.  Bommai was speaking after inaugurating 10 new projects of KMF, aimed at further boosting the milk production and revenue of the 14 associated cooperative unions.  "The full potential of the cooperative sector has to be realised. The formation of a bank will not only end the dependency of KMF on the government but will make you a profit-making body. Besides your revenue, a bank will also attract external investment. The government will grant Rs 100 crore capital to jumpstart the bank," he said. The chief minister said KMF has a long way to go in terms of marketing and urged the office bearers to ensure the product reaches more markets in the neighbouring states.  Responding to a request by KMF Chairman and MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi for hiking milk prices, the chief minister said he will require time to take a decision on the matter. The new facilities inaugurated on Wednesday include a mega milk powder production unit in Ramanagar, two cattle feed production units in Dharwad and Tumakuru, high tech farm and fodder development centre at Hesaeaghatta, central testing laboratory in Bengaluru, training centre in Kalaburagi, cattle feed storage and other infrastructure in Hassan, corn storage silos in Rajanukunte, molassases storage centre in Shikaripur and butter storage deep freeze unit at Challaghatta. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-promises-rs-100-crore-to-form-karnataka-milk-federation-bank-1035490.html
29-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP slams Siddaramaiah for 'Talibanis' jibe, calls him 'terrorist'||Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday hit back at Congress leader Siddaramaiah for his "Talibanis" jibe at the J P Nadda-led party, by calling him a 'Bhayotpaadaka' (terrorist). "I feel that Siddaramaiah himself is a 'Bhayotpaadaka' (terrorist). He is in a precarious situation in Congress today, whenever he is in such a situation he gives such statements. His is a Taliban culture," he said. Speaking to reporters here, he alleged that when Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister, most number of murders took place in the state. Listing certain incidents like murders of Deepak Rao, Sharath Madiwala, Prashanth Poojary in Dakshina Kannada, Kuttappa in Madikeri, Kateel said about 24 Hindu workers were killed during Siddaramaiah's tenure. "Also a woman was attacked in an ATM kiosk, a college going girl student was attacked at Sullia. All this happened during his rule, this is Taliban culture. So I said, he (Siddaramaiah) is like a 'Bhayotpaadaka", as most number of murders, extortions, and daily cow slaughters used to happen during his period..where does he have morality?" he added. The BJP state president was reacting to Siddaramaiah's statement on Sunday alleging that the BJP are "Talibanis". Calling the Congress a "sinking ship", Kateel claimed that "several people" from that party are prepared to join the BJP. "Several people (from Congress) are in touch with us, but there is no need to be in a hurry. People don't believe that Congress will win the next election, who will go to Congress?" he asked in response to a question, and expressed confidence about BJP winning the 2023 assembly polls.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-slams-siddaramaiah-for-talibanis-jibe-calls-him-terrorist-1035515.html
29-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No hike in fee for engineering courses in Karnataka this year ||In a big relief to the engineering seat aspirants in Karnataka, the state government on Wednesday announced that it will not increase the fee for this academic year 2021-22. Holding a high-level meeting with the private engineering colleges in Bengaluru, Higher Education Minister Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana was successful in convincing the private college management representatives, who cited the financial stress induced by the Covid pandemic.  However, from the next academic year onwards, the fee for the engineering courses will be increased by 10 per cent every year. Speaking to DH, MK Panduranga Setty, secretary, Karnataka Unaided private engineering colleges association, said, "This year we have collectively agreed not to hike the fee. But from the next year, the government has assured of giving us 10 per cent hike every year and an agreement will be inked soon pertaining to this." In the meantime, the colleges which offer skill development courses can charge Rs 20,000 per student. Besides, putting an end to the manipulation of parents and students in the name of 'miscellaneous' fees, the government has fixed it to Rs 20,000. "Earlier these fees used to go up to Rs 70,000 and there were many complaints. But from this year, maximum fees under miscellaneous could be charged is Rs 20,000," said the minister. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-hike-in-fee-for-engineering-courses-in-karnataka-this-year-1035550.html
29-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Engineering will be taught in Kannada in 4 colleges from current year: Karnataka Education Minister||Karnataka Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said engineering will be taught in Kannada in four colleges from the current year. "Teaching engineering in Kannada will begin in four colleges from the current year itself. Bheemanna Khandre Institute of Technology, Bhalki (Civil), BLDAE VP Dr P G Halakatti College of Engineering, Vijayapura (Civil), SJC Institute of Technology, Chikkaballapura (Mechanical), and Maharaja Institute of Technology, Mysuru (Mechanical) will start to teach in Kannada," he said. National Board of Accreditation (NBA) accredited colleges have been permitted to teach engineering in Kannada, he said, adding that upto 30 students can be admitted. The Minister also said a consensual agreement has been reached between the government and private colleges not to hike the fees of engineering courses in private colleges. The fees for the engineering courses in private colleges for students who secure admission this year under government quota will continue as earlier in two different slabs of Rs 65,340 and Rs 58,806, he said. "While private colleges had pressed to increase the fee by 30 per cent, the committee headed by Prof. Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor of Vishweshwaraiah Technological University (VTU), had recommended a hike of 15-25 per cent. But, in view of the Covid-19 situation, representatives of private colleges were convinced not to go for a hike," the Minister was quoted as saying by his office in a release. This decision was taken at a meeting held with private college representatives at Vikasa Soudha, it said. The other important decisions taken at the meeting include fixing a maximum cap of Rs 20,000 each for fees collected in the form of 'miscellaneous fees' and 'skill fees'. Also miscellaneous and skill fees, along with admission fees should not be remitted at colleges, but at the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA), it said. This decision has been taken as per the recommendations of a committee headed by Prof Karisiddappa, the Minister said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/engineering-will-be-taught-in-kannada-in-4-colleges-from-current-year-karnataka-education-minister-1035597.html
29-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka among 17 states that covered 80% with single dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Three out of six southern states including Karnataka have inoculated more than 80 per cent of their adult population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while such a coverage for Goa stands at 78 per cent, according to the official vaccination data. As many as 17 states and Union Territories including large populous states like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Kerala and Haryana have reached the 80 per cent mark with the first dose while four others – Rajasthan (78 per cent), Assam (79 per cent), Goa (78 per cent) and Delhi (75 per cent) - are close to the milestone. But when it comes to full vaccination with two doses of the vaccine, only nine states have attained the 40 per cent mark and the only southern representative in the group is Goa. “Fully vaccinated individuals are likely to be pivotal in breaking the chains of transmission. It is therefore critical to rapidly scale up vaccination efforts to ensure that all the vulnerable populations are protected,” Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi, told DH. Karnataka inoculated more than 82 per cent of its adult population with the first dose (as on Sept 28) while the corresponding figures for Kerala and Telangana are 85 per cent and 83 per cent respectively. In comparison, Tamil Nadu gave the first shot to 64 per cent of its adults whereas Andhra Pradesh could manage only 48 per cent. Similarly with fully vaccinated adults Karnataka (35 per cent), Kerala (37 per cent) and Telangana (31 per cent) are ahead of Andhra Pradesh (23 per cent) and Tamil Nadu (19 per cent). But none are among the nine states and UTs that covered at least 40 per cent of its adult population with two shots. For the country, more than 68 per cent received the first dose while a quarter of the 94.47 crore adult population is fully vaccinated. More than 88 crore doses have been given so far. “A single dose of Covid-19 vaccine gives 30-40 per cent protection against Delta infection, while more than 60 per cent protection comes with two doses. Since (post-vaccination) infections were all mild as shown in one of our studies, there is still a very high protection against severe disease,” said Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi. Besides Goa, other eight states with 40 per cent plus coverage in the second dose are hilly and north eastern states and union territories. The worst second dose records are of Bihar (15 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (13 per cent) and Jharkhand (15 per cent) – states that may witness crowd surge during Dasara-Diwali-Chhath festivities. “Vaccine hesitancy is a serious issue in several states. Coordinated measures to improve awareness are needed in areas where vaccine uptake is lower. Mega vaccination camps such as Sunday campaigns, street to street and door to door campaigns are practical and successful strategies that could be considered,” said Abdul Ghafur, senior consultant, infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-among-17-states-that-covered-80-with-single-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1035607.html
29-09-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Retired soldier attacks wife in Karnataka court, severs leg||In a shocking incident, a retired soldier on Wednesday attacked his wife with a machete in the premises of a court in Karnataka's Belagavi, severing her leg, police said. The condition of victim, identified as Jayamala, is said to be serious and she has been admitted to a hospital. The retired soldier, Shivappa Adaki, has been taken into custody. According to police, Adaki and Jayamala, who were married 11 years ago, had a family dispute and the matter had gone to the court. On Wednesday, both had come for the hearing of the case in Bylahongala court, and he attacked her right there, striking her all over her body. Further investigations are on. Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/retired-soldier-attacks-wife-in-karnataka-court-severs-leg-1035595.html
29-09-2021||West||Maharashtra: 12 gates of Manjara dam closed after water discharge causes flooding in 3 Marathwada districts||Twelve gates of the Manjara dam were closed early Wednesday morning, a day after heavy water discharge from the reservoir following heavy rains led to flooding in some villages of Beed, Latur, and Osmanabad districts in the Marathwada region of Maharashtra, officials said. With the closure of 12 out of the total 18 gates of the dam at 4 am, the water discharge came down to 18,747 cusec (cubic metre per second) as against the outflow of 70,845 cusec on Tuesday, which caused inundation in several downstream villages, a release from the irrigation department said. Currently, six gates of the dam are open for water discharge, an irrigation department official said. In the last two days, at least 13 people died in heavy showers, floods, and lightning in parts of Maharashtra with the Marathwada region bearing the major brunt of rain fury, while more than 560 people were rescued after the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was mobilised and helicopters were deployed, officials said on Tuesday. Besides, more than 200 cattle perished or were washed away and a number of houses were damaged in torrential rains that lashed Marathwada over the last few days, causing havoc in a region that is considered a perennially drought-plagued area, they said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday forecast 'extremely heavy rains at a few places in Marathwada in the next 24 hours. The Marathwada region in central Maharashtra which faced the rain fury comprises eight districts - Aurangabad, Latur, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Nanded, Beed, Jalna and Hingoli. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-12-gates-of-manjara-dam-closed-after-water-discharge-causes-flooding-in-3-marathwada-districts-1035440.html
29-09-2021||West||IAF helicopter rescues 3 people stranded in flooded Latur village||A day after heavy water discharge from the Manjara dam caused flooding in some places of Maharashtra's Marathwada region, an IAF team on Wednesday rescued three people stranded at an inundated village in Latur with the help of a helicopter, a district administration official said. Following heavy rains in Marathwada over the last few days, the NDRF was mobilised and helicopters were deployed to rescue people stuck in some of the flooded places in the region. On Wednesday morning, a helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) rescued three people, Nagorao Kisan Tikanare (50), his wife Rukmabai (45) and son Chandrakant (11) from Poharegaon village in Renapur tehsil, where they were stranded in the flood, the official said in a release. After heavy showers over the last few days, rains subsided in Latur on Wednesday. Heavy water discharge from the Manjara dam on Tuesday following heavy rains led to flooding in some villages of Beed, Latur and Osmanabad districts in Marathwada, officials earlier said. On Wednesday, 12 out of the total 18 gates of the dam were closed, which reduced the water discharge from the reservoir. In the last two days, at least 13 people died in heavy showers, floods and lightning in parts of Maharashtra with the Marathwada region bearing the major brunt of rain fury, while more than 560 people were rescued after the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was mobilised and helicopters were deployed, officials said on Tuesday. Besides, more than 200 cattle perished or were washed away and a number of houses were damaged in torrential rains that lashed Marathwada over the last few days, causing havoc in a region which is considered a perennially drought-plagued area, they said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday forecast 'extremely heavy rains' at a few places in Marathwada in the next 24 hours. The Marathwada region in central Maharashtra which faced the rain fury comprises eight districts - Aurangabad, Latur, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Nanded, Beed, Jalna and Hingoli. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iaf-helicopter-rescues-3-people-stranded-in-flooded-latur-village-1035451.html
29-09-2021||West||ED summons Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali in money laundering case||Mounting pressure, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned five-time Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali to appear before the federal agency’s Mumbai office in connection with an alleged case of financial misappropriation.  The development comes hours after the ED arrested Saeed Khan, the director of Mahila Utkarsh Pratishthan, an organisation linked to the Gawali family.  Gawali (48) is a five-time MP, who currently represents the Yavatmal-Washim in Vidarbha region. She has been asked to appear at the ED’s Ballard Estate office in Mumbai on October 4, sources said. “It is stated that Bhavana Gawali, through her aide Saeed Khan Shergul Khan and his accomplices, has criminally conspired to convert the trust, Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan, into a Section 8 company through forgery and fraud for the purpose of layering the trust fund," the ED stated before a court, seeking the remand of Saeed Khan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-summons-shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-in-money-laundering-case-1035484.html
29-09-2021||West||BMC finishes 3D mapping of Worli||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) along with Genesys International completed the three-dimensional (3D) mapping of the Worli area, comprising an area of10 square kilometres in BMC’s G/South Ward. The BMC and Mumbai-headquartered Genesis International have confirmed the development. “Its mapping of the future will help in progressive planning and coordinating action on ground,” the BMC said.  “The realistic 3D mapping will enable authorities to  progressively plan their developmental projects,” added Genesis International.  Maharashtra’s tourism, environment and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the MLA from Worli and Mumbai Suburban district’s guardian minister, has taken a lead in the project.  This three-dimensional map technology is expected to help not only in the implementation of projects but also enhance the quality of infrastructure services, proper planning, evaluation of civic services, effective disaster management, climate change impact analysis, and public safety.  The maps have been prepared with the help of Light Detection and Ranging Survey (LIDAR technology), aerial photography with the help of small and light aircraft, as well as measurement, shooting and imaging using drones and mobile vehicles.    Mapping The Future! Genesys International operates several Geospatial production and application development centers in India. The G/South Ward’s East boundary extends upto Central Railway Line, West Boundary extends upto Arabian Sea shore, North boundary extends upto Kakasaheb Gangil Marg, Kashinath Dhuru Road and the South boundary extends upto Haji Ali, Keshavrao Khade Marg, Sant Gadge Maharaj Chowk.  Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar hails from this ward.  The area mapped is unique as it has old British-era tenements to modern high-skyrises, flyovers, railway lines, seashores, places of worship, etc. Check DH latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-finishes-3d-mapping-of-worli-1035485.html
29-09-2021||West||Cyclone Gulab remnants likely to result in rainfall in Gujarat||The remnants of Cyclone Gulab are likely to enter the Arabian Sea on September 30 and intensify into a cyclonic storm and then move towards Pakistan, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Many areas in Gujarat are likely to receive rainfall due to the remnants of Cyclone Gulab. The IMD said a low pressure area, remnant of Cyclone Gulab, was formed over south Gujarat region and adjoining Gulf of Khambhat on Wednesday morning.  “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards, emerge into northeast Arabian Sea and intensify into a depression by tomorrow. Then it is very likely to move further west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards towards Pakistan Makran coasts, moving away from the Indian coast,” the IMD said.  The IMD said light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few places and extremely heavy falls at isolated places is very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat. Heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy falls at isolated places are likely over Gujarat region, Daman, Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over north Konkan.  Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places is very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch and heavy falls at isolated places over Gujarat region and north Konkan, the IMD added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-gulab-remnants-likely-to-result-in-rainfall-in-gujarat-1035505.html
29-09-2021||West||IMD forecasts cyclonic storm off Gujarat coast, asks fishermen to avoid sea till October 2||A well-marked low-pressure area over south Gujarat was likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm, the IMD said on Wednesday, and asked fishermen not to venture into the Arabian Sea off the state coast and suggested total suspension of fishing activities till October 2. It also asked fishermen who were out in the sea to return to the coast by Wednesday evening. Several parts of south Gujarat and the Saurashtra region received heavy rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday, and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted more widespread showers in the state in the next two days. A few places in Amreli, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, and Jamnagar districts of Saurashtra, as well as Anand, Bharuch, among others, are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall during the next two days, the IMD said in its latest forecast. In a special bulletin issued in the afternoon, the IMD said the remnants of cyclonic storm 'Gulab' lay as a well-marked low pressure area over the south Gujarat region and the adjoining Gulf of Khambhat at 8.30 am on Wednesday. "It is very likely to move west-northwestwards, emerge into the northeast Arabian Sea and intensify into a depression by Thursday. It is then very likely to move further west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards towards Pakistan–Makran coast, moving away from the Indian coast," it said. The IMD warned fishermen not to venture into the north Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast from Wednesday to Saturday and suggested total suspension of fishing activities there during the period. It also asked fishermen who were out in the sea to return to the coast and move to safer places by Wednesday evening. Gujarat has so far received 90 per cent of its average annual rainfall, the state's Special Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. In the 24-hour period ending at 6 am on Wednesday, Surat's Umarpada taluka received 218 mm rainfall and Palsana got 192 mm rain. Several parts of Dangs, Valsad, Narmada, Ahmedabad, Anand, Tapi, and other districts also received very heavy showers on Tuesday, the SEOC said. In six hours since 6 am Wednesday, heavy rainfall was recorded in parts of Bharuch and Navsari districts in south Gujarat, and Amreli and Bhavnagar in Saurashtra, as per the SEOC data. Bharuch taluka of the district received 95 mm rainfall, Rajula in Amreli recorded 78 mm, and Jafrabad in Amreli district 69 mm rainfall. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-forecasts-cyclonic-storm-off-gujarat-coast-asks-fishermen-to-avoid-sea-till-october-2-1035507.html
29-09-2021||West||Lion cub killed in infighting; 6th fatality in Gir this month||A three-month-old lion cub was found dead at a village near Gir forest in Gujarat's Gir-Somnath district, with forest officials saying it was killed during infighting among the big cats. This is the sixth lion death in Gir forest area this month. Residents of Bediya village under Jasadhar range of Gir-East division alerted the forest staff on Tuesday after finding the carcass of the cub lying in a field, located about 300 km from Ahmedabad, Chief Conservator of Forests (Junagadh Wildlife Circle) D T Vasavada said on Wednesday. Primary investigation by range forest officer and his team suggested that the cub was killed by a lion, he said. "Since several lion pug marks were found near the carcass, the field staff suspects that the cub was killed during infighting, a common phenomenon among the big cats to establish dominance. Later, the autopsy confirmed that the cub was killed by a lion," the official said. With the latest fatality, so far, an adult lion, a lioness and four cubs have been found dead in different parts of Gir forest and surrounding areas this month. On September 2, the carcass of a 12-year-old lioness was recovered from Jamvala range of Gir-West division, and investigations revealed that the carnivore died of old age, as per the forest department data. The same day, a lion cub, aged around six months, drowned after falling into a farm well in a village under Tulsishyam range of Gir-East division, while the carcass of an adult lion was found at a farm in the same range earlier this month. On September 6, a two-month-old lion cub was found dead in the Sarasiya range of the Gir-East division after it was killed by a lion. On September 15, a lion cub, about a month-old, was found dead at a forest in Dedakadi range of Gir-West division. As per the last census, there were 674 lions in the Gir forest and surrounding areas. The Gir Forest National Park is the only abode of Asiatic lions.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lion-cub-killed-in-infighting-6th-fatality-in-gir-this-month-1035510.html
29-09-2021||West||Tourists riding vehicles on Goa beaches to be booked||Tourists who ride two wheelers and cars on Goa's beaches will be booked, Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said on Wednesday, after a video of tourists riding scooters on a public beach went viral on social media. "Those who drive vehicles on the beaches will be punished. The police should file a case," Ajgaonkar told reporters at the state Secretariat. Earlier on Wednesday, a video showing a group of tourists riding several scooters through the sea water along an unidentified beach in Goa went viral. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has also warned of action against such misdemeanours by tourists. "They should follow the law of the land. Again and again we have requested tourists (against such misdemeanours). If they do not listen we will have to take strict action," Sawant said. Earlier this month, a 25-year-old tourist was arrested and later released on bail after he tried to drive his rented car along Morjim beach, before the car got stuck in the wet sand. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tourists-riding-vehicles-on-goa-beaches-to-be-booked-1035545.html
29-09-2021||West||War memorial, army museum to come up in Mumbai to commemorate 75th year of independence||Mumbai will soon get a war museum and an Army memorial coinciding with the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav series of pan-India events. The finer details of the project were discussed threadbare at a high-level meeting held in Mumbai presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  Thackeray asked officials to scout and finalise a location for the coveted project. “We must finalise a location, start work on war-footing and open part of it by August 15 next year for the public,” said Thackeray, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Among those present at the meeting were Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, Additional Chief Secretary Ashish Kumar Singh, Principal Secretary Vikas Kharge, Principal Secretary Bhushan Gagrani, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, Lieutenant General SK Parashar, the General Officer Commanding, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa Area and Brigadier Dr Achalesh Shankar. During the meeting, Thackeray asked for the setting up of an advisory and designing committee to take the project forward. The Chief Minister suggested that people visiting the museum should get information about the training and life in the army, how army bunkers look, how soldiers survive in extreme weather conditions like that of the Siachen Glacier or in scorching deserts with heavy weapons. “The museum should tell stories of the heroism of the defence forces, the soldiers and officers from the state who participated and fought in various wars, display the weapons and ammunition, tanks, planes, boats, medals, uniforms and rank structure of the soldiers,” he said.  Besides, there will be replicas of aircraft, boats, helicopters and tanks at the museum with historical information about Indian Independence. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/war-memorial-army-museum-to-come-up-in-mumbai-to-commemorate-75th-year-of-independence-1035580.html
29-09-2021||West||436 lives lost so far in Maharashtra this monsoon||As many as 436 people have lost lives in Maharashtra during the Southwest monsoon between June and September this year. This includes the 15 deaths reported during the last three days due to heavy downpour and floods triggered by Cyclone Gulab. In the wake of the rain and floods situation since the weekend, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday held a review meeting and asked authorities to extend relief. From June 1 till date, as many as 436 persons have lost their lives in the state. The bodies of six persons are yet to be found. “This monsoon, we have been hit by vagaries of nature back to back. So far, 436 persons have lost their lives. Of this, 196 deaths have been reported because of lightning strikes. Rest are incidents of floods, house collapses, landslides, drowning,” state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Wednesday.  According to him, 71 people have lost their lives so far in September.  During the Southwest monsoon period, the state has been hit by a series of incidents including the July mega-floods in the coastal Konkan belt and Western Maharashtra and heavy rainfall in Marathwada, Vidarbha and North Maharashtra triggered by Cyclone Gulab.  Earlier, towards the end of May, the state was hit by Cyclone Tauktae, during which the ONGC’s Mumbai High offshore was struck resulting in sinking of barges and loss of 86 lives. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/436-lives-lost-so-far-in-maharashtra-this-monsoon-1035584.html
29-09-2021||West||Goa polls may see synergy between Congress and breakaway groups: Faleiro||The 2022 state assembly Goa may witness a synergy between Congress breakaway groups like the Nationalist Congress Party, Trinamool Congress and the Indian National Congress (INC), according to former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro, who joined the West Bengal-based political party, after quitting the INC after nearly 40 years. Speaking at a press conference in Kolkata, soon after his formal induction into the TMC, Faleiro also said that the Trinamool Congress would be victorious in Goa assembly polls, despite the elections scheduled just a few months away, while TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee claimed that the party would not opt for any alliance in the elections. "When I talk of Goa, I talk of my country. The Congress is fragmented into YSR Congress, TMC, Sharad Pawar Congress. It is high time we fight against divisive politics as one Congress family. There is no other choice. There is no other alternative, but we have to come together. If that has not been there, it will take place and you will see it in Goa," Faleiro said. The coming together of opposition parties, especially the NCP and the TMC, to take on the BJP has been a political strategy backed by ace strategist Prashant Kishor, whose organisation I-PAC has been engaged by the West Bengal Chief Minister. Faleiro also said that the Congress (I) and its splinter groups should work together to defeat the BJP and added that he would make efforts towards unification of the splinter groups with the mother party. "I call upon everybody whether it is TMC, whether it is YSR or whether Sharad Pawar Congress to come together and take the rightful place as a united Congress family so that in the upcoming elections we can face the BJP and face their government," Faleiro said.   "And I feel the moment has come for everybody to join forces and be part of the movement to defeat divisive forces and bring a new dawn in every nook and corner of the country," Faleiro also said. Among Goan politicians who joined the TMC on Wednesday are former Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party MLA Lavu Mamledar, former state Congress general secretaries Yatish Naik, Vijai Pai. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-polls-may-see-synergy-between-congress-and-breakaway-groups-faleiro-1035604.html
