30-09-2021||Analysis||How Taliban takeover impacts Kashmir||In April 1995, then Prime Minister PV Narsimha Rao was nervous as militants had taken hold of the famous Charar-i-Sharif and he invited a Kashmir expert to discuss what his government could do, in addition to the Army siege of the militants, to resolve the impasse. The expert senstised Rao on the matter – Charar-i-Sharif was not merely a place of religious worship, but represented the entirety of the Kashmiri personality as it was the tomb of Sheikh-ul-Alam Shiekh Noor-ud-din Noorani, also called Nund Rishi, the most revered personality in Kashmir.  “If the shrine is destroyed by the militants, they will be doomed forever. But if the impression goes round that it was done by the Army, Indian prestige will equally suffer,” the expert told Rao. A suggestion was given to Rao that a channel be opened with the Kashmiri nationalist wing of the militants, telling them that Delhi’s priority was to save the shrine. The person heading the militants holed up there was Haroon Khan, better known as Mast Gul, a Pashtun from Peshawar.  Before Rao could act, the shrine got burnt down, and Gul and all his men, except one, escaped. Rao again called for the expert and noted, “I had heard about Nund Rishi but had not known the importance of the shrine. None of my political and administrative advisers on Kashmir had ever told me that. I was just considering your suggestion when the incident took place.”  In 2014, Gul, after a long hiatus, was back in the news. He had joined Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), a Pashtun group on the Pakistani side, with connections to the Afghan Taliban. The memories of Mast Gul and a few more militants of Pashtun ethnicity are often invoked in the context of the possible negative impact on Kashmir of the Taliban’s recent takeover of Afghanistan. There is a need for nuance here, factoring in the realities of the region and its relations with the Pashtuns, who form the bulk of the Taliban.  First, there are contradictory accounts about the past presence of militants of Pashtun ethnicity in J&K. While some official accounts have mentioned numbers of Pashtun militants in the past, other officials have contested that narrative. A broad range of foreign militants have been in J&K in the past, but their presence was restricted to the 1990s and even then their numbers were miniscule. The intercepted and live chatter of foreign militants present in J&K on their wireless sets, which this author had listened to from time to time, were in Punjabi, Pothwari or Gojri languages. These are languages spoken in Pakistani Punjab and Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir, the two areas that send the bulk of foreign militants to J&K.  Second, the contemporary connection of Jammu and Kashmir with Pashtuns is a creation of the Pakistani State. Various personalities of Pashtun ethnicity had been appointed by Pakistan to official Kashmir-centric positions to present the Pakistani perspective on Kashmir before the diplomatic community. For instance, Shehryar Khan Afridi, a Pashtun from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, is presently the chairperson of the Parliamentary Special Committee on Kashmir (PSCK) while Ali Amin Gandapur, also a Pashtun from the same province, is the federal minister for Kashmir Affairs and Gilgit-Baltistan. These two federal level positions are examples of the Pakistani State’s institutionalised focus on the “Kashmir issue.”     In the past, Maulana Fazlur Rehman, a notable Pashtun and prominent Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI) leader, was the first chairperson of the PSCK, which was constituted by the Pakistani National Assembly in August 2008. Appointed by the Pakistan People’s Party government initially, he was retained by the successor Nawaz Sharif government. As the PSCK head, he had reportedly utilised $2.72 million under different heads during his 10-year tenure. Fazlur Rehman, belonging to a family of Deobandi scholars and whose father Mufti Mahmud was Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, had visited India in July 2003. Apart from visiting Deoband in UP, he had even met then Prime Minister AB Vajpayee.  Independent scholars have recorded the various ugly facets of the 1947 attack on Kashmir Valley by members of Pashtun ethnicity from the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan. The attack was marked by acts of brutality against the locals, including Christian nuns, as they entered Baramulla district. In addition, the memories of 66 years of Pashtun rule over Valley from present-day Afghanistan from 1752 to 1819 AD are still institutionalised as a period of trauma in the collective memory of Kashmiri society.  Finally, the comparison with the earlier phase of Taliban rule from 1996 to 2001 and its consequences in Kashmir is not applicable to the present context. Universally, after 9/11, any outside support to extremist violence in Kashmir is widely seen as abetting terrorism. Pakistan is still under the scanner of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). A considerable portion of the Pakistani army is fighting the TTP in its own Pashtun areas and thus it is vested in holding the ceasefire along the Line of Control. This constricts the ability of the Pakistani deep state to provide the earlier level of support to organisations like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, such as facilitating infiltration along the fenced LoC, which was initiated in December 2001.  A person of non-Kashmiri ethnicity is easy to detect in the Valley’s milieu because of its distinct language and facial features. It makes the task of the security apparatus easier to detect non-locals. Like the lesson from the early summer of 1995 and as counter insurgency/terrorism studies across the world have repeatedly pointed out, in any situation like Kashmir that has a component of local disaffection, apart from strengthening the security apparatus, getting the local nuances right and the support of the local Kashmiris is critical for the success of counter insurgency/counter terrorism.   (The writer has written two books on J&K, including ‘Across the LoC’, published by Columbia University Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/how-taliban-takeover-impacts-kashmir-1035956.html
30-09-2021||Comment||Wake-up call for India||Fear-mongering is not a good thing to do but when we gather again within a month or so at the COP 26 UN Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, UK, we must be honest in assessing the significance of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report that has signalled “code red for humanity,” warning of increasingly extreme heatwaves, droughts and flooding, and of a key temperature rise limit being breached in just over a decade. Among some of the major projections made by scientists, from which a country as big as India can hardly remain immune, is an increasing occurrence of some extreme events "unprecedented in the historical record" even at the warming of 1.5 deg C above 1850-1900 levels, which would be reached by 2040 “under all emissions scenarios.” By 2100, extreme sea-level events that occurred once a century in the recent past would occur almost annually at more than half the tidal gauge locations. Growth and development entail various processes of production, such as making steel, cement and chemicals, energy generation, transportation of goods and agriculture that account for a large volume of CO2. As there is an inherent link between inequality and the climate crisis, efforts at a global agreement on emission control must also confront inequality, which needs an adroit balancing act between two incompatible imperatives – the conventional economic approach of using growth as the basis for improving living standards in material terms, and the approach of reducing relative inequality while confronting the climate crisis. The debate is almost as old as our awareness of the pitfalls of industrial development. Talking of which, Amitav Ghosh in his book The Great Derangement said: “The humans of the future will surely understand, knowing what they presumably will know about the history of their forebears on earth, that only in one, very brief era, lasting less than three centuries, did a significant number of their kind believe that planets and asteroids are inert.” A glaring proof of this criminal oversight lies in the Sunderbans, where 75% of its mangroves are liable to be destroyed due to a rise in the sea level, a reminder that limits set by nature had been forgotten for some 200 years, from the start of industrialisation to the present day. In 2020, Cyclone Amphan affected 13 million people, causing $13 billion in damage, according to the Overseas Development Institute. The frequency of devastating cyclones such as Sidr (2007), Aila (2009), Phani (2013), Bulbul (2019), Amphan (2020) and Yaas (2021), that hit Sundarbans and destroyed thousands of farmlands and homes, are grim reminders of the days to come. India's own first-ever climate change assessment report (“Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region” prepared by the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences) last year found that both the frequency and intensity of droughts had increased significantly between 1951 and 2016. It warned that heatwaves would intensify four-fold by the end of the century. Elaborating on human-induced climate change, the report notes how India has witnessed a rise in average temperature; a decrease in monsoon precipitation; a rise in extreme temperature and rainfall events, droughts, and sea levels; and an increase in the intensity of severe cyclones, alongside other changes in the monsoon system. Distress signals continue to pour in, be it a glacial collapse this year in the higher reaches of Uttarakhand after a portion of a ‘hanging glacier’ on the slopes of the Nanda Devi broke off and triggered flash floods, or the June 2013 flash floods in the state, caused by a cloudburst near the Kedarnath shrine, which left nearly 700 dead. The Western Ghats has long been affected by fragmentation, unregulated mining, diversion of forest land for commercial activities, etc., though the ecosystem of this famed hotspot of biodiversity which, alongside the Himalayan mountains ranging from Kashmir to North East India, and the Sunderbans, the largest delta in the world, is known to be fragile. The recent landslide on Bengaluru’s popular tourist spot Nandi Hills where, despite protests from environmentalists, stone quarrying and crushing have continued, is a pointer to the dangers of unsustainable commercial activities in the name of ‘development’. It is important to note that the report submitted in August 2011 by the Madhav Gadgil-headed Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP), was labelled favourable to the environment and environmentalists but not for development. How the report rankled the sand mining and quarrying lobbies in Goa and other influential quarters is indicative of how the discourse of development is often made at the cost of the environment. So, the kudos notwithstanding for whatever brownie points we score at international fora like the upcoming event in Glasgow, there is simply no getting away from the known vulnerabilities that continue to bedevil us. They have been enumerated ad nauseum. India is one of the 17 countries where water stress is extremely high, according to a 2019 global report by the World Resources Institute. Our overdependence on the monsoons continues apace, and as has been observed, fluctuations in the GDP are caused by variations in the monsoon. Our long coastline (along which some 250–300 million people dependent on climate-sensitive livelihoods such as agriculture and fishing live) and the poor health of Himalayan glaciers (impacting on water availability to hundreds of millions of people across our Gangetic belt, disrupting crop production, and affecting rainfall patterns) are our other two vulnerabilities. Most worrying is our dependence on natural resource extraction, with most of our core mining areas lying in the heart of our densest forests. Sadly, our paradigm of development is not governed by canons of sustainable development but by corporate greed. And there is another compelling reason why the pandemic could be used as an excuse for procrastination in coming up with carbon reduction targets. As India, one of the worst affected countries by the pandemic, is seeking to kickstart its bruised economy, any date to become carbon neutral or to come up with new reduction targets may not be forthcoming anytime soon as the justification of restoring the economy might defeat the cause of environmental evangelism. But experts relentlessly warn that any attempt to reboot economies battered by Covid by the rampant burning of fossil fuels will be counter-productive. The pandemic has amply demonstrated how vulnerable our social systems are to the natural world. In view of the fact that climate change is anthropo-generated in this era of the Anthropocene (and the Capitalocene) and extreme weather events are being turbocharged by climate change, the need for a policy reboot of our governance systems — how we set about dealing with both inequality and climate crisis — could not be any more pressing than it is now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/wake-up-call-for-india-1035670.html
30-09-2021||First Edit||A ‘high command’ laid low by a maverick||Whatever Navjot Singh Sidhu meant by saying that “the collapse of a man’s character stemmed from the compromise corner”, his resignation as the Punjab Congress president meant the collapse of a political arrangement the party made in the state in the last few weeks and of the credibility of the party high command that made the arrangement, with the party being effectively seen as having painted itself into a corner. It is now being forced into making compromise efforts among the various factions of the party and trying to forge, or at least make a show of, unity and purpose among them when the Assembly elections are just weeks away. The party leadership is now paying the price for unwisely trusting a maverick who was known to be given to irrational conduct and wisecracks that do not make the right language for politics even in these odd times.   Several reasons have been cited for Sidhu deciding to quit soon after the party leadership supported him in destabilising its own government and installing one under a leader who was acceptable to him. He is said to have been unhappy with some of the ministerial selections and official appointments made by the new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. But he did not have the sense to realise that his resignation would do more harm to the party than those appointments would. It was like a batsman leaving the pitch to register his protest against team selection after he had started his innings at the crease. This is irresponsible conduct and whatever way the crisis is resolved it can only hurt the party in the state and bring ridicule to it even in other states.  The Congress is in a difficult situation. If Sidhu comes back to his position on his terms, the party would be seen as weak and appeasing a leader of unreliable nature and dubious loyalty, who put himself above the party. If he goes his way, the whole gamble the party made on him, sacrificing a leader of long standing, would have failed at a crucial time for it. All the caste balancing and calculations that went into the new arrangement would also go haywire. Whether Capt Amarinder Singh stays in the Congress or goes for other options, he can do harm to the party in the elections. There are more factions in the state party now, working at cross purposes, than a fortnight ago. Most importantly, Sidhu’s revolt is a slap for the party high command which practically is the combination of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi whose moral and political claim to leadership and judgement of men and matters will again be questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-high-command-laid-low-by-a-maverick-1035668.html
30-09-2021||First Edit||Infirmities in jobs data survey||The Quarterly Economic Survey (QES) which was released by the Labour Bureau last week is an attempt to provide employment data which is necessary for studies of the economy and for policy formulation. India has often lacked good economic data, especially employment data, which track trends regularly and give reliable inputs, unlike in other major economies which make periodic surveys. The QES has sought to provide employment data for the April-June quarter of FY22 and has covered nine major sectors of the urban economy, including manufacturing, construction, trade, transport, education, health, hospitality, IT and financial services. The survey was conducted during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, much of it by telephone. This perhaps posed some difficulty in capturing the full range of data efficiently. But it has made a good start.   The conclusions of the survey, and some of its methodologies and assumptions, however, suffer from some infirmities. It has recorded that the number of fresh jobs created during the quarter was 30 million, as against 23.7 million reported in the sixth economic census of 2013-14, registering a 29% job growth. The database for the survey should have been chosen from a year closer to the present, not from so far back as 2013-14. Many units which existed in 2013-14 do not exist now. That distorts the data, and the fact that the survey does not capture the data from units that came up after 2013-14 adds to the distortion. The nation has experienced widespread job destruction and not job creation in the recent past. The promise of generation of two crore jobs every year has not come true. That is why the figures presented in the survey do not inspire confidence.   Another limitation of the survey is that it covers only the formal or organised sector and establishments with more than 10 employees. The job situation in the informal sector, which is much bigger than the organised sector, is different, and certainly worse. The survey also found that most of those who were employed in the organised sector got full or partial wages during the lockdowns. Job and wage losses affected mostly those who were employed in the smaller units in the informal sector. The survey showed that a good number of units in the formal sector provided skill development programmes to their workers. While this is welcome, a matter of serious concern is the steady fall of the share of women in the organised sector workforce from 31% in 2013-14 to 29% in April-June this year. While the survey is useful for both government and the private sector, its deficiencies need to be removed, it should be made reliable and interpreted correctly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/infirmities-in-jobs-data-survey-1035958.html
30-09-2021||In Perspective||Playing ‘cards’: Dalit, OBC, Hindutva, good governance||Politics in India is becoming more like a rollercoaster ride for all political parties, including the all-powerful BJP. No one would have imagined that Narendra Modi, who took the party to dizzying heights on the Hindutva card in May 2014 and 2019 nationally, would fall much short in several states in the elections in the last two years.  The moral of the story is simply that Modi is not a sure card in state polls. No matter that Modi personalised the Hindutva card and more. In a diverse country like India, a leader, however tall he may be projected as being, has to show more on the ground than just that image.   That is why the BJP, which has been put on a permanent campaign mode by the prime minister, is still finetuning its Hindutva card. It has now whipped up the OBC card as a ‘sub-card’ of the Hindutva card ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections, to broad-base its appeal in the key state, where it has sensed that it is not on firm ground.  Interestingly, the OBC card has been brought into play despite UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath being seen to be more proactive than Modi in promoting Hindutva through minority-bashing. His ‘abba jaan’ remark was only the latest to raise hackles. Added to this is the fact that some opinion polls show the saffron-robed CM as a “natural heir” to PM Modi, who celebrated his 71st birthday this month.  The OBC card is being played out also to blunt the Muslim+Yadav card of Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, who was the chief minister before the 2017 polls when the BJP scored a landslide in the elections to the 403-member House, winning more than 300 seats. As part of the OBC card, the BJP has now bent over backwards to bring in smaller parties representing smaller backward castes. The name of the game is winning polls, by any means necessary.  In New Delhi, almost every public toilet has placards depicting the progress made by Uttar Pradesh under the rule of Yogi Adityanath. The placards seek to project the ‘good governance card’, claiming that Adityanath has provided 4.5 lakh jobs in four years. For the detractors of the BJP, however, he is one of the worst CMs.  But utilising the caste census issue, the OBC card is also being played by the detractors of the BJP, as also some of its allies. An all-party delegation from Bihar, led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, had met Prime Minister Modi last month. The meeting had taken place in the backdrop of mounting pressure on the Union government to accept the demand for a caste census ahead of elections in seven states next year. In Gujarat, the home state of Modi and Shah, the BJP has sought to play the ‘good governance card’ to show the door to Vijay Rupani and his entire cabinet in the backdrop of growing complaints that Rupani’s government was found wanting in tackling the Covid pandemic. How the newly installed team led by Bhupendra Patel would do the job is to be seen, but the BJP’s attempt is to remove anti-incumbency when Assembly polls are a year away.  After winning Delhi for the second successive time some two years ago, Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal is seeking to utilise the ‘good governance card’ to the hilt in his attempt to further the “Delhi model” of cheap electricity for the poor and good education to children from the downtrodden families. The AAP is attempting to make inroads in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Goa. In Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress used the ‘local’ card as also the woman card to give more than a bloody nose in the recent Assembly polls to an aggressive BJP, which is still licking its wounds. Mamata successfully projected herself as ‘Bengal’s daughter’ who is up against the ‘outsider’ (BJP). Now, the Congress has suddenly played, by accident or design, the Dalit card in poll-bound Punjab, giving the state a Dalit-Sikh as CM for the first time. In Uttarakhand, too, it is giving signals that it could opt for a Dalit CM if voted to power. The card played by Congress has apparently stumped the BJP, which does not have a Dalit CM anywhere, despite being in power in several states. Some BJP CMs are worried a lot about losing their job.  BSP supremo Mayawati, who considers herself as the preeminent Dalit leader in the country, is rattled, too, by what the Congress has done.  The politics of playing ‘cards’ is expected to get much more intense and interesting in the days and months to come, as we move closer to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, and any wrong move by any player is fraught with heavy penalties. (The writers are Delhi-based journalists)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/playing-cards-dalit-obc-hindutva-good-governance-1035656.html
30-09-2021||In Perspective||China’s crackdowns and the cracks in the system||China’s crackdowns on sectors ranging from e-commerce, technology to real estate, school tutoring and casino industries are ostensibly intended to make the economy more equitable and productive in the long term. According to Chinese economist Hui Shan, the government intends to regulate specific actions such as anti-competitive behaviour and data collection that infringes privacy and national security. Though the Chinese authorities are placing more emphasis on technological industries, their focus has now shifted to “hard tech” industries, such as semiconductor and aerospace from “soft tech” sectors, like internet companies. Primavera Capital’s founder Fred Hu argues that China’s regulatory goals to rein in tech businesses are similar to what other countries are doing, the difference is that “China has taken a far stronger, and arguably more heavy-handed, approach to regulation and enforcement, which has clearly had a devastating impact on investor sentiment and markets in the short term.” The “10-point plan” released in August 2021 by China’s State Council and the Communist Party’s Central Committee, outlines tighter regulation of much of its economy for the next five years. It says that new rules will be introduced covering areas including wealth equity, national security, technology and monopolies in the world’s second-largest economy. The regulatory shakeup centres on the phrase “commonprosperity.”  China’s anti-monopoly regulations focused on the so-called “platform economy.” Beijing has already launched anti-monopoly investigations into some of the country’s biggest technology firms. In April, Alibaba paid a record $2.8 billion fine after a probe found that it had abused its dominant market position for years. Alibaba has lost over $400 billion in market value on its US listing. Gaming giant Tencent, TikTok owner ByteDance and Huawei were all dragged into the geopolitical battle between the US and China. Tencent has also been affected by China’s latest efforts to combat gaming addiction among minors. In August, under-18s were banned from playing video games for more than three hours a week. Tencent has lost more than $347 billion in market value since mid-February. China’s largest provider of private educational services, New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc., has seen the market value of its US-listed shares fall by $7.4 billion since July, when Beijing issued new rules barring for-profit tutoring on the school curriculum. Beijing wants to ease pressure on school children and reduce the cost burden on parents, which has contributed to a drop in birth rates. But analysts warn that the new rules threaten to decimate the country’s private education sector.  Macau, the special administrative region, is the only jurisdiction under Chinese sovereignty where casinos are allowed to operate, making it the go-to destination for mainland China’s high-rolling millionaires. Tables at Macau’s 41 casinos generated six times the revenue of the 144 casinos in Las Vegas, racking up $360 billion in earnings in 2019. The gaming industry contributed over half of the city’s $54 billion pre-pandemic GDP. The tighter grip from China’s regulators comes at a tough time for the casino companies already reeling from slumping traffic as the Covid-19 pandemic drags on. Concerned about Chinese people losing money in Macau’s casinos, Beijing will begin reviewing the casino industry’s practices. China’s regulatory overhaul could see its officials supervising the casino companies in the world’s largest gambling hub. Shares of Macau casino operators shed as much as a third of their value, losing about $18 billion last Wednesday. Real estate contributes about 28% to China’s GDP. China’s regulatory push to wean property developers from excessive borrowing is spilling over into loan losses at banks and pain in credit markets as cash-strapped builders fall into distress, raising the risk of fallout rippling across the economy. This year, 274 Chinese real estate companies went bankrupt -- on an average, one every working day. Some real estate analysts say that the bankrupt real estate companies were mainly small and micro real estate companies.  But the “mother of all” real estate bankruptcies is unfolding in China’s second largest real estate company, Evergrande. Alarm bells rang this week, with news that the world’s most indebted real estate developer is struggling to make loan payments on its more than $300 billion in liabilities — a sum equivalent to 2% of China’s GDP. Evergrande borrowed through banks, trusts, wealth investment products, corporate bonds, commercial paper and from front-end suppliers. Some 1.5 million customers have paid advances for Evergrande homes that are yet to be built. “Evergrande’s collapse would be the biggest test that China’s financial system has faced in years,” Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a September 9 briefing note. Not only would a collapse of Evergrande be catastrophic for investor confidence and credit markets, it would also reflect poorly on the ruling Chinese Communist Party (CCP) under President Xi Jinping. The cracks in the market economy under a dictatorial rule are clearly visible. (The writer is a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/china-s-crackdowns-and-the-cracks-in-the-system-1035954.html
30-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||28 PU students test positive for Covid in Nagamangala||As many as 28 students of Government PU College for girls have tested positive for Covid-19 at Nagmangala town in Mandya district on Wednesday. After one of the students tested positive for Covid, all the students of the college were subjected to Covid test and 28 of them tested positive. The government college is at Tank Grounds in the town. Out of 412 students studying in the college, 372 were subject to Covid test on Tuesday and 19 were found positive. Later, nine more were found infected after their primary contacts were tested on Wednesday. All the Covid infected students have been shifted to the Covid care centre at a government hospital in the town and provided treatment. The college has been sealed down for a week as a precautionary measure. Taluk Health Officer, District Surveillance and Nodal officers visited the college and directed the college authorities to take all precautionary measures and follow guidelines to prevent any spread of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/28-pu-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-nagamangala-1035800.html
30-09-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tree collapses on rickshaw due to rain, driver killed||An autorickshaw driver was killed instantly when a tree collapsed on his moving vehicle near the Five Light Circle on the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway due to heavy rains that lashed parts of Mysuru city on Thursday evening. Ejaz Pasha (42), a resident of Aleem Nagar, died on the spot and a passenger suffered minor injuries. According to police, the auto was moving on St Philomena's Church Road when the tree uprooted and fell on the vehicle. Lashkar police have registered a case. Parts of Mysuru district also received rains on Thursday evening. Sudden rains also lashed Hassan city and parts of the district on Thursday. The city received rain for more than half an hour. Sakleshpur, Alur, Belur, Arkalgud also received good rains.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tree-collapses-on-rickshaw-due-to-rain-driver-killed-1035996.html
30-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP 'misleading' the youth in the name of Hindutva, Hindu Rashtra: H D Kumaraswamy||Accusing the BJP of "misleading" the youth in the name of Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday said, the focus should be rather on creating jobs and providing employment to them. He said the JD(S) will focus on mobilising the youth power as part of its "mission 123 seats" to bring the party to power after the 2023 Assembly polls in Karnataka. "The BJP government at the centre had promised to provide 2 crore jobs, but has created a large crisis of unemployment. The BJP government in the state has completely neglected the decision taken by the 14-months Congress-JD(S) coalition government led by me to set up industrial clusters in nine districts," Kumaraswamy said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, appointments are not happening for government jobs, and because of Covid many have lost jobs. "BJP's main publicity is the creation of a Hindu Rashtra. They are emotionally misleading the youth of the country in the name of Hindutva. What the youth of the country and the state need today is employment, a strength to support one's family and dependents," he added. Kumaraswamy was speaking on the sidelines of ongoing "Janata Parva 1.0", a four-day workshop for party leaders near here, aimed at bringing it to power in 2023, near here. Noting that JD(S)' target to win 123 seats in the 2023 Assembly polls and forming the government was not just for the sake of power, the former Karnataka Chief Minister said, we want the youth of every family to be employed. "Let's focus on eradicating unemployment and employing our youths.....let's look at shaping our lives and that of our dependents, and then think about Hindutva or Hindu Rashtra. To overcome the attempts by the BJP to mislead the people, especially youths in the name of Hindutva, JD(S) will focus on mobilising youth and women power to bring in pro-people government," he added. Kumaraswamy has already set a target of winning at least 123 seats in the 224-member Assembly, during the 2023 Assembly polls. Stating that the party wants to give priority to youth while giving tickets, he said, "I have already prepared a programme for this as part of our mission 123, and will see how they work for the people in their respective constituency." He further said that there is good bonding among youth leaders in the party, as he declared that the party will mobilise youth power during the next 17 months in the runup to 2023 polls under the leadership of his son Nikhil Kumaraswamy (JDS youth president) and nephew Prajwal Revanna (Hassan MP). Kumaraswamy on Wednesday had said that the party plans to field women candidates in at least 30-35 constituencies for the 2023 assembly polls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-misleading-the-youth-in-the-name-of-hindutva-hindu-rashtra-h-d-kumaraswamy-1035809.html
30-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Why was Siddaramaiah not ready to accept caste census report when he was CM? asks Shettar||Charging that Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah was shedding crocodile tears just to get the tag of 'champion of backward classes', MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar on Thursday alleged that the LoP did not obtain the social and economic survey (caste census) of backward classes report from the backward classes commission in 2015 due to pressure from within the Congress. "Siddaramaiah is an expert in telling lies. After not presenting the caste census report before the Legislature when he was the chief minister, he is now shifting the responsibility to governments which came later. Siddaramaiah had claimed holding this survey as his great achievement, and Rs 180 crore was spent for that," Shettar said. In a PIL filed before the High Court, Congress leader Mukhyamantri Chandru has mentioned that the report was ready on May 15, 2015 itself. If Siddaramaiah had real concern about backward classes, he should have obtained the report immediately after it was ready, by getting the signature of the commission's then member-secretary on it, he noted. Siddaramaiah is following a hit and run policy, and is making irresponsible statements. He blamed H D Kumaraswamy as well and asked the present BJP government to disclose the report. But, he did not raise the issue in the recently-held session of the State Legislature, Shettar lambasted. "We do not know what is there in the report. The government would take a suitable decision on this issue, after consulting the backward classes commission chairperson," he stated. 'Visit Afghanistan once' Responding to Siddaramaiah's remarks likening BJP and RSS to Taliban, Shettar asked him to visit Afghanistan once, to understand the Taliban's culture. "He made cheap remarks against nationalist organisations, and it is a black spot on his personality," Shettar added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/why-was-siddaramaiah-not-ready-to-accept-caste-census-report-when-he-was-cm-asks-shettar-1035866.html
30-09-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Janata Paksha to be reorganised again: Kimmane Ratnakar||Dropping a bombshell in a preliminary meeting convened by District Congress Committee ahead of Legislative Council Polls, KPCC Spokesperson and former minister Kimmane Ratnakar on Thursday said Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) would be reorganised again and JD(S) is likely to extend support to it to bring regional party to power in the state.  Addressing the meeting, Kimmane, without mentioning the name of R M Manjunath Gowda, who embraced Congress by quitting JD(S), said political hopper will embrace KJP by quitting the Congress when the party is reorganised. The efforts are on to bring a regional party to power in Karnataka with the support of KJP and JD(S). He said JD(S) leaders are taking part in programmes organised by Congress in Thirthahalli taluk. JD(S) General Secretary M Srikanth took part in the padayatra taken out by Congress leader demanding the government to provide lands to Sharavathy project evacuees. Besides, the photos of JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy had been used in the Congress party programme held in Bidaragodu. What is the reason behind supporting those who faced the polls against the party's candidates? he questioned and said he would also convene a meeting by inviting leaders of other parties. Will the leaders tolerate it? Ratnakar questioned.   The leaders, who were present in the meeting, objected to his remarks and this led to an exchange of heated arguments between them. Stating that nobody can end his political career, he walked out of the meeting.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-janata-paksha-to-be-reorganised-again-kimmane-ratnakar-1035964.html
30-09-2021||National||Punjab CM asks local govt dept to check corruption, unplanned construction||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi asked officials on Wednesday to check the "rampant" corruption in the local government department and the "unplanned and haphazard" construction across the state. Significantly, the local government department is under minister Brahm Mohindra, who is considered close to former chief minister Amarinder Singh. Channi called for all-out efforts to provide basic amenities to the people of the state. Reviewing the functioning of the local government department, he asked the principal secretary of the department, A K Sinha, to issue detailed guidelines to the municipal councils to allow construction of houses only in the urban areas, in accordance with the building plans duly approved by the authorities concerned, an official statement said. Channi also said corruption is "rampant" at different levels in the department and it must be checked immediately as there are several complaints from the common people about harassment for getting their work done. He directed the principal secretary to personally ensure that people are given the best civic amenities such as potable water supply, street lighting, sewerage, roads and parks etc. The chief minister also stressed on the need to make a provision for at least 35-foot roads in the colonies so as to enable people to have hassle-free road connectivity. He said the plans of those colonisers, who kept narrow 20-foot roads, should not be approved. Channi also asked the principal secretary of the local government department to put in place an effective mechanism to redress the grievances of the public on priority.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-asks-local-govt-dept-to-check-corruption-unplanned-construction-1035662.html
30-09-2021||National||Poonia targets Cong over ‘irregularities’ in REET exam||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Wednesday targeted the Congress government over alleged irregularities in the Rajasthan Teacher Eligibility Test (REET) examination. "State Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra in a way accepted that there was an irregularity and someone kicked the interests of the unemployed youth. The Congress government is directly to blame for it," Poonia told reporters. He also said the BJP may or may not benefit from the conflict within the Congress in Rajasthan but the people of the state have suffered. He alleged that organised gangs have flourished in the state and the government and its intelligence have failed to put an end to it. Poonia said development in villages has stalled due to internal conflicts within the state Congress. He said the issues of farmers, electricity and development will be raised prominently in the upcoming elections. On the selection of candidates in the by-elections to be held in two assembly seats in Rajasthan, he said the party will go for winnable candidates. Elections of Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti members in Alwar and Dholpur districts of the state will be held in three phases on October 20, October 23 and October 26. The voting for the by-elections to Dhariyavad and Vallabhnagar assembly seats will be held on October 30.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poonia-targets-cong-over-irregularities-in-reet-exam-1035684.html
30-09-2021||National||Doctors from India find previously unknown rare genetic disease in children||Medical researchers and doctors from five countries, including India, have identified a previously unknown rare genetic disorder that impacts the brain and multiple other organs in children in their respective countries for the first time. An international team on Wednesday reported that a mysterious disorder observed among children for over 10 years, was a previously unrecognized syndrome that could also affect the kidneys, heart, and eyes of the kids leaving them disabled lifelong. "It is such a rare condition that we found only 10 such cases in five countries. I have seen only one patient,” Ratna D Puri, a geneticist at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and one of the team members, told DH. The researchers suggested future studies to determine its prevalence. The research team dubbed the condition “Zaki syndrome” after co-author Maha S Zaki of the National Research Center in Cairo, Egypt, who first spotted the condition. Zaki syndrome affects the prenatal development of several organs of the body, including eyes, brain, hands, kidneys and heart. Children suffer from lifelong disabilities. "Their cognitive functions are poor because of their small brain size. They are slow learner," said Puri. Published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the work involved researchers in Egypt, India, the United Arab Emirates, Brazil and the USA. “Although different doctors were caring for these children, all of the children showed the same symptoms and all had DNA mutations in the same gene,” senior author of the study Joseph G Gleeson, professor of neuroscience at University of California San Diego School of Medicine and director of neuroscience at the Rady Children’s Institute for Genomic Medicine said in a statement. “We have been perplexed by children with this condition for many years,” said Gleeson. “We had observed children around the world with DNA mutations in the Wnt-less (WLS) gene, but did not recognize that they all had the same disease until doctors compared clinical notes. We realized we were dealing with a new syndrome that can be recognized by clinicians, and potentially prevented.” The team also developed a potential intervention and tested them successfully on mice in the laboratory. Though more experiments are needed to find out whether such a disorder can be reversed with a drug, the researchers hope that such experiments would open up the window to correct birth defects with medical intervention if detected early. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-from-india-find-previously-unknown-rare-genetic-disease-in-children-1035697.html
30-09-2021||National||India ready to expand economic partnership with US: Goyal||India and the US should engage in a much bigger way and New Delhi is ready and willing to expand the economic partnership with America, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday. He also called for setting an ambitious bilateral trade target of $1 trillion in the next 10 years. Addressing the 4th Annual Leadership Summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), Goyal said though a lot of effort had gone into negotiating a trade agreement between the two countries during the previous US administration, unfortunately it did not work out.   The minister said India is negotiating an early harvest agreement with Australia, "so now it is left to the US and India to engage in a much bigger way. I would urge all of you to also impress upon your administration (that) India is ready and willing to expand our economic partnership in the spirit of reciprocity and equality." While the bilateral trade in goods and services has seen significant growth in the last 10 years, "I do believe that the potential has not even been started," he added. "I think India and the US should be looking at a balance mutual trade of a trillion dollar in the next 10 years and unless we keep some very ambitious target, we will never get there... "I am happy to engage with the US and look for expanding our economic partnership so then all 4 members of  the Quad (comprising Japan, India, Australia and the US) would have very strong economic ties with each other," he noted. On the trade agreement with Australia, the minister said it is progressing fast and the next round of discussions is on September 30. "We hope to conclude very quickly our early harvest agreement, in which we have identified a few issues, may be 100-200 product lines, some services, some investment areas, which are of pressing interest to both the countries," he said. He added that a free trade agreement, with 11,000 product lines, will take much longer time, and that would be pursued and finished over next few months, but India and Australia are going for the early harvest pact so that businesses can start enjoying the fruits of this partnership. Talking about India's single window clearance system, he said "we will make sure that sitting in Minnesota (in the US), you can identify land you want to buy, pay for it, and ensure all your approvals."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ready-to-expand-economic-partnership-with-us-goyal-1035712.html
30-09-2021||National||India reports 23,529 new Covid-19 cases, 311 deaths||India recorded a single-day rise of 23,529 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking its infection tally to 3,37,39,980, while the count of active cases dipped to 2,77,020, the lowest in 195 days, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,48,062 with 311 daily fatalities being recorded, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has declined to 2,77,020, comprising 0.82 per cent of the total infections – the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.85 per cent, the highest since March 2020, it added. A decrease of 5,500 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,06,254 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations done so far to 56,89,56,439, the data showed. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.56 per cent. It has been below three per cent for 31 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.74 per cent. This figure has been below three per cent for 97 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,30,14,898, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of coronavirus vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide inoculation drive has exceeded 88.34 crore. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country surpassed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 311 new fatalities include 155 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,062 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,011 from Maharashtra, 37,780 from Karnataka, 35,550 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 from Delhi, 24,965 from Kerala, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,778 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-23529-new-covid-19-cases-311-deaths-1035736.html
30-09-2021||National||PM Modi had a very successful visit to US, says Taranjit Sandhu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a very successful visit to the US during which he held his maiden bilateral meeting with President Joe Biden and had a good candid and substantial exchange with like-minded Quad leaders at their first in-person summit, India's envoy here has said. Remarks by India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, came at a dinner event hosted by Indiaspora on Wednesday. “We just had a very successful visit here,” Sandhu said. The dinner was attended by the who’s who of the Indian-American community. Eminent members of the Indian-American community had gathered for the first time in the national capital after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. During the visit, there was an important bilateral meeting between President Biden and Prime Minister Modi, the first one since the Biden-Harris administration was inaugurated in January this year. The two leaders had earlier met in 2014 and 2016 when Biden was the vice president of the country. “So, it was not the first time they were meeting, but the bilateral meeting was very good,” Sandhu said in his first public appearance after last week’s visit of prime minister Modi. The interaction with Vice President Kamala Harris went very well, he said. The Quad summit hosted by Biden at the White House and attended by Modi along with their counterparts from Japan and Australia “really went off very well,” he said. “There was a good candid and substantial exchange between all the four leaders," he said, adding that there are practical areas in which the corporation is moving quite ahead. “In fact, in vaccines, all the four countries are bringing their respective strengths together and we are on our way to producing one billion vaccines in 2022 which will be distributed over the Indo-Pacific particularly in Southeast Asia,” Sandhu said. During his stay in Washington DC, Prime Minister Modi had two other bilaterals with Prime Minister Scott Morrison from Australia and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan. During his trips, the US handed over 150 historic antiquities to India, which the prime minister took with him on his return to India. From Washington DC, the Prime Minister went to New York where he addressed the UN General Assembly. Quickly running through some of the important areas during the trip in addition to the strategic ones, Sandhu said the prime minister had a good exchange on regional issues as well as other international challenges. “Quad is a group of like-minded countries which are coming together because today's challenges are much international in nature. For example, Covid,” he said. The US, India, Australia and Japan had in 2017 given shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" or the Quadrilateral coalition to counter China's aggressive behaviour in the Indo-Pacific region. In affordable health care, he said, India is an important partner. “There is tremendous scope for us, bilaterally to help each other and also to third countries,” he said. As India resumes its export of vaccines, he noted there would be close cooperation with the United States and other like-minded countries Digital, IT, startups and innovation holds a lot of promise in the bilateral relationship with the US. Climate change, environment and knowledge and education are other major areas of cooperation between the two countries. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-had-a-very-successful-visit-to-us-says-taranjit-sandhu-1035745.html
30-09-2021||National||Decision on Bharat Biotech's Covaxin EUL in October : WHO||A decision on Bharat Biotech’s submission seeking emergency use listing (EUL) for its Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine will be made in October, the World Health Organization has said. The status of assessment for Covaxin is “ongoing”. Bharat Biotech had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 for its vaccine. The latest ‘Status of Covid-19 vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process’ guidance document dated September 29 on the WHO website said that the decision date for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is “October 2021”. The WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. According to the WHO, submissions to WHO for prequalification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential. If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, the WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on those data meeting WHO criteria, according to the agency. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. Bharat Biotech recently said it submitted all data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled & available in June 2021. All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech had tweeted earlier this month. “We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest,” the company had said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-on-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-eul-in-october-who-1035759.html
30-09-2021||National||Roads can't be blocked perpetually: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday queried the Union government as to what it was doing to remove the road blockade by the farmers, protesting against three agriculture laws at the national capital, once again voicing its concern that the roads can't remain occupied perpetually. A bench, presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, pointed out that redressal of a problem can be made through judicial forum, agitation or Parliamentary debates but the highways can't be blocked and this cannot be a perpetual problem. "We have already laid down the law and you have to implement it. If we encroach, then you may say that we have trespassed on your domain... This has ramifications but there are grievances which are to be redressed," the bench said. The court also asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj specifically as to what the government was doing in the matter. Mehta, for his part, submitted that at a very high level, a three-member committee was constituted. We invited them (the agitating farmers) to attend the meeting. However they did not join the meeting, he said.  He sought the court's permission to make the agitating farmers' groups as parties to a plea filed by Monicca Agarwaal for removing road blockades affecting the free movements of traffic between Delhi and Noida. The court allowed the Centre to file an application in this regard and put the matter for consideration on Monday. On August 23, the court had asked the Centre to find a solution to the blockade of roads caused here in the National Capital Region in view of the ongoing farmers' protest against  three agriculture laws. It had said that the protestors have a right to protest at a designated space but can't block the outflow and inflow of traffic. Earlier, the court had issued notice to Centre and Delhi Police Commissioner and others on the plea of the woman who alleged that instead of the normal 20 minutes, she ends up spending two hours for her travel from Noida to Delhi. On January 12 during the farmers' protests, a separate bench, while staying implementation of three farm laws, said, "this order will encourage the farmers bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and the lives and properties of others." On October 7, 2020, the top court, in its judgement with regard to Shaheen Bagh sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act, had then declared that public roads and spaces can't be occupied indefinitely for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, and the demonstrations must be organised at designated places only. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/roads-cant-be-blocked-perpetually-supreme-court-1035790.html
30-09-2021||National||Mortality in India's 2nd Covid-19 wave falls as vaccination picks up||The vaccination data from Covid-19 second wave has revealed that the Covid-19 vaccine has successfully reduced mortality rate among people who are either fully or partially vaccinated as compared to the unvaccinated population, even during the peak. In the beginning of the second wave, in the week ending on April 18, average weekly death per million for the total unvaccinated population of the country was 19.18. Meanwhile, for the same week, average deaths per million for people with at least one dose was 1.72 and for people with two doses it stood at 0.46. In the beginning of August, the Covid cases gradually started to drop with the increase in the vaccination rate. The weekly death per million curve for unvaccinated population was rising in the beginning of the second wave. However, after June 7, when the Centre announced free Covid vaccination for 18 years and above, the death rate drastically fell. As of the week ending on June 6, the total vaccination coverage was 20.31 per cent which became more than double-- 44.63 per cent in the week ending on August 15. Between the weeks ending on June 6 and August 15 when the vaccination rate increased, the mortality rate of the population above 60 - the most vulnerable group - decreased drastically. For the same group, the unvaccinated population had 30.04 weekly deaths per million, partially vaccinated people had 0.46 weekly deaths per million and fully vaccinated people had 0.33 weekly deaths per million. The analysis of vaccine efficacy is based on ICMR’s Covid-19 testing data, Co-WIN’s vaccination data and the death numbers are from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mortality-in-indias-2nd-covid-19-wave-falls-as-vaccination-picks-up-1035793.html
30-09-2021||National||SC gives 3 weeks time to Adani Power to file reply on curative petition against 2019 judgement||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted three weeks time to Adani Power Ltd to file its response to a curative petition against the 2019 judgement allowing the company to terminate the power purchase agreement with Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (GUVNL). A five-judge bench, presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana, gave two weeks thereafter to the GUVNL to file its rejoinder in the matter. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Adani Power, submitted that they need time to file their reply as well as some documents in the matter. Attorney General K K Venugopal and senior advocate C A Sundaram, representing the GUVNL, said they would then like to put their rejoinder.  The court fixed the matter for further hearing on November 17. In its July 2019 judgment, a three-judge bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra (since retired) B R Gavai and Surya Kant said that Adani Power was justified in terminating the PPA since it could not get coal supply on time from the Naini block of Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation (GMDC). The court had then allowed Adani to seek a compensatory rate for the electricity it had alternatively supplied to Gujarat from its Korba power project in Chhattisgarh.  On September 16, the top court decided to examine the curative petition against the judgement, saying there are substantial questions of law which required consideration. It had then issued notice to the Adani Power in the matter. Curative petition is the last legal resort for a party to ask the top court to reconsider its judgement after the dismissal of review petition. Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-3-weeks-time-to-adani-power-to-file-reply-on-curative-petition-against-2019-judgement-1035794.html
30-09-2021||National||Will give free medical treatment in govt hospitals if AAP voted to power in Punjab: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said if his party is voted to power in Punjab in next year's polls, it will give free and better treatment in all government hospitals in the state. "Today, I have come to give a guarantee related to health services," Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to Punjab, said at a news conference here. He spelled out “six guarantees” related to healthcare, promising to implement these if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is voted to power. "The condition in government hospitals in Punjab is so bad that people are forced to go to private facilities. And there is loot in private hospitals. In government hospitals in the state, people are facing problems with regards to medicines, availability of doctors and better equipment," Kejriwal said, flanked by AAP state unit chief and MP Bhagwant Mann. "We changed the shape of government hospitals in Delhi. I am giving six guarantees for health of citizens (if AAP is voted to power in Punjab)," he added. Every person in Punjab will be given free and better treatment in government hospitals, which will be at par with the private ones, Kejriwal said, adding that all medicines, tests and operations will be free. "Even if anyone incurs expenses on operations up to Rs 10-15 lakh, that too will be free in government hospitals," he said. "Every citizen of Punjab will be given a health card, which will have all health-related information of that particular individual. It will be our responsibility to give the best treatment," Kejriwal said, adding, "All data will be available online." Like Delhi's Mohalla Clinics, "Pind Clinics" will be opened in Punjab. As many as 16,000 such facilities will be set up, he said. All government hospitals in Punjab will be improved with better equipment, and bigger medical facilities will be opened, Kejriwal said. "Treatment expenses of road accident victims will be borne by our government if the AAP is voted to power," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-give-free-medical-treatment-in-govt-hospitals-if-aap-voted-to-power-in-punjab-kejriwal-1035805.html
30-09-2021||National||Development of country linked to health of citizens: Mansukh Mandaviya||The health of citizens is important for the development of the country and the prime minister has taken steps to link the two, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said here on Thursday. Earlier, health was not linked with development. Linking health with development was started by Modi as chief minister of Gujarat, the minister said at the virtual foundation stone laying ceremony of four new medical colleges in Rajasthan. He said the changes taking place in the health sector are meant to take the country forward. "It is a very big thing to link health with development. This is the foresightedness of Prime Minister Modi," he said. “Unless the citizens of the country are healthy society cannot be healthy and when society is not healthy then the nation cannot be healthy. Twenty years ago in Gujarat, the Ma Amrutam Yojana was started with the view and its results are being seen by citizens of the country," the minister said. Mandaviya also said that more than 40 Petrochemical Technology Institutes (CIPET) across the country are self-sufficient, earning their own income and providing education to one lakh students every year with 95 per cent job placement. Prime Minister Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of four new medical colleges in Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Dausa districts of Rajasthan through video conference. Modi also inaugurated the Institute of Petrochemical Technology in Jaipur through video conferencing. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/development-of-country-linked-to-health-of-citizens-mansukh-mandaviya-1035806.html
30-09-2021||National||Delhi to be free of air, water and noise pollution in 3 years: Nitin Gadkari||The government will make the national capital free of air, water and noise pollution in the next three years, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday, observing that pollution is the biggest concern for the country. Addressing the annual session of industry body PHDCCI, the road transport minister said that his ministry has spent Rs 60,000 crore on road infrastructure development -- an effort that also helped in reducing air pollution in Delhi. "Air pollution, water pollution and noise pollution are major concerns for the country. We will make Delhi free of air, water and sound pollution in the next three years," he said. Gadkari said the road ministry is working on a proposal to shift all container depots and 1,700 godowns out of Delhi. "In the next 15 days, we will be discussing that proposal with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi Development Authority (DDA)," he said. Gadkari also said that the road ministry is also building logistics park of worth Rs 1 lakh crore. The minister said he has put forth his suggestion to Kejriwal to run only electric buses for public transport purposes in Delhi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-to-be-free-of-air-water-and-noise-pollution-in-3-years-nitin-gadkari-1035837.html
30-09-2021||National||Modi to launch second phases of Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban, AMRUT on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the second phases of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation on Friday, his office said. In line with the vision of the prime minister, SBM-U 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 have been designed to realise the aspiration to make all cities garbage free and water secure, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement on Thursday. Modi will launch the two initiatives at 11 am at the Dr. Ambedkar International Centre here, it said. These flagship missions signify a step forward in the march towards effectively addressing the challenges of rapidly urbanising India and will also help contribute towards achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 2030, the statement said. Union Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Housing & Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore as well as ministers of urban development of states and union territories will also be present on the occasion. SBM-U 2.0 envisions to make all cities 'garbage free' and ensure grey and black water management in all cities other than those covered under AMRUT, make all urban local bodies open defecation free plus and those with a population of less than one lakh as open defecation free plus, thereby achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas. The mission will focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising the principles of 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumpsites for effective solid waste management, the statement said. The outlay of SBM-U 2.0 is around Rs 1.41 lakh crore, it said. AMRUT 2.0 aims at providing 100 per cent coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100 per cent coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer or septage connections, which will benefit more than 10.5 crore people in urban areas, the PMO said. AMRUT 2.0 will adopt the principles of circular economy and promote conservation and rejuvenation of surface and groundwater bodies, it said. The mission will promote data-led governance in water management and technology sub-mission to leverage the latest global technologies and skills, it said. 'Pey Jal Survekshan' will be conducted to promote progressive competition among cities. The outlay of AMRUT 2.0 is around Rs 2.87 lakh crore, the statement said. SBM-U and AMRUT have contributed significantly to improve urban landscape during the last seven years, PMO said. The two flagship missions have augmented the capacity to deliver basic services of water supply and sanitation to the citizens, the statement said. 'Swachhta' has become a jan andolan today, all urban local bodies have been declared open defecation free and 70 per cent solid waste is being scientifically processed now, the statement said. AMRUT has been ensuring water security by adding 1.1 crore household water tap connections and 85 lakh sewer connections, thus benefiting more than 4 crore people.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-to-launch-second-phases-of-swachh-bharat-mission-urban-amrut-on-friday-1035850.html
30-09-2021||National||Forced to withdraw complaint, subjected to banned test, alleges sexually assaulted IAF officer||A 28-year old female Air Force officer at the Air Force Administrative College here who was sexually assaulted, has levelled serious charges against the IAF authorities, including subjecting her to a banned finger test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant. The charges found place in the FIR registered by the police based on the complaint by the woman officer at the All Woman Police Station, after the IAF authorities including College Commandant failed to take action till September 20 on the incident which happened on September 10. The woman also alleged she was subjected to 'two-finger test' at the Air Force Hospital to ascertain rape, which was banned by the Supreme Court a few years ago. Police had arrested the accused Amitesh Harmukh on September 25 and he is in judicial custody. Both the rape victim and the accused, hailing from Chhattisgarh, were part of a training course and had attended a party in the officers' mess on the night of September 9. The woman officer in her complaint said the incident occurred in the wee hours of the next day when she was sleeping after taking medicine for her leg injury and was assaulted by the drunk officer, who had narrated the incident to two of her batchmates who recorded the conversation between the trio. She approached a wing commander on the incident and came to the room along with a woman wing commander, who 'advised' her to think about the future including the name and respect of the family, based on which she communicated to one of her friends that she was not going to lodge any complaint. However, as both the wing commanders again approached her and told her to either file the complaint or give in writing that the episode was consensual, she subsequently mustered courage and decided to file the complaint, amid the finger test in the evening in the hospital. The victim further said she had handed over the mattress which had strains of semen to two women doctors, the FIR said. After cajoling by two senior officers, who informed that the test was negative, the commandant asked her to withdraw the case in writing saying if pursued, it will be flashed in the media and bring disrepute to the Air Force and herself, police said. However, she went to the city police commissioner's office on September 20 and from there the all-woman police station registered the case. When contacted, a senior IAF officer, on condition of anonymity, refused to comment on the issue as the matter was in court and sensitive. Meanwhile, the IAF had filed a petition in the court that local police has no right to arrest the officer and only the defence court is the jurisdiction where a court martial can be conducted and therefore hand over him the accused to the IAF. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forced-to-withdraw-complaint-subjected-to-banned-test-alleges-sexually-assaulted-iaf-officer-1035858.html
30-09-2021||National||All you need to know about the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the rollout of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM) on Monday which is a database of healthcare documents to enable people to access their past medical reports digitally. During its launch, PM Modi said that the initiative has the “potential of bringing a revolutionary change in India’s healthcare facilities”. However, the mission's success will depend highly on the private sector as they provide 60 to 70 per cent of the healthcare services in the country. Here’s all you need to know about this digital healthcare database and how to register yourself: How to be a part of ABDM? To be a part of the ABDM program, you can self-register on its website, which will generate your health ID, a random 14-digit number. This ‘unique’ health id can be used for unique identification, authentication and threading of health documents.  Alternatively, it can be generated from any government or private hospital or healthcare facility. Along with the ID, you will need to set up a Personal Health Records (PHR) address for consent management and to access your documents in the future. What are the features of ABDM? Any beneficiary of ABDM can get access to their digital health records in one place including admission, treatment and discharge information. Apart from digitisation of healthcare records, ABDM aims to expand to telemedicines as well to allow people access to verified doctors across the country digitally. During the launch, PM Modi said that ABDM will connect digital health solutions of hospitals from different parts of the country. What about Aadhaar requirement and data security? Linking your Aadhaar number is not mandatory on this service. You can register yourself on the portal using your phone number. According to the NHA, the health records of beneficiaries are not stored on the ABDM portal. Only upon the beneficiary's consent, the documents can be shared over the ABDM network “with encryption mechanisms”. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-ayushman-bharat-digital-mission-1035863.html
30-09-2021||National||Govt exempts Covid vaccine from customs duty till Dec 31||The government has exempted customs duty on Covid-19 vaccines for three months till December 31, which will boost domestic availability and make them cheaper. In a notification dated September 29, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said the exemption would come into force on October 1, 2021, and remain in force up to December 31, 2021. Earlier in April, the government had exempted basic customs duty on the import of Covid vaccines for three months. Following the conclusion of the three-month period, Covid-19 vaccines import attracted 10 per cent duty. The exemption from import duty would help keep low the cost of overseas vaccines that are being eyed to supplement domestically made shots of Covishield and Covaxin. Currently, India imports Russia made Sputnik V vaccine. India has granted Emergency Use Approval to five vaccines - Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-exempts-covid-vaccine-from-customs-duty-till-dec-31-1035871.html
30-09-2021||National||There should be one medical college or institution for PG medical education in every district: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the government was making efforts to ensure that every district of the country at least has a medical college. Addressing a virtual ceremony to lay foundation stones of four medical colleges in Rajasthan and inauguration of the Institute of Petrochemicals Technology, Modi said his government had also succeeded in reforming the Medical Council of India, which was mired in controversy, and set up the National Medical Commission. The Prime Minister said it was necessary to have a network of medical colleges and super-specialty hospitals such as AIIMS in every corner of the country. “The Centre is making efforts that there should be one medical college or institution for PG (post-graduate) medical education in every district,” he said. Modi said India was moving towards an empowered network of 22 AIIMS from six AIIMS. “In the last six-seven years, over 170 new medical colleges have been started and over 100 new medical colleges are being developed,” he said. He said since the NDA government came to power in Centre in 2014, the number of undergraduate and postgraduate seats in medical colleges has increased from 82,000 to over 1.4 lakh. Modi said his government had also introduced the new education policy that also makes it possible pursuing medical education in Hindi and other Indian languages. Modi said when he became chief minister of Gujarat 20 years ago, there were many challenges in the areas of medical infrastructure, medical education and treatment facilities, but he tried to change the situation with collective efforts. Modi said skilled manpower associated with healthcare has a direct impact on effective health services. “This was keenly felt in the corona period. The success of the central government's ‘Free vaccine, vaccine for all’ campaign is a reflection of this,” he said. “Today, more than 88 crore doses of the corona vaccine have been administered in India,” Modi said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-should-be-one-medical-college-or-institution-for-pg-medical-education-in-every-district-pm-1035873.html
30-09-2021||National||SC Collegium approves proposal for elevation of 16 names as judges for 4 High Courts||The Supreme Court Collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, has recommended 16 names for elevation as judges in Bombay, Gujarat, Orissa and Punjab and Haryana High Courts. In its meeting held on September 29, the Collegium approved the proposal for the elevation of judicial officers A L Pansare, S C More, U S Joshi-Phalke, and B P Deshpande as judges of the Bombay High Court. Besides, it recommended names of advocates Aditya Kumar Mohapatra and Mruganka Sekhar Sahoo and judicial officers Radha Krishna Pattanaik and Sashikanta Mishra as judges of the Orissa High Court. In another decision, the top court's Collegium approved the proposal for elevation of advocates Mauna Manish Bhatt, Samir J Dave, Hemant M Prachchhak, Sandeep N Bhatt, Aniruddha Pradyumna Mayee, Niral Rashmikant Mehta and Nisha Mahendrabhai Thakore as judges of the Gujarat High Court. It also recommended the name of advocate Sandeep Moudgil, for appointment as a judge in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-approves-proposal-for-elevation-of-16-names-as-judges-for-4-high-courts-1035884.html
30-09-2021||National||Delhi court acquits Arjuna awardee Khajan Singh in rape case filed by CRPF constable||A Delhi court has acquitted suspended CRPF chief sports officer Khajan Singh -- Arjuna Awardee and Asian Games medalist -- and one other person in an alleged rape case filed by a woman constable, after she claimed to have levelled the accusations in a "fit of anger". The 30-year-old woman had alleged that Khajan and suspended coach Sarjeet Singh were running a sex racket within CRPF, raped her for three years between 2014 and 2017, and threatened to make her nude photos viral. She had filed the complaint in November 2020. She later retracted the statement and said that she had filed the complaint in a fit of anger after being thrown out of the department's wrestling team on the grounds of indiscipline for having an argument with a team member. The woman deposed that Sarjeet was a member of the inquiry team who had disqualified her from taking part in the wrestling events and Khajan was the Chief Sports Officer in the CRPF department. While acquitting the duo, Additional Sessions Judge Lokesh Kumar Sharma said that it was evident from her testimony that she was neither raped nor threatened by the accused person at any point in time. In the September 16 order, the judge further noted that nothing incriminating came out in evidence against the accused even after her cross-examination by the public prosecutor. “Complainant in her deposition admitted that she had made the complaint in a fit of anger. She admitted the fact that she was instigated by her colleagues. In view of her deposition, the accused could not be held guilty of committing rape upon her. Hence, the accused stand acquitted,” the court sad. Khajan Singh had won a silver medal at the 1986 Seoul Asian Games in the 200m butterfly event which was India's first medal in swimming at the event since 1951. In April, the CRPF had suspended Khajan Singh and Sarjeet Singh after a preliminary probe found them guilty of sexual harassment of women personnel.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-acquits-arjuna-awardee-khajan-singh-in-rape-case-filed-by-crpf-constable-1035889.html
30-09-2021||National||Border incidents with China will continue till boundary agreement is reached: General Naravane||Border incidents between India and China will continue to occur till a boundary agreement is reached between the two countries, Army Chief General M M Naravane said on Thursday.   Recent developments in Afghanistan "have definitely been the focus" of the Indian Army that continues to evaluate threat perceptions and formulate strategies accordingly, the Army chief added while addressing a gathering at the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Discussing China, he said, "... we have an outstanding border issue. We are again well prepared to meet any misadventure that may occur as we have demonstrated in the past." "Such kinds of incidents will continue to occur till such time that a long-term solution is reached, and that is to have a boundary agreement. And that should be the thrust of our efforts so that we have lasting peace along the northern (China) border," he stated during the annual session meeting of the industry body. Referring to Afghanistan, he said the Indian Army "or the armed forces for that matter continue to carry out periodic evaluation of threat perceptions". Based on those evaluations, the Indian Army formulates strategies and doctrines that are needed to meet future threats, he noted. "This is a continuous process that never stops," he added. Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15. Expressing its concerns about the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, India had on September 20 had said the country's territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts. As far as the terrorist threat is concerned, the Indian Army is ready to meet all challenges, Naravane said. "We have a very dynamic counterinsurgency and counterterrorist grid in Jammu and Kashmir. It is a dynamic grid and it is based on threat perception and the escalating levels of attempts by our western neighbour (Pakistan) to push in more and more terrorists," he said. Based on ups and downs, we also recalibrate our levels of operations, he added. "Developments along the LAC in eastern Ladakh added to the ongoing legacy challenges on our active and disputed borders on the Western and Eastern Front," Naravane said.   The unprecedented developments, he said, necessitated large scale resource mobilisation, orchestration of forces and an immediate response, all this in a Covid environment. The Army chief also talked about rapid developments in defence technology, saying that avoiding "technological obsolescence" remains a big challenge. "The danger that our long drawn procurement processes and bureaucratic speed-breakers would prevent us from acquiring cutting edge technology is a real one." Much work, he stressed, has been done in bringing about systemic changes with the aim of ease of doing business.  "This, however, remains a work in progress. There are still archaic rules and processes that defy logic and are at variance to modern best practices. This needs to be addressed," Naravane said. The industry must also proactively push for reforms, he said, adding that processes that are out of sync with contemporary times and our future vision must be ruthlessly shed for modern best-practices. The current border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted in May last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. The row escalated after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 last year. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in the clashes that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February 2021, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC (Line of Actual Control) in the sensitive sector. In 2017, Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/border-incidents-with-china-will-continue-till-boundary-agreement-is-reached-general-naravane-1035890.html
30-09-2021||National||India, China should focus on finding long-term solution to boundary dispute: General Naravane||Incidents like the ongoing military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) will continue to happen as long as India and China are unable to resolve the dispute over the boundary between the two nations, Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane said on Thursday. Gen Naravane also said that the Indian Army was “well prepared” to respond to “any misadventure (by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army)” as it had demonstrated in the past. “Such kind of incidents will continue to occur till such time a long-term solution is reached – that is to have a boundary agreement (between India and China),” the Chief of Army Staff said at the annual general meeting of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He was responding to a question on the ongoing India-China military stand-off in eastern Ladakh. “That (resolving India-China boundary dispute) should be the thrust of our efforts so that we have lasting peace along our northern borders.” Gen Naravane’s comment stressing on “long-term solution” of the boundary dispute between the two nations came just a day after Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, Sun Weidong, said that India and China should build on recent successes in mutual withdrawal of troops from some of the face-off points along the LAC and “need to meet each other halfway to move the situation towards stability”. Sun said that India and China should create a conducive situation so that the focus could be shifted “from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control, so as to jointly safeguard the peace and tranquillity of the border area”. “Developments along the LAC have added to the ongoing legacy challenges on India’s active and disputed borders on the western and eastern fronts,” Gen Naravane said. The stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh had started in April-May 2020 after China had deployed a large number of troops along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh, apparently to push the LAC westward – thus flouting the border peace pacts signed by the two neighbouring nations in 1993 and 1996. It had reached a flashpoint with the Galwan Valley clash on June 15, 2020, when the Indian Army had lost 20 of its soldiers and the Chinese PLA lost four of its personnel. After long negotiations over months, the two sides mutually withdrew frontline troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso as well as from the face-off point at Gogra Post earlier this year. But the stand-off remained unresolved in other locations along the LAC, even as one-and-a-half years have passed since it began. Gen Naravane said that the Indian Army’s “immediate response” to the deployment of troops by the Chinese PLA had required large-scale mobilisation of troops, in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the Indian Army was fully ready to neutralise any terror threat from across its Line of Control with Pakistan. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-should-focus-on-finding-long-term-solution-to-boundary-dispute-general-naravane-1035891.html
30-09-2021||National||Centre hikes natural gas price by 62%; CNG rates may go up||The government on Thursday hiked by 62 per cent the price of natural gas that is used to produce electricity, make fertilisers and turned into CNG to use as fuel in automobiles and cooking gas for household kitchens. This is the first increase in rates since April 2019 and comes on back of firming benchmark international prices but does not reflect the spurt in spot or current price of liquefied natural gas (LNG) witnessed during the last couple of weeks. The oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) said the rates paid for gas produced from fields given to state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Oil India Ltd (OIL) will be $2.90 per million British thermal unit for the six-month period beginning April 1. Simultaneously, the price for gas produced from difficult fields such as deepsea, which is based on a different formula, was hiked to $6.13 per mmBtu from the current $3.62 per mmBtu. This is the maximum price that Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP plc are entitled to for the gas they produce from deepsea blocks such as KG-D6. The increase in gas price is likely to result in a 10-11 per cent rise in CNG and piped cooking gas rates in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, industry sources said. It will also lead a rise in cost of generating electricity but consumers may not feel any major pinch as the share of power produced from gas is very low. Similarly, the cost of producing fertiliser will also go up but as the government subsidises the crop nutrient, an increase in rates is unlikely. At the last revision in April this year, rates paid to ONGC were left unchanged at $1.79, while the deepsea gas price was cut from $4.06 per mmBtu to $3.62. A $1 increase in gas price results in Rs 5,200 crore revenue for ONGC on an annualised basis. After accounting for taxes and other levies, it translates into Rs 3,200-3,300 crore in EBDITA for the company, sources said. Gas prices were last raised in April 2019 and have since only fallen due to a drop in global benchmark rates. While the government sets the price of gas produced by ONGC from fields given to it on a nomination basis, it bi-annually announces a cap or maximum price that operators who won exploration acreage under licensing rounds can get. The operators are supposed to do a market price discovery by seeking bids from users but that rate is subject to the price ceiling announced by the government, sources said. Reliance-BP had in the recent price discovery for new gas from their Krishna Godavari basin block, got rates of over $6 per mmBtu. "The price of domestic natural gas for the period October 1, 2021, to March 31, 2022, is $2.90 per mmBtu on Gross Calorific Value (GCV) basis," PPAC said. Similarly, "the price ceiling" for gas produced from "discoveries in deepwater, ultra-deepwater and high pressure-high temperature areas" is $6.13 per mmBtu, it said. Natural gas price is set every six months -- on April 1 and October 1 -- each year based on rates prevalent in surplus nations such as the US, Canada and Russia in one year with a lag of one quarter. So the price for October 1 to March 31 is based on the average price from July 2020 to June 2021. The sources said gas prices had fallen when the pandemic broke out but recovered later as demand picked up. The recent spurt in rates will get reflected in prices that become effective from April next year. The gas price fixed in the last couple of years was unremunerative for producers as it was way below the cost of production. ONGC, the sources said, had posted a Rs 4,272 crore loss on gas business in 2017-18, which widen to over Rs 6,000 crore in fiscal April 2020 to March 2021. ONGC had been incurring losses on the 65 million standard cubic metres per day of gas it produces from domestic fields shortly after the government in November 2014 introduced a new gas pricing formula that had "inherent limitations" as it was based on pricing hubs of gas surplus countries such as the US, Canada, and Russia. The sources said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of $5-9 per mmBtu. The Congress-led UPA had approved a new pricing formula for implementation in 2014 that would have raised the rates but the BJP-led government scrapped it and brought a new formula. The new formula takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (the UK), Alberta (Canada), and Russia with a lag of one-quarter. The rate at the first revision, using the new formula, came to $5.05 but in the subsequent six-monthly reviews kept falling till it touched $2.48 for April 2017 to September 2017 period. Subsequently, it rose to $3.69 in April 2019-September 2019 before being cut in subsequent rounds to $1.79. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hikes-natural-gas-price-by-62-cng-rates-may-go-up-1035894.html
30-09-2021||National||No insurance claim for stolen vehicle if it is driven without valid registration: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday declared that an insurance company can repudiate the claim of a stolen vehicle if it is being driven after the expiry of its temporary registration number. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi said there should be no fundamental breach of the conditions contained in the contract of insurance when the incident related to potential liability has occurred. The top court set aside a judgement of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, which had dismissed a plea by the United Insurance Company Ltd against the Rajasthan state commission's order to pay Rs 6,17,800 to Sushil Kumar Godara along with 9 per cent interest for claims of his new Bolero car being stolen from Jodhpur. It pointed out, "On the date of theft, the vehicle had been driven and used without valid registration, amounting to a clear violation of Sections 39 and 192 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. This results in a fundamental breach of the terms and conditions of the policy entitling the insurer to repudiate the policy."  The bench relied upon its 2014 judgement in Narinder Singh's case to say that although it was related to a case of an accident, in this incident as well, the vehicle was driven after expiry of temporary registration. It also pointed out that not only was the vehicle being driven but it was also taken to another city, where it was stationed overnight at a guest house from where it was stolen. Further, there was nothing on record to suggest that the owner had applied for registration or that he was awaiting registration.  The bench also said the NCDRC disregarded not only binding judgement of this court but its own previous judgement in Naveen Kumar's case of 2019 which stated that if a vehicle without a valid registration was or had been used or driven in a public place or any other place that would constitute a fundamental breach of the terms and conditions of the contract of insurance, though the vehicle was not being driven at the time it was stolen or was damaged. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-insurance-claim-for-stolen-vehicle-if-it-is-driven-without-valid-registration-sc-1035897.html
30-09-2021||National||Centre says 69% of India's adult population has got at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, 25% both||Sixty-nine per cent of the country's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 25 per cent has taken both doses, the government said on Thursday. It also said that increased population density raises chances of Covid-19 spread and it will be prudent to avoid non-essential travel and observe festivity at low key. The government said that 64.1 per cent doses of Covid-19 vaccine has been administered in vaccination centres in rural areas and 35 per cent in urban areas. A total of 67.4 lakh doses (approximately 0.88%) have been administered at vaccination centres not tagged as rural/urban, it said. It said that 59.66 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases last week were reported from Kerala and the state has over one lakh active cases. The government also stressed that the number of Covid-19 tests has not reduced and 15 to 16 lakh tests are being done every day in the country. Eighteen districts are reporting weekly Covid positivity rate between five to ten per cent and 30 districts are reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate, it said. On the Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine, the government said that ZyCoV-D is a three-dose needle-free vaccine and it will be priced differently than jabs being used currently. Talks are being held with the manufacturer on its pricing, it said.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-69-of-indias-adult-population-has-got-at-least-one-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-25-both-1035901.html
30-09-2021||National||Centre says needle-free ZyCoV-D to be introduced in Covid vaccination drive shortly||The government on Thursday said Zydus Cadila's indigenously-developed needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D will be introduced in the nationwide coronavirus vaccination drive very shortly and would have a differential pricing than the jabs being used currently. As far as the price at which it will be procured is concerned, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference that the government is in talks with the manufacturer. "As far as the price of the vaccine at which it will be procured is concerned, we are in conversations with the manufacturer. Since it is a three-dose vaccine and comes with a needleless delivery system, it would have a differential pricing than the existing vaccines that are being used in the Covid vaccination programme," he said. "It will be introduced in the Covid-19 vaccination drive very shortly," Bhushan added. As regards the WHO clearance for Covaxin, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said, "We know that scientific data, public health considerations and international health requirements are all considered on which the clearance is given by the WHO. All these have been provided and are being looked at. It will be decided by the World Health Organization accordingly." ZyCoV-D has received the Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and will be administered to people aged 12 years and above. The Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V vaccines are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, which is a three-dose vaccine, these are administered in two doses. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) had earlier said ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against the coronavirus and when injected into the human body, produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-needle-free-zycov-d-to-be-introduced-in-covid-vaccination-drive-shortly-1035904.html
30-09-2021||National||New IAF chief V R Chaudhari takes over, vows to prioritise raising operational capability||Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari on Thursday took over as the 27th chief of the Indian Air Force, vowing to prioritise raising its operational capability by integrating its newly inducted platforms, weapons and equipment with the existing assets. Chaudhari, who was commissioned in the fighter stream of the IAF in December 1982, succeeded Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, who retired after 41 years of service. The new IAF chief said that enhancement of operational capability through integration of newly inducted platforms, weapons and equipment with existing assets and dovetailing the same in concepts of operations would remain a priority. He also spoke on aspects of acquisition of new technology, promotion of indigenisation and innovation, strengthening of cyber security, rapid adaptation of training methods to meet future demands and sustained work to nurture human resources, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of Defence. The transition ceremony was marked by a ceremonial Guard of Honour for Chaudhari, who later officially took over the office of the Chief of Air Staff with the Principal Staff Officers of Air Headquarters in attendance. Bhadauria earlier laid a wreath at the National War Memorial before he arrived at the Air HQ for a traditional 'walk through'. He then handed over the charge to Chaudhari, before being accorded a ceremonial Guard of Honour and the 'Drive Out' and send off from the IAF. Chaudhari, a recipient of Param Vishisht Seva Medal, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal, Vayu Sena Medal, was the Vice Chief of Air Staff before taking over as the IAF chief. He has flown more than 3,800 hours on multiple fighter and trainer aircraft. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-iaf-chief-v-r-chaudhari-takes-over-vows-to-prioritise-raising-operational-capability-1035908.html
30-09-2021||National||1,007 super-rich Indians see 51% rise in wealth in 2021; Adani leads with Rs 3.65 lakh crore: Report||India produced 179 more super-rich people this year led by Adani Group's Gautam Adani who amassed a whopping wealth of Rs 3,65,700 crore or more than Rs 1,000 crore daily, and the number of such individuals has crossed the 1,000-mark. Geographically, five more cities are home to super-rich taking the total number of super-rich cities to 119 and these 1,007 individuals cumulatively added 51 per cent more wealth in 2021. The average wealth increased by 25 per cent this year that also saw the livelihoods of thousands of people being hit by the coronavirus pandemic. According to the Hurun India-IIFL Wealth rich list published on Thursday, there are 1,007 people -- 13 of them with more than Rs 1 lakh crore of wealth -- in the country with over Rs 1,000 crore wealth. The tenth Hurun India rich list has Mukesh Ambani topping it for the 10th year in a row with Rs 7,18,000 crore wealth -- only 9 per cent up over 2020 -- followed by the Adani family with Rs 5,05,900 crore, up 261 per cent from Rs 1,40,200 crore, making him also the second richest Asian, earning Rs 1,000 crore a day over the last year or Rs 3,65,700 crore in the year. Third in the list is Shiv Nadar & family of HCL with Rs 2,36,600 crore, up 67 per cent, followed by the SP Hinduja & family with Rs 2,20,000 crore up 53 per cent, LN Mittal & Family of ArcelorMittal with Rs 1,74,400 crore up 187 per cent and Cyrus Poonawalla & family at the sixth slot with Rs 1,63,700 crore, which is up 74 per cent. Anas Rahman Junaid, managing director of Hurun India, said the wealth calculation is up to September 15, 2021. He also said the last decade saw the number of the rich jumping 10 times from just under 100 in 2011 to 1,007 this year. At this rate, over the next five years, I expect the list to grow to 3,000 individuals and the country adding another 250 dollar billionaires over the next five years and rival the US within a decade, he added. The top ten list has four new faces, led by steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal of ArcelorMittal, Kumar Mangalam Birla of the Aditya Birla Group, along with California based Jay Chaudhry of cloud computing and cyber security firm Zscaler. Among the women, the third generation Godrej family member Smita V Crishna is the richest woman in the list with Rs 31,300 crore (down 3 per cent), followed by Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw (who is also the richest self-made woman in the list) with Rs 28,200 crore, down 11 per cent. Mumbai justifies its name as the financial capital being home to 255 of the 1,007 super-rich creating 38 more in the year, followed by the national capital by adding 39 to take the number to 167 and Bengaluru with 85, adding 18 more in the year. According to Junaid, over the past decade, the rich-listers have cumulatively added Rs 2,020 crore per day-- making it the fastest wealth creation in the country. More interestingly, 13 individuals are worth more than Rs 1 lakh crore each and eight of them were made in the reporting year only. Of the 1,007, rich, 237 are dollar billionaires, up 59 from last year, and four times in the past decade. Sectorally, pharma topped the list with 40 super-rich, led by the Poonawallas, followed by chemicals and petrochemicals with 27 and software minting 22 dollar billionaires. Of the 100 super-rich, 13 have were born in the 1990s and all of them are self-made and the list is topped by a 23-year old co-founder of payments app Bharatpe's Shashvat Nakrani. Geographically, five more cities (Rajkot, Surat, Faridabad, Ludhiana and Agra) are home to the super-rich, taking the number of cities to 119 and cumulative wealth rose 51 per cent, while average wealth increased by 25 per cent. Of the 1,007, 894 saw their wealth increase or stay the same, of which 229 are new faces, while 113 saw their wealth drop and 51 got dropped off the list. As per the list, as many as 237 are billionaires, up 58 from last year. Chemicals and software produced the greatest number of new entrants to the list, but pharma is still the number one and has contributed 130 entrants to the list. The number of women on the list is 47 this year, up from just five a decade ago. The youngest ten years ago was 37 and today is 23, indicating the impact of the startup revolution. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1007-super-rich-indians-see-51-rise-in-wealth-in-2021-adani-leads-with-rs-365-lakh-crore-report-1035918.html
30-09-2021||National||Govt keeps interest rates on small savings schemes unchanged for 3rd quarter of FY22||The government on Thursday kept the interest rates on small savings schemes, including NSC and PPF, unchanged for the third quarter of 2021-22 amid the Covid-19 pandemic and elevated level of inflation. Public Provident Fund (PPF) and National Savings Certificate (NSC) will continue to carry an annual interest rate of 7.1 per cent and 6.8 per cent, respectively.   "The rates of interest on various small savings schemes for the third quarter of the financial year 2021-22 starting from October 1, 2021, and ending on December 31, 2021, shall remain unchanged from the current rates applicable for the second quarter (June 1, 2021 to September 30, 2021) for FY 2021-22," the finance ministry said in a notification. According to analysts, the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections may also have been a factor behind the government's decision to keep rates unchanged. Uttar Pradesh is the second highest contributor to the small savings schemes after West Bengal.    During the West Bengal assembly elections earlier this year, the Centre decided to reduce the interest rate on these schemes. However, the very next day on April 1, the finance ministry revoked the steep interest rate cut of up to 1.1 per cent, citing an oversight. As a result, the first quarter rates were retained at the level of the fourth quarter of the last financial year. The cut was touted as the steepest in many decades.   Interest rates for small savings schemes are notified on a quarterly basis. One-year term deposit scheme will continue to earn an interest rate of 5.5 per cent, while the girl child savings scheme Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account will earn 7.6 per cent. The interest rate on the five-year senior citizens savings scheme would be retained at 7.4 per cent. The interest on the senior citizens' scheme is paid quarterly. Interest rate on savings deposits will continue to be 4 per cent per annum. Term deposits of one to five years will fetch interest rate in the range of 5.5-6.7 per cent, to be paid quarterly, while the interest rate on five-year recurring deposits will earn a higher interest of 5.8 per cent. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-keeps-interest-rates-on-small-savings-schemes-unchanged-for-3rd-quarter-of-fy22-1035924.html
30-09-2021||National||Our law minister is also a decent dancer: PM Modi hails Rijiju's dancing skills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Law Minister Kiren Rijiju's dancing skills on Thursday after the minister posted a video of himself shaking a leg with people in a village in Arunachal Pradesh. In a tweet last night, Rijiju posted a video from his visit to Kazalang village to monitor the Vivekananda Kendra Vidyalaya Projects. Tagging the video of his dance with the people, the MP from Arunachal Pradesh said, "This is traditional merrymaking of Sajolang people whenever guests visit their village. The original folk songs and dances are the ESSENCE of every community in Arunachal Pradesh." Commenting on the video, Modi said, "Our Law Minister @KirenRijiju is also a decent dancer! Good to see the vibrant and glorious culture of Arunachal Pradesh." Check out DH's latest videos:​​​​​​||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/our-law-minister-is-also-a-decent-dancer-pm-modi-hails-rijijus-dancing-skills-1035926.html
30-09-2021||National||SC grants protection from arrest to TV actor's estranged husband||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted protection from arrest to Farhan Shahrukh Mirza, the estranged husband of TV actor Chahat Khanna, who accused him of rape and unnatural sex and making video of such acts. A bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka ordered stay on arrest of the petitioner in an FIR registered with Oshiwara police station in Mumbai on October 1, 2018 until further orders. The court passed its order after hearing arguments by senior advocate Siddharth Aggarwal and advocate Ejaz Maqbool on behalf of Mirza against the Bombay High Court's decision of September 1, declining him the relief. It, however, directed the petitioner to co-operate in the pending investigation in the case. In his plea, the petitioner claimed the FIR was lodged against him and his mother as a counter-blast to his petition for restitution of conjugal rights.  He also claimed the present FIR was an abuse of process and ex facie levelled false, concocted, and whimsical allegations in retaliation to his attempts to save his marriage and keep his family, consisting of two minor daughters, together. In her complaint, the actor of 'Bade Achhe Lagte Hain' fame said she had married Mirza on February 8, 2013 as he claimed to be the owner of Green Wheel Construction Company and was a financially sound person with a substantial bank balance. However, soon after the marriage, she realised that he was a drug addict and has no work to do. In 2013, he forced her to perform medical terminations of pregnancy. She also alleged Mirza, under the influence of drugs, performed unnatural sex with her, made videography of such acts and threatened to circulate the clips. She also accused him of issuing threats to kill her with a gun. She also claimed Mirza and his mother physically and mentally tortured her to part with cash and ornaments worth Rs 66 lakhs during the period of her marriage.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-tv-actors-estranged-husband-1035927.html
30-09-2021||National||Declare Bhagavad Gita national book, make it compulsory in education system: VHP||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) Thursday demanded the 'Bhagavad Gita' be declared the national book of India and its teaching-learning made compulsory across all levels of education in the country "to stop the eroding of values". The saffron outfit also demanded that programmes on reading of the scripture be organised periodically at government institutions to promote values and a strong sense of duty among bureaucrats as there has been "a continuous collapse of ethical values". "It is because of our faulty education system. We demand that the government must make teaching-learning of Shrimad Bhagavad Gita compulsory across all levels of education to stop the eroding of values. It should be made part of the curriculum," VHP national secretary Acharya Radha Krishna Manodi told a press conference. He said teachers including those belonging to minority communities should also be made to study the Bhagavad Gita and the teaching-learning of all the 18 chapters be made a part of the teachers’ training curriculum to enable them to instill ethical values and sense of duty in students. "The study of the Bhagavad Gita should be made compulsory for all those undergoing teachers’ education and training. Education on the Bhagavad Gita should be made compulsory for all the teachers in India including those belonging to Muslim and Christian communities," Manodi, who heads the Vishva Gita Sansthan of the VHP, said. To promote values and a strong sense of duty among bureaucrats, the VHP leader said programmes on reading of the Bhagavad Gita should be organised at the government institutions every fortnight. "The promotion of reading of Bhagavad Gita can protect the social, cultural and spiritual values of our country, end divisions in our society and make India much more stronger. We demand the Bhagavad Gita be declared the national book of India," he said Manodi said that a delegation of the VHP's Vishwa Gita Sansthan will soon submit a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan with its demands.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/declare-bhagavad-gita-national-book-make-it-compulsory-in-education-system-vhp-1035942.html
30-09-2021||National||Govt extends validity of motor vehicle documents till Oct 31 due to Covid-19||The government on Thursday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence, registration certificate and permits till October 31, 2021, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said it has asked the enforcement authorities to treat documents, including those related to fitness, permit (all types), driving licence and registration, as valid till October 31.         "Taking into consideration the grim situation still continuing due to condition for prevention of Covid-19 across the country, it is advised that the validity of all above referenced documents...whose extension of validity could not, or was not likely to be granted due to lockdown and which has expired since February 1, 2020 or would expire by October 31, 2021, the same may be treated as valid till October 31,2021," it said.         This will help citizens in availing transport related services, it added. The ministry said all the states and union territories are required to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that citizens, transporters and various other organisations which are operating under this difficulty time do not face difficulties.           It had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, August 24, 2020, December 27, 2020, March 26, 2021 and June 17, 2021 in connection with extension of validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-till-oct-31-due-to-covid-19-1035953.html
30-09-2021||National||15 lakh healthcare workers yet to be fully vaccinated even after nine months||Even after nine months, India is yet to fully vaccinate its healthcare workers, the first group prioritised by the government when it rolled out the Covid-19 vaccination drive in January. As on September 30, around 85 per cent of the healthcare workers received two shots. Considering more than a crore of such workers got the first dose, it means close to 15 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical workers did not receive the second shot, though they work in a high-risk environment. A month ago, on August 26, the corresponding number stood at 83 per cent. "There are certain specific states where the second dose coverage among the healthcare workers is on the lower side. We have drawn their attention and provided a facility in the Co-WIN system where line listing of people who have missed their second dose can be generated,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday. The states, he said, are looking at the list of defaulting individuals to ensure the second dose is administered on time as the festive season coming nearer. Failure to vaccinate more than 15 lakh healthcare workers even now comes at a time when there is rising scientific evidence on the effectiveness of the two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to protect a person from the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2, which is driving the pandemic in India. There are also several studies on breakthrough infections (Covid-19 cases 14 days after receiving the second dose) among the hospital staff, who were saved from the serious disease because of the two shots. When it comes to frontline workers, the percentage of fully vaccinated individuals rose from 79 per cent in end August to 82 per cent a month later. Also 100 per cent of frontline staff received the first dose as against 99 per cent healthcare workers. Nearly 69 per cent of Indian adults have received the first dose, whereas a quarter of them are fully vaccinated. But the official vaccination data shows eastern India fares the worst to inoculate its residents as four of the seven states with less than 60 per cent first-dose coverage are the big ones on the east – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. These are also the states that are likely to see a spurt in crowd and mass gatherings during the Dasara-Diwali-Chhath festivals over the next one and half months. Asked about Zydus Cadila's indigenously-developed needle-free three-dose vaccine ZyCoV-D, Bhushan said it would be introduced in the nationwide coronavirus vaccination drive shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-lakh-healthcare-workers-yet-to-be-fully-vaccinated-even-after-nine-months-1035975.html
30-09-2021||National||CSC denies writing letter to PMO offering to buy stake in BBNL||The Common Services Centres (CSC) has denied writing any letter to either the Prime Minister Office (PMO) or the Department of Telecom offering to buy a stake in BBNL "We have not submitted any proposal to the government to buy stake in BBNL. It is factually incorrect....we deny it," an official statement from the CSC said. CSC is a special purpose vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. "CSC SPV has not submitted any proposal either to the Ministry of Telecom or the PMO as mentioned in a media report for purchase of stake in the BBNL," it added. "CSC, which has a network of around 4 lakh VLEs mainly serving in rural India, has been providing various government services to the masses and maintenance of BharatNet rural broadband is one of them. We are working in close coordination with BBNL in connecting rural India with a robust broadband network," it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-denies-writing-letter-to-pmo-offering-to-buy-stake-in-bbnl-1035979.html
30-09-2021||National||Government says will not regulate telecom tariffs||Despite demand from a section of telecom players to regulate tariffs as the industry is suffering from a deep financial crisis, the government is in no mood to intervene in this issue. Tariffs should be between the consumers and service providers. Market forces have to determine the prices of products and not the government, said a top official from the Department of Telecom. “Though the government is also equally worrying over financial situation in the telecom industry, it is not favouring regulating the tariffs. The government announced mega relief package recently and hoping this will help to industry to come out from crisis,” said the official. On disruption in the telecom sector, the official said this can’t continue for long. It will end soon and industry players will understand this issue, he said. With the Department of Telecom is preparing for the 5G auction, the government hoping more players will enter the sector. The government is planning to introduce another set of reforms where it is keen on addressing elements of revenue maximisation, the official said. Industry lobby group Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) has been pressing for a data services floor price for an interim period of two years to help the industry financially recover. However, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) firmly said it is not considering fixing a floor for mobile phone tariffs and would continue to keep pricing under forbearance. Regulatory officials have been saying that telecom carriers should themselves raise their prices, as they have done in recent weeks. Even Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman of Aditya Birla Group (ABG) strongly pitched for a floor price regime among other reforms to bail out the telecom sector from the current crisis. Mobile data rates in India are the lowest worldwide, which at present stands at around Rs 8/GB a month. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-says-will-not-regulate-telecom-tariffs-1035988.html
30-09-2021||National||India has highest number of women in political offices if female panches, sarpanches counted, says Smriti Irani||India has the highest number of women in political offices across the world if one looks at their participation in the three-tier governance structure of the country, which includes female panches and sarpanches, Union minister Smriti Irani said on Thursday. She was speaking at a session on 'Empowering Women in Building Resilient India' hosted by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Reacting to a global index according to which India ranks 148th in a list of 193 countries based on the percentage of elected women representatives in the national Parliament, Irani, the Minister of Women and Child Development, asked, "Do we look at political empowerment of women only from the prism of perspective of how many women right now operate or serve in Parliament?" "Are we to not recognise the potential and the contribution of the women who are part of panchayats zila parishads councils in urban areas in India, are we to dissuade them, and not celebrate their contribution, just because they do not figure in a global index," she added.  Irani said if you look at women's political participation in our systems and the three-tier governance structure of our country, "you will see that today we have the largest amount of women in political offices across any nation in the world". "So, I think that one needs to recognise the deep -eated bias in the reflection of an indice, which doesn't recognise female panches or sarpanches of our country, aren't their political battle tough enough for them to get that respect," she said. The Union minister said that if an indice represents all spectrums of our political diversity and then if India doesn't rank well enough, "I'd be extremely concerned".  "But for me, as long as women in rural India, who partake in panchayat elections are not recognised globally, then that indice does injustice to the potential of Indian women," she said. Talking about female foeticide, she said there is a presumption that female foeticide is a phenomena that can be seen in rural areas or urban slums. "You would be shocked just two to three years ago, the highest amount of female foeticide was seen in South Bombay, where the most so called financially celebrated citizens of our country live. So, I think that if you like to enhance women's opportunities in the urban or rural setup, what are we as a government doing?" she said. On the government's Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme to tackle such issues, Irani said for many it is just a slogan but it has been internalised in the system.  "Can you imagine that it has been internalised so that today, when it comes to issues of females foeticide, there is a community participation in ensuring that no doctor should be allowed to sonographically determine the sex of a child," the minister said.  "There is a social consciousness that a doctor who does so should be penalised. There is more and more reporting of such instances. There are now family conversations around the pregnancy of a woman, that there shouldn't be an insistence. Am I saying that we are achieving a utopian state? No, I am not having any such misgiving. But at least I know that the community and the government together are making that change," she added.  Irani stated that the issue of women's emancipation need not be addressed by women alone and that men, too, need to contribute to it. She added that the country would witness a holistic growth and behavioural changes when men stand with women. She informed that the government seeks industry support to ensure that the Legislative Acts passed with regards to women are, at least, followed by the members of the industry.  It needs to be practised in letter, where for equal work there should be equal pay, she said. Further to this, the minister also added that women in India need to be given the joy of equal participation based on their competence. She said that some two to three years ago the highest amount of female fortitude was seen in the progressive and empowered South Mumbai area, but that has all changed now. Irani said that on the issue of menstrual hygiene, for the first time it was ensured that there was an administrative protocol for disposal of menstrual products. Also, for the first time through the Swamitva Yojana, the government used drone technology to ascertain digital land records, she said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-highest-number-of-women-in-political-offices-if-female-panches-sarpanches-counted-says-smriti-irani-1035989.html
30-09-2021||National||India, Australia agree to conclude free trade pact by 2022-end||India and Australia on Thursday agreed to conclude the long-pending free trade agreement by the end of 2022 and an early harvest trade deal by as early as December. The decision to expedite negotiations for India-Australia Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) between the two countries was taken at a meeting between Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Australian Minister for Trade, Tourism and Investment Dan Tehan. "We have agreed on aggressive timelines (for concluding the trade pact)", Goyal told reporters at a press conference held jointly with Tehan. India and Australia have decided to conclude an interim agreement or early harvest trade deal by December end. Under the early harvest agreement duties on certain selected items will be reduced. The two sides have decided to have an exchange of offers regarding the proposed CECA agreement by October. The final trade deal, which has been pending for the past several years, will, however, be concluded by 2022-end. "This is like a T-20 match, that is why such aggressive timelines. The spirit of this partnership is that both India and Australia work in the same team for a win-win for each other," said Goyal. India-Australia bilateral trade had exceeded AUD 24 billion last year. The proposed trade agreement would cover trade in goods and services, and investment, among others. "What we have agreed today is to make sure that we will conclude a free trade agreement between Australia and India by the end of 2022. Now, this Free Trade Agreement will include an interim agreement, which we will seek to finalise by Christmas. "It will be consistent with Article 24 of the WTO, and it will cover goods, services, investment, we will begin discussing government procurement energy and resources, logistics and transport, standards, rules of origin and we have agreed to exchange offers by the end of October. Now, this is extraordinarily ambitious," Tehan said. Goyal said that both India and Australia "have a very positive interest in expanding trade, which could be kick-started or which could be implemented in the interim, while the contours of the final agreement may take a little longer period of time". The interim agreement or the early harvest deal, he said, will "cover areas of immediate interest, you could call them the low hanging fruits". On a question whether past discussions will be taken into account while finalising the CEPA, Goyal said, "What has been discussed in the past will always be there before us and help us speed up our negotiations. We will, however, bring in a fresh perspective to the talks". The visiting minister said the current trade between the two countries does not reflect the "true extent" of the economic partnership. He said that if the trade agreement is reached by 2022, "then you would see over the years to come that trading relationship double, and it will double in all areas because the complementarity between our economies is so great". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-agree-to-conclude-free-trade-pact-by-2022-end-1035998.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi busy in sinking Congress, he disturbed settled govt in Punjab: MP CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi saying that he was busy in sinking the Congress, and added that he disturbed his own party's government in Punjab. Chouhan also said the BJP does not need to do anything as long as Rahul Gandhi was there in Congress. He was addressing a public gathering in the villages of Prithvipur Assembly constituency in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, a day after the announcement of bypolls to one Lok Sabha and three assembly seats in the state. "Now Rahul Gandhi bhaiya is busy in sinking the Congress. He disturbed the settled government of Punjab. (Former Punjab CM) Amarinder (Singh) was running the government well. He removed Amarinder for (Congress leader Navjot Singh) Sidhu, who also ran away later," Chouhan said. "Since Rahul Gandhi is there, we don't need to do anything," he added. Days after Congress Captain Amarinder Singh resigned as Punjab chief minister, Sidhu on Tuesday tendered his resignation as the party's state unit chief. During his day-long visit to Tikamgarh district, Chouhan also interacted with the students of a school on his way to Shivrajpur. He shared a video of his interaction on his Twitter handle, in which he told the students to study and informed them that a fully equipped school under CM Rise Scheme. Earlier on Tuesday, the Election Commission had announced the bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly constituencies spread across various states. The polls will be held on October 30. In addition to Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, the bypolls were also announced on three assembly segments of Madhya Pradesh, including Jobat (ST) in Alirajpur district, Prithvipur in Niwari district and Raigaon (SC) in Satna district. A small part of Prithvipur seat also falls under Tikamgarh district. Elections to these seats were necessitated following the deaths of sitting MP and legislators, including BJP's Nandkumar Singh Chauhan (Khandwa Lok Sabha), Kalawati Bhuria of Congress (Jobat Assembly seat), Jugal Kishore Bagri of BJP (Raigaon) and Brijendra Singh Rathore of Congress (Prithvipur). Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-busy-in-sinking-congress-he-disturbed-settled-govt-in-punjab-mp-cm-chouhan-1035651.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||Congress hits out at Home Minister Amit Shah after his meeting with Amarinder Singh||Soon after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh met Home Minister Amit Shah, the Congress hit out at the BJP leader, alleging his residence has become the "new centre of anti-Dalit politics". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that the arrogance of those sitting in power has been hurt ever since a Dalit has been made the chief minister of Punjab. "The arrogance of the those sitting in power has been hurt. Because if a Dalit is made the chief minister, they ask who is taking the decisions in the Congress," he asked. His remark came after Kapil Sibal, a leader of the G-23 dissident group, said there is no elected president in the party and wondered who was making the decisions. "The centre of anti-Dalit politics is nowhere else but Amit Shah's residence," Surjewala alleged, though he did not mention the Shah-Amarinder Singh meeting. "Amit Shah ji and Modi ji are burning in the fire of vengeance from Punjab. They want to take revenge on Punjab as they have so far failed to serve the interests of their capitalist friends with the black anti-farmer laws. BJP's anti-farmer conspiracy will not succeed," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "NoFarmersNoFood". The Congress had hand-picked Charanjit Singh Channi, a member of the scheduled caste community, as the chief minister of Punjab after Amarinder Singh resigned from the post alleging that he has been humiliated following an open revolt by the faction led by Navjot Singh Sidhu. After meeting Shah, Amarinder Singh said he discussed the prolonged farmers stir with him. However, the politically significant meeting raised speculation over Singh's future plans ahead of the polls in Punjab with some political analysts viewing it as an indication that he may be seeking the support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-hits-out-at-home-minister-amit-shah-after-his-meeting-with-amarinder-singh-1035664.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Congress welcomes Kanhaiya Kumar amid crisis||Young leader Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress after quitting the CPI on Tuesday while Gujarat independent MLA Jignesh Mevani promised to fight the next Gujarat Assembly elections under the party's symbol, on a day the main Opposition party stumbled into another political crisis after its Punjab state president resigned from the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-congress-welcomes-kanhaiya-kumar-amid-crisis-1035698.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||Chhattisgarh: Over dozen MLAs of ruling Cong reach Delhi, visit sparks leadership change speculation||As the suspense over the possibility of change in leadership in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh continues, the political heat appears to be once again escalating in the state after over a dozen Congress MLAs reached Delhi on Wednesday. The political circle in the state was abuzz with speculation that the legislators have gone to express their support to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel. However, the MLAs who have reached the national capital said their visit was linked with the proposed tour of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi to the state. "Around 15-16 party MLAs have reached Delhi and are staying at different places. Rahul ji's visit to Chhattisgarh is proposed. We wanted to convey a request to Rahul ji through our state in-charge P L Punia ji that he should extend a little the duration of his tour so that all the MLAs could get benefit of it," said Brihaspat Singh, the party MLA from Ramanujganj seat of state. "We have come to Delhi just to make this request and we will speak to Punia sir on Thursday in this regard. Our visit should not be seen in other way," he told PTI over phone from Delhi. When asked whether their visit was aimed at expressing support to Baghel, Singh said, "Our party has 70 MLAs (in the 90-member state assembly), of whom 60 legislators had last time told everything to Punia ji. When there is blessing of the high command, support of the MLAs and the chief minister is working well, then no such issue (of leadership change) exists." He also denied the alleged tussle between Baghel and state health minister T S Singh Deo and said that both the leaders had recently shared the stage and exchanged sweets. He also said that they respect each other. "The situation in Chhattisgarh is not similar to Punjab. The high command of any party would not put the entire government at stake just to make one leader happy...," he said without naming anyone. Singh, considered as close to Baghel, was embroiled in a controversy in July this year when he alleged that there was a threat to his life from Singh Deo. However, the MLA, who hails from Singh Deo's home turf Sarguja, later withdrew the claim. The demand for a change of guard reared its head after Baghel completed two and a half years as chief minister in June 2021. Singh Deo camp claimed that the high command in 2018 had agreed to hand over the post to him after the government completed half its term. Congress in-charge of the state P L Punia has time and again denied that any such deal was struck in 2018 when the party came to power by dislodging the BJP. The Congress high command summoned both Baghel and Singh Deo to Delhi in August to resolve the feud. It appeared that Baghel had won this round when he told reporters upon return that party leader Rahul Gandhi had agreed to visit the state 'on his invitation', and those talking about rotating the CM's post were promoting political instability. As many as 54 out of 70 Congress MLAs had visited Delhi separately when Baghel was in the national capital, in an apparent show of strength on his side. While both Baghel and Singh Deo have desisted from saying anything about the leadership issue since then, the feud has not abated.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chhattisgarh-over-dozen-mlas-of-ruling-cong-reach-delhi-visit-sparks-leadership-change-speculation-1035703.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||Hooliganism, protests outside Sibal's house, day after his 'not Ji-huzoor' remark||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Thursday expressed disgust over party workers' protest outside Kapil Sibal's house after he raised questions over the functioning of the Congress and asked AICC chief Sonia Gandhi to take strong action against those involved. Asserting that differences of opinion and perception are integral to a democracy, Sharma, who along with Sibal is part of the 'Group of 23' which last year had written to Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul of the party, said intolerance and violence is alien to the Congress values and culture. "Shocked and disgusted to hear the news of attack and hooliganism at Kapil Sibal's house. This deplorable action brings disrepute to the party and needs to be strongly condemned," Sharma said in a series of tweets. Shocked and disgusted to hear the news of attack and hooliganism at Kapil Sibal's house. This deplorable action brings disrepute to the party and needs to be strongly condemned. He asserted that the Congress has a history of upholding freedom of expression. Those responsible must be identified and disciplined, Sharma said. "Urging Congress president Smt Sonia Gandhi to take cognisance and strong action," he said in a tweet. Those responsible must be identified and disciplined.Urging Congress president Smt Sonia Gandhi to take cognisance and strong action . Hours after he raised questions over the functioning of the Congress, Sibal on Wednesday came under attack from several quarters with party workers also protesting outside his house here. In the wake of several Congress leaders quitting the party and its Punjab unit in turmoil, Sibal has demanded that an immediate meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) be convened and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president. Carrying 'Get Well Soon Kapil Sibal' placards and raising slogans against Sibal, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) workers protested outside his Jor Bagh residence, saying they were "hurt" by his remarks. "The workers went there on their own accord as they felt hurt by Sibal's remarks. They just expressed their disappointment over the remarks," a senior DPCC functionary said on condition of anonymity. The protesters raised slogans against Sibal asking him to "leave the party". Several leaders hit out at Sibal for what they said was questioning the leadership from which he had earlier "benefitted". Youth Congress chief Srinivas B V said on Twitter, "Listen 'Ji-Huzoor' :- The 'President' and 'Leadership' of the party are the same, who always ensured your entry in Parliament, made you a 'minister' during the good times of the party, when in opposition, ensured your entry into Rajya Sabha, always rewarded with responsibilities in good and bad times. And when the 'time' came for struggle, then..." Congress general secretary Ajay Maken and Chhattisgarh minister T S Singhdeo hit out at Sibal for his remarks. Manickam Tagore, a permanent invitee to the CWC, took a swipe at Sibal over his remarks, saying on Twitter, "Symbol of sacrifice Smt Sonia Gandhi ji is the congress president. It's unfortunate learned people also speak the language of sanghis and help them indirectly. Why?" Delhi Congress leader Alka Lamba also slammed Sibal, alleging that she kept requesting him in the 2020 assembly elections to come to Chandni Chowk and campaign but he did not come. "The workers whom Sibal called for a meeting at his home ahead of the polls, they joined Aam Aadmi Party the next day.... Will the Congress run on these people's strength?" Lamba said on Twitter. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hooliganism-protests-outside-sibals-house-day-after-his-not-ji-huzoor-remark-1035748.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||'Arrogance of those in power hurt': Congress on Amarinder Singh-Amit Shah meeting||Soon after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh met Home Minister Amit Shah, the Congress hit out at the BJP leader, alleging his residence has become the "new centre of anti-Dalit politics". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that the arrogance of those sitting in power has been hurt ever since a Dalit has been made the chief minister of Punjab. "The arrogance of the those sitting in power has been hurt. Because if a Dalit is made the chief minister, they ask who is taking the decisions in the Congress," he asked. सत्ता में बैठे मठाधीशों के अहंकार को ठेस पहुँची है। क्योंकि एक दलित को मुख्यमंत्री बना दिया तो वो पूछते हैं कि कांग्रेस में फ़ैसले कौन ले रहा है?दलित को सर्वोच्च पद दिया जाना उन्हें रास नहीं आ रहा। दलित विरोधी राजनीति का केंद्र और कहीं नहीं, अमित शाह जी का निवास बना हुआ है।1/n His remark came after Kapil Sibal, a leader of the G-23 dissident group, said there is no elected president in the party and wondered who was making the decisions. "The centre of anti-Dalit politics is nowhere else but Amit Shah's residence," Surjewala alleged, though he did not mention the Shah-Amarinder Singh meeting. "Amit Shah ji and Modi ji are burning in the fire of vengeance from Punjab. They want to take revenge on Punjab as they have so far failed to serve the interests of their capitalist friends with the black anti-farmer laws. BJP's anti-farmer conspiracy will not succeed," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "NoFarmersNoFood". The Congress had hand-picked Charanjit Singh Channi, a member of the scheduled caste community, as the chief minister of Punjab after Amarinder Singh resigned from the post alleging that he has been humiliated following an open revolt by the faction led by Navjot Singh Sidhu. After meeting Shah, Amarinder Singh said he discussed the prolonged farmers stir with him. However, the politically significant meeting raised speculation over Singh's future plans ahead of the polls in Punjab with some political analysts viewing it as an indication that he may be seeking the support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/arrogance-of-those-in-power-hurt-congress-on-amarinder-singh-amit-shah-meeting-1035749.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||'Can't handle insult': Amarinder Singh to leave Congress, says not joining BJP||Scotching speculation, former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday made it clear that he was not joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) but said he had no intention of continuing in the Congress, which he said was going downhill with senior leaders being completely ignored. Singh said he would leave the Congress as he had been "utterly humiliated" and was not trusted. “I will resign…will not stay in the Congress party,” he said, adding that he was still thinking through his options in the interest of Punjab, whose security was the predominant priority for him. Singh had resigned as chief minister on September 18 after accusing the Congress of humiliating him. “I will not be treated in this humiliating manner…I will not take such insults,” he said, adding that his principles and beliefs do not allow him to stay in the Congress any longer. Terming the senior Congressmen as thinkers who were critical about the future of the party, the former chief minister said the younger leadership should be promoted to implement the plans, which the senior leaders are best equipped to formulate. "Unfortunately, the seniors were being completely sidelined," he said in a statement. Singh said this was not good for the party. Slamming Navjot Singh Sidhu, Singh said he was a mere crowd-puller and does not know how to carry the team along. Singh also condemned the attack on Kapil Sibal’s house by Congress workers only because he had chosen to express views that were not palatable to the party leadership. Expressing the hope that Punjab would vote for the future of the state, he said his experience showed that the people of the state tend to vote for a single party/force, irrespective of the number of parties in the fray. Misgovernance in Punjab would give Pakistan an opportunity to create trouble in the state and in the country, he said, adding that his meeting with NSA Ajit Doval this morning centred around this issue. Singh had raised security concerns with Home Minister Amit Shah too, along with the farmers’ issue, during his meeting with the latter on Wednesday.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cant-handle-insult-amarinder-singh-to-leave-congress-says-not-joining-bjp-1035778.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||G-23 leaders target Congress High Command for protest at Sibal's residence||The protest by Congress supporters in front of senior MP Kapil Sibal's residence has prompted the change-seekers or G-23 leaders to once again target the central leadership, saying "intolerance and violence" is alien to party's values and culture, and Sonia Gandhi should take action against those who "masterminded" the "orchestrated hooliganism" and "command performance". Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram also joined the G-23 leaders like former Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Anand Sharma, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and senior Lok Sabha MPs Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor to come out in strong support of Sibal, underlining his Congress credentials and opposing attempts to gag critics within the party. The leaders from the G-23, who had last year written to Sonia seeking a revamp and election in the party, appeared to suggest that the protest at Sibal's house after he addressed a press meet was planned at the behest of the central leadership. Chidambaram had not signed the last year's letter though he was said to be in agreement with the sentiments expressed in the letter. Former Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Anand Sharma and senior Lok Sabha MPs Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor took to Twitter to come out in strong support of Sibal, underlining his Congress credentials and opposing attempts to gag critics within the party. Strongly condemning the "orchestrated hooliganism", Azad said Sibal is a "loyal" Congressman fighting for the party both inside and outside the Parliament. "Any suggestion from any quarter should be welcomed instead of suppressing, hooliganism is unacceptable," he said. In strong words, Chidambaram said late evening, "I feel helpless when we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums. I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence." Sharma said he was "shocked and disgusted" to hear the news of "attack and hooliganism" and this "deplorable action" brings "disrepute" to the party and needs to be "strongly condemned". "Congress has a history of upholding freedom of expression. Differences of opinion and perception are integral to a democracy. Intolerance and violence is alien to Congress values and culture...Those responsible must be identified and disciplined. Urging Congress president Smt Sonia Gandhi to take cognisance and take strong action," he said in tweets.   Those responsible must be identified and disciplined.Urging Congress president Smt Sonia Gandhi to take cognisance and strong action . Senior Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari said, "Unequivocally condemn orchestrated hooliganism at Kapil Sibal's residence last (Wednesday) night. Those who masterminded assault must bear in mind that he fights for Congress both inside and outside courts of Law. You may find his views uncomfortable but that cannot be a license for violence." "Those who are trying to defend the command performance last night. This is what happened at Kapil Sibal's house. They damaged the car. Stood on top, so it caved in .Threw tomatoes both outside and inside the house .If this is not hooliganism then what else is it'???" Tewari said in a tweet.   Congress MP Shashi Tharoor described the protest as "shameful" and said, "We all know Kapil Sibal as a true Congressman who has fought multiple cases in court forCongress. As a democratic party we need to listen to what he has to say, disagree if you must but not in this way. Our priority is to strengthen ourselves to take on the BJP!" "Orchestrated hooliganism outside Kapil Sibal's residence last night is not the culture of Congress. If one has any difference of views, the same should be brought up and discussed at party forum," Hooda said. Suspended Congress leader Sanjay Jha, who supports the G-23 leaders, said sarcastically, "I am touched by those who were concerned about Kapil Sibal's health last night. But holding a placard and shouting was a novel method for sure. Incidentally, he was and is doing great. And as for you, catch some sleep." A group of Congress supporters had gathered outside Sibal's residence around 7 pm with "Get Well Soon" posters, protesting against the comments he made at the press meet. Sibal said nobody knows who takes decisions in the party in the absence of an elected president and that several people who were close to the central leadership left the party while those who are considered not close to them like him are still in the party. Last night itself, senior Congress leader Ajay Maken countered Sibal saying, "Sonia- ji had ensured that Sibal becomes Union Minister despite not having organisational background. Everyone in the party is being heard. I want to tell Sibal and others that they shouldn't degrade the organisation that gave them an identity." Another leader Udit Raj tweeted on Thursday, "Whosoever is making decisions in Congress party is immaterial?  Making a Dalit Chief Minister in Punjab is a best decision." Check DH latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/g-23-leaders-target-congress-high-command-for-protest-at-sibals-residence-1035848.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||Channi meets Sidhu, crisis appears to have blown over in Punjab Congress||The crisis in Punjab Congress appeared to have blown over on Thursday with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi meeting sulking Navjot Singh Sidhu and agreeing to some of his key demands. A party-government coordination panel will be formed while Sidhu, who quit as Punjab Congress president on Tuesday in protest against some Cabinet inclusion and appointments of Director General of Police and Advocate General, will also withdraw his resignation. Channi has called a meeting of the Cabinet on Monday to discuss some of the issues on which both leaders reached a compromise. The nearly two-hour-long meeting came on a day former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced that he is leaving the party, which had divested him of the top post in the state earlier this month on Sidhu's insistence. The former cricketer-turned-politician drove from Patiala to Chandigarh for the meeting with Channi at Punjab House, a day after the Chief Minister, who was tasked by the party central leadership to sort out the issue, invited Sidhu for a meeting to resolve the crisis but with a remark that party is supreme. Sidhu had earlier objected to the appointment of APS Deol as Advocate General and giving additional charge of Director General of Police to Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. He was also upset with some of the choices in Channi's Cabinet. Just before the meeting, Sidhu tweeted, "DGP IPS Sahota was head of SIT investigating Beadbi case under Badal Govt, he wrongfully indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege and gave clean chit to Badals. In 2018, I along with INC Ministers, then PCC Pres & present Home Minister assured them of our support in fight for Justice." However, senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar targeted Sidhu saying "enough is enough" and asked the party leadership to "put an end to attempts to undermine the authority" of the Chief Minister time and again. "Aspersions being cast on selection of Advocate General and DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of Chief Minister and Home Minister to deliver results. It is time to put the foot down and clear the air," he tweeted. Channi has been given a free-hand by the party central leadership and this appeared to have not gone down well with Sidhu, who took the offer for compromise as he was running out of options. The Chief Minister has also been asked to take all leaders along. The party central leadership sent a clear message that it would not tolerate Sidhu's tantrums for long and on Wednesday, it indicated that it was ready to even appoint a new president for the state in his place. The names of Kuldeep Nagra and Ravneet Bittu were floated as possible replacements.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/channi-meets-sidhu-crisis-appears-to-have-blown-over-in-punjab-congress-1035915.html
30-09-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu undermining Punjab CM's authority: Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh kept up his attack on Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday and said he thinks that the cricketer-turned-politician is undermining Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's authority. He also said the kind of situation that Sidhu has created was never seen before in Punjab. Asked if Sidhu is undermining Channi's authority, the veteran Congress leader, who returned to Chandigarh on Thursday evening after a visit to Delhi, said, "I think so." "Sidhu's job is to run party affairs and Channi's job is to run the government. There is never any interference. I have been the PCC chief thrice. "The two (the Pradesh Congress Committee chief and the chief minister) consult each other, but the final decision is of Channi, who is the chief minister, not Sidhu," Singh told reporters at the Chandigarh airport. Sidhu abruptly resigned as the state Congress chief on Tuesday, plunging the ruling party in Punjab into a fresh crisis months ahead of the Assembly polls. The cricketer-turned-politician raised questions on Wednesday over the appointments of the state's director general of police, advocate general and "tainted" leaders as ministers. Replying to a question on whom to remove from the cabinet or appoint as ministers, Singh said these decisions have to be taken by the chief minister. "To appoint, remove or transfer ministers or officers is the chief minister's job. What does the PCC president have to do with it?" he asked. Singh said over the nine-and-a-half years when he was the chief minister (2002-07 and March 2017 to September 2021), there have been many PCC chiefs. "We used to talk and consult each other, but the kind of situation that Sidhu has created was never seen," he added. Asked to comment on the current developments in the state, Singh said, "I have already said that Sidhu is not the right man for Punjab." "And from wherever he contests, I will not let him win," the former chief minister asserted. Singh had earlier accused Sidhu of being close to Pakistan and its Prime Minister Imran Khan and had alleged that he was "dangerous" for the border state. Asked if any Congress MLAs or ministers would follow him when he formally parts way with the party, he asked, "Do you think I will tell you this?" On a question on whether there should be a floor test in the Assembly in view of the current situation within the Punjab Congress, Singh said, "These matters are for the speaker to see.... It is not my job." Asked about media reports suggesting that he could float a regional party ahead of the Assembly polls, he evaded a direct reply, but quipped in a lighter vein, "Media reports also said that I am going to join the BJP at 12 noon today." Singh again reiterated that he would not join the saffron party but said he would quit the Congress. "I am not going to remain in the Congress, but I am not joining the BJP," he said. Asked when will he resign from the Congress, Singh said, "I will tell you at an appropriate time." During his visit to the national capital, Singh held separate meetings with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. He resigned as the chief minister on September 18 after accusing the Congress of humiliating him. Singh said during his meeting with Shah and Doval, he raised security concerns as Punjab is a border state. "There are issues related to security, which I raised. For the last four years, I have been seeing what is happening in Punjab. Drones are coming (from across the border) on a daily basis. There are those which are intercepted, but there may be others which one does not know where they are going...all these issues are related to national security," he said. Channi was recently picked as the leader of the state's Congress Legislative Party. He was sworn-in as the chief minister on September 20. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhu-undermining-punjab-cms-authority-amarinder-singh-1035931.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Rohini courtroom shootout: Delhi Police questions jailed gangster Tillu Tajpuriya||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch questioned jailed gangster Tillu Tajpuriya on Wednesday in connection with the murder of his rival Jitender Gogi inside a Rohini courtroom last week, jail officials said. Tillu Tajpuriya, who is lodged in jail no.15 of Mandoli prison, is suspected to be one of the prime conspirators behind the dramatic shootout that took place on Friday. The murder conspiracy was allegedly hatched by him inside the jail. Tajpuriya was interrogated by the Crime Branch team in jail on Wednesday evening, said a senior jail official. A preliminary investigation into the case had revealed that the entire operation to kill Gogi was given on phone by Tajpuriya, sources had said. According to them, Tajpuriya was in touch with his associates via internet calling and was giving them directions on how to execute the plan. On Friday, two assailants Rahul Tyagi and Jagdeep, dressed as lawyers, entered a crowded Rohini courtroom and shot dead gangster Gogi. However, they were then killed in police retaliatory fire. The Special Cell of the Delhi Police had arrested two men -- Umang Yadav and Vinay -- from a flat in northwest Delhi's Haiderpur area in connection with the incident and their custody was later handed over to the Crime Branch which is probing the case, police officials had said. According to the police, Tyagi and Jagdeep alias Jagga were from Gogi's rival gangs. Tajpuriya, Sunil Rathee and Naveen Bali, all chiefs of different criminal gangs, who are in jail are suspected to be behind the incident, according to the police. The Gogi and Tillu gangs are reportedly at war for years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-courtroom-shootout-delhi-police-questions-jailed-gangster-tillu-tajpuriya-1035647.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh govt to provide Rs 50,000 as help to kin of Covid-19 deceased: Official||The Himachal Pradesh government will provide ex-gratia assistance of Rs 50,000 to the kin of each of those who succumbed to Covid-19, a state official said here on Wednesday.  The state government notified the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) of all the 12 districts as disbursement authority for the ex-gratia assistance, director-cum-special secretary of revenue-disaster management Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said.  The notification has been issued with reference to the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), which recommended an amount of Rs 50,000 per deceased person including those involved in relief operations or associated in preparedness activities, subject to cause of death being certified as Covid-19.  The families concerned will submit their claims through a form issued by the state authority along with specified documents, including the death certificate that certifies the cause of death to be Covid-19, he added. The DDMA will ensure that the process of claim, verification, sanction, and the final disbursement of ex-gratia payment will be through a robust yet simple and people-friendly procedure, he added.  All claims must be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents and disbursed through Aadhaar-linked Direct Benefit Transfer procedures, he added. A four-member Grievance Redressal Committee at the district level has also been constituted. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-govt-to-provide-rs-50000-as-help-to-kin-of-covid-19-deceased-official-1035702.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police's anti-human trafficking unit rescues two women from Pune||Nearly five months after two women had escaped from a critical care centre here, the Delhi Police's anti-human trafficking unit of the Crime Branch rescued them from a red-light area in Pune, police said on Wednesday. The two women, along with eight others, had managed to escape after breaking open the window of the bathroom of a critical care centre in Dwarka in May, they said. These two are among the 13 women in their 20s who were rescued from GB road in Kamla Market in March and were later lodged at a critical care centre in Dwarka, as per orders of the Child Welfare Committee, the police said. With the help of a mobile number, the police managed to ascertain the whereabouts of these two women and later managed to trace one of them, a resident of Nepal, from Pune on the night of September 26 and on the same day, another woman (25) was also rescued from there, said a senior police officer. Both the women were brought to Delhi and medically examined. Their statements have been recorded and the two women are now lodged in Nirmal Chhaya, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj. A letter has also been written to the Department of Women and Children to look into proper rehabilitation of the two women, she said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-polices-anti-human-trafficking-unit-rescues-two-women-from-pune-1035711.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Teachers, staffers of Delhi govt schools to be treated as on leave if not vaccinated by Oct 15||Unvaccinated teachers and non-teaching staffers of Delhi government schools will not be allowed to attend school from October 15 and they will be considered as being on leave, the Directorate of Education (DoE) said on Wednesday. "We all are aware that the country is threatened with the Covid-19 pandemic, it is necessary to take all effective measures to prevent the spread of the same. The schools under DoE have been reopened in a phased manner, so it is the prime concern of the Delhi government that the environment of the schools remain safe with the appropriate implementation of SoPs and measures," DoE Director Udit Raj said in an official order. The DoE has directed education officers in all districts and school principals to ensure that all teachers and school staffers should be vaccinated by October 15. "All such teachers and school staff who have not got themselves vaccinated by October 15 should not be allowed to attend the school and their absence would be treated as on leave," he added. The DoE had earlier directed all government schools to ensure their teaching and non-teaching staffers are vaccinated at the earliest.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teachers-staffers-of-delhi-govt-schools-to-be-treated-as-on-leave-if-not-vaccinated-by-oct-15-1035721.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Sidhu to meet Punjab CM Channi at 3 pm, Sunil Jakhar says 'enough is enough'||Sulking Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will meet in Chandigarh on Thursday to find a way out of the crisis in the party after the former submitted his resignation as party state chief. However, senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar targeted Sidhu saying "enough is enough" and asked the party leadership to "put an end to attempts to undermine the authority" of the Chief Minister time and again. "Aspersions being cast on selection of Advocate General and DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of Chief Minister and Home Minister to deliver results. It is time to put the foot down and clear the air," he tweeted. Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of CM and Home Minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air. Jakhar's remarks came after Sidhu tweeted, "Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions." Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions ! The meeting comes two days after Sidhu sent his resignation to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi over his disagreement over the inductions in Channi's cabinet and appointments of certain top administrative posts. Earlier in the day, his adviser Mohammed Mustafa said the issues will be resolved soon. Sidhu will "stay as Punjab Congress chief and lead the Congress in next year's election," Mustafa was quoted by NDTV as saying. "The Congress leadership understands Navjot Sidhu and Sidhu is not beyond the Congress leadership. He is not Amarinder Singh, who never cared for the Congress and its leadership," he said, adding that Sidhu "acts emotionally at times" and the Congress leadership "understands" it. His resignation has come as a setback for Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, who have backed him against Amarinder Singh, who had to quit as Chief Minister. On Wednesday, Sidhu had tweeted a video in which he hardened his stand saying his fight is "issue-based" for which he will "keep fighting for truth till my last breath" and that he cannot compromise with "my ethics and my moral authority". Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-to-meet-punjab-cm-channi-at-3-pm-sunil-jakhar-says-enough-is-enough-1035761.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||What tipped Navjot Singh Sidhu to resignation point||Despite Charanjit Singh Channi's appointment as Punjab Chief Minister, Navjot Singh Sidhu was widely seen as the one pulling the strings. The infighting between Captain and Sidhu led to the toppling of the Amarinder Singh-led government, a move that earned Congress wide criticism of not keeping its house in order. However, his shock exit as PCC President stumped the party even as Channi was seen as a Sidhu loyalist. Senior Congress leader, Harish Rawat, went to the extent of saying that Sidhu would lead Punjab in the upcoming polls. Then why did Sidhu quit? It seems that Sidhu was unhappy over the appointments to important administrative posts by the party, and announced his resignation as state party chief over this. Sidhu is set to meet CM Channi at 3 pm in Chandigarh on Thursday. Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions ! Sidhu's key rival, Randhawa, was awarded the post of one of the state's two deputy chief ministers. He was deemed to be one of the factors behind Sidhu's resignation The other 2 appointments were  senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and A P S Deol, the state's new advocate general. “My dear Punjabis, my 17 years of political journey has been for a purpose – to improve the lives of the people of Punjab, to make a difference and to take a stand on politics of issues. This has been my 'dharma' and my duty. “Till today, I have no personal grudge against anyone, nor have I fought personal battles,” Sidhu said in a video posted on Twitter, a day after he resigned Apparently referring to senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who has been given the additional charge of the director general of Punjab Police, Sidhu said, “Today, I see there is a compromise on those issues." In an apparent reference to the 2015 desecration of Guru Granth Sahib incidents in Faridkot, he said his first priority was to fight for justice the people have been eagerly waiting for. "I see those who had given clean chits to the Badals six years ago ... have been given the responsibility of delivering justice," he added. Sahota was the head of a special investigation team formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe the sacrilege incidents. In another veiled jibe, directed at Deol. he said, "My soul jitters when I see those who secured blanket bails, they are advocate general. What is the agenda here?". Deol is a senior advocate of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and has been a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. He had been representing the ex-top cop in various cases against him. (Inputs from PTI) Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/what-tipped-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-resignation-point-1035788.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh calls on NSA Doval a day after meeting Amit Shah||A day after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah, former Punjab Chief Minister on Thursday called on National Security Advisor Ajit Doval amid talks of switching to BJP. Just after meeting between Amarinder Singh and Doval ended, Amit Shah met Doval, sources said. Amarinder Singh had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday evening. The meeting lasted for around an hour at Shah's official residence. However, Amarinder after meeting Shah, had said that they discussed farmers issues. He said he urged Amit Shah to resolve the crisis soon. On Wednesday, Singh tweeted after the meeting with Shah: "Met Union Home Minister @AmitShah in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers' agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-calls-on-nsa-doval-a-day-after-meeting-amit-shah-1035796.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||No Chhat celebrations to be allowed in public places, river banks in Delhi||No Chhat celebrations will be allowed at public places and river banks in the national capital, and fairs and food stalls will not be permitted during festivals, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority announced on Thursday. The authority in its fresh Covid-19 guidelines, however, said that restrictions on large gatherings and congregations have been relaxed only to the extent of celebration of festivals till November 15. "Fairs, melas, food stalls, jhoolas, rallies and processions will not be permitted during festivals in Delhi. Chhat pooja celebration shall not be allowed in public places and people are advised to celebrate the same at their homes," the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an official order. "All event organsiers will have to obtain requisite permissions from the district magistrate (DM) concerned for organising festival events, well in advance. No permission shall be granted by DMs or authorities for conducting any event in containment zones," it added. The DDMA clarified that no standing or squatting will be allowed at festive events and only sitting on chairs with social distancing will be permitted. "It may be noted that restrictions on gatherings and large congregations imposed earlier are being relaxed only to the extent of allowing celebrations of upcoming festivals till November 15," it added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-chhat-celebrations-to-be-allowed-in-public-places-river-banks-in-delhi-1035825.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC takes suo motu cognizance of Rohini Court shootout||The Delhi High Court Thursday took suo motu cognizance of the Rohini Court shootout that left three dead and said there was a need for proper and effective deployment of a sufficient number of police personnel in courts. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi Police, Delhi government, and Central government as well as the Delhi High Court Bar Association and directed that suggestions in the form of an affidavit or a report be filed on the issue of maintaining security at courts. “We have taken suo motu cognizance of the incident which took place in Rohini court. This court wants valuable suggestions from respondents for security at all court complexes in Delhi,” said the Chief Justice. The bench said that there was a need for a fool-proof entry system in courts, installation of metal detectors, under vehicle surveillance system, and proper training of police personnel. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On September 24, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana had expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-takes-suo-motu-cognizance-of-rohini-court-shootout-1035827.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC takes suo motu cognizance of Rohini Court shootout||The Delhi High Court Thursday took suo motu cognizance of the Rohini Court shootout that left three dead and said there was a need for proper and effective deployment of a sufficient number of police personnel in courts. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi Police, Delhi government, and Central government as well as the Delhi High Court Bar Association and directed that suggestions in the form of an affidavit or a report be filed on the issue of maintaining security at courts. “We have taken suo motu cognizance of the incident which took place in Rohini court. This court wants valuable suggestions from respondents for security at all court complexes in Delhi,” said the Chief Justice. The bench said that there was a need for a fool-proof entry system in courts, installation of metal detectors, under vehicle surveillance system, and proper training of police personnel. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On September 24, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana had expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. The matter would be heard next on October 5. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-takes-suo-motu-cognizance-of-rohini-court-shootout-1035828.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Mutual trust despite different ideologies is strength of democracy: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said mutual trust despite different ideologies is the strength of democracy. Responding to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's requests regarding a few projects for the development of the state during a virtual programme, Modi thanked the veteran Congress leader for having faith in him. "I was listening to the chief minister of Rajasthan. He has given a long list of projects. I thank the chief minister of Rajasthan that he has so much faith in me. His ideology, (political) party are different and my ideology, party are different but this friendship, trust and faith is a big strength of democracy," he said. Addressing the programme for the foundation laying of medical colleges in Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Dausa districts and the inauguration of the Institute of Petrochemicals Technology in Jaipur, Gehlot requested the prime minister to approve a medical device park in Jodhpur and a bulk drug park in Kota. He also sought the Union government's support to revive drug-manufacturing company RDPL, which was a joint venture of the Centre and the state. Talking about the challenges in service delivery, Gehlot said due to distances, the service delivery cost, be it in the health or in the education sector, from district to district and village to village is high in Rajasthan as compared to other states. He also said 30 of the 33 districts in the state will have medical colleges by 2023. Fifteen medical colleges are already there and 15 more will be ready by 2023, the chief minister said. Gehlot urged the prime minister to take a decision regarding medical colleges in the remaining three districts of Rajsamand, Pratapgarh and Jalore. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mutual-trust-despite-different-ideologies-is-strength-of-democracy-pm-modi-1035835.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Cops involved in 'very serious offences' to face dismissal, warns CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said illegal activities by police personnel are not acceptable and warned that those found involved in "very serious offences" will be dismissed. The CM's statement has come amid criticism of his government over law and order following the death of a Kanpur businessman at a hotel in his home district Gorakhpur. Manish Gupta (36) died on Monday night after he was allegedly beaten up by some policemen, prompting the authorities to register a murder case against them. At a meeting with senior officials, the CM said in the recent past, there have been complaints of some police personnel indulging in illegal activities, according to a statement. There should be no place for such people in the Police Department and action will be taken against them as per rules, Adityanath said, asking officials to identify such people and provide a list with proof Police personnel found involved in "very serious offences" should be dismissed, he said, stressing that people with tainted image should not be given important postings. Meanwhile, Opposition parties demanded a probe into the incident by the CBI or a sitting judge of the High Court. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav rushed to Kanpur to meet the family of the victim and said justice is not possible till a High Court-monitored inquiry by a sitting judge is not ordered. BSP Supremo Mayawati in a tweet also demanded a CBI probe. On Wednesday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had attacked the state government, saying it is "soft" on criminal and "brutal" with common people. Priyanka also talked to family members of the victim over the phone, expressing grief and assuring them of help in ensuring justice, party sources had said. Manish Gupta died when some policemen raided a Gorakhpur hotel on Monday night. Earlier, police had said he received a head injury after he fell on the ground as he was drunk. Later, the authorities suspended six policemen and booked them on the charge of murder. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-involved-in-very-serious-offences-to-face-dismissal-warns-cm-adityanath-1035847.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Digvijaya acknowledges help by Amit Shah, RSS workers during his 2017 Narmada pilgrimage||On other days Digvijaya Singh is among staunchest critics of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and Union home minister Amit Shah, but on Thursday he revealed how Shah as well as RSS workers had helped him during his 'Narmada Parikrama' four years ago. The senior Congress leader and his journalist wife Amrita had undertaken the arduous journey on foot or 'Parikrama' along the banks of the river Narmada in 2017. “Once, we reached our destination in Gujarat around 10 at night. There was no way ahead through the forested area and there was no facility for overnight stay," Singh said, speaking during the launch of “Narmada Ke Pathik”, a book penned by his long-time associate O P Sharma. "A forest officer arrived, and you will be surprised to know that he told me that Amit Shah had directed him to fully cooperate with us," Singh told the audience. “Elections were going on (in Gujarat), Digvijaya is their biggest critic, but he (Shah) ensured that there should not be any problem during our yatra. They found way for us through the mountains and also arranged food for all of us,” the Congress veteran said. Singh had started the over 3000 km-long journey which lasted six months from Barman Ghat in Narsinghpur district on September 30, 2017. "Till today I have not met Shah, but I expressed my gratitude to him through proper channels,” he added. This was an example of "political coordination, adjustment and friendship which has nothing to do with politics and ideology,” the Congress veteran said. Though he is a strong critic of the RSS, its workers kept meeting him during the yatra, Singh said. "I asked them why they were taking so much trouble, they told me that they had orders to meet me," he said. When he was passing through Bharuch region, RSS workers arranged the stay for his group at a Manjhi Samaj Dharamshala one day and the hall where they were put up had photos of RSS stalwarts Keshav Baliram Hedgewar and Madhavrao Sadashivrao Golwalkar on the walls, the Congress leader recounted. Singh said he was mentioning all this to let people know that religion and politics are different, and he had "taken help from all" during his pilgrimage. A leader of the BJP's youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and three other BJP workers were part of his group, and they are now inseparable part of his 'Narmada family', the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said. Singh also recounted that late spiritual leader Daddaji had directed his follower and actor Ashutosh Rana to make arrangements for `bhandara' (community feast) at Barman Ghat. A few spiritual leaders and former Union ministers Suresh Pachouri and Kantilal Bhuria also spoke at the book launch function. Singh's wife Amrita too recounted her experiences and stressed the need to conserve the environment along the river. Shivna Prakashan, the publisher, announced that five per cent of sales proceeds will be earmarked for the conservation of the Narmada. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/digvijaya-acknowledges-help-by-amit-shah-rss-workers-during-his-2017-narmada-pilgrimage-1035874.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu targets DGP over desecration case, meets CM Channi||Just before his meeting with Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday attacked the state's new DGP, saying he wrongly indicted two Sikh youths in a desecration case and gave a clean chit to the Badals. A tweet in this regard came as Sidhu reached Chandigarh from Patiala to meet Channi. The desecration of a religious text allegedly took place in Punjab’s Faridkot district in 2015, whose investigation was handed over by the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government to an SIT led by current DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. Sahota was given the additional charge of the state’s DGP by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government, after which Sidhu quit as the state Congress chief and objected to his appointment. Sidhu in a tweet on Thursday said Sahota was the head of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the desecration case under the Badal government and "wrongly" indicted two Sikh youths and gave a "clean chit to Badals". Sidhu further said in 2018, he along with current state Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and the then Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar had met the victims, assuring "support" in fight for Justice. Earlier in the day, Sidhu reached Chandigarh from Patiala to meet Channi. Miffed Sidhu on Wednesday had raised a question over the appointments of the director general of police, state's advocate general and “tainted” leaders. Sidhu's meeting came a day after Channi reached out to him and offered to resolve issues through talks. The Punjab unit of the Congress is in turmoil after Amarinder Singh was removed as the chief minister and its chief Sidhu resigned from his post ahead of the Assembly elections in the state early next year. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Channi had said, "I have spoken to Sidhu sahab over telephone today. The party is supreme and the government accepts the party's ideology and follows that. (I told him that) You come, sit and talk". "If you (Sidhu) feel there is anything wrong, you can point it out," he had said. When asked what was Sidhu's response, Channi had said the leader told him that he would sit and talk, and would give him time for a meeting.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-targets-dgp-over-desecration-case-meets-cm-channi-1035879.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||Rates unchanged as Delhi announces new power tariff, but bill may go up marginally||Power regulator DERC Thursday announced new tariff for Delhi without any increase in rates, saying it did not see any "good reasons" to do so. However, the power bill for consumers may increase marginally from October 1 as the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) has raised the pension surcharge from 5 per cent to 7 per cent. "After considering all the relevant factors, the Commission has come to the conclusion that there are no good reasons to make any increase in the existing tariff structure,' the DERC said in a statement. Last fiscal also (2020-21) also, the DERC did not hike electricity rates citing the Covid pandemic. In the new power tariff order, the DERC has encouraged green power by providing waiver of Service Line cum Development (SLD) and Network Augmentation charges for all renewable energy projects to developers under the Virtual & Group Net Metering mode. In order to promote pollution-free transportation and clean environment, the commission has decided to continue with the existing subsidised tariff rates for e vehicles. It has also kept the levy of Regulatory Asset Surcharge of 8 per cent unchanged in 2021-22. The surcharge is levied on the consumers of power discoms in Delhi. The power tariff in Delhi has not witnessed any major increase since the Aam Aadmi Party came to power in 2015. Ruling party leaders claim the electricity rates in the city are "cheapest" in the country. Delhi's power discoms -- BRPL, BYPL and TPDDL -- in their petitions to the DERC before the tariff revision had demanded a hike, citing losses due to Covid-19.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rates-unchanged-as-delhi-announces-new-power-tariff-but-bill-may-go-up-marginally-1035893.html
30-09-2021||North and Central||DU to release first cut-off for UG courses on Friday||The Delhi University will release its first cut-off list for undergraduate courses on Friday with the scores expected to soar higher this year from last time as more students have scored above 95 per cent in the CBSE Class 12 board examinations. Some colleges said they could even keep the cut-offs at 100 per cent in order to avoid "over-admissions" on the limited number of seats. "We had decided on our cut-offs but we were wondering to have a re-look at the scores after seeing that a higher number of students have scored above 95 per cent. "There are also students who have scored cent per cent marks and we might have to keep the cut-offs at 100 per cent," said Vibha Chauhan, principal of Kirori Mal College. The Delhi University's Aryabhatta College released its tentative cut-off list on Thursday with BA (Hons) psychology having the highest cut-off among all courses at 98.5 per cent. A principal of an off-campus college, requesting anonymity, said some courses might see a one or two per cent increase from last year while some might even see a six per cent rise from last time. "Over 70,000 students have scored above 95 per cent in CBSE this year and we have 70,000 seats on offer. There is a huge clustering of students in the 95 per cent to 100 per cent bracket, 90-95 per cent bracket and even in the 85 per cent to 90 per cent bracket. "We have to keep the cut-offs high in order to avoid admitting more students. It happens every year that end up admitting more students than the number of seats," he added. Dr Babli Moitra Saraf, principal of Indraprastha College For Women, said students should not be in despair even if they are not able to meet the cut-offs in the first list. "The first and the second cut-offs are higher because colleges do not want to run the risk of over-admissions. The rule is that everyone within the cut-off has to be accommodated irrespective of the number of seats," she said. She added that there are many colleges and universities in Delhi and people do get distributed. "We don't know when they will physically open the university and then other facilities like labs and human resource will be considered while determining the cut-offs," she said. Miranda House principal Dr Bijaylaxmi Nanda said there will not be a cent per cent cut-off for any course in the college. "We won't have 100 per cent cut-offs. The cut-offs will be slightly calibrated than last time. The cut-offs will be close to 100 but we will be realistic with them," Nanda added. She said the increase would be 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent in popular courses like Political Science (Hons), some combinations of BA Programme, Physics (Hons), etc. Last year, Lady Shri Ram College had a 100 per cent cut-off for three courses. Rajdhani College principal Dr Rajesh Giri said there will be a two per cent increase in cut-offs in the college from last year across all courses. St Stephen's cut-offs, which were released, were more or less on similar lines, on the scores of last year. Saraf said at St Stephen's, there is an interview component for applicants, something which the other colleges don't have. The cut-offs for BA (Hons) Economics and B.Com (Hons) courses were 98 per cent respectively. The minimum marks required to get admission in BA (Hons) English and BA (Hons) Political Science were 96 per cent for both the courses. In its tentative list released by Aryabhatta College, the cut-offs for BA (Hons) Economics and B.Com (Hons) courses stood at 98 per cent respectively. The minimum marks required to get admission in BA (Hons) English and BA (Hons) Political Science were 96 per cent for both the courses. DU colleges have been given a deadline of 1 pm on October 1 to submit the cut-off lists. Students will start applying to colleges from October 4. Over 2.87 lakh students have applied for Delhi University's undergraduate courses, down from 3.53 lakh applications last year, with the maximum aspirants from CBSE. Over 2.29 lakh applicants are from CBSE-affiliated schools, followed by Board of School Education Haryana (9,918), Council for the Indian School Certification Examination (9,659) and UP Board of High School and Intermediate Education (8,007).  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-to-release-first-cut-off-for-ug-courses-on-october-1-1035985.html
30-09-2021||Oasis||Let’s write our own history||The majority of us have learnt about the horrid accounts of individuals and communities who made successful or unsuccessful attempts to capture or usurp power or to dominate neighbouring or far-flung sections of society through the use of the might of military arsenals and by indulging in heinous crimes, bloodshed, butchery and great devastation in the process, through our history books. It is a pity that some history books and in some cases a section of intellectuals eulogised the acts of such persons as acts of great valour, chivalry or courage instead of condemning these as acts of barbarity and a great crime against humanity! The result of this perversion of values was that, in later times, the rulers of the nations thought it wise to build military might, the ambitious rulers invaded militarily weaker neighbours and deprived the people of their sovereignty and freedom. These nations or warriors, who indulged in military wars, in order to spread their ideology were praised as great heroes or martyrs. It was said that they deserved a respectable place in heaven, their nefarious acts of violence were labelled as 'holy wars' or 'great revolutions’. The result has been that communal acts of hatred and carnage have persisted even until this day. There have been political figures who were experts in the art of machinations who could do anything to satisfy their lust for power. History books and society honoured them as great politicians and shrewd statesmen instead of calling them 'unprincipled' men hungry for power. As a result of this, today, politics has come to be identified with lust for power rather than with service. Under such a scenario, if at all we wish to have a better world, then we will have to build a new world culture, based on the right values in which only he who conquers the vast territory of his mind, is considered a brave man, and he, who demonstrates the worth of his ideology by his practical acts is considered a religious hero. He who works for the betterment of all constituencies of the state with the motive of service is considered a great statesman. Remember! Only the right values and the right culture can bring about a better world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/let-s-write-our-own-history-1035960.html
30-09-2021||Opinion||Taiwan can help India build semicon industry||Recently, Taiwan has drawn worldwide attention for its capacity to supply leading-edge computer chips. Leading chip producers in Taiwan, including TSMC, UMC, MXIC and others manufacture more than 60 per cent of the semiconductors for the world market. Big automakers and electronic 3C companies asked Taiwan suppliers to provide more chips because the demand for electronics surged during the Covid-19 pandemic. To solve the problem of chip shortage, building a stable semiconductor supply chain is the only solution, and seeking cooperation with Taiwan looks like an attractive option for India where the demand for semiconductors is rising in automobiles and electronic industries. Semiconductor chips make up the brains of electronic products. They are used in all electronic products like mobile phones, 5G networks, high-speed computers, automobiles, and so on. Very few companies today can manufacture the most advanced chips, which are made in semiconductor fabrication plants, also known as foundries (or 'fabs' for short). The most famous and advanced fab company in Taiwan is TSMC. Its innovation and capability has ensured that Moore's Law continues to hold even today - that is, the number of transistors on a dense integrated circuit (IC) doubles every two years. TSMC holds a major share of the global chip market, roughly 56 per cent. Smaller fabs such as UMC, MXIC, PSMC and VIS also play major roles in the semiconductor industry. Taiwan’s closest competitor is South Korea, where Samsung holds roughly 19 per cent of the chip market share globally. A semiconductor supply chain (SSC) comprises system companies, EMS companies, IC design houses, IC manufacturing fabs, IC assembly houses, testing companies, verification, packaging houses and end consumers. To support a sustainable and continuous SSC, it is crucial to understand the principles of supply chain management. At the same time, SSC companies need to focus on environmental processes, social practices and economies of scale. To create a sustainable future, supply chain companies should work to improve the manufacturing process and quality, reduce the environmental impact and work to protect labour rights. In India, the ecosystem required to manufacture semiconductor chips and equipment suppliers does not exist at the moment. Building a semiconductor fab could be the future, but the question is, how long will it take to develop a semiconductor manufacturing ecosystem? Another crucial question is funding. Should the funding be generated from the government, or private players, or a mix of both? In fact, some important strands of the semiconductor ecosystem outside of an actual fab do exist in India. Virtually, all large chip design companies in the world like Intel, AMD, Mediatek and Google have their technology offices/labs in India. Moreover, a considerable number of startup companies with the potential to go global are designing chips in India. Most importantly, India has a huge consumer base with which no other country can compare. 33 million smartphones were sold in Q2 2021, and millions of consumers are waiting to upgrade to their first smartphones. India’s large smartphone, 5G, and IoT markets can trigger a burgeoning semiconductor manufacturing base. For now, India’s journey to an indigenous semiconductor sector has already begun with some global fabless IC design houses starting their assembly, testing, marking, packaging (ATMP) operations here. India has to make strategic plans about how to learn from Taiwan’s experiences, expertise and technologies through mutually beneficiary arrangements. It is necessary to encourage the private sector to get involved, create an SSC ecosystem through connecting local fabless IC design companies, and formulate proper strategies to set up semiconductor fabs. Taiwan could be India’s best friend on a long term basis should India focus on creating its own semiconductor eco-system, starting from fabless IC design houses, building ATMP plants, and finally setting up its own fabs. If India can get all the experience it needs from one source, it is from Taiwan. (The writer is associate director of Taiwan Desk, Electronics Industries Association of India.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taiwan-can-help-india-build-semicon-industry-1035655.html
30-09-2021||Opinion||Jeff Bezos is on the wrong Indian magazine cover||By Andy Mukherjee The world’s second-richest man is getting an almost-daily reminder of how tough it will be to win in the second-most-populous nation. Unlike in China, where the recent attack on tech titans has been delivered with the full formal might of state power, the latest blow on Amazon Inc. in India has come from unexpected, and unofficial, quarters. There can be nothing flattering in being compared to the 17th-century British firm that came to trade with a rich, vast land only to end up conquering and plundering it. But does the opprobrium really mean much? Both Bezos and his empire have faced robust criticism around the world, for everything from low pay and poor working conditions in the retailer’s warehouses to its alleged anti-competitive practices. Speaking of unfavorable articles, Lina Khan earned her spurs with her 2017 Yale Law Journal entry, “Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox,” and she’s now the chair of the US Federal Trade Commission. The reason to take the Indian publication’s disapproval seriously is that Panchjanya, “the sound of righteousness,” isn’t any other magazine. Founded by one of the leading figures of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, or the RSS, it’s widely believed to be a mouthpiece of the Hindu cultural organisation that stands behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, nurturing his right-wing nationalist party with ideological sustenance and voter mobilisation. The timing of Amazon’s bad publicity couldn’t have been worse. The media site Morning Context recently reported that the Seattle-based e-commerce firm is investigating a whistleblower complaint, which alleged that certain monies paid by the retailer have been funneled into bribes by one or more of its legal representatives in India. In its reply to the news website’s questionnaire, Amazon said it had “zero tolerance” for graft. It declined to confirm the specific allegations or the status of any investigation. What is the scale of this alleged bribery? Soon after the Morning Context exclusive, there was a flurry of other media reports, which cited anonymous sources to put a number on what various Amazon entities had spent as legal fees in India in two years: 85.46 billion rupees ($1.2 billion). The Confederation of All India Traders, which accuses the platform of hurting small sellers, latched on to the figure and wrote to Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal — himself no fan of e-commerce platforms — about a “whopping amount” being spent to “manipulate Indian government officials.” Amazon said the number was a misleading representation. Amazon Seller Services Pvt., which is the marketplace in India, paid 520 million rupees in legal fees in a year when it incurred almost 20 billion rupees in expenses on account of “legal and professional services,” which includes everything from accounting and customer research to merchant onboarding costs and logistics services. It seems the $1.2 billion figure also included payments by Amazon India Ltd. — a 26-year-old, completely unrelated firm tucked away in the old, Mughal part of Delhi and engaged in the “growing of crops.” Regardless, the e-commerce behemoth has to investigate the whistleblower complaint. Based on the findings, the US Securities and Exchange Commission, which enforces the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act jointly with the Department of Justice, will have to determine if the law was broken. But Panchjanya isn’t waiting for any of that. In Amazon, it has found its rapacious colonizer come to destroy India all over again. “Why does anyone need to offer a bribe?” the article asks. “Only to do something wrong or to hide it.” Online buying doesn’t account for even a 10th of India’s $800 billion retail trade. Yes, Amazon runs one of two dominant digital marketplaces and has valuable customer data. But it’s nowhere as powerful or all-pervasive as China’s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. A Prime Video series in India, made by Indian writers and directors, can say all it wants against caste, misogyny or religious hatred. It won’t move the needle during elections, which routinely make use of all kinds of prejudices to polarise voters. So why is Amazon being called on the carpet? Simple answer: Diwali. The Indian festive season is approaching, and the pandemic is in retreat. People who have stable jobs and incomes — members of a shrunken middle class — want to breathe. And they want to buy. To destabilise the American giant now will push more business to homegrown offline retailers. New rules that will protect them — by forbidding e-commerce market places from offering “significantly reduced prices” — are at a draft stage, and facing opposition within the government. The attacks don’t stop there. The Sept. 5 issue of Panchjanya had on its cover, in a similar unflattering light, Narayana Murthy, a co-founder of software firm Infosys Ltd. The article referred to glitches in the tax e-filing portal the vendor has developed for India to level unsubstantiated accusations that made many in the country’s private sector nervous. “There are allegations that Infosys management is deliberately trying to destabilise the Indian economy,” it said. Interestingly, Murthy, who’s now just a large shareholder in Infosys, owns, through his family office, three-quarters of Cloudtail, the largest seller of goods made by others on Amazon’s India website. Amazon owns the rest. Facing intense scrutiny on large, connected-party resellers on the retailing website, the partners have agreed to dissolve the joint venture by next year. (Murthy hasn’t publicly commented on the article, while the RSS has sought to distance itself by saying that the magazine is not its mouthpiece.) The scurrilous allegations are only part of the problem. As the Canadian communications theorist Marshall McLuhan said, the medium is the message. The RSS, an all-male organisation of small traders, builders and businessmen, can be a formidable foe, especially in India’s current climate of strident economic nationalism. First Bezos’s partner ends up on the wrong magazine cover. Then he does. It’s enough to turn Amazon’s India headache, building up for more than five years, into a throbbing migraine. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jeff-bezos-is-on-the-wrong-indian-magazine-cover-1035731.html
30-09-2021||Opinion||Rejuvenation of Congress must not marginalise loyalists||The fallout of Navjot Singh Sidhu's shenanigans in Punjab has hit the Congress Party's next-generation leaders - Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. While criticism by the media and Opposition politicians was predictable, rumblings within the party itself should be a cause for worry. This includes not only the voluble G-23 but others in the party who may feel that the leadership tends to reward outside talent. Triggered by the Sidhu embarrassment, such responses could turn into hostility against Rahul Gandhi's efforts to rejuvenate the party by inducting new faces. It would be wrong to see the induction of 'outsiders' in the Congress as mere disbursal of patronage. The new inductees have political skills rather than the long political genealogies of some who exited the party. Moreover, they are ideologically opposed to the exclusionary and majoritarian ideology of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and are inclined to work for the marginalised and poor. This clear game plan follows from Rahul Gandhi's widely reported statement in July to workers of his party's social media department, "There are many people who are not scared, but outside the Congress. All these people are ours. Bring them in," he had said, adding, "And those scared within our party should be shunted out. They can go to RSS people, let them enjoy. We do not want them. We want fearless people. This is our ideology." There can be little doubt that Rahul Gandhi is trying to rebuild the party – going back to its ideological moorings as a Left-of-Centre, secular organisation that cares for the marginalised and the poor. This is a process of renovation and re-energising the party. It must not be seen by those within the party as a demolition exercise. Rahul Gandhi's induction of Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani and the political excitement caused by the choice of Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit Congressman, as the new Chief Minister of Punjab have once again demonstrated the power of ideology as an instrument of political mobilisation. As the most outspoken critic of the majoritarian Hindutva ideology of the BJP, Rahul Gandhi must know better than anyone else that this process will have to be continued. For the Congress party not only needs a Kanhaiya Kumar and a Jignesh Mevani but scores of prominent civil society activists, young and old leaders emerging out of the agitations of farmers, workers and tribals. It needs them in droves and not in dribs and drabs. However, he will have to rally the entire party behind his ideological battle instead of serving ultimatums to his critics. There are murmurs that the current party leadership places a greater premium on rank outsiders while long-term loyalists are ignored. Responses against the induction of former Communist Party of India member and Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Kanhaiya Kumar have stoked reds-under-the-bed fears. Others wryly remark that perhaps they would have to make a detour via another party to be noticed. Other inductees who have been seen as threatening the precedence of party loyalists are Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee chief, A Revanth Reddy was in the Telugu Desam Party before he joined the Congress in 2017. Prior to that, he was in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, having started his political career as a student leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party. In Maharashtra, the Congress has appointed Nana Patole as the Maharashtra PCC chief. He joined the party after resigning as a BJP MP. In Karnataka, the Congress's potential chief ministerial face Siddaramaiah came from the Janata Dal (Secular). He became the Congress chief minister in Karnataka and is currently the leader of the Opposition in the state legislative assembly. Unlike Navjot Sidhu, however, each one of them has done their best to live by the Congress ideology, leaving their previous ideologies behind. In the inimitable words of Siddaramaiah, "A daughter-in-law comes as an outsider but soon becomes an insider." But like the proverbial mother-in-law, those already in the party seem to mistrust the daughters-in-law as "outsiders". They forget that the Congress was a capacious tent that grew by actively ushering in those agitating outside as long as they adhered to the party's overall vision. For the better part of the post-Independence period, those who saw their future and fortune with the Congress were welcome inside. If today, people want to join the party even when the party's political prospects have taken a downward slide, Congressmen ought to celebrate the fact and hope that this process gathers momentum. However, to prevent alienation within the party, the Gandhis will have to turn to internal dialogue, debate and discussion, which seems absent for now. A situation in which a few prominent activists are inducted but a dozen others exits will not rejuvenate the party. Among the so-called letter writers of the G-23 group of Congressmen, could anyone have doubted the loyalty of a Ghulam Nabi Azad, an Anand Sharma or a Verappa Moily to the party? Party leaders need to ask why these hard-core loyalists suddenly turned dissenters. When the party finds itself at political crossroads, and its members are uncertain of what the future holds for them and the party, then it is all the more imperative that there are extensive discussions for choosing the way forward. The party no longer holds the "Chintan Shivir" (brainstorming sessions) to decide on crucial issues. Despite announcements that a "Chintan Shivir" like the one in Pachmarhi and Shimla will be held to decide the way forward and for strengthening the party, nothing seems to fructify. The Covid pandemic cannot continue to be the perpetual excuse for not holding internal dialogue within the party or even organisational elections. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rejuvenation-of-congress-must-not-marginalise-loyalists-1035764.html
30-09-2021||Panorama||Farmers’ leaders want to oust BJP. Will they take the political plunge?||It has been more than 10 months since a group of farmers’ organisations started their protest on the borders of the national capital against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last. Over the past few months, however, the farmers’ refrain has gradually shifted from demanding a rollback of the farm laws and making minimum support price for farm produce the law to defeating the BJP and its allies in the upcoming elections. Perhaps they have come to the conclusion that their demands won’t be fulfilled if the BJP continues in power.    The change in the narrative of the farmers’ leaders is indicative of attempts to shift the battleground from the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of the national capital to that of electoral politics, without actually taking a political plunge themselves. Farmers’ leaders at the recent Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar in western Uttar Pradesh spoke of defeating Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in the UP elections next year and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2024, without indicating whether they would themselves jump into the fray to do so. A section of farmers’ leaders, such as Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the Haryana chapter of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, exhorted other leaders attending the Muzzaffarnagar meeting to contest elections to ensure the “real welfare” of farmers. Chaduni had contested elections in the past from the Ladwa Assembly seat in Haryana and lost his security deposit, finishing seventh. He is now keen to test the electoral waters in Punjab. Rakesh Tikait, the son of veteran farmers’ leader late Mahendra Singh Tikait, had contested the Assembly polls in UP on the Bhartiya Kisan Dal ticket and lost miserably. He had tried his luck again in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections as a Rashtriya Lok Dal candidate but failed to garner even 10,000 votes. Since emerging as the face of the farmers’ agitation after the January 26 violence at the Red Fort, Tikait has been insisting that he is not interested in contesting elections and would remain apolitical. The political ambitions of some farmers’ leaders have caused unease within the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the conglomeration of farmers’ organisations leading the protests, which is keen to keep the agitation apolitical and retain the moral high ground. With elections due in Punjab and UP, the SKM’s 40-plus groups are debating amongst themselves their approach to electoral politics. The SKM has also widened the attack on the Modi government, criticising its policies such as the National Monetisation Pipeline, disinvestment, besides issuing statements on every other major issue dominating the headlines. Like the anti-corruption agitation in 2011, with Anna Hazare as the figurehead, during the Congress-led UPA government, the SKM, too, has declared its intent to oust the ruling dispensation. Like the Anna movement, the SKM, too, has received support from a large section of opposition parties. But the similarities between the two agitations end there. The anti-corruption agitation during the UPA years had a strong organiser in Arvind Kejriwal, who managed to create a strong buzz across the country against corruption by effectively rallying the media against the then ruling Congress. The farmers’ agitation, despite claims of a national footprint, has found resonance largely in Punjab, Haryana and western UP. It lacks a clear leader and the diverse group of 40 leaders of farmers’ unions largely confined to some districts in each of the three states appear to pull in different directions. The selective protests against the lathi-charge on farmers in Haryana, by staging a sit-in in Karnal, that led to violent clashes with the police, and the muted response to similar action in Congress-ruled Punjab, too, had caused some disquiet within the SKM. The farmers’ organisations are resolute in their objective to overthrow the BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and at the Centre, and appear ambiguous when it comes to extending support to Congress in Punjab. They have not presented an alternative vision that they would like to see implemented if the BJP is ousted from power, which could prove to be a handicap when it campaigns against the saffron party. In the states where caste plays an important role in voting patterns in elections, the Congress, too, appears keen to endear itself to the Scheduled Caste voters by highlighting the “first Dalit Chief Minister of North India” in Punjab’s Charanjit Singh Channi, hoping to benefit from the move in Uttarakhand and UP. Moreover, the farmers’ issue has so far seemed to resonate more in western UP than in the rest of the state. The BJP’s attempts to reach out to voters with a religious message of the Ram Temple, the return to power of Taliban in Afghanistan and the threat it poses to India, appears to have a stronger appeal in UP. The BJP, too, has been guarded in responding to the farmers’ sustained attack on them by arguing that they also believe that the farmers should not go empty-handed from their agitation sites. If the farmers’ leaders decide to take the political plunge, they may find themselves pitted against the same section of opposition parties who are supporting them rhetorically but may be unwilling to cede political space to them. Will the farmers’ leaders be able to script a success story like Kejriwal’s AAP? Will they be able to field virtual nobodies in the elections and ensure their win? Or will the agitation gradually fade away after the UP elections? We will know in the next few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/farmers-leaders-want-to-oust-bjp-will-they-take-the-political-plunge-1035671.html
30-09-2021||Panorama||Reducing global warming: Could reflecting sunlight back into space work?||Imagine a scenario in the next 15 to 20 years where unprecedented heatwaves, droughts, floods and forest fires occur around the world along with extensive melting of Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets leading the sea to rise, submerging many islands and coastal cities, and many coastal areas being hit by strong storms, hurricanes and cyclones. This is potentially not impossible.  Paris Agreement has a goal of stabilising global warming between 1.5-2 Deg C by the end of the century. But the earth has already warmed by nearly 1.1 Deg C and we see the adverse impacts already felt around the world. The voluntary commitments made in the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) by all the countries to the United Nations (UN) before the Paris Agreement, if implemented may still lead to a warming in the range of 2.7-3 Deg C. This level of warming could lead to more unprecedented extreme climatic events threatening humanity and nature. In such a scenario, the leaders and countries may want an urgent solution, to reduce warming and the related adverse impacts. Some scientists believe “geoengineering” is the solution in such an emergency situation. Geoengineering is the deliberate large-scale alteration of the earth’s environment to mitigate climate change. It is one of the quickest ways to reduce the warming of a region or globally. One of the most important geoengineering options is Solar Radiation Management (SRM). SRM aims at reflecting inbound sunlight back into space, reducing the amount of heat absorbed by the earth and lowering global temperatures. Its techniques involve: i) Stratospheric (20 to 50 kms) aerosols injection — the spraying of small, reflective particles into the upper atmosphere to reflect some sunlight before it reaches the earth.ii) Albedo enhancement aimed at increasing the reflectiveness of clouds or the land surface so that more of the sun’s heat is reflected back to space.iii) Space mirrors blocking a small proportion of sunlight before it reaches the earth. A real-life example is the Mount Pinatubo volcano in the Philippines that erupted in 1991. An estimated 20 million tonnes of sulfur dioxide and ash particles were released into the stratosphere. Such volcanic eruptions can impact global climate, reducing the amount of solar radiation reaching the earth's surface, lowering temperatures for many years.  Similar to volcanic eruptions, the most effective solution appears to be injecting highly reflective sulphate aerosol particles into the stratosphere. Alternatively, the placement of mirrors in space or enhancement of the reflectivity of marine clouds by injecting sea-salt aerosols into them could be considered. Solar geoengineering can cool the planet rapidly within 1-2 years and is estimated to cost much less than the conventional climate mitigation techniques through renewable energy, energy efficiency, etc. Many scientific bodies such as the American Meteorological Society, American Geophysical Union and the Royal Society of UK have advocated research into solar geoengineering which could contribute to a comprehensive risk management strategy to slow climate change. The most studied among the solar geoengineering options is the proposal to inject aerosol particles such as sulfates or calcium carbonate into the stratosphere and deflect about 1-2% of the incoming solar radiation. Modelling studies have consistently confirmed that solar geoengineering can diminish regional and seasonal climate change from anthropogenic CO2 emissions. Though SRM is cheap and can rapidly cool down the climate system, it has many undesirable side effects such as weakening the global water cycle, potentially leading to drought in some areas. If SRM fails or is halted, the planet could be subjected to extremely rapid warming with the rate of warming many times that of the current warming. Thus, human and natural systems could be subjected to severe stress following an abrupt termination or failure of SRM. Reputed scientific bodies such as the Royal Society of UK and the US National Research Council have published reports that recommend research into a portfolio of geoengineering schemes. China started its regional geoengineering program in 2015 and Japanese researchers have assessed the attitudes in the Asia-Pacific region to geoengineering. In India, climate modelling studies have investigated the impacts of solar geoengineering on the hydrological cycle, cyclones in the Bay of Bengal, monsoon and agriculture. Oxford University has a Geoengineering Programme. Harvard University launched the Solar Geoengineering Research Program which is planning field experiments to test the effects of injected particles (sulfates and calcium carbonates) in the stratosphere at a height of 20 km. However, recently a field experiment in Sweden using a high-altitude balloon, which mimics the cooling effect of volcanic eruptions, was stopped due to opposition from activists and citizens. According to an assessment by the Overseas Development Initiative, a UK-based think tank, "potential downsides of SRM include changes in regional weather patterns that could lead to droughts in Africa and Asia, damage to the ozone layer, continued ocean acidification, impacts on natural ecosystems and agricultural crops, impacts on tropospheric chemistry, diminished radiation for solar power, and the risk of human error." There is also a fear that research into geoengineering could lead to the problem of countries stopping the work on emission reduction as there is an engineering solution to the climate problem. There is also the fear that once a research program on geoengineering is initiated, we might ultimately end up implementing geoengineering. Geoengineering actions such as placing mirrors in the sky may seem like science fiction, and they may not be a panacea for all the adverse effects of climate change. However, it is not clear whether the risks of solar geoengineering are greater than the risks of warming above 1.5 -2 Deg C. The environmental, economic, social, ethical, political, and legal risks of using these technologies are also poorly understood. Scientific research must, however, continue and developing countries including India should be actively engaged in solar geoengineering research, evaluation and discussion. (The writers are former professors at the Indian Institute of Science)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/reducing-global-warming-could-reflecting-sunlight-back-into-space-work-1035959.html
30-09-2021||Panorama||Leela Roy, a freedom fighter with a difference||Very few know that Mahatma Gandhi shared his birthday not only with Lal Bahadur Shastri but also with another phenomenal leader and an exceptionally patriotic and non-conformist woman of the country who challenged the set idea of her era that women were best-suited for spinning and weaving khadi and for picketing of foreign cloth and liquor shops. She wanted women’s role in the freedom movement to go much beyond that and did not believe in the norms of traditional demarcation of masculine and feminine roles. Her path-breaking ideas and valorous feats were a striking departure from most women leaders of her generation. That flaming woman was Leela Roy, a revolutionary, educationist, social and political activist and more than anything else a woman of an indomitable spirit. Leela was born on October 2, 1900, at Goalpara, Assam. Her family originally hailed from Dacca (Dhaka). She had an extremely brilliant academic career and happened to be the first girl student of Dacca University in her MA class. As the university was not yet co-educational, Leela had to fight her way to get admission. In 1923, young Leela formed an unprecedented women’s group in Dacca called ‘Deepali Sangh’ with multiple branches to educate and empower women and to make them financially independent. It specifically laid stress on the physical training of women. Rabindranath Tagore once attended a massive all-ladies meeting of ‘Deepali Sangha’ and said that he had never seen such a large gathering of women in entire Asia. In 1926 fiery Leela became the first woman to enter the core group of an erstwhile all-male revolutionary party of Dacca — ‘Shree Sangha’. Through Leela, a bunch of more women were recruited in ‘Shree Sangha’, where they were taught to make bombs and handle the arms. Leela Roy formed ‘Deepali Chhatri Sangha’, a student revolutionary group and ‘Mahila Atma Raksha Fund’, one of the first women self-defence martial arts groups. In 1930, after the arrest of Anil Roy, the founder of ‘Sree Sangha’, Leela took charge of the Sangha and devoted herself completely to the path of revolution.  In 1931, Leela Roy decided to publish a Bengali monthly periodical ‘Jayasree’, managed wholly by women, an achievement that was inconceivable at that time. She broke the stereotype by keeping ‘Jayasree’ away from typical housewifely matters like household tips, cooking, sewing, knitting and so on and keeping its focus on socio-political issues. Between 1931 and 1937, she was a prisoner due to her revolutionary ventures. In 1939, Leela and Anil Roy tied the knot. Both of them joined Subhash Chandra Bose’s ‘Forward Bloc’ as its founder-members. In 1940, when Bose was arrested, Leela Roy took over as the editor of ‘Forward Bloc Weekly’. In 1942, during the August movement, Leela Roy was again arrested because of her strong patriotic editorials in ‘Jayasree’. When Bose formed Azad Hind Fauj in 1943, Leela was still in jail. He missed Leela Roy’s presence at that time in the Far East which he thought would have been beneficial to the ‘Rani Jhansi’ regiment of young Indian women. By the time Leela Roy was released in 1946, the situation in the country had become frightful due to the communal riots in Calcutta, Bihar and Noakhali. Leela played an important part at this time in saving lives through the rescue work. During this time, she came in close contact with Mahatma Gandhi and was appreciated by him for her work.  Leela Roy went on to become the only woman from West Bengal to be elected to the Indian Constituent Assembly in December 1946. However, a few months later, the partition of India took place. It was painful and unacceptable for her to see her home and ‘karmabhoomi’ (Dacca) being taken away from her ‘matrubhoomi’ (India), hence she resigned the coveted post in protest against it and dedicated herself completely to the relief, rescue and rehabilitation of refugees. Leela Roy died on February 4, 1968. Her portrait now adorns the wall of the Central Hall of Parliament House. She was a woman who pushed the boundaries of accepted feminism through the kind of life she lived and the works she did. She wanted women to challenge their own capabilities by performing tasks that were generally not considered their domain. Her ideas are of great significance in today’s scenario when the much-awaited entry of women into the fighting streams of armed forces is now a reality. (The writer is a post-doctoral research fellow, UGC)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/leela-roy-a-freedom-fighter-with-a-difference-1035961.html
30-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Knight in shining armour||One fine hot morning in May, I opened my front door to see a puppy in a really precarious shape huddled in front of it. He had been mauled badly and infested by maggots. Being an avid lover of dogs I just could not leave him to his own fate. I rushed him to the vet who said that his infections were bad and the chances of his survival were slim. The tiny warrior battled on and regained his strength and appetite after almost a month. His bark with all the chutzpah he could muster was just music to my ears. Already a parent to four dogs, my mind baulked at the idea of a fifth dog. But fate had a different tale in store. It was the height of the Covid and we were unsuccessful in finding a home for him. A part of me was relieved at the thought of keeping him as by now I had fallen in love with him head over heels. However, territorial wars began among the canines shortly. Our pint-sized dynamite held his own and soon established his place in the hierarchy. I named him Vetri, meaning victory, in my mother tongue Tamil. After all, he had defied death and emerged victoriously. His antics were the bane of our lives. He ate up slippers, remotes and chargers. Not one cushion was safe with him around. He specialised in pulling out clothes from half-open cupboards and sitting on them rather proprietarily. The days flew by, and Vetri was firmly ensconced in our lives. Every evening he and I would walk. Defying all rules of his training, he would lead the way cocking a snook at other dogs and barking whenever he felt that his authority had been challenged. On one such evening, as we were walking, I felt my head spin, lost consciousness and fell down. When I woke up an hour later I found myself in my bed surrounded by the worried faces of my family. I was told that I had been found on the road with Vetri standing next to me, though his leash had slipped out of my hand. It was he who led the people who found me to my house. It was amazing that Vetri had the instinct to know that something had gone wrong and waited patiently for someone to come by. If he were a normal dog with all his faculties intact, it would not have been unexpected, but coming from a dog who was born blind, it was surely surprising. Vetri was a beautiful life lesson to me, being born blind but establishing a place of his own in this world which is very intolerant of imperfections, with the intellect and instinct.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/knight-in-shining-armour-1035667.html
30-09-2021||Right in the Middle||Little things TV can teach||When I visited my friend’s home some time ago, I saw his ten-year-old niece eating something from a saucer in the next room. She was relishing it so much that I could not resist going to her. I asked her to give some of that food to me. I was surprised when she literally snubbed me for asking. At that moment, my friend came there and reprimanded her for 'bad manners'. The girl replied that even the 'Crorepati uncle' did not give snacks to anybody. I did not understand the background, but my friend explained to me that she was talking about the advertisement of a particular namkeen in which Amitabh Bachhan (whom she addressed as Crorepati uncle) acted. In that advertisement, he refused to share the snacks with anyone. It was shocking to know that a piece of advertisement had an effect on the psychology of children. Television is serving many ideas to us daily, which definitely shape the thought process of our young ones. I just recalled the advertisements telecast in the yesteryears. One particular advertisement was that of Paan Parag, in which the model was shown sharing the product happily with everyone. The creative artists and the actors of the Bhujia advertisement or Paan Parag advertisement might not have thought about this aspect of their creativity that sharing and caring habits could be inculcated among the young ones. But these little things mean a lot and have a huge significance in our lives. The low and shabby standard of TV debates, the vocabulary used by TV anchors, the abuses in teleserials can cause distress to countless people. These seemingly small things are often effective in damaging the human spirit. Small acts of goodwill and kindness bring peace, joy and comfort to human beings. The most meaningful kindness is often reflected in the simplest things of everyday life. No one becomes evil and self-righteous overnight. Rather, it is the accumulation of little acts of wrong here and there. Similarly, no one becomes a saint overnight. It is also the accumulation of small good acts that eventually pave the way for the flourishing of all goodness in man. Little things in the positive sense are the reflection of a good life. They bring peace, joy and comfort to fellow human beings. Media planners, creative artists and others who are in responsible positions should take care of those little positive things which help to perfect a good life, and good life encourages the realisation of these little things everywhere and every day. This is a virtuous circle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/little-things-tv-can-teach-1035955.html
30-09-2021||Second Edit||End of the Merkel era in Germany||The recent elections to the German parliament marked the end of an era in more ways than one.  For one, this was the first time in several decades that Chancellor Angela Merkel, Germany’s first woman chancellor, did not contest the elections. More importantly, it is the first time in two decades that Merkel did not lead her party, the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), in the election campaign. Back in October 2018, Merkel had announced that she would not seek a record fifth term as Germany’s Chancellor or seek re-election as leader of CDU but would continue at the helm of the party till the 2021 election. Merkel became Germany’s Chancellor for the first time in 2005 and was re-elected in 2009, 2013 and 2017. For the first time in 16 years, she will not be heading the government that emerges from Sunday’s election. She dominated Germany’s domestic politics and the political stability she gave the country enabled her to provide the European Union (EU) decisive leadership and to steer the grouping through several crises, including the migration crisis, the euro crisis, Covid-19 as well as Brexit. The EU will miss her leadership and presence at the steering wheel. Rudderless, the grouping will struggle without her guidance and experience. For the first time in 16 years, the CDU-Christian Social Union (CSU) coalition has failed to get the largest number of seats; it has been defeated by the centre-left Social Democratic Party (SPD), which secured 206 seats. However, the SPD victory is narrow. Both the SPD and the conservative CDU-CSU bloc are in a position to form the next government and are scouting for allies. The Greens, the Free Democratic Party and the Alliance for Germany (AfD) have emerged as kingmakers. While the Greens are an environment-minded party, the FDP stands for free market, while the AfD is a far-right party. Hard bargaining and compromise will precede the formation of the next government, which could take weeks, if not months. Forming the next government is likely to be hard. But ensuring stable governance could prove even more challenging given the differences in the outlook and agendas of the parties that have to come together. Germany will take over the leadership of the G-7 in January. Will the country have a government in place by then? If the parties fail to form a coalition government by December, Merkel will create another record by becoming the country’s longest-serving Chancellor, but can she make commitments on behalf of Germany at the CoP26 in Glasgow or provide leadership at the G-7?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/end-of-the-merkel-era-in-germany-1035669.html
30-09-2021||Second Edit||DNA samples bill cause for concern||The Identification of Prisoners (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, passed recently by the Assembly, which seeks to collect DNA and voice samples and iris scans as “measurements” of convicts may be well-intentioned, but is susceptible to misuse unless adequate safeguards are built in. Earlier, only photographs, besides hand and footprint impressions of prisoners sentenced to rigorous imprisonment of one year or more were collected; with the passage of the Bill, DNA samples of even those convicted for one month will be obtained. What raises concern is that the Bill also does away with mandatory magisterial oversight as now even superintendents or deputy commissioners of police can authorise collection of such samples. A similar piece of legislation — The DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill — sought to be enacted by the Centre has been hanging fire for long over concerns of data security and profiling of people of certain communities as it has far-reaching implications, like collection of samples from suspects, too. Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra argues that such a database will help in identifying habitual offenders, while allaying fears of any breach, as the data will be stored in the criminal tracking system in Bengaluru. But given the country’s poor track record in matters relating to privacy, confidentiality and data protection, such promises do not inspire confidence. Karnataka should have, at the least, waited for the central act to come into force so that it could have taken a more informed decision.  However, the Karnataka Prison Development Board Bill, which was also passed by the Assembly is welcome as it aims at ensuring that jail inmates walk out as “productive individuals” at the end of their term. The board will enable a study of the living conditions in prisons, correctional intervention, skill improvement through job-oriented training and other welfare measures which will enable prisoners to integrate into society and live a respectable life. Historically, prisons were considered ‘house of captives’ where prisoners were kept for retributory and deterrent punishment, with no effort to rehabilitate them. It is thus heartening that Karnataka is moving towards reforming offenders to enable them to re-assimilate in the social milieu.  Several panels, including the All-India Committee on Jail Reforms headed by Justice A N Mulla, have called for a comprehensive law embodying modern principles and procedures regarding reformation and rehabilitation of offenders. It is time Karnataka moved in this direction, instead of taking recourse to piece-meal legislation. The government should ensure that custody, care, treatment and rehabilitation of offenders is compatible with human dignity in all aspects like accommodation, hygiene, sanitation, food, clothing and medical facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/dna-samples-bill-cause-for-concern-1035957.html
30-09-2021||South||Wordy duel between Tamil Nadu Finance Minister and security men at airport||A verbal duel broke out between Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and security personnel at the airport here on Thursday over carrying laptops. When Thiaga Rajan gave his bag for scanning to security staff at the domestic terminal, they found that it had two laptops and allegedly questioned him for "not disclosing that the bag has two laptops," airport sources said. The Minister, apparently irked, asked security personnel if two laptops cannot be carried at the same time. They replied that in case of electronic devices and gadgets these should be given to them separately for scanning purpose. Officials intervened and later Thiaga Rajan moved on with his laptops to board a flight to Tuticorin. For a while, the argument between them caused a flutter at the airport. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wordy-duel-between-tamil-nadu-finance-minister-and-security-men-at-airport-1035849.html
30-09-2021||South||After 'Narcotic Jihad' row, Catholic Church in Kerala decides to be 'guarded' in its future sermons||The Catholic Church in Kerala has decided to be "guarded" in its official communications and religious sermons in future, to ensure their words do not cause pain to other communities and their faith or create uneasiness in the society, a top church official said on Thursday. The significant decision, seeking to put an end to the controversy over "Love and Narcotic Jihad" remarks made by a Bishop recently, was taken at the meeting of the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) held in Kochi on Wednesday. In an interaction with PTI, a Church official also said the Church will continue to do its "prophetic responsibility" of fighting against all sorts of social evils. However, statements, speeches and reactions of the church and its officials on such matters will be presented before the public only after proper studies and discussions at its appropriate forum. "In future, our statements, speeches and responses will be guarded. We will be very cautious as we do not want to hurt the sentiments of other communities. The Church always stands for openness and strengthening the secular fabric of the society by enriching the communal harmony," the official said in his first of such interaction after the Bishop's remarks rocked the state. The KCBC has observed that the recent controversy over the "love and narcotic jihad" remarks made by the Bishop of Pala diocese of Syro-Malabar Church was an "eye opener" for the Church as it was "misinterpreted" by a section of media and politicians for serving their "narrow political and business interests" causing "pain and anguish" among members of another community, he said. After their meeting on Wednesday, the KCBC, which includes bishops of Syro-Malabar, Syro-Malankara, Knanaya Catholic and Latin Catholic churches, had issued a statement saying social evils pointed out by the church require a deeper study and serious enquiry instead of giving it a "different hue" and diverting it to other directions. Choosing not to use controversial terminologies like narcotic jihad or love jihad in its statement, the council said that it rejects in unison all forms of interpretations which undermine religious harmony and weaken healthy co-existence in society by mischievously twisting the warnings of the pastors of this church. "The KCBC disapproves of any covert attempts to show that there exists disunity among the Churches. The fundamental values of truth, love and justice, which the Catholic Church upholds, constitute the basis of all inter-religious dialogue and harmony among religions," it had said in the release. Addressing the laity in Kuravilangad near Kottayam recently, Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt of Pala diocese had said that Christian girls were falling prey to what he claimed was "love and narcotic jihad" in Kerala and that wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth. The comment had resulted in a verbal duel and blame game amongst the major political parties — CPI(M), BJP and Congress — in the state. The Congress, which criticised the Bishop for his remarks and the BJP, which supported the Bishop's remarks, had attacked the Left government and the Chief Minister for their silence on the issue. Thereafter, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on September 21 rejected outright the comments made by the Bishop, saying the southern state is a firm terrain of secularism and society would take strong stand against those who try to upset it. The KCBC said that the Catholic Church in Kerala has been working towards peaceful co-existence and harmony of religions and for the cultural development of society in the state, through its varied services in the field of education and healthcare, as well as social and charitable actions. The KCBC said it wants secularism and religious harmony always and vows to work for the same. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-narcotic-jihad-row-catholic-church-in-kerala-decides-to-be-guarded-in-its-future-sermons-1035864.html
30-09-2021||South||Covid-19 can't stop this Kerala couple's travel passion||A couple running a tea stall in Kerala, known for their world tour passion, is all set to pack their bags for their 26th international tour. Vijayan and his wife Mohana will be visiting Russia this time and he even has a wish to click a photo with Russian President Vladimir Putin. They will be on a six-day tour from October 28. The couple who are in their early seventies has been carrying out international tours from 2007 onwards, beginning with UAE. From the earnings from the tea shop they used to save a portion daily for fulfilling their travel desire. So far they have visited 25 countries, the last one being Australia and New Zealand in 2019 November. Vijayan says that Covid indeed delayed their next travel plan. They had even made arrangements for the Russian tour earlier this year as the Covid scenario was settling. However, with the onset of the second wave of Covid they had to postpone it. Unlike the previous trips, this time their family members including their two daughters would be also accompanying them. "I have a wish to see Putin and if possible to have a photo clicked with him. I am trying to get in touch with some Malayalis in high positions in Russia to see if it would be possible," Vijayan told DH. The travel passion of this couple had already received much attention and some prominent travel groups had even made them brand ambassadors. Hence the couple is getting sponsorships for traveling now. On Wednesday, Kerala Tourism Minister Mohammed Riyas called on the couple at their tea shop to greet them. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cant-stop-this-kerala-couples-travel-passion-1035910.html
30-09-2021||South||Kerala govt to slash motor vehicle tax on tourist caravans||The Kerala government will slash the motor-vehicle tax on tourist caravans by one-fourth, considering the immense scope of Caravan Tourism in the state, State Tourism Department said here on Thursday. Kerala Transport Minister Antony Raju has agreed in principle to a proposal in this regard from Tourism Minister P A Mohamed Riyas, it said in a release. The proposal will soon be approved by the government after going through the formalities required, Raju said while inaugurating a joint workshop of Tourism and Transport departments held here to deliberate on the operational details of the Caravan Tourism policy and sensitize Regional Transport Officers (RTOs) on the procedural and regulatory aspects of the project. Hailing the policy announced recently as a major step forward in tourism development, Raju pledged utmost support and cooperation of the Motor Vehicles Department for its success. Presiding over the inaugural session of the workshop, Riyas asked the Motor Vehicles Department to ensure that the registration of caravan vehicles and issue of permits to them are carried out in a hassle-free manner. The tax on caravans must be reduced to Rs 250 per square metre from the current Rs 1,000 per sqm, he said in his address. The government's policy is that every panchayat and municipality must have at least one tourist destination. For their smooth day-to-day running, the government has decided to enlist active participation of local self-government institutions. Since suitable staying facilities in such set-ups will be difficult, the solution is caravan tourism, Riyas said. Raju said the government would provide green channel passage for caravans that carry a special sticker suggesting the joint recognition of the Tourism and Transport departments. They would also get preference while testing for pollution. Caravans will be given registration within 24 hours of application, the Minister said. The Additional Transport Commissioner would be the State Nodal Officer for Caravans. The practice of on-road inspections will be avoided to facilitate smooth passage of caravans. The workshop mainly focused on the rules and regulations pertaining to the operation of tourist caravans. It also looked into the procedural protocols relating to the standardization of caravans and their smooth movement in any part of the state and comfortable stay of tourists at the caravan parks and other stop-over spots. The state government had recently announced the country's most stakeholder-friendly Caravan Tourism Policy, promising the visitors a safe, customized and closest-to-nature travel experience. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-to-slash-motor-vehicle-tax-on-tourist-caravans-1035922.html
30-09-2021||South||There can be only one church, not two factions: Kerala HC on disputes in Malankara churches||There cannot be factions in a church and having such divisions would only hurt the Almighty, the Kerala High Court said on Thursday. It also warned that anyone who acts contrary to the 1934 Constitution in churches belonging to the Malankara Syrian Orthodox Church will "face the wrath of law". The court was hearing one of several pleas before it seeking police protection to perform religious services in churches belonging to the Malankara Syrian Orthodox Church in view of difference of opinion between the Orthodox and Jacobite faction with regard to the constitution to be followed. While the Orthodox faction is following the 1934 Constitution of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, the Jacobites claim the church ought to be governed by a 2002 constitution adopted by them and they also formed a new sabha — 'Yacobaya Suriyani Christiani Sabha'. The issue was settled by the Supreme Court in 2017 by holding that the 1934 constitution would be followed in the churches belonging to the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. Justice Devan Ramachandran said he will not permit any church under the Malankara sabha to act contrary to the 1934 Constitution and anybody who stands against it would "face the wrath of the law". Justice Ramachandran said he does not wish to send the police to enter the churches and maintain law and order, but if he is forced to do so, he will. Right at the commencement of hearing of the matters, the judge said, "There are no factions. There is only one church. Unless you stop calling them factions, the disputes won't stop. "This is a dispute going on for more than a century. Who is it helping? It will not help the ordinary devotee. This factionalism cannot go on." The court further said that factionalism will have to stop "if this community wants peace". The "wise men" at the top of these two "so called factions" have to understand that "the litigative travel is over" and they have already travelled far and wide. "It is time to stop," it said and added that "the Berlin wall in your minds has to come down. If Germany can be unified, then why not this church". The court said no vicar or any member of the clergy or a committee member of the church who has been appointed under the 1934 Constitution can be obstructed from entering the church to perform their respective functions. Even the parishioners who are part of the Malankara sabha cannot be prevented from entering the church, it added. "I am appealing to every one of you to act civilly and according to the rule of law. There is no point in two sets of people fighting each other and bleeding to death for no reason." "I really fail to understand who will benefit out of all this? Definitely not the Almighty. The Almighty would be pained to see all this." The court observed that the government cannot be put to fault as it has its limitations, but the people have to understand that they cannot go on like this, as they were not going anywhere. "It is going towards a dead end, a cul-de-sac, your parishioners need to understand that. They need to understand we are not dealing with aliens. We are dealing with our own people. You all have the same genetic composition. You all have blood running through your veins," the judge said. "Look at the predicament of the state. If it comes in with force, there will be bloodshed. For what purpose? Everyone, the government, is taking a soft position. But I will not. I do not mince words," Justice Ramachandran said during the hour-long hearing. He said if things, especially the mindset, does not change going forward, then the future generations would also be fighting each other and it will be dangerous. The court then listed the matter for hearing on October 5, by when the parties have to indicate their respective stands. "Let us see if there is a change in mindset by then," the court said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/there-can-be-only-one-church-not-two-factions-kerala-hc-on-disputes-in-malankara-churches-1035925.html
30-09-2021||South||Archaeological excavations in TN come to a close||Curtains came down on Thursday on the archaeological excavations in ten locations in Tamil Nadu, including in Keeladi and Sivagalai, that have created a buzz with significant findings some of which date back to 3,200 years old.  The Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) began excavations in Keeladi, Konthagai, and Agaram in Sivaganga district and Adichanallur, Sivagalai, and Korkai in Thoothukudi district besides a few other places in January this year. However, the excavations came to a grinding halt in May due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The digging resumed in July. While the excavation is at its seventh phase in Keeladi, the second phase has come to an end in other places. This year, the TNSDA began digging in Mayiladumparai in Krishnagiri district, Gangaikondacholapuram and Maligaimedu in Ariyalur district, buoyed by the findings in Keeladi and its cluster sites. “The excavation process has come to an end in all sites today. Our archaeological officers (AO) will sit to write reports of the excavation,” a senior official with the TNSDA told DH. While Keeladi, which has transformed into a treasure trove of how ancient Tamils lived, and its cluster sites yielded 2,000 artifacts this season, the findings in Sivagalai and Adichanallur also assume significance. The new DMK government has allotted funds for the TNSDA to continue with excavations in the above-mentioned sites and new places. The department has also sought permission for the next round of excavation from the Union Government. Carbon dating of paddy husks found in a burial urn in Sivagalai showed their age to be 3,200 years (1155 BCE) which is older than Keeladi, an urban settlement that is at least 2,600 years old. The archaeological findings have created a buzz with researchers and archaeologists in Tamil Nadu calling them significant as they “narrow down” the gap between the Tamil urban settlements and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). However, they say “more evidence” should be forthcoming. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/archaeological-excavations-in-tn-come-to-a-close-1035929.html
30-09-2021||South||Kerala fake antique seller had Rs 200 balance in bank||The Kerala man, who has claimed that he is in possessing of priceless antiques in large numbers, has Rs 200 in his bank account. Monson Mavunkal, who was held for cheating several persons of around Rs 10 crore, is said to have told the police that he has no money with him and rent of his house-turned-museum in Kochi is due for about eight months. The bank account that he disclosed was only having around Rs 200 in balance. However, the police were yet to take these into account as they suspect the chances of some benamis. He was also learnt to be spending the money raised through cheating for a posh lifestyle.  The Crime Branch has decided to seek the service of archeologists to evaluate the 'antiques' possessed by the accused. Most of the luxury vehicles found on the premises of his house were found to be worn-out ones. Video footage of Mavunkal trying to convince one of the cheated persons also came out. Mavunkal could be heard telling that many known politicians, including some former union ministers, were aware of the Rs. 2.5 lakh crore due to him from foreign countries. He also claims that he was given diplomatic status by the Centre. Meanwhile, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has convened a meeting of police officers on Sunday. The links of police officers with Mavunkal may also come up for discussion. There is also pressure on the government to launch a probe into the nexus of the police officers with the accused. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-fake-antique-seller-had-rs-200-balance-in-bank-1035932.html
30-09-2021||South||When books become CM Stalin’s tool to showcase TN’s culture||Apart from the agenda, one thing that stands out when Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin meets high-profile national leaders is the ‘gift’ that he presents to them. The gift is nothing but books by renowned authors that chronicles the literary, cultural, and historical magnificence of the Tamil language and its heritage. In his four months as Chief Minister, Stalin has used books on Tamil Nadu and its ancient and contemporary heritage as a “cultural and political tool” to stress the importance of the language and its rich roots. Selections of the books have led to a debate on social media, especially on Twitter, with netizens discussing their contents and significance.  While previous Chief Ministers had presented shawls or flowers to the dignitaries while welcoming them to the state or meeting them at their offices, Stalin prefers books.  Those meeting the Chief Minister have also been strictly advised to avoid giving shawls and expensive items but instead gift to a book. Thousands of such books are ‘donated’ to various libraries across the state for public use. The books that Stalin gifted to dignitaries like President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were carefully chosen by the CM’s team consisting of seasoned bureaucrats.  Modi, who often quotes from the rich Sangam Literature, was presented with ‘Sculptors of Classical Tamil: Tholkappiam’, when Stalin met him on June 17 at his official residence in New Delhi.  “The books are chosen very carefully, and it goes through a meticulous procedure. We want the dignitaries to appreciate the state’s rich heritage and culture through pictures and words of renowned authors. The impact that books create is huge,” a senior official told DH. These books have existed for a long time, but when the Chief Minister of the state presents them to the who’s and who of the country, it leads to debates and discussions, the official added.  When Stalin gifted ‘Multiple Facets of My Madurai’ by Manohar Devadoss to President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi on July 19, social media was dotted with references to the historical significance of the ancient town that served as the capital city of the celebrated Pandya kings. Kovind was also presented with 'Early Writing Systems' by Prof K Rajan, 'Vaadivaasal Arena' by C S Chellappa, 'Lamps in the Whirlpool' by Rajam Krishnan and 'Early Tamil Epigraphy' by Iravatham Mahadevan. Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, said the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu to present books on the state to national leaders is a “good move.” “It is a very good culture, and such a move will support the writers as well as artisans if the CM gifts products from the state. It is good to see Stalin, who is the son of a great writer M Karunanidhi, carrying his father’s legacy differently,” he told DH. Much discussion was also centred on ‘Journey of a Civilization: Indus to Vaigai’ by retired Odisha-cadre bureaucrat R Balakrishnan that Stalin presented to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on June 18. The book explains what might have happened to the culture and language of the Indus Valley Civilization (IVC) after it disintegrated. The choice of the book assumed significance amid a debate about the archaeological findings in Keeladi, a nondescript village outside Madurai, that are said to be at least 2,600 years old. Balakrishnan’s book also talks about similarities between IVC and Keeladi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-books-become-cm-stalin-s-tool-to-showcase-tn-s-culture-1035933.html
30-09-2021||South||Deceased MLA's wife Sudha to be YSRCP candidate for Badvel bypoll||The ruling YSRCP has fielded Sudha, wife of deceased MLA Venkata Subbaiah, for the Badvel assembly bypoll to be held on 30 October. Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has set a target of over 45,000 votes majority, asking his home district Kadapa leaders to strive to surpass the 2019 election majority. “While the voting percentage in 2019 was 77, our majority was 44,000 votes. We should improve both,” Reddy told the party leaders on Thursday while reviewing the party's position in the constituency and the preparation for the polls. The Chief Minister instructed for coordination activities with every community group and to divide the canvassing responsibilities among the party leaders mandal wise. Reddy wants local leaders to visit each house at least three to four times in order to encourage everyone to vote. Panchayati Raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy is made the YSRCP in-charge for the bypoll. CM Reddy instructed the party MPs and MLAs to focus on Badvel bypoll and to initiate the campaign activities from Monday, with a focus on publicizing the various welfare schemes being implemented by his government. Badvel, an SC reserved constituency in CM Reddy's home-turf Kadapa fell vacant after the sitting YSRCP MLA Venkata Subbaiah died in March due to illness. The opposition TDP has earlier confirmed Obulapuram Rajasekhar as its candidate. CM Reddy has thanked people for “their overwhelming support” in the parishad polls and assured them to “work for public welfare with increased responsibility.” The YSRCP had won 98 per cent of Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies, claiming 628 seats out of 638 constituencies. It also secured victories in 8,249 out of 9,583 Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/deceased-mlas-wife-sudha-to-be-ysrcp-candidate-for-badvel-bypoll-1035963.html
30-09-2021||South||Kerala introducing online system for Covid-19 ex-gratia||The Kerala government has decided to introduce an online facility for the publishing of Covid-19 deaths and its review as per fresh guidelines. District level Covid death assessment committees would be also constituted by October 10, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said. The fresh guidelines for determining Covid-19 deaths were issued on the lines of the Centre and ICMR issuing new norms as per Supreme Court directives. The government had earlier faced widespread allegations of underreporting Covid-19 deaths. 25,087 Covid-19 deaths have been formally recorded in Kerala so far. As per the revised guidelines, the Rs 50,000 compensation for Covid-19 deaths will be made available to more people. The health minister informed that the district level death assessment committees will be headed by an additional district magistrate level officer. The list of the Covid-19 deaths as per the new guidelines would be published online by October 10 and there would be an option to submit applications for those deaths not included. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-introducing-online-system-for-covid-19-ex-gratia-1035992.html
30-09-2021||South||Kerala youth gets life-term for raping minor||A youth accused of raping a minor girl in Thiruvananthapuram has been sentenced to life term. A fast-track court in Thiruvananthapuram found Shiju, 29, of Chenkal in the suburbs of the district, guilty under various sections of the IPC and POCSO Act. Apart from the life term, he was also imposed with twelve years of imprisonment for house-trespass and criminal intimidation and a fine of Rs 75,000. The incident occurred in January 2019. The convict was a construction worker near the girl's residence. He raped the girl more than once by threatening her. The incident came to light after the girl became pregnant. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youth-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor-1035995.html
30-09-2021||State||Karnataka CM Bommai says no to milk price hike for now||Under fire from various quarters due to skyrocketing prices of essential commodities, the BJP-led state government on Wednesday rejected a request to hike the milk price. Milk prices were last hiked by Rs 2 per litre in January 2020. Karnataka Milk Federation chiarman and Arabhavi MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi on Wednesday cited the pressure of inflation on farmers and requested the chief minister to consider the Federation’s proposal to hike the price. Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai was speaking after inaugurating 10 new projects of the Karnataka Milk Federation, aimed at further boosting the milk production and revenue of the 14 associated cooperative unions. Sources said that following requests from the 14 milk producing unions, the KMF had sought the government’s nod to hike the milk prices by up to Rs 3. The chief minister, however, declined the request. “I know you have proposed to hike the price of milk. You have also given comparison of the rates in other states. However, I am not going to make an assurance,” he said. The BJP is going to face two bypolls in north Karnataka at the end of next month at a time the government has been facing flak over the rise in prices of fuel among other things. The source informed that the Karnataka Milk Federation is likely to approach the government once again in November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-bommai-says-no-to-milk-price-hike-for-now-1035650.html
30-09-2021||State||Govt invites applications from families for Covid compensation||The Karnataka government has invited applications from the family members of the Covid victims for payment of compensation. Speaking to media persons on Wednesday, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the had framed regulations for payment of compensation. The BPL families will receive Rs one lakh from the state government and Rs 50,000 from the Centre, which will be directly credited to the bank account of the beneficiary. The state government will give Rs 50,000 compensation for families that do not come under BPL category, Ashoka said.  Those wanting to apply should furnish details of the deceased person's Covid positive report, death certificate, Aadhaar card and the applicant's bank account details. If any family member, other than the wife or husband of the deceased, wants to apply, they have to authorise one person in the family to claim the compensation, the minister said.  A committee headed by the deputy commissioner of each district will process these applications. The amount will be disbursed from the disaster relief fund of the Revenue department, according to the minister.   Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-invites-applications-from-families-for-covid-compensation-1035654.html
30-09-2021||State||Amend KTPP Act to prevent misuse, demand activists||The nature of 4(G) exemptions provided by the government over the past few years has irked anti-graft activists, who have sought an amendment to Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act so as to have a clear definition for “emergency procurement.” They also allege that some exemptions under 4G was clearly to benefit contractors affiliated to politicians - as in the case of KRIDL and Nirmiti Centres. Speaking to DH, High Court advocate Venkatesh Dalwai said that a lacuna in the law allowed officials and the government to procure goods and services under 4(G) exemption. “There is no definition in KTPP Act for ‘emergency procurement’. The government should enact an amendment to indicate the subjects for which 4(G) exemption can be granted,” he said.  Incomplete definition of ‘emergency procurement’ has allowed some departments to obtain goods without any immediate requirement, he said. On whether construction of three-star hotels or procuring new vehicles fell under the provisions of the Act, he answered in the negative. Activist Anilkumar G R said that many exemptions were granted using the discretion of the state Cabinet to help politicians. “4(G) exemption itself should be removed from KTPP Act as it is being used for everything. Exemptions during emergencies such as floods or the pandemic is understandable. But, what is the need for 4(G) exemption to clean drains or de-silt storm water drains?” he wanted to know. Another activist, under the condition of anonymity, said that though there were several complaints about the misuse of 4(G) exemption, successive governments had done little to address them. “Officials and politicians can come up with hundreds of reasons to justify ‘emergencies’, even though there won’t be any. What is the emergency for beautifying a road or providing exemptions to KRIDL and Nirmiti centres? In many cases, exemptions are provided to benefit those affiliated to a party or politician,” the activist added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amend-ktpp-act-to-prevent-misuse-demand-activists-1035657.html
30-09-2021||State||Breastfeeding a fundamental right of lactating mother: HC||The Karnataka High Court has held that breastfeeding is an inalienable right of lactating mother, protected under the Fundamental Rights guaranteed in the constitution. The court made the observation while hearing petitions involving the custody of a child between the biological mother and the foster mother. The court said that in the light of domestic law and international law, breastfeeding needs to be recognised as an inalienable right of a lactating mother. “Similarly, the right of the suckling infant for being breastfed too, has to be assimilated with mother’s right; arguably, it is a case of concurrent rights; this important attribute of motherhood, is protected under the umbrella of Fundamental Rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” Justice Krishna S Dixit said. In this peculiar case, which generated a charged atmosphere in the court hall, Justice Krishna Dixit appreciated the kind gestures exhibited by the two women, hailing from two different religious backgrounds. The child, born in Bengaluru city in 2020, was allegedly lifted from the cradle of the hospital. It landed on the lap of the foster mother and a case of kidnapping was filed. However, it was submitted across the bar that the foster mother is only an innocent victim of circumstances. The court disposed of the petitions directing that there shall be no cause of action against the foster parents in civil or criminal law concerning the alleged kidnapping of the child. The bench also said that it was unfortunate that the child, for no fault, remained un-breastfed while its lactating mother had no access to it till now. “In a civilized society such things should never happen,” the court said. The counsel for the foster mother contended that she does not have any children whereas the biological mother has already two at home and therefore, the custody of the child should be allowed to continue with her. However, she had delivered the custody of the child to its biological parents. And, the biological mother stated that the foster mother may see the child whenever her heart desires. “Such kind gestures coming from two women hailing from two different religious backgrounds, are marked by their rarity, nowadays; thus, this legal battle for the custody of the pretty child is drawn to a close with a happy note, once for all,” Justice Krishna Dixit said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/breastfeeding-a-fundamental-right-of-lactating-mother-hc-1035659.html
30-09-2021||State||JD(S) to reserve 30 seats for women in Assembly polls||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said his party would reserve 30-35 seats for women in the 2023 Assembly polls. Kumaraswamy was speaking to media persons in Bidadi on the sidelines of the Janata Parva 1.0, a training workshop organised for party members, with an intention for the party to win 123 seats in the upcoming polls. “In the first phase, we have already chosen 7-8 candidates. We will reserve 30-35 seats for women in the next Assembly polls,” he said. The JD(S) women’s wing has not been as active as the other two parties. The regional party will put efforts to strengthen it, he added.  Towards this end, the women’s wing will be strengthened from the booth level, according to the JD(S) leader. The training on Wednesday included women, who had won in local body polls, across the state, he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-to-reserve-30-seats-for-women-in-assembly-polls-1035663.html
30-09-2021||State||Ramadass has all qualities to be minister: Sudhakar||Health Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said that the next Dasara festival will be celebrated under the leadership of MLA S A Ramadass. Speaking to reporters here, Ramadass has all qualities to be a minister and he has served as a minister previously. He is a senior leader in the region and the party will decide over inducting him into the cabinet, he said.     Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramadass-has-all-qualities-to-be-minister-sudhakar-1035906.html
30-09-2021||State||Bommai starts 'Thursday meeting' with BJP legislators||Several BJP legislators met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday to air their grievances on issues pertaining to their constituencies.  "Beginning from Cauvery water supply to road infrastructure and issues related to BDA, we discussed everything in detail. We will again meet to consider possible solutions to all the issues raised," said one legislator. Another legislator requesting anonymity, said they had discussed how the government should focus on strengthening infrastructure in Urban Local Bodies, as these will be key for the next elections. "Several ULBs have not received funds at all. The CM must focus on this," the MLA said. The CM is said to have assured the MLAs that he would prioritise drinking water, MNREGS and lake rejuvenation works for release of funds. The CM is also believed to have told the MLAs that funds will be released while keeping in mind the financial constraints imposed by Covid-19. Some legislators who spoke to DH said the CM had set good precedent with the Thursday meetings as the legislators felt heard. The MLAs are hoping for follow-up meetings with Bommai to take forward the issues they flagged in the meeting.  The Thursday meeting was based on a decision taken in the legislature party meeting held recently, where the Chief Minister had assured to set aside time to meet legislators every week. MLAs including Masale Jayaram, Belli Prakash, M Krishnappa, Umanath Kotian, S Raghu, Preetham Gowda, Ravi Sumbramanya, MLC H Vishwanath were among those who met the CM on Thursday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-starts-thursday-meeting-with-bjp-legislators-1035947.html
30-09-2021||State||Renukacharya, Jeevaraj made CM's political secretaries||Honnali MLA Renukacharya MP and former Sringeri MLA DN Jeevaraj have been appointed as political secretaries to Chief Minister Basavraj Bommai. The two had enjoyed the same status during the tenure of former CM B S Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/renukacharya-jeevaraj-made-cms-political-secretaries-1035950.html
30-09-2021||State||No proposal to provide free sand for poor: Minister||There is no proposal to provide free sand for the poor under the new sand policy, Mines and Geology Minister Halappa Achar said on Friday. Speaking at a news conference, Achar said that he was not aware why his predecessor - Murugesh Nirani - had made such an announcement. “The new sand policy is yet to be ratified by the government. My only objective is to come out with a simple policy,” he said. It can be recalled that Nirani had announced in the past that free sand would be provided for the poor under the new sand policy of the state government. Total annual sand demand in the state was 4.5 crore tonnes. However, there is a supply of only 3.5 crore tonnes. “The government is discussing measures to increase production. such as raising M-sand production in the state,” Achar said. On MP Sumalatha’s allegations of illegal mining in Mandya district, he said that such incidents have not been reported from the district. Achar, who also holds Women and Child Development, and Senior Citizens and Differently Abled departments, also announced the list of ‘senior citizens award’ announced by the state government. The winners are: Gurupadappa Anchera (Education - Haveri), Karaveeraprabhu Kyalakonda (Literature - Bagalkot), Sharanappa Gonal (Art - Raichur), S Janardhan (Social service - Udupi), Anche Ashwath (Sports -Kolar), B Kishan Rao (Law - Koppal) and B R Ambedkar Cultural and Welfare Society (Bidar). The award carries a purse of Rs 1 lakh, certificate and memento. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-proposal-to-provide-free-sand-for-poor-minister-1035952.html
30-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to incentivise industries for job creation: Bommai||In an attempt to create better employment opportunities in the state, the government will incentivise industries on the basis of creation of jobs, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. He was speaking at an event organised to mark the fortieth anniversary of Karnataka Media Academy. Launching a logo, the chief minister spoke about his vision for the state. The state has plenty of resources. The government will focus on making the best use of it for the overall development of the state, he said.  In addition to encouraging industries to create jobs, a task force will be set up for encouraging research and development. This task force will be headed by Prof Ashok Shettar, VC of KLE Technological University, Hubballi, he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-incentivise-industries-for-job-creation-bommai-1035653.html
30-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After 'Tika Utsav', 'Tithi Bhojan' tickles Karnataka's Twitterati||The renamed mid-day meal scheme PM Poshan Abhiyaan - with a sub-scheme Tithi Bhojan - tickled Twitter users of the state, as Kannada activists lashed out at the direct adoption of Hindi in Central schemes. Tithi, which means date, is also translated as a day when oblations are offered in memory of dead relatives. Kannada tweeple latched on to this meaning to take a dig at the Centre, resulting in humourous exchanges in social media. This is the second time this year that the direct adoption of a Hindi word for a scheme or event organised by the Central government became a subject of mockery. In April, Karnataka government was forced to rename 'Tika Utsav' - meaning vaccination ceremony to 'Lasika Utsav', after several people pointed out that Tika also refers to a posterior organ in Kannada. According to the Centre, PM Poshan Abhiyaan will enforce 'Tithi Bhojan' - a community participation programme to provide special food to children on festive/specific days by people. "Tika Utsav, Tithi Bhojan - Perils of Hindi imposition and blind Delhi Bhakti," wrote Kannada activist Ganesh Chetan on Twitter. Another user Chaitanya S noted that though 'Tithi Bhojan' was the right usage for special meals in Hindi, it is embarassing for Kannadigas (considering its meaning). "Please understand why it is wrong to simply borrow names from other languages," he said. Vinay, responding to a post by Union Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje about the scheme asked, "Sister.. Can you read and write? What's this non-sense Tithi Bhojan? do you understand the meaning?" User @Hosamaniraju responding to Shobha's post said that it was the turn of 'Tithi' after 'Tika'. "Comedy of Hindi imposition," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-tika-utsav-tithi-bhojan-tickles-karnatakas-twitterati-1035818.html
30-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Constitution doesn't bar a minor from becoming 'Sanyasi': Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court has dismissed a petition against the anointment of a minor as the seer of Udupi's Shiroor Mutt saying there is no constitutional or statutory bar on anyone becoming a 'Sanyasi'. The petitioner P Lathavya Acharya, who is a secretary and managing trustee of Sri Shiroor Mutt Bhakta Samiti, Udupi and three others of the Samiti questioned the anointment of Aniruddha Saralathaya (Sanyas name Vedavardhana Teertha), who is under the age of 18 years. The division bench of acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar said the petitioner failed to make out any violation of any statutory or constitutional provisions by the anointment of Saralathaya as the head of the Shiroor Mutt. "The courts are certainly not meant to write the religious text, however, they are under an obligation to follow the religious text in the matter of cases dealing with religious dispute and to follow the old practices, which are prevalent in religion so long as they do not violate constitutional rights of an individual," the benched noted. Citing the example of Buddhism where children become monks, the bench said there was no rule as to the age when a person can be initiated into 'Sanyas'. It also said, "The court is not a theological wizard and shall be transgressing its role as a constitutionalist authority by interfering with the essential religious practice, which is certainly not at all opposed to public order, morality, health or any other fundamental right." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/constitution-doesnt-bar-a-minor-from-becoming-sanyasi-karnataka-hc-1035833.html
30-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Panchamasalis to get 2 A reservation benefits by October: Seer||Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt Seer Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami exuded confidence that the Bommai-led government would provide 2 A reservation benefits to Panchamasali Lingayat community by the end of October. "If not, our agitation will continue till the order is issued," he said. Speaking to media persons on Thursday, the seer said the joint convention of the Panchamasalis will be held on October 1 in Bengaluru to discuss the next course of action. Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission Chairperson K Jayaprakash Hegde has also made a positive remark on according 2 A reservation benefits to the community. The process of including Panchamasalis under 2 A category is almost complete. The commission has to submit a report to the government in this regard.  Referring to the Public Works Minister C C Patil's statement in Gadag, the seer said the minister promised, in the name of Kittur Rani Chennamma, that the demand would be met without fail. So people of the community are hopeful that the government would issue an order in October. When questioned on the decline in numbers of posts in various departments of the government and no regular appointment, the seer said over seven lakh posts are vacant in various departments of the government. Besides, the government is filling the posts on contract basis. "Getting 2 A reservation benefits for the community is our main goal. Later, we would urge the government to fill the vacant posts."   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panchamasalis-to-get-2-a-reservation-benefits-by-october-seer-1035855.html
30-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt ready to tackle possible Covid third wave: Sudhakar||Health Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said the Karnataka government and the officials are prepared to tackle the possible Covid-19 third wave. Speaking to reporters, Sudhakar said, the government system is all prepared to manage the situation but, "we need people's support to tackle the spread of Covid.Offering treatment is one part but the people have responsibility. The citizens must take precautionary measures," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-ready-to-tackle-possible-covid-third-wave-sudhakar-1035882.html
30-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 933 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 933 new cases of Covid-19 and 14 deaths, pushing the total number of infections to 29,76,000 and death toll to 37,794, the health department said. The day also saw 704 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,25,397. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 291 fresh cases, as the city saw 172 discharges and 5 deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 12,780. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.81 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.50 per cent. Of the deaths reported today, 5 are from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada (3), Hassan (2), followed by others. After Bengaluru Urban, the highest number of fresh infections was recorded in Dakshina Kannada with 94, Udupi 77, Mysuru 76 and Chikkamagaluru 63. Bengaluru Urban district has now a total of 12,46,430 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,77,981 and Tumakuru 1,20,216. Among discharges, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,22,651, followed by Mysuru 1,74,997 and Tumakuru 1,18,740. Cumulatively, 4,76,19,019 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,14,529 were tested on Thursday alone. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-933-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-1035919.html
30-09-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Murugesh Nirani pitches for German investments in Karnataka||Pitching for German investments in Karnataka, Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani on Thursday invited Germany to collaborate with the state in hosting the 'Global Investors Meet' (GIM) from November 2 to 4, 2022. GIM would be a great platform to explore investment opportunities, Nirani said during his interaction with a delegation led by the Consul General of Germany Achim Burkett here, the minister's office said in a release. Pointing out that Karnataka is an ideal destination for investments, Nirani said the state and Germany share a strong relationship especially in areas of trade and FDI. "Our state is home to nearly 200 German companies such as Bosch, Siemens and Carl Zeiss. We both focus on major industries like auto and auto components, engineering and machine tools, chemicals, innovation and R&D etc," he said. Briefing on the business ecosystem in the state, Nirani said the government has taken several measures to enhance investor-friendly atmosphere. "Karnataka attracted 3rd highest FDI in India in 2020-21 at $7.6 billion with 14 per cent national share. It is home to numerous auto OEMs, auto component, machine tools manufacturers, EV startups and R&D centres. Bengaluru is the world’s 4th largest technology & innovation cluster," he added. Highlighting the state's efforts in overcoming economic challenges posed by the pandemic, the minister said, the government offered many concessions to industries. "Karnataka attracted Rs 1 lakh crore worth investments since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. The New Industrial Policy 2020-25 offers attractive subsidies and financial incentives," he added. According to the release, Deputy Consul General Friedrich Birgelen was also present during the meeting. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/murugesh-nirani-pitches-for-german-investments-in-karnataka-1035923.html
30-09-2021||West||Goa Assembly Speaker Patnekar tests positive for coronavirus; hospitalised||Goa Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar has tested positive for coronavirus, a legislature functionary said on Thursday. "Patnekar was admitted to the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) after he tested positive for the viral infection on Wednesday," former MLA and Goa Legislature Forum vice president Victor Gonsalves told reporters. As per doctors, Patnekar's condition is stable, he said. Patnekar is the third state BJP leader to test positive for the coronavirus infection in last one week. Earlier this week, Goa BJP chief Sadanand Tanavade and the party's general secretary (organisation) Satish Dhond had tested positive for the disease and both of them were being treated at the GMCH, located near here. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-assembly-speaker-patnekar-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-hospitalised-1035772.html
30-09-2021||West||Low pressure area moves to Gulf of Kutch, may intensify into cyclonic storm in Arabian Sea: IMD||The remnant of cyclone Gulab has turned into a depression, moved into the Gulf of Kutch and is likely to further intensify into a cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Due to this weather system, heavy rains were witnessed in Gujarat's Saurashtra region in the last 24 hours. The IMD has predicted heavy rains in the state's coastal districts over the next two days. "Yesterday's well-marked low pressure area over south Gujarat region and adjoining Gulf of Khambhat moved west-northwestwards and emerged into the Gulf of Kutch, concentrated into a depression and lay centred there at 5.30 am today," an IMD release said. "It is about 50 km east-northeast of Devbhoomi Dwarka (Gujarat), 90 km east-southeast of Naliya (in Kutch) and 340 km east-southeast of Karachi (Pakistan)," the release said. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and intensify into a deep depression over northeast Arabian Sea off north Gujarat coast during the next 12 hours, the weather department said. "It is then very likely to move further west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards towards Pakistan-Makran coasts, moving away from the Indian coast," the IMD said. Heavy rainfall is expected for the next two days in the coastal districts of Jamnagar, Porbandar, Dwarka and Kutch, it said, and asked fishermen not to venture into the sea. Due to the present weather system, Junagadh, Amreli, Dwarka, Jamnagar and Rajkot districts received heavy rains in the last 24 hours, the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. In the 24-hour period ending at 6 am on Thursday morning,Visavadar taluka in Junagadh district recorded 292 mm, Lilya in Amreli district received 141 mm downpour, while Khambhaliya and Kalyanpur in Devbhumi Dwarka distric got 140 mm and 135 mm rainfall, respectively, it added.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/low-pressure-area-moves-to-gulf-of-kutch-may-intensify-into-cyclonic-storm-in-arabian-sea-imd-1035774.html
30-09-2021||West||Gujarat HC suspends life-term of ex-BJP MP in RTI activist's murder case||The Gujarat High Court on Thursday suspended the life-term sentence of former BJP parliamentarian from Junagadh Dinu Bogha Solanki in the murder case of RTI activist Amit Jethva and ordered to release him on bail. Solanki has been behind bars for more than three years following his conviction in the murder case in 2019 along with six others. The division bench of justice Paresh Upadhyay and justice A C Joshi held that the case was based on circumstantial evidence and the CBI court's order to convict Solanki is "prima facie erroneous and unsustainable." The bench said that the lower court's conclusion was based merely on "assumptions and presumptions." The court ordered release of Solanki on bail on furnishing Rs 1 lakh bond and equal amount of surety. The court has asked Solanki to deposit his passport and not to leave the country.   "Circumstantial evidence in this case not only leads to many other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused even false implication of the applicant cannot be ruled out...though we need not stretch it to the extent whether this is a case of acquittal or not but we have no hesitation to arrive at the conclusion that even if the aspect of false implication of the present applicant for political consideration in the circumstances prevailing then is not gone into, the conviction under section 302 of IPC (murder) with aide of 120B (conspiracy) is less likely to sustain," the bench noted in the order. Granting relief to Solanki, the bench has stated, "We again record that, we have not reappreciated the evidence but we only note that, the CBI Court fell in error by taking into consideration irrelevant aspects and arrived at the conclusion, where no man with ordinary prudence would have arrived at, on the basis of material before it. The conviction of the applicant suffers from the vice of perversity. This also indicates that the CBI Court based the conviction in question on assumptions & presumptions and also conjunctures & surmises. While recording this, we note that, to arrive at this conclusion, neither close scrutiny nor scanning of any evidence in detail, is required. Amit Jethva, an RTI activist, was shot dead on July 20, 2010 outside Gujarat High Court. Using information through RTI, he was exposing the alleged illegal mining activities in Asiatic lions' habitat Gir forest by Solanki. In 2019, a special CBI court found Solanki and six others including his nephew Shiva Solanki, Shailesh Pandya, the shooter, Bahadursinh Vadher, Panchan G Desai, Sanjay Chauhan and Udaji Thakore guilty and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The case has witnessed several twists and turns in the past. Initially, the case was investigated by Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch which gave clean chit to Solanki and arrested the other six convicts. Jethva's father Bhikha moved to High Court which handed over the probe to the CBI, which arrested Solanki and chargesheeted him for murder, conspiracy among other charges as a main suspect.  Later the cases were clubbed together for trial. During the trial, many witnesses turned hostile following threats. Jethva’s father moved the High Court again seeking fresh trial on the ground that 105 witnesses out of a total of 195 had turned hostile allegedly under the pressure from the former BJP leader. By then, the trial had concluded. The court allowed his plea and ordered a fresh trial. Against this order, Solanki moved the Supreme Court which partly allowed his plea while ordering the trial court to recall only 26 key witnesses for fresh examination instead of a fresh trial. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-suspends-life-term-of-ex-bjp-mp-in-rti-activists-murder-case-1035785.html
30-09-2021||West||Deshmukh money laundering case: Kailash Gaikwad appears before ED||A deputy secretary of the Maharashtra home department appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Thursday in connection with a money laundering case registered against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and others, sources said. The ED had earlier summoned Kailash Gaikwad, the home department's deputy secretary, in connection with the case, they said. Gaikwad reached the ED's office in south Mumbai around 11 am, the sources said, adding that his statement was being recorded by officials of the probe agency. On Tuesday, the ED questioned Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab for nearly eight hours here in connection with the same case. The Enforcement Directorate is conducting a probe into the alleged Rs 100-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation from the state cabinet in April this year. The ED's case against Deshmukh, an NCP leader, and others came after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribe levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who has skipped the ED summons at least five times till now and moved court against the agency, has rejected all allegations against him. The NCP politician has said Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March this year.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deshmukh-money-laundering-case-kailash-gaikwad-appears-before-ed-1035808.html
30-09-2021||West||Centre must not discriminate between states while giving financial aid for natural calamities: Ajit Pawar||In a significant statement, Maharashtra deputy chief minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar urged the Centre not to discriminate between states while providing assistance in case of natural calamities. The statement assumes political importance in wake of the fact that Pawar, the state’s finance and planning minister, being made the convenor of a ministerial panel on GST system reforms by the Centre. Pawar’s statement on Thursday came in the backdrop of the devasting floods in Marathwada and Vidarbha which were triggered by Cyclone Gulab.  Maharashtra relief and rehabilitation minister and senior Congressman Vijay Wadettiwar on Wednesday had stated that the Centre had sanctioned only Rs 1,100 crore of the Rs 7,700 crore aid demanded by the state government to deal with damages caused by various natural calamities this year. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole had also accused the Centre of indulging in “favouritism” and not providing necessary help to the state, which faced a series of natural calamities. Between May and September this year, the coastal state faced two cyclones — Tauktae and Gulab — besides mega-floods in which over 500 people have lost their lives so far. In 2020, it bore the brunt of Cyclone Nisarga.  “The Central government should not discriminate between (different) states when it comes to providing financial assistance needed to help people hit by natural calamities. My (cabinet) colleague Vijay Wadettiwar had stated a day ago that damages that Maharashtra suffered are to the tune of Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 crore…a large area is affected,” said Pawar. “All states are in India…all states are working….we must not discriminate among the states,” he said.  Pawar also said that the survey of flood-affected areas is being done and drones could also be deployed for the same. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-must-not-discriminate-between-states-while-giving-financial-aid-for-natural-calamities-ajit-pawar-1035829.html
30-09-2021||West||18-feet tall statue of Dadasaheb Phalke to come up in Mumbai||A grand statue in honour of Dadasaheb Phalke — the Father of Indian Cinema — is coming up in Bandra in Mumbai, the entertainment capital of the country. The statue would come up in a garden near Mehboob Studio, one of the biggest film and recording studios in Mumbai.  “We are here all because of that great man…it is high time we have a statue of Dadasaheb Phalke,” said BN Tiwari, the President of Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE) — which is the mother body of 320-plus crafts and associations of Indian cinema.  The statue would be 15-feet tall and have a three-foot base. “In all, it would be around 18-feet and would have a commemorative plaque and lighting facilities,” Tiwari told DH on Thursday. The FWICE has taken the initiative along with Dadasaheb Phalke Icon Award Films Organization (DPIAF), Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Parshottam Rupala and Mumbai North MP Gopal Shetty, among others. Tiwari, FWICE Treasurer Gangeshwar Lal Srivastava, DPIAF founder Kalyanji Jana have set a December 2021 deadline for completion of the project coinciding with the celebration of 75 years of Independence. Dhundiraj Govind Phalke, popularly known as Dadasaheb Phalke (30 April 1870 – 16 February 1944), was an Indian producer-director-screenwriter. His debut film, Raja Harishchandra was the first Indian movie released in 1913 and is now known as India's first full-length feature film. He made 95 feature-length films and 27 short films in his career, spanning 19 years, until 1937, including his most noted works: Mohini Bhasmasur (1913), Satyavan Savitri (1914), Lanka Dahan (1917), Shri Krishna Janma (1918) and Kaliya Mardan (1919). The Dadasaheb Phalke Award, conferred for lifetime contribution to cinema by the Government of India, is named in his honour. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/18-feet-tall-statue-of-dadasaheb-phalke-to-come-up-in-mumbai-1035831.html
30-09-2021||West||Keeping child in mother's custody natural, conducive to its welfare: Bombay HC||Keeping a child in the custody of the mother appears more natural and conducive to his welfare and development, the Bombay High Court said on Thursday, while refusing to direct a television actor to hand over the custody of her five-year-old son to her estranged husband. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar was hearing a habeas corpus (produce the person) petition filed by the husband seeking a direction to the actor to hand over the custody of their son to him. The court, while refusing to hand over the custody of the child, said there was no material, which prima facie indicates that the custody of the child with the mother was detrimental to his welfare and development. At such a tender age, a child needs the company of the mother, and hence, keeping him in her custody appears “more natural and conducive for the development of the child”, the court noted. “Ordinarily, the amount of love, affection, care and protection, which a mother can provide to a child of such tender age, cannot be expected to be provided by the father or any other person. This does not necessarily reflect upon the unsuitability of the father and other relations,” the court said. The bench, however, noted that the child needs the love and affection of both parents, and hence, access should be given to the father. The court also directed the actor to allow daily access to the father, through video-conference for half an hour and physical access twice a week. “We hope and trust that the petitioner (father) and respondent No 2 (the actor), who claim to be adept at playing characters, in reel life, act in the best interest of the child, in real life,” the court said in its order. The actor's husband in his plea had claimed that she had illegally kept his son away from him. The petitioner’s advocate Swapana Kode sought custody of the child to be handed over to the father claiming that he had quit acting to take care of the boy and that his estranged wife was unable to pay attention to the child's needs and well-being, as she was constantly busy with her professional commitments. The actor's advocate Hrishikesh Mundargi opposed the plea and argued that the child was happy with his mother and that it would be detrimental to his growth and well-being if his custody was handed over to the petitioner. The bench, in its order, noted that due to marital discord, the couple had developed a strong animosity towards each other and in such cases, where the parents are at loggerheads, the parameters for determination of proper custody of a child is well recognised. The bench refused to accept the petitioner's argument that his wife, being an extremely busy actor, was not in a position to devote time and effort towards the upbringing of their son. “In our view, the issue of welfare of the minor cannot be determined on the sole parameter of the work commitment of one parent and the availability of ample time with another. The fact that respondent No 2 is a busy actor, cannot be construed to unfavourably judge her suitability to have the custody of the child,” the court said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/keeping-child-in-mothers-custody-natural-conducive-to-its-welfare-bombay-hc-1035844.html
30-09-2021||West||Middle-aged woman repels attack by leopard in Mumbai||Showing courage and grit, a middle-aged woman repelled an attack by a leopard outside her house located in the periphery of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai. This is the fifth such attack in over a month’s time – and has been captured on a CCTV camera just opposite the scene of the incident. The incident took place at around 8 pm on Wednesday night at Visava Workers settlement in Aarey Colony located off the SGNP. The woman, Nirmaladevi Rambadan Singh, aged between 55 and 60, was attacked by the leopard on the prowl when she was sitting at the verandah in front of her house. Nirmaladevi, who was carrying a walking stick, could barely settle down before the leopard pounded on her like a bolt from out of the blue. She fell back twice before she mustered courage and hit and jabbed the leopard with the walking stick. The woman suffered attack marks on her face, neck, elbow, chest and back. Hearing her screams, her family members and neighbours rushed out – forcing the leopard to retreat and speedily vanish into the jungle. CCTV footage showed the presence of the leopard even before the woman could sit down – and as soon as she did, the big cat charged at her. On Tuesday, a leopard cub was rescued from a spot near the Mumbai Metro Phase-3 car shed, but its mother remains elusive. The cub is now at the Leopard Rescue Centre of SGNP. The SGNP, spread over 103 sq km, has the largest leopard density of the world – with 47 leopards roaming the jungles in the middle of urban expanses. The SGNP and its larger periphery — spread in three districts of Mumbai Suburban, Palghar and Thane — is frequented by the people of Mumbai. Besides leopards, the SGNP and its neighborhood which include the Aarey Milk Colony and FilmCity is home to more than 275 species of birds, 35 species of mammals, 80 species of reptiles and amphibians, 170 species of butterflies, several species of fish and a staggering 1,300 species of plants. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/middle-aged-woman-repels-attack-by-leopard-in-mumbai-1035916.html
30-09-2021||West||SC reserves judgment on appeals against Bombay HC's skin-to-skin contact verdict||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its judgment on appeals against the Bombay High Court's verdict which held that sexual assault offences under POCSO would not be attracted if there was no direct 'skin to skin' contact between the accused and the child. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit wrapped up the proceedings after hearing detailed arguments by Attorney General K K Venugopal, the Maharashtra government counsel and others. The court asked the counsel for the parties to file written submissions within three days. Maharashtra government adopted the arguments advanced by Venugopal, who termed the judgment as outrageous and urged the top court to set it aside.  Besides the Attorney General, the National Commission for Women (NCW) also filed the appeal against the judgment.  In his arguments, the A-G contended if tomorrow a person wears a pair of surgical gloves and feels the entire body of a woman, he won't be punished for sexual assault as per the High Court's judgment.  Checkout latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-reserves-judgment-on-appeals-against-bombay-hcs-skin-to-skin-contact-verdict-1035962.html
