02-08-2021||Business||Zomato announces limited edition 'Pro Plus' membership for select customers||Online food delivery platform Zomato on Monday said it is launching a limited edition 'Pro Plus' membership for its select customers. "We have 1.8mn Zomato Pro members as of today. And one of the most requested features from our customers has been Unlimited Free Deliveries (something like Amazon Prime). So in a few hours, we are launching our Limited Edition *Pro Plus* membership for select customers," Zomato Founder and Chief Executive Officer Deepinder Goyal said in a tweet. The Pro Plus will have no surge fee, no distance fee, and all Pro benefits. "All Zomato Edition Black credit cardholders will automatically be upgraded to Zomato Pro Plus. Everybody else will need to buy the Pro Plus upgrade from the Zomato app. Fatafat le lena, baad mein shayad nahin milega" Goyal said in another tweet. Earlier in 2020, Zomato had launched an initiative to rechristen Zomato Gold to Zomato Pro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 364 points to close at 52,950||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 364 points on Monday, driven by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index ended 363.79 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,950.63, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 122.10 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,885.15. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by M&M, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, TCS, Maruti and Infosys. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's and HDFC Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities recovered sharply as positive cues from global equities and strong rebound in auto supported benchmark Nifty, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, modest recovery in financials, IT and pharma also supported market, he said, adding that realty stocks were in focus after sharp improvement in property registrations in Mumbai for July, while decent improvement in monthly auto sales volume aided original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). He further noted that most key sectoral indices traded in green, while volatility index broadly stood flat. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 1.35 per cent to USD 74.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||No formal proposal from Cairn to settle dispute, says Centre||Facing a payout of USD 1.2 billion-plus interest after an arbitration award went against it, the government on Monday said it has not received any formal proposal from Britain's Cairn Energy plc to resolve the issue within the country's legal framework. A three-member international arbitration tribunal that consisted of one judge appointed by India, had in December last year unanimously overturned the levy of taxes on Cairn retrospectively and ordered refund of shares sold, dividend confiscated and tax refunds withheld to recover such demand. Since then, Cairn has been pressing India to pay while the government has looked for possible solutions within the existing framework. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said the arbitral tribunal, which had its seat in the Hague, on December 31, 2020, ruled in favour of Cairn. "It has asked India to pay Cairn an award amount of USD 1.2328 billion-plus interest and USD 22.38 million towards arbitration and legal costs," he said. With New Delhi refusing to pay and instead challenged the award before a court in The Netherlands, Cairn has got the order registered in several jurisdictions and has begun recovering the money by seizing Indian assets overseas. "An order has been passed by a French court freezing certain Indian Government properties" in Paris, he said. "The same has been communicated through diplomatic channels." Asked if Cairn has offered any kind of amicable solution to the dispute, Chaudhary said, "No formal proposal for a solution within the country's legal framework has been received." He did not elaborate. In the initial months after the award, the government wanted the dispute to be settled under the 'Vivad se Vishwas' Scheme. The now-closed scheme provided for settling of a tax dispute if the taxpayer pays 50 per cent of the tax demand upfront in return for waiving of penalty and interest as well as the closing of the case. For Cairn, this would have meant getting about a third of USD 1.2 billion claim. This because the original tax demand that the government sought from it was Rs 10,247 crore - half of this would be Rs 5,123.5 crore. The government had recovered about Rs 7,600 crore by selling shares belonging to Cairn, seizing its dividends and withholding tax refunds. Netting it too, the due amount to be paid to Cairn would have been Rs 2,477 crore or less than USD 400 million. As of present, there is no tax dispute resolution scheme in vogue. Cairn has identified USD 70 billion of Indian assets overseas for the potential seizure to collect the award, which now totals to USD 1.72 billion after including interest and penalty. In June, Cairn brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York pleading that Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are 'alter egos' and the airline should be held liable for the arbitration award. Similar lawsuits are likely to be brought in other countries, primarily with high-value assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||India's manufacturing sector sees strongest growth rate in three months in July||India's manufacturing sector activities witnessed the strongest rate of growth in three months in July amid improved demand conditions and easing of some local COVID-19 restrictions, a monthly survey said on Monday. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) rose from 48.1 in June to 55.3 in July, pointing to the strongest rate of growth in three months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion while a score below 50 denotes contraction. "It's encouraging to see the Indian manufacturing industry recover from the blip seen in June. Output rose at a robust pace, with over one-third of companies noting a monthly expansion in production, amid a rebound in new business and the easing of some local COVID-19 restrictions," said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. Lima further noted that "should the pandemic continue to recede, we expect a 9.7 per cent annual increase in industrial production for calendar year 2021." On the recruitment front, there was a marginal increase in employment in July that ended a 15-month sequence of job shedding. "Although marginal, the rise in employment was the first since the onset of COVID-19. With firms' cost burdens continuing to rise, however, and signs of spare capacity still evident, it's too early to say that such a trend will be sustained in coming months," Lima said. On the inflation front, there was a softer but still sharp increase in input costs. Output charges rose only slightly, however, as several companies absorbed additional cost burdens amid efforts to boost sales. "Policymakers will welcome evidence that inflationary pressures are starting to abate. Firms signalled the slowest increases in input costs and output charges for seven months. "Hence, we expect the RBI to keep interest rates unchanged in its August meeting as it continues to support growth," Lima said. The RBI is scheduled to announce its bi-monthly monetary policy review on August 6 at the end of the three-day meeting -- August 4-6 -- of its Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). Experts believe, amid fears of a third wave of coronavirus pandemic and hardening of retail inflation, the Reserve Bank is likely to maintain status quo on interest rate and watch the developing macroeconomic situation for some more time before taking any decisive action on monetary policy. The survey further noted that, Indian firms foresee output growth in the year ahead, with the end of the pandemic and rising sales expected to support the upturn. "The overall level of positive sentiment rose from June's 11-month low, but remained historically subdued as some companies were concerned about the path of the pandemic," the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index was trading 333.69 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 52,920.53 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 101.65 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,864.70. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Bharti Airtel, HDFC, Maruti, Bajaj Finserv, Infosys and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, NTPC, PowerGrid and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex slipped 66.23 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 52,586.84, while the broader NSE Nifty dipped 15.40 points or 0.10 per cent to 15,763.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,848.31 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. "Barring financials, June quarter earnings so far have been encouraging and most companies succeeded to beat consensus estimates, which offered comfort and aided to restrict sharp fall despite selling pressure in global equities," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, persistent soft monetary policy stance of Federal Reserve along with least possibility of any reversal of monthly bond buying in the near to medium term and recent softening of dollar index augur well for emerging markets including India, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 1.14 per cent to USD 74.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Unacademy raises USD 440 million in fresh funding at USD 3.44 billion valuation||Learning platform Unacademy on Monday announced it has raised USD 440 million in a funding round led by Temasek, with super pro-rata participation from General Atlantic, Tiger Global, and Softbank Vision Fund. The latest fundraise takes the valuation of Unacademy Group to USD 3.44 billion, it said in a statement. The Series H funding round also witnessed participation from Aroa Ventures, the family office of OYO Founder Ritesh Agarwal, and Deepinder Goyal, Co-Founder and CEO at Zomato. Some angel investors of Unacademy have exited in this round, it said. Over the last 18 months, the valuation of the Unacademy Group has risen almost 10X, one of the fastest growth rates witnessed by a mid-stage consumer internet startup in India, the statement said. The latest round follows one in January 2021 when Tiger Global, Dragoneer Investment Group, Steadview Capital and General Atlantic doubled down on their earlier investments through a secondary transaction, it was stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Adani ports-to-energy conglomerate has floated a subsidiary||Billionaire Gautam Adani’s ports-to-energy conglomerate has floated a subsidiary that will set up refineries, petrochemical complexes and hydrogen plants — businesses that will directly compete with Mukesh Ambani’s company Reliance Industries Limited (RIL). In a stock exchange filing, Adani Enterprises  said it has incorporated Adani Petrochemicals Ltd (APL) as a wholly owned subsidiary to “carry on the business of setting up refineries, petrochemicals complexes, specialty chemicals units, hydrogen and related chemical plants and other such similar units”. The conglomerate has operations spanning sea ports to airports to electricity generation and transmission, renewable energy, mining, natural gas, food processing, defence and infrastructure. Its foray into petrochemicals and other related areas will directly compete with RIL. Reliance Industries Ltd is the largest producer of petrochemicals in the country and among the top-10 in the world. It also owns and operates the world’s largest oil refining complex. Green goals In June, Ambani announced a mega Rs 75,000-crore investment in setting up four “giga factories” to make solar modules, hydrogen, fuel cells and to build a battery grid to store electricity over the next three years. The solar modules will enable 100 gigawatts of  energy by 2030. Adani, who earlier this year took his spot behind Ambani as Asia’s second-richest man, has previously announced plans to become the world’s largest renewable energy producer by 2030. He has got France’s TotalEnergies SE as partner in Adani Green Energy Ltd — the group’s renewable energy arm. The French giant has also invested directly in some of the projects in the firm’s 25 gigawatts solar-energy portfolio. Chemical interest The Adani group had in January 2019 signed an initial pact with German chemical giant BASF to invest about 2 billion euros in a chemical factory at Mundra in Gujarat. This was expanded in October that year by involving Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) of UAE and Borealis AG. The four partners completed a joint feasibility study for a $4-billion chemical complex in Mundra, comprising a propane dehydrogenation (PDH) plant, a polypropylene (PP) production and an acrylics value chain complex, according to a BASF press statement of November 5, 2020. This project was, however, put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Petrochem arm In April this year, Adani Enterprises incorporated a wholly owned arm — Mundra Petrochem Ltd (MPL) — with the aim to “set up various feedstock based refinery, petrochemical and chemical plants in a phased manner in India and and to undertake all such activities associated with land acquisition, design and engineering, procurement... and other related undertakings”. It isn’t clear if MPL was incorporated as a follow up of the 2019 pact with BASF and others, and if the new subsidiary will set up plants at sites other than Mundra. Adani Petrochemicals Ltd is one of the numerous subsidiaries Adani group has incorporated since the beginning of this fiscal. The conglomerate had ventured into cement business in June with its new subsidiary Adani Cement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Pay-by-mile option for Ashok Leyland electric vehicles||Switch Mobility, Ashok Leyland’s electrical vehicle arm, is looking at a subscription based model to drive zero carbon mobility on a mass scale. As battery costs and the consequent EV acquisition remains a high-value proposition, the company is launching OHM Mobility Solutions that will be offering custom-based mobility solutions to bus operators, fleet operators and its LCV customers “Our strategy is around elimination of carbon. Zero emission is no longer enough, we have to eliminate carbon from manufacturing, charging, end-of-life battery and also from our supply chain. At the same time, our primary aim is to keep ownership cost at a minimum and this will be driven by mass adoption of EVs (eMaas) through various models such as pay-by-mile. We are basically changing from a capex model to an opex model where OHM Mobility Solutions will have bespoke solutions for our customers,” said Andrew Palmer, executive vice-chairman and CEO of Switch Mobility UK. Switch Mobility will invest about $150-200 million over the next few years in its next phase of EV development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Insurers urge for re-pricing of Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak policies||Insurance policies Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak have turned out to be loss-making products for most insurers, prompting them to seek for a re-pricing from the regulator as the high claims payouts are eating into their profits. “It has turned out that Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak have been making losses for most of the insurers. All of us launched these products in July (last year). “We are severely under-priced on Corona Raksha and Corona Kavach policies,” a top executive from a general insurance company said on the condition of anonymity. Based on data available till June this year, the official said comparing the peak of the pandemic of other countries and of India, the country’s peak was higher than the other countries. “Our second peak has been double of our own peak and higher than any other country in the world. And, I would be surprised if this product is making money for any of the insurers,” said the official. The official said most of the insurers and the reinsurers have asked the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai), for re-pricing of these two policies. However, the official said it would be difficult to suggest what kind of price revision they are seeking as it differs from company to company. Another official from the industry said, “As per my understanding, Corona Rakshak and Corona Kavach are loss-making policies for the insurers.” “Given that there are such huge underwriting losses, companies have been speakingto the regulator that an increase in the premium will help (them). In life, we have already seen an increase in premiums,” said the official. According to an Icra report in June , based on analysis of  17 general insurers representing 90 per cent of the industry gross direct premium, the underwriting losses are set to rise this fiscal due to higher claims payout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Auto component industry to report 20-23% revenue growth in 2021-22||The auto component industry is expected to report a 20-23 per cent revenue growth in 2021-22, supported by strong export demand and a recovery in the domestic original equipment and aftermarket segments, rating agency Icra has said. The growth would come in on a low base of the last two fiscals and will look strong because of the exceptionally weak first half of 2020-21. However, chip shortages, slow vaccination roll-out in some regions, logistics challenges and further lockdowns/curfews, if any, could be demand dampeners. Commodity prices are also expected to remain at multi-year highs in the first half of the current fiscal , before softening in the second half of the financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Venugopal Dhoot moves NCLAT against Anil Agarwal's Twin Star takeover bid for Videocon group||Venugopal Dhoot, former promoter of the Videocon group, has moved the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) against an order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) which in June had approved a Rs 2,962-crore takeover bid by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies for 13 firms of the debt-ridden group. Dhoot in his petition has requested to set aside the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the NCLT and to direct the lenders to consider a Rs 31,789-crore settlement plan submitted by him under Section 12A of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC). His move comes weeks after the appellate tribunal had stayed the acquisition by Twin Star Technologies following a petition by dissatisfied creditors — Bank of Maharashtra, Sidbi and IFCI who felt that the resolution value was low. In the appeal filed through his counsel Sandeep S. Ladda, Dhoot said the NCLT Mumbai bench through its order on December 15, 2020, said the foreign oil and gas assets of the Videocon group held through its foreign subsidiaries were purchased by Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL) and are to be treated as assets of VIL. He claimed that the liquidation value of these oil assets is not less than Rs 15,000 crore. Dhoot wants the oil and gas assets to be included in the resolution plan. Dhoot in his petition has said that the resolution professional (RP) or the committee of creditors has no authority to sell the oil assets and consumer durables separately and that “if the RP had sold the two together, the RP would have got a minimum Rs 25,000 crore against a loan of Rs 49,000 crore (Rs 29,000 crore of VIL consumer durables and Rs 20,000 crore of the oil assets). Thus recovery would have been around 50 per cent and not five per cent as seen today”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Passenger carmakers report double-digit growth in July||Passenger carmakers reported double-digit growth in July, riding on the back of pent-up demand. Market leader Maruti Suzuki witnessed a 50 per cent increase in sales at 1,62,462 units in July, while sales at Tata Motors were up 92 per cent to 51,981 units even as automakers continued to face shortage of semiconductors and components. Maruti had sold 1,08,064 units in July last year. Its domestic sales increased 39 per cent to 1,41,238 units last month against 1,01,307 units in July 2020, the company said. Sales of compact segment, including models such as Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire, rose to 70,268 units from 51,529 cars in July last year. Tata Motors said its total domestic sales rose 92 per cent over 27,024 units sold in July 2020. Its passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market stood at 30,185 units in July against 15,012 units in the same month last year. The second-largest car maker, Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL), reported a 46 per cent increase in total sales at 60,249 units in July against 41,300 units sold in the same month last year. “A positive growth momentum is clearly visible in the passenger vehicle industry with the stabilisation of macro-economic factors, good monsoons and increase in consumer shift towards personal mobility,” said Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing & service), Hyundai Motor India. Honda Cars India Ltd dispatched 6,055 (5,383) units in the domestic market and exported 918 (282) units in July this year. Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, marketing & sales, Honda Cars India, said, “The market sentiment has improved amid prevailing lower Covid infection rate and we expect the upcoming festive period will help the industry to maintain this momentum. However, we will keep a closer watch on the challenges related to the pandemic and rising cost of acquisition of cars due to the price hike from this month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Fuel demand picks up in July, petrol at pre-Covid level||The country’s fuel demand picked up in July as the easing of pandemic-related restrictions accelerated economic activity, helping petrol consumption reach pre-Covid levels, preliminary sales data showed on Sunday. State-owned fuel retailers sold 2.37 million tonnes of petrol in July, up 17 per cent from 2.03 million tonnes in the year-ago period. It was 3.56 per cent higher than pre-Covid petrol sales in July 2019. Sales of diesel — the most used fuel in the country — rose 12.36 per cent to 5.45 million tonnes over 4.85 million tonnes sold in the previous year, but was down 10.9 per cent from July 2019. This is the second straight month that showed a rise in consumption since March. Fuel demand had recovered to near-normal levels in March before the onset of the second wave of Covid-19 infections led to the re-imposition of lockdowns in different states, stalling mobility and muting economic activity. Consumption in May slumped to its lowest since August amid lockdowns and restrictions in several states. Fuel demand showed signs of resurgence in June after restrictions began to be eased and the economy gathered pace. Consumption of LPG, the only fuel which showed growth even during the first lockdown because of free supplies by the government to the poor, rose 4.05 per cent year on year to 2.36 million tonnes in July. It was up 7.55 per cent over July 2019. With airlines yet to resume full-scale operations because of travel restrictions around the globe, jet fuel sales at 2,91,100 tonnes was up 29.5 per cent year-on-year but 53.1 per cent lower than July of 2019. Steel output India’s crude steel production rose 21.4 per cent year-on-year to 9.4 million tonnes (mt) in June, according to the World Steel Association. The crude steel output was 6.9mt in the same month a year ago. “The production for the 64 countries reporting to the World Steel Association (worldsteel) was 167.9mt on June 2021, an 11.6 per cent increase compared with June 2020,” the global industry body said in its latest report. China remained the global leader in the production of steel in June, registering a 1.5 per cent year-on-year growth in output at 93.9 mt compared to 91.6mt last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||GST collections at over Rs 1.16 lakh crore in July||GST revenues in July jumped to Rs 1.16 lakh crore, the second-highest collection for the fiscal in a sign of economic revival as states relax their coronavirus restrictions. The data showed the collections grew 33 per cent year-on-year to Rs 1,16,393 crore against Rs 87,422 crore in July 2020. The finance ministry said the spike in the collections in the goods and services tax (GST) “clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are likely to continue in the coming months too”. Central GST accounted for Rs 22,197 crore in July and state GST collections were at Rs 28,541 crore. While integrated GST collections stood at Rs 57,864 crore in July, including Rs 27,900cr from imports, that from cess was Rs 7,790 crore, including Rs 815 crore from imports. The collections in April had hit an all-time high of Rs 1.41 lakh crore. They fell to Rs 1.02 lakh crore in May and further below the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark at Rs 92,849cr in June, before the rebound in last month. “In our view, this is further evidence that the graduated unlocking in June has triggered an incomplete recovery, which is expected to strengthen in July 2021, further boosting the August collections. The pace of growth across the states was highly uneven in July, with some industrial heavyweights recording a sharp expansion,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra said. Deloitte India senior director M.S. Mani said the “sharp increase in the collections indicates the resumption of economic activities in June and will raise expectations of better collections in the coming months. “ “The improvement in GST collections both on domestic transactions and imports, accompanied by the fact that major producing states have shown significant increases, would indicate that the economic activities have resumed across the country.” EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said the  collection was a definite indicator of economic recovery and the uptrend was expected to continue in the coming months. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co partner Rajat Bose said collections were higher on the back of economic revival in June. “If the country is able to resist the third wave, the GST collections should increase from here on,” he said. The GST collections in July 2021 are primarily for supplies and sales made in June when the states were easing the lockdown restrictions. In April and May, most states were under different levels of lockdown, which reduced business activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Kutchina plans to establish as a pan-India player||City-based appliance and kitchen solution company Kutchina is all set to step out of the eastern region and establish itself as a pan-India player with notable presence in Mumbai, Delhi and the cities of southern India. The company is approaching this audacious goal with a two-pronged strategy: setting up its own manufacturing base to cut dependence on the erratic and ever challenging imports from China and bulking up on presence in these new markets with exclusive showrooms and deeper retail outreach. The plant, which aims to more than double Kutchina’s capacity to manufacture modular kitchen capacity and make kitchen chimneys in-house, is coming up on Kalyani Expressway near Calcutta, the headquarters of the company. Namit Bajoria, managing director of Kutchina, said the plant, to be ready by December, would be able to take the load of the increase in volume coming from the new territories. “No matter how much business we do in the east, there will be a limitation on volume. We have to go to markets such as Mumbai or Delhi which are very big,” Bajoria said over the phone. The company plans to establish its presence in Mumbai and Delhi this year and target the southern states next. Bajoria said Kutchina can only become widely known if it can establish itself in these markets. Bajoria said each market would require customisation, which could now be more easily possible with the company’s own manufacturing plant. Mumbai, for instance, is all for compact designs as apartments there are smaller than rest of the metropolises. The company plans to set up a few showrooms to display its entire suite of products in these markets. Even though chimney continues to be the mainstay of the business, Kutchina is ambitious to present itself as a complete kitchen solution company. Apart from the chimney and modular kitchen, it has ventured into hobs, dishwashers, water purifiers, oven, mixer grinder, juicer, toaster, non-stick pans among others. The size of the market where Kutchina operates is estimated to be Rs 5,700 crore, with the unorganised sector having a larger chunk. The company outsources majority of the items from China while some were jobworked at India. The plan will skew it in favour of inhouse products in 23 years and cut dependency on import. It is investing around Rs 45 crore for the unit, which will be vertical in design, in order to save on the land cost. Despite the pandemic led disruptions, Bajoria said the target is to end the year with at least Rs 300 crore revenue, up by 15 per cent from the last fiscal, powered by expanded presence. Kutchina will be facing stiff competition from established players such as Italian company Elica and Faber, another Italian giant which popularised kitchen chimneys in India. The success of Kutchina will depend on how effectively it can take on the might of these giants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Businesses can now self-certify GST annual returns, instead of CA audit||GST taxpayers with a turnover of over Rs 5 crore can now self-certify their annual return, instead of a mandatory audit certification by chartered accountants, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs said in a notification. Under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), filing of annual return — GSTR-9/9A — for 2020-21 is mandatory for all registered businesses, barring those with an aggregate annual turnover of up to Rs 2 crore. Besides, taxpayers with a turnover of over Rs 5 crore have to submit a reconciliation statement in form GSTR-9C. This statement was required to be certified after an audit by a CA. This will give compliance level relief to thousands of taxpayers, AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Titagarh Wagons rolls out first Pune Metro train||Titagarh Wagons has modernised its existing plant at Uttarpara where production of the first aluminum metro coach in India has started. The company expects to deliver the first train from the plant for Pune Metro by the end of this year. Titagarh Wagons along with its Italian subsidiary Titagarh Firema SpA plans to execute a Rs 1,100-crore order for 34 trains for Pune Metro (Maharashtra Metro Corporation). The first three trains will be built at the company’s plant at Caserta, Italy, and the remaining 31 will be made in India. The first of the three trains from Italy was flagged off on Friday. “We have centralised  wagon manufacturing in Titagarh and Uttarpara is now almost a brand new plant where coach and propulsion will be done,” said Titagarh Wagons MD Umesh Chowdhary. The company said the coaches combine the highest safety standards with modern Italian styling. The contract was signed in 2019 and is expected to be executed by the end of financial year 2023. “..we began our journey to manufacture passenger trains (EMU) in India in 2007 with a dream to design and manufacture modern passenger trains for the Indian Metro System. With this first train being constructed by us for MahaMetro, it is a moment of great pride and satisfaction for Titagarh and a dream come true for me personally,” said Chowdhary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||A close look at deposit insurance bill||Last week, the Union cabinet decided to extend the benefits of deposit insurance to banks under moratorium, which would bring some relief to customers whose funds are stuck with banks that are financially stressed. This has wide-ranging implications for the banking ecosystem as well as the common man. Let’s take a deeper dive into the announcement. What changed? Following Wednesday’s announcement by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, changes have been recommended to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961. Under this act, bank savings — savings and current accounts, fixed and recurring deposits — are insured up to Rs 5 lakh per depositor per bank, subject to terms and conditions. A deposit insurance claim is made when a stressed bank, which is unable to repay its depositors, has its licence cancelled by the Reserve Bank and is liquidated. Deposit insurance secures a vast majority of low-value accounts held in the bank during such an event, thus ensuring that depositors aren’t at a total loss. With the latest announcements, insurance claims may also be made after a moratorium is imposed on a bank during which its business operations are restricted and its depositors’ access to funds is cut off. Why this happened There’s a long journey between the first signs of financial trouble and the process of liquidation. We’ve seen recently that a few banks were put under moratorium during which depositors could not withdraw their hard-earned money. The RBI imposes these restrictions to protect the bank from collapse and by extension, also protect depositors who will be harmed by the bank’s collapse. While some banks come out of these restrictions, some don’t. Their depositors are, therefore, cut off indefinitely from their funds, sometimes for years. To address depositors stuck in this limbo, the finance minister had announced earlier this year in the Union budget that the DICGC provisions will be extended to banks under moratorium as well. Now, the announcement will be operationalised. What is DICGC? The DICGC is an RBI subsidiary. Banks are required by the DICGC Act to pay a premium on their deposits to the DICGC. All commercial, cooperative and rural banks, as well as foreign banks with Indian branches, must comply with this requirement. According to the DICGC, 2053 banks are insured by it, including 89 government, private, foreign, and small finance banks, which constitute some of the largest commercial banks in the country. Among the banks are over 1,900 cooperative banks. The chances of large banks failing are remote. The RBI will see to their stability. However, cooperatives are more vulnerable. According to the DICGC, in 2021 alone so far, main claims against as many as six cooperatives were settled. In 2020, there were seven. Therefore, cooperative banks going under is routine. Who benefits? The finance minister said the latest decision will also apply to banks under moratorium. The problems at the PMC Bank —another cooperative — are now well-documented. Its moratorium may have triggered these policy updates. The bank’s small depositors can hope to finally get some relief. However, the coverage limit will be strictly imposed. Payouts only up to Rs  5 lakh can be expected towards the principal and interest owed to depositors of such banks. The FM suggested that the claims settlement process will be time-bound and must be wound up in 90 days. If much more than Rs 5 lakh is owed to the depositor, the wait for redemption may continue indefinitely. Are banks safer? The depositor insurance limit, which was just Rs 1 lakh, was increased five-fold last year. According to statistics provided by the finance minister, 98.3 per cent of all deposit accounts fall within this new limit. Hence, depositors can be assured that their funds are safe to this limit should their bank fail. The latest announcement would also increase customer interest in cooperatives and small finance banks which often pay higher rates of interest to depositors, who nevertheless haven’t gone rushing to them because of doubts over the banks’ track record, NPAs, corporate governance, stability and customer service. With the latest announcements, depositors will be empowered to try those banks. We are in a low interest period. Higher interest returns will help depositors, especially pensioners. However, the DICGC safety net is only for depositors. Banks that have high NPAs and poor corporate governance will still have their struggles. Hence, like with investments, one must not just diversify their savings but also keep an eye on the goings-on at their banks. Deposits will be safer with the DICGC Act updates, but only to a limit. Therefore, while chasing higher returns, one most never lose sight of the risks. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
